Partner for  
New PossibilitiesSK TelecomAnnual Report2013  
Integrated Reporting under International Guidelines 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the guiding principles and report content suggested in the “<IR> Framework 1.0” of the International Integrated Reporting Council, which is a standard framework for the Integrated Reporting (IR) of both financial and non-financial performances, and was developed based on the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the reporting principles of Communication on Progress (COP) of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. The report meets the comprehensive requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines.
Scope and Boundary of the Report
 “SK Telecom” and “the company” refer to SK Telecom, an individual company, excluding its subsidiaries that are subject to consolidated financial statements in accordance with the K-IFRS. When explaining about the performance of SK Telecom’s subsidiaries, the Report uses their names. Data in the Report excludes those for SK Telecom’s overseas branches, subsidiaries, subsidiaries and invested companies, and supply chains unless their general descriptions and non-financial information are separately included. Data on subsidiaries, invested companies, and supply chains, however, have been included only if they are likely to have a significant impact on the stakeholders’ decisions, considering SK Telecom’s financial and operational control and actual influence and the effects of its business. This Report covers data for the company’s major places of business and sales operations in the Republic of Korea, for the reporting period from January 1 through December 31, 2013. This Report, however, also discloses a portion of the qualitative data generated until May 2014. Though there are no particular technical boundaries of the Report, the previous data were re-calculated based on the 2013 data upon discovering any changes made to the data collection methodology or technique. The reporting period of this Report is one financial year, wherein the previous reports that the company released were included in the 2012 SK Telecom Annual Report published in June 2013, and in the 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report published in July of the same year.  Third Party Assurance and DisclaimerFinancial data in this Report have been audited by an independent audit corporation, and non-financial data have been assured independently by a third-party entity to secure the credibility of the Report. Greenhouse gas data have been separately assured as well. This Report contains predictive statements regarding SK Telecom’s and subsidiaries’ financial conditions, operating and sales performances, and plans and goals of management. Despite external assurances, there might be gaps between the future performance specified or inferred through predictive statements and the company’s actual performance due to political, economic, and circumstantial uncertainties surrounding business management. 
1                       About This ReportSK Telecom 
Annual Report
2013 
2                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   3                       About This ReportSK Telecom 
Annual Report
2013 
“Partner for New Possibilities” is a slogan for SK Telecom’s Vision 2020, 
signifying the unlimited possibilities, hopes, and challenges that will unfold in the future. SK Telecom strives to realize “Happiness with Customers” by enriching value and to become a more respected and favored company by pursuing “Companion with Society” across industry boundaries. This comprehensive Report includes reports of value creation by SK Telecom, including its financial performances, non-financial performances such as social and environmental achievements, future outlooks, and efforts to improve its corporate value, and has been prepared to increase the understanding of its investors and stakeholders. SK Telecom’s Board of Directors approved the Report on June 25, 2014.
SK Telecom has publicly advocated the ten principles of the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC) as a member of UNGC LEAD, and it was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for the sixth consecutive year since 2008. SK Telecom has gained global recognition in the area of climate change strategy since 2010. In addition, SK Telecom has been participating in the Integrated Reporting Pilot Program Business Network, which was initiated by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), since 2012.
4                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   5                       About This ReportContents
1  About This Report
24 Special Feature: SK Telecom’s 30-Year History
30 Special Feature: ICTnomics, a Blueprint for the Next Thirty Years
 1
 Overview
34 CEO’s Message 
38 Strengthening Responsible Management System 
40 Value Creation 
44 Achievements and Outlook
 2 Our Business
50 Board of Directors
52 Vision 2020
54 Happy Companion
56 Business Model
60 Sustainability
62 Economic Value Generated and Distributed
64 Performance of Major Subsidiaries
 3 Strategic Focus
72 Risks and Opportunities
 Material Issues
76   1) Customer Experience Innovation
82   2) LTE Leadership
88   3) Value Added Solutions
94   4) Creating Shared Values through ICT
100   5) Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions
105   6) Win-Win Growth
110   7) Human Capital Development
 4 Management Discussion & Analysis
118 MD&A - Financial
128 MD&A - Social & Environmental
150 Report of External Auditor
152 Third Party Assurance Statement
156 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement 
 5  Governance and Leadership
160 Governance Model
162 Board Activities and Compensation
166 Sustainable Management
170 Risk Management
172 Ethical Management
 6
 Additional Information
178 Financial Statements
188 Materiality Report
194 UN Global Compact
196 CEO Statement on Human Rights
198 GRI IndexSK Telecom 
Annual Report
2013 
6                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   7                       About This ReportOur lives are becoming freer and more convenient 
while the world is becoming safer and more comfortable. 
Society will evolve into being more efficient and effective 
and the ICT industry will create even higher value through evolution and convergence. 
SK Telecom is at the center of this change. 
SK Telecom will lead the change in individuals, industries, and the society, and create a better future for ICT. 
SK Telecom’s possibilities will soon become our possibilities.New 
Possibilities
8                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   9                     New PossibilitiesPossibilities form 
the map to our future
LTE-A
Possibilities through Enhancing Value    SK Telecom’s 
LTE-A technology is the foundation for delivering increased customer value and 
the mainstay for driving the ICT ecosystem evolution. This is because LTE-A’s faster data speeds can deliver an enriching mobile life by offering full HD viewing, group video calling, and seamless audio streaming while stimulating the growth of the device, content, and convergence industries by accelerating the trend toward higher resolution, and richer mobile content. Building the technological foundation that enabled the commercial launch of its LTE-A service, SK Telecom is now focusing its capabilities on bringing forward the era of 225 Mbps and 300 Mbps mobile speeds. The new possibilities that SK Telecom’s LTE-A technology delivers is for our customers.  In June 2013, SK Telecom 
commercialized the world’s first 150 Mbps LTE-A technology, and in November of the same year, it 
demonstrated a much faster wide-
bandwidth LTE-A, offering up to 225 Mbps of speed. Without stopping, SK Telecom continued to strive and, in February 2014, successfully developed the world’s first 3-Band LTE-A technology. Soon-Ji Choi
Network Quality Solution Team
11                     New PossibilitiesTwo years of research and development 
at SK Telecom have led to the industry’s first commercialization of a dialer platform called “T Phone.” 
T Phone is a service unique to SK 
Telecom that brings together key convenience and basic features of a call, thereby enriching the mobile communication experience above and beyond a simple phone call.Possibilities form 
the map to our future
T Phone
Possibilities through Innovations in Value    The belief 
that customers should feel secure both when making and receiving phone call 
has led SK Telecom to launch the “T Phone,” a dialer which integrates various call functions and services into a single communication platform.The T Phone’s major features include “Safe Call,” which informs customers of the caller and the purpose of the call when they receive a call from an unknown number, and “T114,” which allows users to search for one million phone numbers of stores and organizations, and shows the results in order of proximity. T Phone makes a smartphone worthy of its name. T Phone, the easy, convenient, and safe phone created by all, is an innovative dialer generating value. Seung-Hak Lee
Technology Cooperation Team
13                     New PossibilitiesPossibilities through Delivering Value    The convergence of 
broadcasting and telecommunications is a natural trend in the telecommunications 
market. SK Telecom, together with its subsidiary SK Broadband, offers services optimized to each customer and device including services such as high-speed fixed and wireless Internet services as well as converged broadcasting and telecommunications services. With the help of B box, the innovative home device that integrates media and the home, SK Telecom is creating a world where people can conveniently enjoy a variety of services, such as searching the web and running TV applications. B box, which utilizes the scalability of Android OS allows for the addition of advanced media services and new smart home-related services. As such, the experiences that customers can enjoy with SK Telecom are also evolving.Possibilities form 
the map to our future
B box
“B box” is a home hub device that 
delivers diverse fixed and wireless services such as IPTV, VOD, video calls, home monitoring and cloud 
services as well as SNS between 
family members. B box is all that customers need to enjoy home media services that integrate TV and smartphone functions and improve life, leisure, and security. 
Mi-Youn Ko
Product Planning Team
15                     New PossibilitiesPossibilities form 
the map to our future
Big Data
Big data’s significance lies in 
enabling us to make predictions through analysis about our society and create information tailored to 
different customers. Through big data 
and its analytic tools, SK Telecom intends to create new ICT values by combining and analyzing data, encompassing its internal and external databases.
Possibilities through Refining Value    Through analysis of 
big data, while staying within the legal and institutional limits, SK Telecom is 
developing differentiated business insights. “Geovision,” one of the map-based services SK Telecom has developed, combines statistical analysis in diverse areas and geographical information with location-based technology to provide differentiated services such as commercial property analyses, customer management, and community-based marketing solutions. SK Telecom will continue to develop new big data technology and applications to change the corporate marketing paradigm.
Sang-Woong Jeon
Big Data TF
17                     New PossibilitiesPossibilities form 
the map to our future
SK Telecom offers a variety of 
Internet of Things (IoT) related to machines, devices, vehicles, the environment, and people. 
IoT is a service and technology that 
enables communication among objects, people, space, and information by connecting different mediums to a network using ICT technologies. 
Possibilities through Connecting Value    IoT is gaining 
attention as a new business paradigm for the post-smartphone era. SK Telecom 
has developed and opened an international standard-based open IoT platform, which plays a leading role in establishing an ecosystem of win-win partnerships at home and abroad. SK Telecom is also taking the lead in promoting win-win growth in the IoT industry by nurturing small and medium-sized enterprises and venture start-ups. It is also taking the initiative by covering out new convergence markets such as connected car,? asset management, energy management, human care programs as well as agricultural, fisheries, and livestock businesses. Through such efforts, SK Telecom aims to create value through connectivity, and pave the way in making the world a smarter place.IoTJu-Young Lee
IoT Business Team
Smart EnvironmentSecurity & Emergencies
IoT Retail & LogisticseHealthSmart Cities
Home AutomationInternet IoT Service
Smart AgricultureThingsInternet 
of Things
19                     New PossibilitiesBRAVo!
RestartPossibilities form 
the map to our future
The “BRAVO! Restart” program helps 
baby boomers start their own businesses. Under the program, SK Telecom not only offers practical 
resources such as seed money and 
office space, but also one-on-one mentoring assistance, training, and management know-how that enhances the participants’ business models. The company also provides indirect resources such as joint 
technology development, prototype 
production, and market creation in order to help start-ups succeed.
Possibilities through Sharing Value    For retiring 
baby boomers, who led Korea’s economic growth and plan to start 
an ICT business, SK Telecom offers the incubator program “BRAVO! Restart” to provide prospective entrepreneurs with practical support and to facilitate their rise to success. In addition to the success of their commercialization, the “BRAVO! Restart” business start-up team has been developing new business models and creating outcomes through joint technology development and commercialization with SK Telecom. This is one such effort that SK Telecom is undertaking to implement its core value “Happy Companion,” to deliver value and grow together.Yong-Hyun Kwon
Platform Tech. Lab
21                     New PossibilitiesPossibilities for the 
Next 30 Years
The year 2013 was especially meaningful for SK Telecom. 
SK Telecom, backed by its advanced technology and 
infrastructure, was the first in the world to commercially 
launch the LTE-A technology and deliver new customer value with T Phone and B box. SK Telecom also carved out 
markets for big data and IoT while actively implementing 
its core value of “Happy Companion” by cementing the foundation for win-win growth through the “BRAVO! 
Restart” program. 
All of innovative developments is part of the initiation 
to realize “Partner for New Possibilities,” the vision 
to create new possibilities for a better future. Even at this very moment, SK Telecom is working hard 
to deliver another successful 30 years. 
SK Telecom marked its 30th anniversary in 2014. SK Telecom has enhanced 
the quality of life by popularizing information telecommunications technologies 
and, at the same time, creating the ICT ecosystem on the strength of the 
company’s advanced network technologies and infrastructure. This has led SK Telecom to win worldwide recognition. SK Telecom has been listed in the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for six consecutive years 
and ranked at the top of NCSI for 17 years in a row. The following are the major milestones in SK Telecom’s 30-year history.
1984-
1993    
Began popularizing mobile 
communications technologies 
and services  
1984 
March 29Korea Mobile Communications Service Corp. was foundedApril 02Launched a phone service for automobiles May 31Took over the paging service from the Korea Telecommunications Authority, the predecessor of KT (The number of subscribers in the Seoul metropolitan area was about 12,000)1994-
2003   
Represented Korea’s mobile 
communications industry
1994
February 01Launched a voice mail service (VMS) for pagersJune 02Sunkyoung Group (the predecessor of SK Group) became the largest shareholder of KMT (with a 23% stake)September 09Joined the Iridium satellite project (Secured a 4.4% ownership by investing USD 70 million)November 08Tested the CDMA system (between the company’s central research center and Shintanjin base station)
1995
January 26Number of mobile phone service subscribers surpassed 1 millionFebruary 11Declared the “MOVE 21” campaignApril 03Listed the Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on the London Stock ExchangeJuly 01Launched the paging service wide area November 01Launched a text messaging service for pagers1996January 01Launched the world’s first CDMA commercial service (in Incheon and Busan)January 03Launched the customer information system (CIS)March 11Launched a voice mail service (VMS) for mobile phonesApril 12Launched the CDMA digital mobile phone service in the Seoul metropolitan areaJune 06Obtained the rating of “A+” from the U.S. credit ratings agency S&PJune 27Became the first Korean company to be listed on the New York Stock ExchangeDecember 01Launched the CDMA mobile phone service in 78 cities nationwide
1997
March 24Changed its name to SK Telecom and declared a new CIMarch 31Number of mobile phone service subscribers, “Digital 011,” surpassed 1 millionApril 29Became Korea’s first company to issue Yankee bonds worth USD 230 millionMay 05Iridium launched its first satelliteJuly 25Launched a caller ID serviceSeptember 02Changed the mobile service brand from “Digital 011” to “Speed 011”September 05Developed a system to test an IMT-2000 next-generation mobile phone serviceNovember 06Launched the world’s first EVRC-based digital mobile phone service
SK Telecom’s History Reveals 
the Development of the Global Mobile 
Communications Industry Special Feature:
SK Telecom’s 
30-Year History
1985
February 22Held the first General Shareholders’ Meeting
1986
March 01Launched the “Tone & Display”-based paging service (in Seoul and Busan)September 17Provided telecommunications devices for the 10th Asian Games (3,469 car phones and pagers)
1987
December 05Number of automobile phone service subscribers surpassed 10,000
1988
April 30Selected as a public telecommunications service providerMay 13Changed its name to Korea Mobile Telecommunication Corp. (KMT)  July 01Launched a mobile phone serviceSeptember 17Provided telecommunications devices for the 1988 Seoul Olympic Games (233 car phones and 523 mobile phones)
1989
January 28Hired 38 experienced employees and 46 new employees through the first round of competitive employmentOctober 12Conducted the initial public offering (increased the capital stock to KRW 6.4 billion, resulting in the starting capital of KRW 19.99 billion after the IPO)
1990
February 01Obtained the paging service network ID No. “012” June 01Launched the nationwide single price plan for the mobile communications service (25 KRW per 10 seconds)
1991
October 01Opened a switching network for the paging service  October 22Opened the cellular network surveillance system (CNSS)December 14Number of mobile communication service subscribers surpassed 1 million (Mobile phones: 163,000 / Pagers: 837,000)
1992
February 28Declared the company’s corporate vision and CIApril 21Number of paging service subscribers surpassed 1 millionNovember 09Tested “TDX-PS,” a domestically manufactured switching device for the paging service
1993
September 16Founded the Center for the Management of the Mobile Communications Technology Development
SK Telecom has been leading 
Korea’s ICT ecosystem 
based on the world’s “best” 
and “first” technologies and 
services. Furthermore, 
SK Telecom’s notably 
ceaseless pursuit of 
innovation is why the 
company has been leading 
the way in developing 
mobile communications 
technologies.
24                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   25                     New Possibilities1998
January 23Became Korea’s first mobile carrier to obtain an ISO 9002 certificate February 19Demonstrated the IMT-2000 service at the inauguration ceremony of South Korean President Dae-Jung Kim May 21Number of mobile phone service subscribers surpassed 5 millionNovember 01Launched the Iridium commercial service
1999
July 15Launched a new mobile phone service brand “TTL” for younger consumersAugust 16Launched the world’s first IS-95B commercial serviceDecember 01Launched the new comprehensive wireless Internet service “n.TOP”December 21Number of mobile phone service subscribers surpassed 10 million
2000
January 27Succeeded in an IMT-2000-based cross-border video call (via SK Telecom and NTT DOCOMO)April 11Launched Korea’s first wireless banking serviceApril 26The Korean Fair Trade Commission approved the takeover of Shinsegi TelecomOctober 01Launched the world’s first CDMA 2000 1X commercial serviceDecember 15Obtained the right to provide an asynchronous IMT-2000 service 2001April 13Shinsegi Telecom changed its name to SK Shinsegi TelecomMay 29Declared a vision called, “Vision 2010”June 11Achieved a market share of less than 50%, a condition for business consolidation with SK Shinsegi TelecomJune 25Signed the merger agreement with SK Shinsegi TelecomAugust 30Developed the world’s first packet network-based mobile video call serviceSeptember 18Obtained the right to provide a CDMA mobile communications service in VietnamOctober 17Opened the fixed and wireless integrated portal site “NATE”October 18Launched the premium mobile phone service “UTO” for those ages 25 to 35November 05Launched the digital money service “NeMo”November 17Launched the world’s first IMT-2000 pilot service
2002
January 11Obtained the final approval for the merger with SK Shinsegi TelecomJanuary 28Launched the world’s first synchronous IMT-2000 commercial serviceFebruary 04Launched the “MONETA Phone” serviceJuly 31Completed the consolidation of the 011 and 017 networksNovember 14Founded SK Communications Corp.November 25Launched a mobile multimedia service, “June”2003April 29Announced the commercialization of the mobile standard platform “WIPI”June 02Launched the CDMA 2000 IX EV-DO based video call serviceJuly 01Launched “Rainbow,” a program to enhance customer services July 01Began a CDMA-based mobile phone service in VietnamJuly 11Announced the new business innovation strategy, “Change Management”August 09“June” became the world’s first 3G service to get 1 million subscribersNovember 06Built a consortium for the satellite DMB serviceDecember 03Founded TU Media Corp.December 29Launched an asynchronous IMT-2000 commercial service in Seoul
2004-
2007   
SK Telecom became an integral part 
of people’s lifestyles
2004
March 13Launched the world’s first DMB satellite serviceMarch 29Declared the “New Value Management” principle at the ceremony for the 20th anniversary of the company’s founding April 08Founded UNISK, a joint corporation with a Chinese telecommunications operator China UnicomJuly 16Launched the fixed and wireless integrated service, “Mobile Cyworld”July 27Exported ring back tonesworth USD 10 million November 15Launched the world’s first fixed and wireless music portal service “Melon”
2005January 17Set up Korea’s first year-round audit systemJanuary 27Established “SK-EarthLink” by joining with the U.S. IT service and communications provider EarthLink April 04Launched the world’s first mobile bill “ⓜBill” showing details of 
customers’ mobile phone bills on their mobile phones April 11Opened the mobile game portal “GXG” (providing 16 mobile 3D games)May 01TU Media began satellite DMB broadcasting services (7 video and 20 audio channels)June 07SK Telecom and Vodafone K.K. began a WCDMA-based automatic roaming service between Korea and Japan
2006
January 24Surpassed KRW 10 trillion in sales in 2005 (based on the company’s 2005 results announcement)May 02“Helio,” a MVNO between SK and EarthLink, began a nationwide commercial service in the U.S. May 16Launched the world’s first HSDPA commercial service using the brand 3G+ (in 25 cities nationwide)July 13Declared cessation of adult content to the company’s wireless Internet serviceAugust 01Launched “T,” the new brand for mobile communications services (“T 3G+,” “T PLAN,” “T WORLD,” etc.)September 23Number of mobile phone service subscribers surpassed 20 millionOctober16All employees’ titles were unified to that of “Manager” regardless of rank
2007March 26Introduced the telecommunications industry’s first Customer Complaints Management System (CCMS)April10Then Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao joined the opening ceremony of the TD-SCDMA test bed, driving a full-fledged cooperation with China in 3G telecommunicationsJuly 25Launched the new brand “T Map” a location-based navigation serviceAugust 20Became the second-largest shareholder of China UnicomDecember 03Signed a conditional takeover agreement with Hanaro Telecom to acquire 43.59% share of the then second-largest broadband Internet and landline phone operatorDecember 07Built the world’s first 5.76 Mbps HSUPA commercial network
26                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   27                     New Possibilities2008-
2014   
Opened up new possibilities 
with smart innovation 
2008
February 27Launched the online open market e-commerce platform, “11st”March 28Completed the acquisition of Hanaro TelecomOctober 02Opened the mobile technology museum “T.um”
2009
September 09Opened Korea’s first mobile open market apps platform, “T Store”December 14Decided to acquire 49% of Hana Card to become the second-largest shareholder of the credit card company
2010
February 10Launched Korea’s first Android OS-based smartphone “MOTOROI”February 22Launched Hana SK Card, a joint venture with Hana Financial Group2011January 12Declared three business principles: speed, openness, and cooperationJuly 01Launched Korea’s first LTE service October 01Founded SK Planet, a platform service providerNovember 14Signed an agreement to take over 21.1% stake in Hynix Semiconductor Inc.December 27Developed the world’s first Wi-Fi integrated LTE femtocell  
2012
January 02Applied the world’s first Advanced-SCAN technology to the LTE commercial network in Bundang, Gyeonggi ProvinceJanuary 04Developed the world’s first heterogeneous N/W integration solutionJanuary 18Launched the joint venture “HealthConnect” with Seoul National University Hospital January 31Began the “Life Value Innovation” program to bring a new paradigm in the LTE eraJanuary 31Number of LTE service subscribers surpassed 1 million March 28Announced the vision, “Partner for New Possibilities” in celebrating the 28th anniversary of the company’s founding
2013January 31Began the “Good Device Change” program for long-term subscribersApril 19Become Korea’s first mobile carrier to have more than 10 million LTE subscribers April 22Applied the world’s first smart hospital solution at the Seoul National University Bundang HospitalMay 08Announced the “Happy Companion” campaignJune 26Launched the world’s first LTE-A service (twice as fast as the existing LTE service)July 22Number of customers using the “Data Refill” service, a program aimed at long-term subscribers, reached 1 millionNovember 02Built a 5-kilometer “Happy Companion” pathway around Mount Gwanak
Brand Changes 
1984
Korea Mobile CommunicationsService Corp.1988Korea Mobile CommunicationsCorp.Beeper 012Digital 0111997SK TelecomSpeed 011IRIDIUM, NETSGO1998007001999happy2buySKY, TTL2000n.TOP , NATE,Leaders Club2001ting,UTO, NeMo,MONETA2002PAXNet,CARA, June2003MBANK, TU MediaMelon2004ddangkong2005GXG, Cizle,1mm2006T, T world2007T Roaming,T map, 11st2008T membership2009T Cash, T Store,Smart learning2010B, T Cloud Biz,T bizpoint2011Geovision,Cloud BEMS,Smart Insight,4G LTE2013Health-On,myshop
SKTSK Telecom Creates the Highest Value with the Best Technology
SK Telecom has improved the quality of life and led the evolution and 
convergence of the telecommunications industry through ceaseless innovation 
for the past 30 years. The steps SK Telecom have taken laid the foundation of Korea’s telecommunications industry and became the driving force in opening 
a new era. The following list the achievements and results of SK Telecom for 
the past three decades.
SK Telecom’s 
World’s First 
Commercial Services
– CDMA 2000 1X service (October 2000)
– Mobile phone VOD service (June 2001)
– CDMA-based wireless data connection roaming service (August 2001)
– CDMA 1X EV-DO service (January 2002)– DMB satellite (March 2004)
– Fixed & wireless integrated music portal Melon (November 2004)
– Mobile phone-based HSDPA service (May 2006)– Mobile telematics service (MIV) (December 2010)
– Smart USIM chips (June 2010)
– Multi-carrier premium radio repeater (September 2012)– LTE femtocell (December 2011)
– Advanced Smart Cloud Access Network (SCAN) (January 2012)
– HD Voice (VoLTE) (August 2012)– LTE-A service (June 2013)SK Telecom Creates 
the Highest Value 
with the Best Technology
1st
Sales
1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2013KRW 147.3 billionKRW 2.68 trillionKRW 6.23 trillionKRW 10.65 trillionKRW 15.99 trillionKRW 16.6 trillion
Number of Subscribers  
(as of February 2014) 27 ,558,474
28                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   29                     New PossibilitiesPursuing Changes in 
the Better Direction Rather Than 
Faster Changes with “Good ICTnomics”Special Feature:
ICTnomics, 
a Blueprint for 
the Next Thirty YearsConnecting Everything including People, Equipment, Imagination and Reality
The Internet of Things (IoT) technology, connecting everything through the Internet, 
will serve as another innovative engine for the ICTnomics. Based on this, it is 
expected that “Smart Things” beyond smartphones will appear in large numbers in the era of ICTnomics. The appearance of “Smart Things,” including smart homes and 
unmanned logistics transportation means, will introduce an innovation in the existing 
products manufacturing and using methods. 
Creating, Delivering and Sharing Values through the Pursuit of ICTnomics
Greeting such an era of ICTnomics, SK Telecom aspires to present “creating new values (Value Creation),” “delivering optimized values (Value Delivery),” and “sharing 
values with society (Value Sharing)” as its future objectives. To this end, we will 
be the world’s first mobile network operator that will open an age of full-fledged 5G mobile communications by 2020. In addition, we will continuously materialize 
new IoT-based solutions early to successfully realize the ICTnomics. We will also 
actively start activating the entire ICTnomics ecosystem by expanding our “Happy Companion” so that a wide range of players can grow together. 
“Good ICTnomics,” Pursuing the Right Changes Rather Than Fast Changes
Changes, that the ICTnomics in pursuit by SK Telecom truly aims for, are not “faster 
changes” but “changes in the better direction.” While the ICT convergence era offers unprecedented innovative values, it is also true that there are worries over 
potential harmful effects arising from the misuse of technologies. SK Telecom 
considers technological developments for the entire society rather than technological developments for blind growth. While pursuing the competitiveness of primary 
industries including agriculture and fisheries through ICT convergence, we will 
continue to lead a proper understanding of technologies and a healthy ICT culture along with “good ICT projects” to protect personal information and prevent cyber 
addiction and other harmful side effects. 
Value Creation
Value SharingValue Delivery• Reorganize existing industries through the convergence of ICT
• Create jobs in new industry areas 
   i.e.) ICT + Existing Industries → Enhanced energy efficiency, 
 future health care 
• Deliver optimized values by customer based on Big Data 
 and artificial intelligence
• Provide opportunities to choose custom-tailored options 
 by lifestyle and situation
   i.e.) Big Data and Artificial Intelligence + 
 Physical Security →  Preventive Security System
• Realize a society of ICTnomics where happiness is fulfilled
• Solve social problems by utilizing ICT • Form shared growth with partners and an ecosystem  Directions for ICTnomics: Future Objectives  
ICTnomics
Activate ICT ecosystem Solve social problems by utilizing ICT Good ICT projectsGood ICT Projects: From Fast Changes to Right Changes 
Opening the “Discussion 
on ICT Development” 
at the Korea Federation of 
Banks on May 29, 2014, 
SK Telecom’s CEO 
Sung-Min Ha forecasted 
a new type of economy where 
ICT will trigger revolutionary 
changes in our overall lives, 
presenting “ICTnomics” as 
a slogan for the future direction 
in development. 
“Fast + Right”SK Telecom presents “ICTnomics” as the slogan for its development directions 
in the next thirty years. ICTnomics signifies a new type of economy in which 
all matters engineered with artificial intelligence and humans are organically 
connected, and digitalized industries are converged and reorganized on the basis of information and communication technology (ICT). This new economy 
will also allow ICT to serve as a catalyst for production and consumption, 
as well as revolutionary changes, in all parts of society. 
Unlike the industrial developments when innovative technologies have repeated 
beginnings and declines, in an era of “ICTnomics,” the outcomes of digital 
innovations are connected, optimized and repeated to seamlessly produce almost 
infinite innovations. The features of such ICTnomics are summed up as the “maturity of technologies that understands and resembles humans” and the “connection of 
everything including people, equipment, imagination and reality.” 
ICT, Understanding and Resembling Humans 
Convergence of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence Technologies 
Intelligence platforms in which Big Data infrastructures are converged with artificial 
intelligence technologies are forecast to be the largest battleground in an era of ICTnomics. The development of ICT technologies has enabled large-capacity data 
that are generated through over 4.6 billion cellular phones and over 30 billion RFID 
tags and sensors around the world, to be collected and processed in real-time. An increase in meaningful data and the progress of analysis technologies will inevitably 
lead to the evolution of artificial intelligence, bringing about innovative changes in 
overall industrial structures and lifestyles. 
30                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013   31                     New Possibilities1
Overview
 
01 CEO’s Message  34p
02 Strengthening Responsible
 Management System  38p
03 Value Creation  40p
04 Achievements and Outlook  44pContinuing to bring value 
to our clients
 2013 SK Telecom 
Annual Report
1
Overview
Distinguished Stakeholders,
With over half of Korea’s mobile subscribers using LTE services, 
the telecommunications industry is rapidly shifting from voice to data. In 2013, SK Telecom strengthened its leadership by changing the competitive paradigm to one that is focused on customer value, and achieved meaningful results in IPTV, healthcare and other growth businesses.The increase in LTE subscribers and growth of the B2B solution improved SK Telecom’s revenue by 2.9% year-on-year to KRW 16.6 trillion in 2013. Furthermore, by refraining from subsidy competition and increasing the focus on differentiated service-based competition, operating profit increased 16.2% year-on-year to KRW 2.1 trillion.In addition to the financial achievements, SK Telecom solidified its foundation for sustained growth. The company actively engaged in LEAD, which is composed of a select group of outstanding UN Global Compact (UNGC) companies, was included in the DJSI (Down Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index for the sixth consecutive year, received the highest “excellent” rating from the Win-Win Growth Index, and was ranked first in the 2014 National Customers Satisfaction Index (NSCI) for the 17th consecutive year.
Competitive Paradigm Shift to Customer Value
The driving force behind SK Telecom in 2013 was customer value. Under the banner of “creating the best customer value,” SK Telecom focused its resources to shift the competitive paradigm to that based on services and products. SK Telecom led the introduction of innovative price plans including “T kkiri Price Plan” and “Data Gift,” and enriched the user experience by expanding benefits for long-term subscribers. Moreover, by launching the world’s first LTE-A service, the company further differentiated its network to create customer value, which has resulted in a steady rise in LTE subscribers reaching 13.5 million as of year-end 2013, representing 49% of SK Telecom’s subscriber base.SK Telecom Embarks on
Another 30 Years of 
Pioneering New Possibilities
01 CEO’s Message
02 Strengthening Responsible Management System
03 Value Creation04 Achievements and Outlook
34                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  35                       Overview2014 Marks the Launch of Another Extraordinary Thirty Years
For SK Telecom, the year 2014 is a significant one, as it marks the 30th anniversary of SK Telecom’s founding. It also signifies the first year of the company’s step forward into the next three decades.SK Telecom is determined to create customer value by strengthening its core competencies through innovations in its marketing, network and other businesses. The company aims to differentiate user experiences through innovative services such as “T Phone,” a next-generation call platform, and “B box,” which offers TV as well as smart home capabilities. Building on the achievements that its growth businesses have made, SK Telecom will also take the lead in expanding the ICT ecosystem. As a global leader, the company will take a leadership role in communicating with and caring for the company’s stakeholders.SK Telecom will continue to embrace challenge and innovation to grow and prosper for the next 30 years. Only through ceaseless efforts to break through existing boundaries can the company face the challenging environment and become a market leader. In 2014, SK Telecom will continue to diligently pursue innovation on all fronts and seek new possibilities for its core value of “Happy Companion” with all stakeholders in order to become a respected and socially responsible corporate entity.
I look forward to your unwavering interest and support.Sincerely,Confidence in Future Growth of New Businesses
SK Telecom has laid the foundation for its growth businesses in 2013. The company is confident of the growth prospects for IPTV and healthcare businesses, has enhanced the competitiveness of the B2B solution business, and continues to invest in the area of cloud computing and big data. Indeed, the B2B solution businesses recorded a 60% year-on-year growth, positioning itself as the company’s growth driver. In addition to identifying new growth businesses, the expansion of SK Planet and the improved competitiveness of SK Hynix have positioned SK Telecom as a leading ICT company.
Pursuing “Happy Companion” to Achieve “Vision 2020”
In 2012, SK Telecom announced “Vision 2020,” its long-term objectives for sustainable growth, and the slogan, “Partner for New Possibilities.” To achieve the vision, the company introduced “Happy Companion” as its core value in 2013, and focused its resources on spearheading the “Happiness with Customers” and “Companion with Society” programs. As part of the “Happiness with Customers” program, the company launched products and services that base key values on “family” and “safety.” By launching services that alert customers of illegal smishing and spam messages, and other services for children and senior citizens, the company has taken the lead in creating a safer telecommunications environment.“Companion with Society” is a program to identify new business opportunities and grow the ICT ecosystem by providing a firm platform for start-up companies. To this end, the company actively invested in B2B solution, healthcare and other emerging convergence businesses, and utilized big data to stimulate growth of the ICT ecosystem. Through the “BRAVO! Restart” program, which provides support for new business ventures by retirees and the “Traditional Market Revitalization” project utilizing ICT tools, the company also contributed to the collective improvement of society. In fact, these two programs received national recognition as best practice cases of Korea’s pursuit to build a creative economy.
Sung-Min HaPresident and CEO  SK Telecom 
36                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  37                       OverviewRisk Management 
SK Telecom has a risk management system that identifies potential risks, investigates 
implications and causes, and implements an effective response to such risks. SK 
Telecom’s risk management includes a system of identifying existing or potential risks to eliminate and prevent them from occurring, or to reduce the possibility of 
their situation; a response system to minimize damage and restore conditions in the 
event of a risk situation; and a post-risk management system that analyzes the risk situation in order to incorporate the results into future risk management activities. 
In the event of a risk situation that has the potential to cause severe damage 
to customer value, SK Telecom sets in motion a risk management system that establishes a system of reports and responds to risks by running a company-wide 
crisis response center presided over by the COO (Network Operations Business), 
while the CEO actively engages in minimizing damage and in quickly restoring business conditions. 
The company also runs a working group presided over by the Management Support 
Office and under the supervision of the CEO to review potential risks on a monthly basis, while actively responding to risks by operating a response system with 
related organizations. In 2013, the President and CEO of SK Telecom affirmed 
his commitment to risk management and stressed the role and responsibility to 
company executives and employees. In addition, the risk management systems of 
its subsidiaries, such as SK Planet, SK Broadband and SK Hynix, were enhanced to levels that were in line with those of SK Telecom.
 
Governance Remuneration PolicySK Telecom’s remuneration policy seeks to strike a balance between a reasonable 
reward system designed and based on the performance of leaders and 
organizations, and a pay system that can attract the best business leaders required for management activities. Performance assessment elements include financial 
achievements, the implementation of company strategies, and compliance with the 
company’s management principles.SK Telecom is enhancing the effectiveness of its management system through 
a sound governance structure based on balance and transparency; ethical 
management grounded in fair principles and rule-based management; strong and responsive management that can efficiently respond to various risk factors; 
and reasonable remuneration polices. 
Governance Structure
SK Telecom is continuously improving its governance structure so that the Board of 
Directors makes decisions on the basis of transparent and responsible management. 
The company will strive to set up a more effective decision-making system by incorporating leading global practices as well as domestic and foreign legal 
regulations.
Ethical Management
SK Telecom strives to be an ethical and responsible company. To SK Telecom, ethical management means to fulfill economic and legal responsibilities, and to incorporate 
commonly accepted social and ethical standards into corporate decision-making, 
management activities, and the behavior of executives and employees.Through the SK Management System (SKMS), SK Telecom is diligently practicing 
ethical management in accordance with strict ethical principles and norms to achieve 
“Vision 2020.”1
Overview
• Established and revised the Code of Ethics, detailing the ethical code of conduct guidelines 
 for executives and employees.
• Implemented “Clean SK Telecom,” which aims to preempt unethical behavior through punishment by example, and strengthened on- and offline ethical management training to 
 instill the basic concept to “adhere to fundamental rules.”
• Conducted an audit and assessment to sharpen business competitiveness, and reform
 customary and inefficient business practices and processes. Helped to comply with basic
 marketing rules by reviewing incentive settlement processes for fixed and wireless services. 
• Reinforced assessments of subsidiaries to establish a tailored process to enhance 
 their competitiveness.Key Developments
• As per the Korean Commercial Law, SK Telecom discloses on an annual and quarterly basis  the remuneration amount and calculation standards of registered executives if their total pay 
 is KRW 500 million or more. 
• Along with abiding by domestic commercial law on revealing remuneration values, 
 SK Telecom has decided to publicize the ratio of the highest wage to median wage and
 year-on-year pay growth required by global norms as part of the company’s effort to 
 enhance remuneration transparency.Key Developments• Strengthened the company-wide risk management system: the COO (Network Operations
 Business)  heads the company-wide crisis response center, which reports risk situations,
 manages the response system, and supports the CEO’s decision-making.
• Enhanced the risk management systems of subsidiaries, including SK Planet, SK Broadband
 and SK Hynix, to the level of SK Telecom’s risk management system.
• Established a risk management system to identify and manage potential risks in  growth businesses.
• Expanded the Risk Management Working Group, which meets on a monthly basis,  to major subsidiaries and new growth businesses in order to reinforce the risk management
 review function.Key Developments01 CEO’s Message
02 Strengthening Responsible Management System
03 Value Creation04 Achievements and OutlookResponsible Management System 
through Transparency and 
Risk Management
•   Conducted an annual assessment of the Board of Directors on the basis of their expertise in 
 the company’s business and technology, and initiatives in conducting board activities.
•  Set up a channel to collect processes and develop policies with respect to the stakeholders’
 grievances related to human rights, labor, social, and environmental issues, which were reported
 to the Board of Directors.
•  Conducted CSR training for the Board of Directors with lecturers from the UN Global Compact
 LEAD program to shore up the Board of Directors’ participation in CSR.Key Developments
38                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  39                       Overview1
Overview
Vision 2020
Business Context4th To-be
Happy CompanionPartner for New Possibilities
KRW 100  trillion in corporate value and a global top 100  companies
SK Telecom creates new value across industries to make the world a happier 
and richer place by practicing innovation on a daily basis using a well-established business infrastructure and human capital.
Smart Data Life Service Provider
Smart Data
• Create customer-centered services by utilizing accumulated data
• Utilize data from mobile and other businesses to establish a converged 
 mutually beneficial growth relationship
• Expand growth opportunities by establishing a horizontal value chain 
Life Service Provider 
• A “multi-core” operator with a business portfolio that spans 
 beyond telecommunications
• Enhancing trust as a respected companyHappy
    “Happiness” with customers
•  Deliver the best in customer valueCompanion
    “Companion” with society• Identify business opportunities and 
 foster growth of new businesses
• Expand the base of the ICT ecosystem
Strengthen the 
Telecommunications Business
Realize new growth of the 
telecommunications business through innovation
   Expand Business Boundaries
Generate greater value through 
technology innovation and 
convergence   Social Responsibility
Dedicate to creating customer value and contribute to society
Saturated Mobile Telecommunications Industry 
– The number of mobile phone subscribers reached 
54.68 million in 2013, surpassing 100% of the total population. Connectivity Went Up – The penetration of highly-functional devices such as smartphones and 
wearable devices increased. The Platform Market Grew – The high-speed mobile network has accelerated the shift to mobile internet and the growth of content 
service and platforms.Market Stabilization – Polices to improve the distribution structure and stabilize 
the market are expected such as the “Handset Distribution Structure Improvement Act.” Rate Reduction – As household communications 
fees rise, continued calls for rate reductions and disclosure of service costs are expected. Frequency Allocation – Frequency is a major factor 
for telecommunications operators to secure network competitiveness. 
An auction for LTE frequency was held in 2011 and 2013.Creative Economy – There are increasing 
social needs for efficiency and new 
opportunities generated by linking the conventional economy and industrial elements to ICT. Call for Social Responsibility – There 
are increasing calls for social responsibility in business management and contributions. The social need is increasing to improve efficiently 
through the combination of traditional, economic, and industrial 
elements with ICT.VisionSee page 52
 To-be ImageSee page 55
Core ValueSee page 55
 MissionSee page 52
Business ModelSee page 53, 56
See page 72
Broader Society Regulation MarketBusiness Structure Telecommunications  → Comprehensive ICT player
Growth Model MNO-based growth + ICT convergence business
Business Operation Method Competition  → Create an ecosystem that emphasizes
 customer value and partnerships  
Social Reputation A highly trusted, socially responsible company
Telecommunications 
and New Business
Hardware PlatformSKT01 CEO’s Message
02 Strengthening Responsible Management System
03 Value Creation04 Achievements and Outlook
Telecommunications Convergence·New GrowthData
Life Service Provider 
Smart Data
As-isCommunicationIntegrated Value Creation Map
   In order to fulfill its social responsibilities while leading the market and adapting to 
the changing regulations, SK Telecom established “Vision 2020” in 2012.SK Telecom strives to enhance its corporate value as well as its performances by 
bringing together all its capabilities. This is led by its core value “Happy Companion,” 
along with its mid-term strategies to achieve “Vision 2020.”
40                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  41                       OverviewFY 2013 Key Performance Indicators
Financial ResultsSee page 44
(K-IFRS)
 2011 2012 2013
   Operating revenue (consolidated)  16,300 16,141 16,602   
   Operating profit (consolidated)  2,296 1,730 2,011
Happiness with CustomersStrategic Review
Churn rateIn 2013, SK Telecom’s efforts to break away from subsidy-based marketing competition to a 
retention-based service competition led to a steady decline in the churn rate.Customer Experience InnovationSee page 76
2.7%
20112.6%
20122.3%
2013
No. of LTE subscribers 
(Unit: Million)SK Telecom’s leadership in LTE technology offering high-quality network services has been 
a major factor in the steady growth of LTE subscribers, surpassing 13.5 million as of the end 
of 2013.LTE Leadership See page 82
0.6
20117.5
201213.5
2013
Annual sales of new 
growth services to 
total annual sales SK Telecom is at the forefront of the expanding data market, developing innovative growth 
services in solutions, healthcare, and IPTV. Such service innovations have led to a steady growth 
of new businesses.  Value Added SolutionsSee page 88
5.1%
20115.2%
20126.6%
2013Education cost 
per employee
(KRW thousand)The core of SK Telecom’s human capital management is to create a platform that is centered 
around people and culture in order to enhance the capabilities of the employees; and to recognize 
and reward the achievements of the employees to fulfill the company’s long-term objective, 
“Vision 2020.” In 2013, SK Telecom invested KRW 3.38 million per employee in human capital 
development.Human Capital DevelopmentSee page 110
3,250
20112,930
20123,380
2013Average payment 
cycle (days)SK Telecom is making an effort to create an ICT industry ecosystem that promotes growth 
through fair competition, and greater trust and partnership with companies. One of SK Telecom’s 
contributions to this win-win approach is to make 100% cash payments to partner companies, 
and to reduce the average payment cycle.Win-Win GrowthSee page 105
12.9
20119.8
20128.7
2013Companion with SocietyStrategic Review
BRAVO! Restart
programThe “BRAVO! Restart” program is helping retirees start new businesses and SK Telecom identify 
new growth areas. In 2013, the first round of the program’s ten teams launched businesses and 
several patent rights were obtained. Creating Shared Values through ICTSee page 94
10 Teams
T Map Greenhouse Gas
Reduction ModelClimate change is a matter that requires urgent and concrete action. To this end, SK Telecom 
has been taking steps to cut greenhouse gas emissions and supporting the national greenhouse 
gas reduction campaign by utilizing its innovative ICT technology. In 2013, “T Map,” a navigation 
service that incorporates a greenhouse gas reduction methodology, was adopted by the ITU as 
an internationally recommended standard.Reducing GHG EmissionsSee page 100
Adopted as an Internationally 
Recommended Standard(Unit: KRW billion)1
Overview
01 CEO’s Message
02 Strengthening Responsible Management System
03 Value Creation04 Achievements and OutlookIntegrated Value Creation Map
   SK Telecom recorded KRW 16.6 trillion in operating revenue in 2013, backed by its 
“Vision 2020” and mid- to long-term strategies derived from its core value 
“Happy Companion.”In addition, it produced tangible results in seven areas including socialcontributions, greenhouse gas emission reductions, shared growth, and human
capital through customers, networks, solutions and ICT.
42                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  43                       OverviewMid-Term Growth Momentum 
through LTE Leadership
and B2B Growth1
Overview
2011
2012
2013Performance Based on Consolidated Financial Statements (Unit: KRW billion) 
16,300
16,60216,1412,296
2,0111,730
Operating revenue Operating profit
(Unit: KRW billion) 
2011
2012
2013Performance Based on Non-Consolidated Financial Statements
12,551
12,333
12,8602,185
1,675
1,9673,978
3,511
4,0851,842
2,852
2,316SK Telecom reported consolidated revenue of KRW 16.6 trillion in sales in 2013, 
including the new growth B2B solution business, which grew 60%. 
SK Telecom is confident in its ability to generate sustained growth by increasing 
the value of LTE services and expanding its portfolio of growth businesses.
Achievements in 2013
In 2013, SK Telecom changed the competitive mobile telecommunications paradigm by shifting to services and established a firm foundation for growth businesses. 
Under the management principle of “deliver the best customer value,” SK Telecom 
began the world’s first LTE-A commercial service, differentiating its network quality to enhance LTE leadership, and led the competition paradigm shift by implementing 
innovative customer retention policies and price plans such as the “T kkiri Price 
Plan.”SK Telecom has been gaining momentum, as evidenced by the rapid growth of 
the B2B solution business, the increase in the number of IPTV subscribers, and 
the expansion of the healthcare business. Together with the expanded reach of SK Planet and the improved competitiveness of SK Hynix, the company has contributed 
to  establishing a foothold as a leading comprehensive ICT player. 
Financial Results
In 2013, SK Telecom recorded KRW 16.6 trillion in revenue,, KRW 2.11 trillion in 
operating profit, and KRW 1.61 trillion in net profit (consolidated K-IFRS). 
LTE Leadership Strengthened and B2B Solution Sales Increased
The launch of Korea’s first unlimited call plan, “T kkiri Price Plan” in March 2013, and other innovative services strengthened SK Telecom’s LTE leadership, with 
LTE subscribers reaching 13.5 million in 2013, accounting for almost 50% of the 
company’s entire subscribers. This, combined with the growth of new business such as B2B solutions, which grew 60% year-on-year to KRW 434 billion, resulted in a 2.9% 
year-on-year increase in consolidated revenue to KRW 16.6 trillion.Operating and Net Profit Grew
Operating profit reached KRW 2.11 trillion in 2013, up 16.2% year-on-year. SK Telecom’s retention and market stabilization efforts including “Good Device 
Change” and “Data Refill” programs contributed to a lower churn rate (from an 
average of 2.6% in 2012 to 2.3% in 2013) and improved profitability.SK Hynix’s historic high financial performance contributed nearly KRW 600 billion 
(equity accounting method) to improve consolidated net profit to KRW 1.61 trillion, 
up 44.3% from 2012. Capital expenditure (Capex) reach KRW 2.32 trillion, down 19.5% year-on-year, and is expected to show a gradual decline over the next 
few years.
01 CEO’s Message
02 Strengthening Responsible Management System
03 Value Creation04 Achievements and Outlook
Operating revenue
EBITDAOperating profitCapex
44                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  45                       OverviewShore Up Core Competitiveness in Telecommunications
In June 2013, SK Telecom differentiated its network quality by launching the world’s 
first commercial LTE-A service. Furthermore, as part of its effort to focus on products 
and services, SK Telecom introduced innovative rate plans such as the unlimited calling plan, “Data Gift,” and “Data Refill,” which have brought changes in the 
telecommunications rates to the domestic market.
In 2014, SK Telecom will further reinforce the competitiveness of its network by commercializing next-generation network technology such as 3-Band LTE-A. The 
company will also expand its product and service areas by launching more than 
20 strategic products in five key areas, including the communication platform such as “T Phone,” enriching fixed and wireless media; home services delivering a 
comprehensive home networking service fixed with media service; readily accessible 
entertainment service; and security services to protect users against smishing and hackings. “T Phone” is an embedded software installed in all new smartphones, 
and an innovation to the communication platform. To enhance convenience and 
applicability, “T Phone” will promote a differentiated competitive edge and win-win growth in the ICT industry by embracing services by the third parties in addition to 
functions that have been independently developed by SK Telecom.
 Future Outlook
The year 2014 marks the 30th anniversary of SK Telecom’s founding. 
The company’s achievements and growth are reflective of the history of the Korean telecommunications industry. 
SK Telecom aims to lead the next 30 years as a global leader in the ICT arena. 
For 2014, SK Telecom is targeting revenue of KRW 17.4 trillion by enhancing LTE offerings and accelerating the growth of new businesses.Growth of ICT-Based Convergence BusinessesThe ICT-based convergence business that SK Telecom is fostering as a new growth 
engine is expected to see full-fledged growth in 2014. The B2B solution business, 
in particular, is expected to show growth as cloud computing and big data play a bigger role to enhance competitiveness and demand for “Smart Work,” which 
supports corporate productivity, and energy efficient “Green Solution.” Building on 
the competitiveness of bundled products, IPTV is targeting 3.1 million subscribers by 2015. “B tv mobile” will also see subscriber numbers and data usage rise thanks to 
the commencement of real-time terrestrial broadcasting and the three major sporting 
events to be held in 2014. Led by “B box,” the most advanced home hub device, SK Telecom will also lead the home service market. 
Having defined health management services, smart hospital solutions, and in-vitro 
diagnostic devices as three major healthcare business areas in 2013, SK Telecom laid the groundwork by launching the “Health-On” service and smart hospital solutions, 
and obtaining U.S. FDA approval for FREND, a small testing device (prostate cancer 
in May 2013 and thyroid cancer in March 2014).The demand for such devices is expect to strengthen while the types of diagnostic 
tests and the number of distributors expand. 
To further the market potential of the device, the company plans to enter the 
overseas markets such as the U.S., China, and Southeast Asian countries in 2014. 
Given the converging trend between mobile and on- and offline markets, and the growth of e-commerce, the outlook for SK Planet as a mobile e-commerce platform 
operator is bright. The online service “11st” will further differentiate its mobile 
competitiveness, and “OK Cashbag” will be strengthening the mobile platform presence and expanding on- and offline integrated reach. In the global arena, the 
company will solidify its e-commerce foothold in Turkey and Indonesia, and pursue 
development of new businesses in major markets such as the U.S. In 2013, SK Telecom sharpened its fundamental competitiveness in 
telecommunications by launching innovative products and services. In 2014, 
SK Telecom will advance further by continuing to demonstrate strong leadership in the data era with differentiated network competitiveness and customer value-
oriented services. • Accelerate the growth of new businesses to achieve KRW 17.4 trillion 
 in revenue in 2014
• Strive to lower and stabilize Capex• Expect the growth of the mobile network business to show continued growth  as the number of LTE subscribers rise 
• Expect visible results from growth businesses such as the B2B solution business
 and platform services
• Continue the progressive shift in the marketing paradigm to services and 
 retention, which is expected to positively make a tangible long-run impact
• Identify growth businesses including IPTV, healthcare, IoT, big data, 
 and other integrated mobile and on- and offline services
46                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  47                       Overview2
Delivering High Quality Services
Around the World
 Our 
Business
 2013 SK Telecom 
Annual Report
01 Board of Directors  50p
02 Vision 2020  52p
03 Happy Companion  54p
04 Business Model  56p
05 Sustainability  60p
06 Economic Value 
 Generated and Distributed  62p
07 Performance of Major Subsidiaries 
64p
05
Jae-Hoon Lee
Appointed in March 2014
Independent Director 
• President of KPU (2014-present)
•  Second Vice Minister of 
 the Knowledge & Economy
  Ministry (2008-2009)
•  Second Vice Minister of the 
Industry & Resources Ministry          
(2007-2008)
Compensation Committee
Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee
Capex Review Committee01
Hyun-Chin Lim
Appointed in March 2006
Chairman of BoD/ 
Independent Director 
•  Chairman of the Korean Social 
Science Research Council 
(2013-present)
• Professor of Sociology at Seoul 
National University College of 
Social Sciences (1983-present)
•  Dean of the Seoul National 
University College of Social 
Sciences (2006-2010)
Audit Committee
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Compensation Committee02
Sung-Min Ha
Appointed in March 2004
Chief Executive Officer/ 
Executive Director
•  Chairman of the SK 
SUPEX Council Strategy         
Committee (2013-present)
• President & CEO of SK Telecom 
(2011-present)
Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee
06
Jae-Hyeon Ahn
Appointed in March 2014
Independent Director 
•  Dean of the External Dept.       
at KAIST College of Business 
(2013-present)
•  Dean of KAIST Graduate 
School of Information & Media 
Management (2011-2013)
•  Chairman of the Korean Media 
Management Association (2011)
Audit Committee
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Capex Review Committee03
Jay-Young Chung
Appointed in March 2008
Independent Director 
•Chairman of the Asia-       
Pacific Economic Association 
(2013-present)
•Honorary professor at Sungkyunkwan University 
(2010-present)
•Vice President of Sungkyunkwan University 
Humanities & Social Sciences 
Campus (2003-2006)
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Compensation Committee 
Capex Review Committee
07
Dae-Sik Cho
Appointed in March 2013 
Executive Director
• President & CEO of SK Holdings 
(2013-Present)
•CFO, Head of Finance Team  and Executive Vice President 
of Risk Mgmt. & Corporate 
Auditing Office, SK Holdings 
(2012) 08
Dong-Seob Jee
Appointed in March 2012
Executive Director
•Executive Vice President, 
  Head of Strategy & Planning
 Office (2013-present)
• Executive Vice President,
  Head of Future Management 
Office (2012)
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Capex Review Committee
* Director profiles were collected after the General Shareholders’ Meeting 
held on March 21, 2014.2
Our 
BusinessBoard of 
Directors
SK Telecom’s Board of Directors consists of eight members, five of whom are 
independent directors. To achieve transparency in decision-making processes and 
to establish an independent governance structure through the system of checks and 
balances, the company appointed an Independent Director to be the Chairman of the Board.  
Jae-Hoon Lee and Jae-Hyeon Ahn were newly elected as Independent Directors 
and Jay-Young Chung was reelected to the board at the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on March 21, 2014. Directors on the company’s Board of Directors 
have been selected based on their expertise in the field of economics, social and 
environmental areas. For further information about the director nomination process, 
detailed directors’ profiles, committees, as well as performance reviews and 
remuneration, please refer to the “Governance Model” on page 160.04
Dae-Shick Oh
Appointed in March 2013
Independent Director 
•Advisor for BKL LLC 
(2008-present)
•  Commissioner of the Seoul
 Regional Tax Office (2007-2008)
Audit Committee
Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee
Capex Review Committee
01
 02
03
 04
05
 07
 08
 0601 Board of Directors
02 Vision 202003 Happy Companion04 Business Model05 Sustainability06 Economic Value  Generated and Distributed
07 Performance of  Major Subsidiaries
50                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  51                       Our BusinessSK Telecom aims to create KRW 100 trillion in corporate value and become 
one of the global top 100 companies by 2020. The company will expand cable 
and mobile integrated network areas by utilizing its top quality products and 
services, creating a variety of values through continuous innovation, and will emerge as a “Partner for New Possibilities” by going beyond industry 
expectations and leading the business ecosystem.
The ICT industry is experiencing a rapid change where technologies and services 
are becoming increasingly connected and converged. In keeping with such changes, 
SK Telecom declared “Vision 2020” “Partner for New Possibilities,” and is making big strides to grow into a leading comprehensive ICT player.
“Partner for New Possibilities” is a motto representative of “Vision 2020” to 
build an ecosystem that creates new values across industries and enrich society overall. Its purpose is to make the lives of customers happier and richer, but also 
to establish SK Telecom as a world-class ICT company. To achieve this vision, 
SK Telecom will strengthen its telecommunications business capabilities; develop new ICT convergence- and technology-based business areas; assume a greater 
social responsibility for all stakeholders, including employees, customers, and 
partner companies, so that they can grow together; and will contribute to national 
development.“Partner for New Possibilities”Big Step to Fulfilling 
“Partner for New Possibilities”
Telecommunications and 
New Business
Hardware Platform
Strengthen 
Telecommunications 
Business
Deliver transformation-based new growth in 
telecommunicationsSocial 
Responsibility
A company that creates 
customer value and fosters responsible 
citizensExpand 
Business Boundaries
Create value based on 
technological innovation and convergence
We create new customer value across industries by practicing innovation on a daily basis. We do so based on a well-established infrastructure and human capital in order to make the world a happier, richer place.Vision 2020
Portfolio
Strategic Focus
Mission Statement
Strengthen 
Telecommunications 
BusinessMarketing Improve customers’ lifestyles and create new value using ICT, based on our having a better 
understanding of customers and on our well-established customer service channels
Network Evolve into a smart, open structure to lead the data telecommunications era and solidify our central role in the new ecosystem
Solution Become a partner for growth by integrating the capabilities of different partners with an open collaborative structure and by continuously providing the optimal solutions that benefit all parties
Expand Business BoundariesICT Convergence Develop areas of value innovation through the transfer of key telecommunications capabilities and expand business boundaries over the long-term in a variety of areas through open 
collaboration
Tech-Based 
GrowthConduct world-class technology research and development in different areas to increase growth opportunities and develop innovative business items
Portfolio Synergy Develop the distinctive capabilities of SK Telecom, SK Planet, and SK Hynix and bring them together to provide innovative products and services and lead the ICT industry
Market Creation 
(New Market)Expand growth areas by creating new ICT businesses across industrial and geographical boundaries and continuously expand into the global market
Social 
ResponsibilityIndustry Strive to create collective growth of the ICT ecosystem based on openness and cooperation 
Society Create new jobs, enter into overseas markets, lead green ICT, and enhance the competitiveness of the national ICT industrySKT2
Our 
Business
01 Board of Directors
02 Vision 202003 Happy Companion04 Business Model05 Sustainability06 Economic Value  Generated and Distributed
07 Performance of  Major Subsidiaries
52                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  53                       Our BusinessIn 2013, SK Telecom proclaimed the “4th To-be” model. 
“Happy Companion,” which is the core value on the road to “Vision 2020,” 
embodies two concepts: “Happiness with Customers” and 
“Companion with Society.”
The general practice of the telecommunications industry over the past decade was 
to steadily secure finances and make investments in new businesses to spur growth. Today there are an increasing amount of calls for nationwide ICT growth momentum; 
cross industry cooperation and competition exist; penetration of mobile devices is 
growing rapidly; and the center of the market is shifting to data-oriented products and services. In order to become the leader in this fluid environment, efforts are being 
made to change and to recognize the changes and circumstances that surround 
customers. Furthermore, the ecosystem needs to be understood and addressed. SK Telecom has condensed these dynamic business and social developments into 
its core value, “Happy Companion.” The fundamental purpose of this value is to 
equip all members of SK Telecom with the same view and philosophy in conducting business activities. “Happy Companion” is summed up with the mottos “Happiness 
with Customers” and “Companion with Society.” The former delivers a compelling 
proposition that enriches the customer’s user experience and the latter seeks to discover new business opportunities and foster new businesses by nurturing 
the ICT ecosystem.
SK Telecom will strive to be a company that is trusted by 
customers and will lead the expansion of the ICT ecosystem by actively practicing “Happy Companion.”“Happy Companion,”
the Core Value for “Vision 2020,” 
& the “4th To-be” Strategy
Core Value: Happy CompanionRelationship between “Happy Companion” and the To-be Model
4th To-be5th To-be + α
Implementation strategies 
create a “Better Company”Partner for New Possibilities
(100 & 100)2
Our 
Business
As-isAchieve
Vision 2020Develop a business portfolio by striking balanced growth amongst our telecommunications, convergence, 
and new growth businesses, to secure long-term sustainable growth of the whole ecosystem.Mid- to Long-Term Portfolio
Telecommunications 
BusinessImprove 
Growth and 
Profitability
Convergence 
BusinessGrow in 
Harmony with 
Telecommunications 
Business
New Growth 
BusinessDevelop 
New Growth PillarsMobile Network Operator (MNO) 
• Strengthen communication service• Expand data-based connectivity (IoT/IoE)
B2B Solution
• Security, Energy Management 
System (EMS), Cloud, Commerce, etc.B2C Life Solution
• Appcessory IPTV
Healthcare
• In-vitro diagnostic devices, etc. +α• Create customer-centered services• Mobile communications and other businesses 
continue to demonstrate growth as data convergence spurs the usage of existing 
mobile communications and as other business 
areas grow by converging and creating 
relationships with each other through data
• Create a horizontal value chain to enhance 
the network growth potential• A “multi-core” operator with 
a business portfolio that extends beyond telecommunications
• Become a trusted and respected companySmart Data Life Service Provider Smart Data & 
Life Service Provider4th To-be DirectionThe “4th To-be” strategy is to attain the short and medium-term goal of becoming 
a “Better Company,” which is the basis of achieving “Vision 2020.” Under this 
strategy, SK Telecom is pursuing a corporate value of becoming a “Smart Data & Life 
Service Provider” by 2015. “Smart Data Service” means creating customer-centered new services, while “Life Service Provider” signifies a “multi-core” operator with 
business portfolios that extend beyond the limitations of telecommunications.
01 Board of Directors
02 Vision 202003 Happy Companion04 Business Model05 Sustainability06 Economic Value  Generated and Distributed
07 Performance of  Major Subsidiaries
54                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  55                       Our BusinessBuilding on the traditional network-based voice, messaging, and data 
businesses, SK Telecom is expanding its portfolio of businesses to those 
related to Fixed-Mobile Convergence, B2B solutions, platforms, energy and 
environment, mobile payment services, and other IT convergence services.
Who We Are
An Innovator that Creates a “Happiness Network” for Customers 
In 1984, SK Telecom became the first Korean company to develop the first generation of analog mobile phones and later the world’s first operator to successfully commercialize Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) technology, 
the 2.5G CDMA 2000 1X, 3G synchronous, and finally High-Speed Downlink Packet 
Access (HSDPA) and High-Speed Uplink Packet Access (HSUPA) services. SK Telecom continues to lay diverse foundations for growth with a variety of state-
of-the-art services in order to lead the coming age of convergence. SK Telecom has 
expanded the scope of networking possibilities and will make the world, including Korea, a happier place with its various information and communications technologies 
(ICT) that can improve not only interpersonal communication, but also productivity 
in the industry.
What We Do 01 _ Mobile Telecommunications Services
SK Telecom offers telecommunication services allowing it to increase its 
competitiveness in devices, price plans, networks, and content. The rapid adoption of the LTE service, which was launched in July 2011, has been a catalyst in the 
changing telecommunications landscape. SK Telecom’s extended leadership 
and the trend towards achieving a data-centric lifestyle continues to position SK Telecom as the premium service provider that sets the standards for advanced 
telecommunications technology and services.
02 _ Broadband Internet and Fixed-Mobile Convergence (FMC) Services
SK Broadband, one of the major subsidiaries of SK Telecom, offers a full range of 
FMC services including high-speed residential internet service, multimedia service, and IPTV. “B tv mobile,” SK Broadband’s mobile IPTV service, has garnered 2.09 
million subscribers since its launch in October 2012 and continues to show high 
growth with the launch of a full-HD streaming service. It is the first service provider in the world to do so.
03 _ Content and Application Services
The growing number of smart devices, which surpassed 30 million, is rapidly 
shifting the telecommunications market toward data. This industry-wide transition is 
spawning the emergence of innovative mobile content, which is an area where WSK Telecom has a significant presence. Through the digital content platform and 
the LBS “T Map,” SK Telecom offers open and scalable mobile network content 
services. The breadth of SK Telecom’s services will continue to widen starting with “T 
Phone,” which was launched in February 2014.The Emergence of 
a New Business Model 
to Lead the Data EraNetwork BusinessVoice, messaging, 
data network and 
hosting for corporations
Smart Store
Smart store 
operation solution
- myshopSmart Work
Mobility oriented 
Corporate ICT 
Infrastructure
- Smart Office
- T business groupwareGreen & Safety
ICT-based environment, disaster prevention, and 
security mgmt. solution
- Cloud BEMS
- Point Cam
(video surveillance)M-Ad & Payments
Mobile corporate ads and payment solutions
- AD on-Air (integrated 
solution targeting ads)
- Smart BillingCloud-Big Data
Server computing and 
cloud solution
- Cloud server hosting
- Geovision 
(retail analysis)Service Area: B2B Service
Solution Business
Service Area: Individual Customers
Voice·
Messaging·Data
Integrated 
Service• 4G LTE• T Roaming
• T Phone (phone platform)Mobile Telecommunications Services
• T Store (digital content)
• 11st (commerce)
• OK Cashbag (loyalty program)
• T Map (location-based service)
• Hoppin (media)
• Nate, NateOn (portal)
• Hana SK Card (finance)Content and 
Application Services
•  B (broadband internet)
•  B box (home network)
•  TB (bundled service)
•  IPTV, mobile IPTVBroadband Internet 
and Fixed-Mobile 
Convergence Services2
Our 
Business
01 Board of Directors
02 Vision 202003 Happy Companion04 Business Model05 Sustainability06 Economic Value  Generated and Distributed
07 Performance of  Major Subsidiaries
56                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  57                       Our BusinessSingle Device Supplier
Microprocessors, 
memory, home appliances, 
handsets, etc.Terminal·Network 
Element
Affiliates &
Subsidiaries
Partner   
Companies Network  Platform·Content· 
Application
System Supplier
Telecommunications 
equipment, hardware, 
and system softwareNetwork Operator
Network installation and 
maintenanceContent Provider
Broadcasting, media education, etc.
Platform Operator
Navigation, search, security, portals, etc.
Application Provider
Application developerBusiness Value ChainSK Telecom Brand 04 _ B2B Business 
The B2B business, which is one of the pillars of growth, is expanding its solution 
business. It is focusing its resources on the five following growth areas: Smart Store, 
Smart Work, Green and Safety, M-Ad and Payment, and Cloud and Big Data. SK Telecom plans to transform its subscription-centric B2B business into a solution-
centered structure.
How We Work  
The SK Management System (SKMS) is a set of fundamental management principles 
for the continuous growth of the SK Group, and is practiced by all SK affiliates, including SK Telecom. SUPEX, an integral part of SK Group’s SKMS management 
principles, is aimed at achieving a “super excellent” level of performance in all of our 
business activities. SK Telecom is committed to SKMS in order to achieve SUPEX that creates value for customers, employees, and shareholders; fulfills a key role in 
social and economic development; and contributes to the happiness of mankind.LTE-A
Smart Health
GeovisonT smart learing T bizpoint T cloud biz
myshop Smart InsightT Store TB kkiri free 
for the whole familyServices for Individual Customers
Services for Corporate CustomersMobile Telecommunications
B2B ServiceFixed-Mobile Convergence Ubiquitous·Convergence
01 _ Service Brand
SK Telecom has service brands called “T” for individual customers and “Smart” 
for corporate customers. The brand value of “T,” which was launched in 2006 and 
renewed in 2008, continues to rise. It has ranked in surveys as the most recognized brand in the industry. “Smart” is the brand for SK Telecom’s ICT convergence 
solution B2B business. In line with the expanding business scope from fixed and 
mobile networks to IoT, the application of the brand continues to widen.
02 _ Brand Strategy
SK Telecom’s “Enterprise Brand Strategy Committee” conducts a brand awareness “Brand Power Index Research” survey every year in which consumers 
in Seoul and six major cities are polled. In the 2013 survey, the company was ranked 
first in the “Top of Mind Survey” for the mobile telecommunications industry with 61.6%. In the “Best Korean Brands 2014” report that is published by the world’s 
largest brand consultation group, Interbrand, SK Telecom was ranked at the top in 
brand value in the telecommunications industry for the second consecutive year. SK Telecom’s strong brand position is a reflection of the company’s effort to deliver 
innovative technology and value to customers, which is gaining recognition at home 
and abroad.T Map
T Membership Service TB bundle 11st hoppin
T Roaming Melon NATE T cloud
Top of Mind for Mobile 
Telecommunications OperatorSKT
61.6%
(1st Place)SK Telecom
SK Broadband
SK TelinkSK Hynix SK Planet
58                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  59                       Our Business“Happy Companion” is SK Telecom’s core value to cement long-term growth 
in sync with the development of society and industries, and it is the promise to 
fulfill public needs. 
Changing Perspectives on Business and Competition
SK Telecom’s success is closely linked to the surrounding economic, environmental, 
and social conditions. For SK Telecom, returning value to shareholders and employees, establishing long-term relationships with customers and partners, contributing to the community, and fulfilling tax obligations are the key requirements 
for the company to maintain its long-term sustainability. Enriching the customer 
experience, employee welfare, shareholders, and the national wealth stretches beyond the act of generating profit. How SK Telecom conducts business is as 
important as what business it conducts. 
The ability to consistently create value depends on the ability to analyze and incorporate the environmental, social, and ethical aspects throughout a business 
process. Therefore, only when a company has an equitable, exemplary system can 
it raise its reputation and employees morale, establish a foundation to create profit and reduce uncertainties. 
“Happy Companion,” which is the core value that SK Telecom announced in May 
2013, was conceived based on a certain perception of value creation. “Happy Companion” engages in all management activities from the perspectives of “delivering 
the best customer value” and “fostering the growth of the ICT ecosystem.” “Happy 
Companion” reflects the company’s commitment to move away from the high-cost of competition that results from subscriber acquisition activities and to create a field 
that fosters collective social and ICT industry growth.     
Seeking the Growth of the Entire Society
Modern business does not merely rely on traditional financial capital. “Happy 
Companion” also considers the impact of human capital, intellectual capital, production capital, social and network capital, and environmental capital. This type 
of approach is based on the need for all of society to grow.  Major Capital*  SK Telecom’s Major Dependency and Impact Link
Financial Capital SK Telecom is listed on the Korea Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. 
SK Telecom’s business relies on financial capital provided by shareholders, and 
strives to maximize value for shareholders through shareholder return policies, including dividends. p.62 
Human Capital Human capital is at the core of SK Telecom’s business model. It is an innovative method for 
producing results.  
SK Telecom implements a set of policies to attract and retain talented people, and to exercise 
due diligence as a means to respect and protect human rights in conducting business activities. p.110 
Intellectual Capital SK Telecom recognizes the importance of technology patents in ICT business processes and treats them as a major source of capital. Open innovation and the open big data hub reflect SK 
Telecom’s policy to foster the growth of the ICT ecosystem, and to share common intellectual 
assets as a means to enhance value and efficiency.p.88 
Manufactured Capital SK Telecom’s business relies on physical infrastructure assets such as networks, which are maintained to ensure stability and continuity through efficient and timely investments.p.82 
Social and Network Capital SK Telecom has trust-based cooperative relations with a number of different stakeholders, including partner companies and government bodies. By being a responsible business partner 
and by contributing and sharing with society, SK Telecom strives to be a respected company.p.94, 105 
Environmental Capital In operating a nationwide network and data centers, SK Telecom consumes large amounts 
of energy and emits greenhouse gases. Despite efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
through the efficient operation of data centers, the growing data traffic makes it difficult to find a 
fundamental solution. In order to find ways to protect the environment, SK Telecom is conducting 
research on how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and is seeking ways to apply ICT solutions 
in an environmentally friendly manner.p.100SK Telecom’s Capital Impact Model
* Applied the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) reporting framework.Sustained Growth of Customers, Society, 
and the Industry through Innovation, 
Cooperation, and Transformation2
Our 
Business
Taking a Leap to Become the “Partner for New Possibilities” 
SK Telecom aims to generate KRW 100 trillion in corporate value by 2020. It aims 
to do so by positioning the company as the partner of choice for new possibilities 
in the ICT industry. The phrase “new possibilities” means to stimulate the telecommunications industry by discovering new value, and to provide innovative 
services. The word “partner” signifies the role model of a leader who pursues 
prosperity with customers, society, and industries. As Korea’s No. 1 telecommunications operator, SK Telecom is in the midst of 
transforming its identity to that of an ICT leader that leads innovation, cooperation, 
and transformation via its smart network. As much as flexibility and commitment to creating long lasting growth have been the drivers of SK Telecom’s growth, 
the development and resilience of its business model in face of the rapidly changing 
environment and risks still faces numerous challenges.   The company’s efforts to become the “Partner for New Possibilities” will lay 
the groundwork for achieving management performance, attaining strategic goals, 
and furthering the development of a balanced and prosperous society.  
* For more information about SK Telecom’s mid- to long-term vision “Vision 2020” and its core value 
 “Happy Companion,” please refer to p.54. 01 Board of Directors
02 Vision 202003 Happy Companion04 Business Model05 Sustainability06 Economic Value  Generated and Distributed
07 Performance of  Major Subsidiaries
60                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  61                       Our BusinessFinancial 
Investment 
Revenue
1,218Shareholder & 
Investor 
Distribution 998
Employee 
Distribution 
1,593
Business Partner 
Distribution & 
Other Operating Costs  
13,650Asset Disposal 
Revenue
455Government 
Distribution 
733
Community 
Distribution  82
Other93
Operating Revenue
16,602Active Pursuit of Profit 
and Rational Distribution
SK Telecom generated KRW 18.37 trillion in economic value in 2013. This 
economic value was used for investments, operations, and capital expenditures. 
It and was distributed to partner companies, employees, shareholders and 
investors, the government, and communities. The remainder was added to 
SK Telecom’s total capital. 
Economic Value Generated
In 2013, SK Telecom created KRW 18.37 trillion in economic value, which includes KRW 16.6 trillion in operating revenue, and earnings from financial investments, disposable assets, and other sources of income.  
Economic Value Distributed
Economic Value Retained (Total Equity Increment) (Unit: KRW billion)
(Unit: KRW billion)
KRW 1,312 billion2
Our 
Business
Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders
01 _ Distributions to Business Partners and Other Operating Costs
SK Telecom spent KRW 13.65 trillion on payments to partner companies and other operating costs, including vendor settlement fees, purchases, 
R&D, and network investments. 
02 _  Distributions to Employees  
SK Telecom spent KRW 1.59 trillion on wages, retirement allowances, and 
employee benefits.Economic Value Retained
SK Telecom added to its total equity KRW 1.31 trillion, which was the remainder 
after distributions to stakeholders.* Other comprehensive income/loss and other non-operating income
* K-IFRS consolidated basis(Unit: KRW billion) Economic Value Generated 03 _ Distributions to Shareholders and InvestorsSK Telecom spent a combined KRW 998 billion on shareholder dividends and 
interest expenses. 
04 _ Distributions to the Government  
In 2013, SK Telecom spent KRW 733 billion on tax payments, including corporate 
taxes, and spectrum usage fees. During this period, SK Telecom received KRW 42.7 billion in tax deductions for investments in research personnel development, 
productivity improvement and energy conservation, and job creation.
05 _ Distribution to Communities
SK Telecom contributed KRW 82 billion to communities. This amount is exclusive 
of investments made to support community infrastructures, such as SK Telecom’s campaign to revitalize traditional markets, and other forms of indirect support.   
Generation
18,368Distribution
17,05601 Board of Directors
02 Vision 202003 Happy Companion04 Business Model05 Sustainability06 Economic Value  Generated and Distributed
07 Performance of  Major Subsidiaries
62                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  63                       Our BusinessSK Telecom is dedicated to ICT-based convergence businesses, as well as to 
creating collaborations with its subsidiaries, including SK Hynix, SK Planet, 
SK Broadband, and SK Telink. In particular, SK Hynix’s memory semiconductor 
business and SK Planet’s platform business are expected to become 
SK Telecom’s new growth businesses.
SK Hynix
To explore new growth opportunities with telecommunications and other industries, 
SK Telecom assumed control of SK Hynix in February 2012 by acquiring 21.05% of 
the memory semiconductor maker’s shares. To establish a solid working relationship with SK Hynix, SK Telecom established three management principles at SK Hynix 
based on leadership, growth, and cooperation.
In 2013, SK Hynix recorded revenue of KRW 14.17 trillion and operating profit of KRW 3.38 trillion (24% operating profit margin), which were the highest in its 30 
year history. Such strong results were made possible by making cost reductions 
through technology migration, yield improvements and stronger pricing of DRAM products being made, and increased shipments of and favorable market conditions 
NAND Flash products. The year also marked the first for SK Hynix being named as 
one of the top 5 global semiconductor manufacturers (iSuppli research). SK Hynix is expected to continue its strong growth based on the strength of its industry leading 
technological competitiveness and stable financial position.2012
2013SK Planet Performance
20122013
2012
2013 201315.14 million4.9 trillion
305.1 billion
17.58 million264.9 billion2
Our 
Business
2011
2012
201310,3961,035
1,378*
10,162
14,16536926
13
227
3,380SK Hynix Performance                                
Operating Profit Revenue(Unit: KRW billion)SK Planet
In 2013, SK Planet, a wholly owned SK Telecom subsidiary that split-off 
in 2011, continues to enhance its market leadership with its existing businesses, 
including 11st, T Map, and T Store. Also, through the launch of New OK Cashbag, it is pursuing new growth avenues. Furthermore, it reorganized its business portfolio 
and core competency by merging with SK M&C and by selling Paxnet and Loen. 
SK Planet is implementing a strategy to establish itself as a powerful commerce platform. By leveraging its competency in e-commerce and incorporating the trends 
in mobile and big data, SK Planet aims to deliver a mobile-based commerce platform 
that also taps on/offline users as a means to provide value to all participants, from the seller to the buyer. In the global market, SK Planet is looking to grow 
its e-commerce businesses in Turkey and Indonesia, and plans to develop new 
businesses in major markets, such as the U.S.
Major Performance of SK Planet’s Business Areas
No. of T store members
No. of T Map memberse-commerce (11st) transaction value 
OK Cashbag accumulated points
201321.79 million201218.83 million20124.6 trillion A Total ICT Leader 
that Creates Collaborations
* K-IFRS consolidated basis(Unit: KRW billion)
Operating Profit Revenue
* K-IFRS consolidated basis
Increment stemming from the merger with SK M&C in Feb. 2003 has been added
(KRW)01 Board of Directors
02 Vision 202003 Happy Companion04 Business Model05 Sustainability06 Economic Value  Generated and Distributed
07 Performance of  Major Subsidiaries
64                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  65                       Our BusinessSK Telink
SK Telink was founded in 1998. It has made significant contributions thanks to its 
various services, including “SK International Call 00700” and “SK Telink 7mobile.” 
As a provider of affordably, high-quality international calls and MVNO services, SK Telink has been successful in securing a position in the Korean mobile 
telecommunications market with its MVNO brand “7mobile,” which numbered 
370,000 subscribers in 2013. SK Telink continues to expand its service reach with bundled programs such as 
“00700 & Free On-Net Voice,” which combines international calls with a free on-
net voice service to cater to the increasing number of international travelers and students studying abroad. SK Telink will continue to explore new ways to provide 
quality services at an affordable price to satisfy customers’ needs.SK Broadband
SK Broadband’s internet subscribers increased to 4.57 million in 2013 as the 
growth of IPTV and broadband businesses increased the demand for such services. 
In step with the continued industry-wide shift to fixed-mobile integration and telecommunications-media convergence, SK Broadband will continue to offer an 
array of integrated and convergence services, in addition to its fixed internet service. 
It will do so in order to deliver a diverse, convenient, and entertaining experience to its customers.
In 2013, SK Broadband’s IPTV business, which was bolstered by the strong demand 
for its integrated service, “TB kkiri TV Plus,” the number of subscribers surpassed 2 million and reached 2.08 million by year-end. Following the introduction of the 
Android 4.2-based “B tv smart” service in 2013, SK Broadband further enhanced 
its service lineup with the launch of “B box,” in 2014. This is a premium smart home device that integrates functions such as video calls, home monitoring, and family 
board. “B box” is an integrated media and smart home service that provides a 
differentiated home media experiences to customers. It has also positioned SK Broadband to be at the forefront of the smart home market. No. of MVNO Subscribers 
(As of March 2014)440,000  MVNo
2013No. of B Internet Subscribers     
1Q
2Q
3Q
4Q4,436
4,461
4,503
4,569(Unit: thousand)
No. of B tv Subscribers    
2013
1Q
2Q
3Q
4Q1,569
1,727
1,903
2,096(Unit: thousand, includes VOD subscribers)2012
2013SK Broadband Performance
2,492
2,53982
73
Operating Profit Revenue(Unit: KRW billion)
* K-IFRS consolidated basis20112012
2013421
341
43351
43
28SK Telink Performance (Unit: KRW billion)
Operating Profit Revenue
* K-IFRS consolidated basis
66                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  67                       Our BusinessNetwork
April Demonstrated the world’s first LTE-A technology
June Launched the world’s first LTE-A service (twice the speed of LTE)
July Expanded coverage of the LTE-A service to six major cities
August Commercialized the world’s first intercontinental LTE roaming service by connecting 
 three continents
 Acquired 35 MHz in the 1.8 GHz band through a spectrum auction in Korea
September  Commercialized the world’s first LTE HD voice to 3G circuit voice Handover technology 
 Commercialized and launched the 1.8GHz broadband LTE network
October First to expand the broadband LTE network throughout the Seoul subway system
 Expanded the broadband LTE service to 10 districts in Seoul
November Demonstrated Korea’s first broadband LTE-A service2013 
SK TelecomHighlights In 2013, SK Telecom focused its energy on making the lives of its customers 
richer and happier, while reinforcing its core business and developing 
new businesses to expand its reach. Another major part of SK Telecom’s 
efforts has been in fulfilling its social responsibilities and creating an environment to grow with its stakeholders/ to help its stakeholders grow. 
Expand Business Boundaries
January Signed a cooperative agreement with SK M&C and China Mobile to jointly pursue 
 LBS (location-based service) business 
 Signed an agreement on a financial product with Samsung Fire & Marine 
 Insurance and Samsung Card to sell Smart Digital Tachograph (DTG)
 Signed an agreement with Korail Networks on the “Smart Train” project
February  Launched the small- and medium-sized building management service “Tmark”
March   Signed an agreement with the Seoul City Hospital Association to implement 
 Cloud BEMS 
 Commercialized “Health-On” service
April  Launched the world’s first smart hospital solution
May  Launched the “Cloud File Manager” service tailored to small- 
 and medium-size companies  
July   Launched Korea’s first M2M security solution    
September   Launched the store management solution “Myshop Desk” 
 for small business proprietors 
October   Launched a cloud office solution with Microsoft Korea  
December  Launched a social healthcare concept “Health-On” serviceHonors and Awards
February Received the “Outstanding LTE Contribution” award at the 2013 MWC 
 Global Mobile Awards
March Became Korea’s first mobile operator to obtain the Web Accessibility mark 
April Chosen, for the second consecutive year, as the “Best Mobile Carrier” 
 at the Telecom Asia Awards 
May Obtained the highest grade of “Excellent” in the Win-Win Growth Index 
 (sponsored by the National Commission for Corporate Partnership and 
 the Fair Trade Commission)
June Won the GTB Award for LTE-A base station technology
 Won two innovation awards at SCIA for femtocell technology 
 Ranked at the top of the Korea Standard-Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) 
 for 14 consecutive years (sponsored by the Korean Standards Association)
 Won an award for being the “Most Significant Development of 
 a Commercial LTE Network—Operator” at the LTE World Summit 2013
August Named the “Best Workplace” for five consecutive years (surveyed by 
 The Korean Management Association Consulting)
September Included in the  DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) World Index for 
 six consecutive years  
 Ranked at the top of the Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) for 
 16 consecutive years  
October Won the grand prize in the “Good Design Awards” for the corporate homepage 
 Ranked top in the Korean Sustainability Index for the telecommunications 
 industry for five consecutive years (sponsored by the Korean Standards 
 Association)
 Won the “Grand Prize for Win-Win Growth” (sponsored by the Ministry of 
 Trade, Industry, and Energy, and the National Commission for Corporate 
 Partnership)November Won the “Grand Prize” at the Korean Internet Communication Awards 
 (sponsored by the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning)
 Won the “Best Wi-Fi Service Innovation Award” at the Wi-Fi Industry Awards 
 Won an award in the “Community Sharing” category at the UNGC 
 Value Awards for the best traditional market revitalization programLaunched “T Guard,” 
a total security service for 
smartphonesStrengthen Telecommunications Business
   
Marketing
January Launched Korea’s first commercial mobile CDN (Contents Delivery Network) service
  Began the “Good Device Change” handset upgrade program
February  Launched the “Data Gift” program allowing customers to give data to their family 
 members and friends
March Launched the unlimited calling plan, “T kkiri Price Plan” 
April Expanded the unlimited data roaming countries to 100
May Subscribers to SK Telecom for 2 or more years given the ability to double-up on their
 monthly data allotment six times a year for the life of their subscription
 Launched “T Guard,” a total security service for smartphones
June Launched an application-based group calling service “T Group On”
 Launched a smishing prevention service “Safe Message” 
July Launched “T Simple Mode 2.0,” offering a simple user interface (UI) to smartphone
 customers
September Launched the “T Family Benefit” program allowing family members to share data and
 content with each other
 Launched Korea’s first dedicated video content price plan 
December Launched a data discount program allowing customers to use twice the amount of data
 during late night hours
 Launched an SK Telecom exclusive “T Safe Phone” phone for senior citizens and children Social Responsibility 
January   Launched “With U,” a mobile platform to match volunteer workers 
 with volunteer opportunities 
April    Established the social enterprise “Happy Ecophone Foundation”
 Installed mobile payment and smart leaflet solutions at the traditional 
 market place, Jung-gok Jeil Market 
May Announced the “Happy Companion” project
 Signed a cooperative agreement with Incheon’s traditional 
 Shinggi Market to restore market activity 
July Started the “BRAVO! Restart” program to support baby boomers 
 in starting ICT-based businesses (10 teams were selected for 
 the 1st round) and opened the Happy Start-Ups Support Center 
October Opened the “Happy Start-Ups Support Center” portal site to provide 
 a one-stop service for start-up support, cooperate in joint R&D, 
 and manufacture test products
December Held the “SK Telecom Partner’s Day”  
1stTop-ranked in three 
major national customer 
satisfaction indicesEstablished the social enterprise 
“Happy Ecophone Foundation” 
Commercialized the world’s 
first intercontinental 
LTE roaming service
68                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  69                       Our Business3
Strategic 
Focus Creating shared values through ICT2013 SK Telecom 
Annual Report
01 Risks and Opportunities  72p
02 Material Issues
 1) Customer Experience  
 Innovation  76p 
 2) LTE Leadership  82p 
 3) Value Added Solutions  88p
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT  94p  
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions  100p 
 6) Win-Win Growth  105p  
 7) Human Capital Development  110p  
To create sustainable values in the long-term, we must create opportunities in 
response to market changes, regulatory changes, and the tougher demands of 
stakeholders. SK Telecom will develop its strategy to respond to changes in the 
environment, pursue a happy partnership in growth and create future values. 
Market: Expansion of Convergence is the Key for the Mature Stage
The Korean telecommunications market entered into a mature stage in late 2013, 
recording 54.68 million mobile subscribers and a penetration rate exceeding 100% 
of the total population. Nevertheless, it is expected that the mobile penetration rate 
will increase in the near future, prompted by the commercialization of Long-Term 
Evolution (LTE) and the rapid growth of the smartphone market. The use of mobile devices for business purposes and the use of advanced devices such as tablet PCs 
based on data use will thrive, driving the mobile demand. 
The telecommunications market of Korea is qualitatively developing by providing convergence services including advanced multimedia services, mobile commerce, 
telematics, and digital home services, enabled by the distribution of network 
technology and high-performance devices like smartphones. As LTE-A and LTE Broadband were launched in June 2013 and October 2013, respectively, B2B 
businesses that are capable of directly improving productivity, such as mobile office 
services including Connected Workforce, will show robust growth. 
Regulation: Frequency Allocation and the Act on the Improvement 
of the Mobile Handset Distribution StructureKorea, SK Telecom’s major market, will adopt measures allowing consumers to 
conveniently and fully use its high-speed mobile data environment and will support 
telecommunications service providers in successfully delivering services, starting with the enactment of an act on the improvement of the mobile handset distribution 
structure and a discussion on the data-centered billing system.
In addition, the communications industry will play a bigger role in developing the ICT-based creative economy, and policy efforts will focus on fostering and supporting 
the industry. 
Broader Social Responsibilities: 
Higher Need for Corporate Social Responsibility
As corporate social responsibility such as governance, win-win growth, energy 
efficiency, and creation of shared values are further discussed, the scope of 
corporate activities and responsibilities has expanded more than ever before. 
Currently, an enterprise needs to create comprehensive values, considering social and environmental factors as well as to create economic values. Against this 
backdrop, SK Telecom is making management activities meet the expectations of 
stakeholders, including social contributions and environmental management, while providing services to create sustainable values. 
SK Telecom is responding to the changing environment with a focus on its core 
value, “Happy Companion” by reflecting the market evolution, regulatory changes, and social needs for responsible enterprises. SK Telecom is making efforts to create 
higher values for all stakeholders by mitigating risks in the business environment and 
developing new opportunities through the above efforts.Creating 
New Opportunities 
in the Midst of Change
01 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
 Innovation  
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
FocusMajor Regulatory Changes
Overview Responses
Act on the improvement of the 
mobile handset distribution 
structure•  The Korea Communications Commission 
adopted a policy to control overheating of 
the market in 2014, following a similar policy 
introduced in 2013.•  Communication expenses per household should 
be reduced through competition rather than 
through artificial rate discounts.
•  Rate discount issues for the 
rationalization of mobile rates•  Competition over subsidies should be avoided, 
and the paradigm of competition should be shifted 
to products and services.
•  A shortage of frequencies is expected due 
to the increase in traffic
•  Frequencies were allocated in 2013 
through an auction•  Additional frequencies allocated in 2013 will 
accommodate the increase in data traffic.
•  Prompt responses to changes in frequency 
demands should be made as new services and 
contents are introduced, and the traffic increases 
in the future.Rate discounts
Frequency 
allocation
Business Environment: Major Risks and Opportunities
Regulatory 
ChangesMatured Market and Intense CompetitionEvolution of NetworkIncreasing Demand for Protection of Personal Information of CustomersCustomer Protection
•  SK Telecom is operating telecommunications 
service  business under the license issued by 
the government. SK Telecom complies with the 
IT regulations and policies of the government, 
and is affected by government policies related to 
frequency allocation, sales, and marketing.•  Despite government policies to prevent 
overheating of the market, such as restrictions 
on subsidies, and the growth of the smartphone 
market, the competitions among service providers 
is becoming fiercer due to the limited absolute 
market size.•  As data traffic rapidly increases, there is a need to 
secure frequencies and maintain the network capacity.
•  As the network is operated through a complex supply 
chain, network interruption is a major operating risk.•  Protection of personal information is a precondition 
to gain customer trust.
•  Personal information of SK Telecom subscribers is 
saved for billing, and rigorous efforts to protect the 
information from hacking and other risks of leakage 
have been made.•  A complicated billing system may confuse 
customers and lower customer trust in the long-term.
•  There is a need to respond to government policy 
to improve the distribution structure of mobile  
handsets and reduce communications expenses  
per household.
•  Operation of a dedicated team to respond to  
policy changes
• Scenario planning for major regulatory risks•  Participation in discussions organized by the 
Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning      
and  Communications Commission; and 
conferences with other ICT service providers•  Shifting the paradigm of competition to fundamental 
paradigms based on goods and services
•  Fostering of growth engine businesses and 
development of new markets such as the data-
based contents platform business, B2B business, 
healthcare business, and green businessdata-
based contents platform business, B2B business, 
healthcare business, and green business •  Development of a Contingency Plan to prevent 
network problems and prepare for disasters.
•  Investments to adopt an advanced network and 
prevent network problems as well as continuous 
technological development to improve network 
efficiency.• Development and marketing of services and 
products to protect customers from spamming 
and smishing
• Reinforcement of a security solution to protect 
customer information from risks, such as hacking•  Continuous communication with related 
stakeholders
•  Transition to a business model based on 
fundamental competition by depending less         
on subsidy marketing and focusing on long-      
term customer reward and customer experience 
innovation
72                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  73                       Strategic Focus“Happiness” with Customers 
Creating the Highest Customer Value“Companion” with Society
Creating New Opportunities through the Growth of Industry and Ecosystems
Pursuit of customer happiness 
by creating the highest customer 
value
• Quality-based and service- 
 based marketing
• Reinforcement of customer 
 protection services
• Development of innovative 
 products and services
•Average churn rate: 2.3%
•Customer data leakages: 0
•No. 1 position in three major 
 customer satisfaction surveys 
 (NCSI, KCSI and KS-SQI)
• Annual average churn rate: 
 below 2% (by 2015)
• Accumulated number of users 
 of the “Good Device Change”  program: 6 million (by 2015)
• Maintain zero customer data  
 leakage    
• Maintain No. 1 position in three 
 major customer 
 satisfaction surveys (NCSI,   
 KCSI and KS-SQI)• Improvement of LTE  
 network quality
• Improvement of network 
 quality
• Maintaining technological 
 competitiveness
• LTE penetration rate: 49%• No. 1 position in the LTE 
 quality survey conducted by  the Korea Communications 
 Commission 
• LTE penetration rate: 80% 
 (by 2019)
• World’s first commercialization 
 of 3-Band LTE-A (by 2015)• Growth of solutions revenue
• Expansion of healthcare 
 business
• Growth of IPTV
• Solutions revenue including 
 energy and smart work: 
 KRW 400 billion
• Year-on-year healthcare  
 growth rate: 40%
• Number of IPTV subscribers: 
2.08 million
• Solutions revenue including 
 energy and smart work:  KRW 1.5 trillion or higher 
 (by 2015)
• Healthcare revenue:
 KRW 1 trillion or higher (by 2020)
• Number of IPTV subscribers: 
 3.4 million (by 2015)• Support for “Happy Start-Ups”  
 for activation of the venture  
 startup ecosystem
• Revitalization of traditional  
 markets using ICT
• Support for social enterprises
• Ten cases of business start-
 ups, under the “BRAVO! Restart” 
 program
• “Traditional Market  
 Revitalization” project: Two
•“BRAVO! Restart” program: 15 
or more cases of success in 
business-related venture start-up 
support programs (40% or higher 
of the total number of supported 
cases by 2015)
•Results of new CSV programs: three or more cases of success 
in the areas of smart agriculture, 
livestock and fisheries, smart 
learning and educational welfare 
(by 2015)• Leadership in responding to 
 greenhouse gas issues
• Reduction of greenhouse gas 
 emissions and enhancement of  environmental efficiency
• Improvement of environmental 
 awareness
• Greenhouse gas emissions: 
 822,000 tons or less of CO
2e 
 (target achieved)
•Meeting the international standard for social greenhouse 
gas emissions through 
 the T Map service (Confirmed   
 reduction of GHG emissions  
 by 12.9% over the year through  a verification test in 2012)
•Reinforcement of the 
competencies to respond to the 
emission trade system (by 2015)
•Controlling of the annual greenhouse gas emission growth 
rate within 5% (by 2014) 
•Reducing the greenhouse gas emissions by 1.43 million tons of 
CO
2e through 13 eco-friendly 
ICT services (by 2014)• Support for the revenue   
 growth of partners
• Educational and financial 
 support
• Development of a sustainable 
 supply chain
•Growth rate of purchases 
from partners: 38.8%
•Integrated financial support: KRW 81.74 billion
•Rate of due diligence on social and environmental risks of supply 
chain: 52.6% (in writing) and 8.8% 
(on site)
•Contribution of KRW 15 billion 
to the public-private joint 
investment business fund 
(by 2015)
•100% cash payments and payment periods kept under 
10 days• Investments into Human 
 Capital Development including 
 education and training
• Reasonable performance 
 evaluations
• Development of value- 
 centered performance 
 indicators
•Human capital development expenses per employee: KRW 
3.38 million
•Average performance evaluation of employees: 96%
•Development of 412 global next-generation leaders  
(accumulated)
•Completion of the “Anywhere, 
Anytime Smart Learning” system 
(by 2015)
•Development of 500 global   next-generation leaders 
(by 2016)Provision of the highest quality network and communications 
servicesProvision and realization of 
potentials through ICT in the 
converged environmentCreation of shared values 
of society and the company 
through ICTCreation of future opportunities 
and contributions to the 
prevention of climate change 
through ICT technology and 
platformImprovement of corporate 
competitiveness by building the 
ICT ecosystemDevelopment of global 
ICT experts To-be Strategy
Material Issues
Commitment
Where We Focus
2013 Performance
Target and GoalsVision 2020
05
Reducing 
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions06
Win-Win 
Growth07
Human Capital 
Development04
Creating Shared 
Values through 
ICT03
Value Added 
Solutions02
LTE 
Leadership01
Customer 
Experience 
InnovationCore Value
74                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  75                       Strategic Focus01 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
Innovation   
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
Focus
Quarterly Churn Rates 
for 20131Q 2013 2Q 3Q 4Q
 907
   (29.1% of the Revenue)Building Trust, 
Benefits and 
Positive Experience
SK Telecom redefined its core values for customer experiences as part 
of its efforts to achieve “Happy Companion” in 2013. The paradigm of 
competition shifted from subsidies to fundamental factors, such as 
products and services, while the customer retention rate increased through long-term customer rewards, and new customer experiences 
are being developed with diverse products and services, including the 
customer protection service.Transition to Fundamental Competition over Products and ServicesSK Telecom has redefined its core value to provide innovation in customer experiences. “Happy” in the phrase “Happy Companion” refers to the happiness 
shared with our customers. SK Telecom designated customer happiness as a core 
value of CE when it restructured its Customer Experience Management (CEM) system in 2013. There are three principles of providing innovation for customer 
experiences, including “Happy Trust,” gained through customer protection, “Happy 
Benefits” for long-term customers, and “Happy Experiences” to be the first user of innovative new products. By implementing such principles, SK Telecom has been 
selected as the No. 1 company in NCSI for 16 years in a row as of 2013.
As the penetration rate of mobile phones reached its peak in the domestic market, the telecommunications market has maintained a vicious circle of repeatedly taking 
away and losing customers through shortsighted marketing competition among 
service providers. Overheating of the market and cutthroat competitions have become obstacles in satisfying customers in the mid- to long-term. 
SK Telecom has made diverse efforts to turn the war of attrition toward the 
fundamental competition over products and services where service providers can 
concentrate on customer values that are more fundamental.  
Reinforcement of Customer Protection
The mobile payment system commercialized in 2000 has emerged as a universal 
tool of payments, with the transaction amount reaching KRW 3 trillion in 2012. The institutional ground for the mobile payment service was prepared in 2007 when 
the Act on the Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilization 
was revised, but there is an increasing need for a user protection system amid the increasing number of transactions, establishment of the market order, and the 
advancement of hacking skills. Above all, the cases of smishing, where a hacker 
installs malicious codes in a smartphone using SMS, based on illegally acquired personal information and secretly makes payments for game items using the 
smartphone, are rapidly increasing. In addition, diverse types of consumer damages 
are continuously increasing, including automatic payments, automatic subscriptions to paid services and payments made at the point of subscription. In order to create a 
communications environment where customers can be protected, SK Telecom 
has continuously operated and reinforced its customer protection services with four objectives: the “prevention of bill shock,” “protection of personal information,” 
“protection of children,” and “blocking of illegal messages including those for 
spamming and smishing.” SK Telecom also makes diverse efforts to prevent the Business Drivers:
The business model depending on competition over subsidies has lost its 
momentum. From a long-term perspective, SK Telecom concluded that giving more benefits to customers and fundamentally innovating the service experiences 
of customers would be more effective and reasonable for winning competition and 
growth in the future. Stakeholder Concerns:
• Product and Service Labeling
• Customer Privacy• Customer Protection
Major Impact on Capital:
• Financial capital: Improvement of shareholder values by reinforcing the mid- to 
 long-term competitiveness of the business
• Social and network capital: Gaining the trust of local stakeholders by taking a 
 strategy aligned with the direction of government regulations
Quality-Based and Service-Based 
MarketingAnnual Average 
Churn Rate2.3%
Reinforcement of the
Customer Protection 
ServiceCustomer Data 
Leakages0
Development of 
Innovation Products 
and ServicesIntroduction of 
Innovative New Price 
PlansT kkiri Price Plan, 
Data Gift and Data Refill
Quarterly Marketing 
Expenses for 2013 
(Unit: KRW billion)oK!
Marketing2.39%
 853
   (26.6% of the Revenue) 827
   (25.7% of the Revenue) 842
   (25.4% of the Revenue)2.27%2.25%
2.07%Why This is “Material”
Where We Focus How We Measure
76                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  77                       Strategic Focus•Customer information access is permitted only to those 
certified by SK Telecom.
•Customer information cannot be accessed without consent.
•System security and DB accessibility of SK Telecom and its subsidiaries were inspected from March to May, 2013.
•The agreement on customer information security was 
revised, monitoring by external experts was adopted, 
and retailers agreed to protect customer information and complete online education programs.
Reward for 
Long-Term Customers
SK Telecom has shifted its paradigm of 
competition from subsidies to fundamental 
services. As part of their efforts, SK Telecom 
adopted the “Exceptional Reward” program 
for long-term customers.  leakage of personal information in addition to efforts to prevent smishing damages. 
T Guard is a comprehensive customer protection application for smartphone users, 
with functions including early detection of malicious codes and safe management 
of personal information. Thanks to these efforts, SK Telecom successfully advanced major customer protection indicators, including 0.12% of small-amount payment 
complaints* 0.28% of the VoC on roaming,** and zero cases of customer data leakage. 
To respond to the number of rapidly increasing issues related to the protection of personal information, SK Telecom will continuously improve its customer protection 
services in 2014. 
As the skills used for obtaining customer information have recently been advanced further, there is a need for the encryption of personal information and advancement 
of security solutions. SK Telecom has encrypted personal information in every DB 
(seven codes including the resident’s registration number), and made every effort for security, including the operation of a secondary authentication system and the 
expansion of the information leakage management system. To prevent the mass 
leakage of customer information, SK Telecom thoroughly analyzes the results of the survey and incorporates the results in its management activities, which include the 
improvement of products and services. 
Expansion of Rewards for Long-term Customers
A reward policy for long-term customers was implemented to prevent reverse discrimination against existing customers caused by the cutthroat subsidy 
competition and to favorably treat long-term customers in terms of general services. 
SK Telecom expanded its rewards for long-term customers, upgrading their devices through programs including the “Good Device Change” program in 2013. The 
total number of users of the “Good Device Change” program, launched in January 
2013, is 2.4 million as of 2013. Rewards have been diversified to include the “Good Flip Phone” and the “Good Device Change Program Lite,” and the scope 
of subscribers eligible for these programs has continuously expanded. In addition, 
4.8 million coupons have been issued through the “Voice, Data, and Membership Refill” service, launched in May 2013 as a reward program for long-term customers. 
The membership program was also redesigned to give more benefits to long-term 
customers. SK Telecom also provided long-term and VIP customers with special rewards, and 
these included vouchers, concert tickets, and holding the VIP Week. Meanwhile, 
SK Telecom operated a free smart case replacement event for loyal customers in their 50s and 60s who have been excluded from marketing campaigns due to being a minority demographic. SK Telecom also published and distributed a guidebook on using smartphones for subscribers in their 50s and 60s.
Innovation in Distribution Culture
SK Telecom has innovated the distribution environment since 2013 in order to 
provide customers with the best customer experience. In terms of the distribution 
structure (hardware), SK Telecom developed strategic retail locations and improved the retail distribution network by improving shop conditions. As for the distribution 
environment (software), salesmanship has been developed by reinforcing hands-
on training, standardizing customer services, and operating the “Good Telecom Service for My Family (GTSMF).” The plan launched in 2013 is an attempt to ease 
the financial burdens on households, while improving the distribution network and 
creating customer value. By doing so, SK Telecom has provided systematic and comprehensive consulting services with personalized customer benefits. As part of 
their efforts, authorized retailers give discounts on handsets, price plans, double play 
service, and information services on data products. To further develop the customer-centered distribution culture and provide the best customer experience, SK Telecom 
will restructure the training system, reinforce salesmanship for customer services, 
and adopt the “Good Telecom Service for My Family (GTSMF) Consulting 2.0.” 
In 2014, SK Telecom will provide customers with reliable and differentiated 
purchasing experiences through innovations, evolutions, and development of the distribution in terms of shops, people, and customer communication.
Reducing Household Communications Expenses through 
Innovative Price Plans, Products and Services  
In order to create a sound and innovative environment for data use, SK Telecom has 
led changes in the communications sector and improved customer values. The T kkiri Price Plan, the Unlimited Calling Plan launched in 2013, has been recognized 
as a major contributor in reducing the communications expenses of households. 
In addition, the “Data Gift,” the “Data Refill” and discounts for late night calls have brought service competition to a higher level. 
The number of users of the Unlimited Calling Plan, the number of users of the 
“T kkiri Data Gift” and the number of users of the “Data Refill” reached 6.84 million, 8.7 million, and 4.8 million, respectively. These numbers are evidence of customer 
satisfaction and of SK Telecom’s understanding of customers’ needs. In addition, 
SK Telecom proactively launched price plans for specific age groups, including a plan for teenagers and that for seniors (60 and up). Also, SK Telecom has cooperated 
SK Telecom’s Efforts to 
Protect Personal 
Information and PrivacyThe 1st PIMS Certificate 
for Protection of Customer 
Information* Rate of small-amount payment 
complaints: the ratio of the number of cases of small-amount payment complaints reported to the number of small-amount payment transactions per year
** Rate of VoC on roaming: the ratio of the number of VoC on roaming to  the number of consulting cases   
 about roaming
78                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  79                       Strategic FocusThe Significance of the Unlimited 
Calling Plan and the T kkiri Price Plan 
The T kkiri Price Plan and the Unlimited Calling Plan 
launched by SK Telecom contribute to improved 
customer value by reducing the customers’ financial 
burdens. The T kkiri Price Plan, which was launched in March 2013, attracted 2.5 million subscribers within 
just two months of the launch, and the aggregated 
number of subscribers of the T kkiri Price Plan and the Unlimited Calling Plan launched later reached 6.84 million as of the end of 2013. In addition, the percentage of new subscribers and mobile number 
portability (MNP) applicants who have selected the 
T kkiri Price Plan or the Unlimited Calling Plan exceeded 80% in the 3rd and 4th quarters of 2013. Such efforts to 
improve the fundamental competitiveness of products 
have led to meaningful results, such as an increase in subscribers, and a decrease in the churn rate.with SMEs to create innovative products such as T Phone and B box, and held idea contests for new products and services.
Customer Satisfaction Improvement 
SK Telecom was ranked at the top of three major customer satisfaction 
surveys in Korea for 14 to 16 years in a row as of 2013. In addition, SK Telecom 
conducts an internal customer satisfaction survey (CSI) twice a year. The CSI of SK Telecom targets customers of competitors as well as customers of SK Telecom, 
and customers directly evaluate their satisfaction levels. SK Telecom thoroughly 
analyzes the results of the survey and incorporates the results in its management activities, which include the improvement of products and services. SK Telecom was 
also ranked at the top of internal CSI survey for the 16th consecutive year in 2013. 
Link to “Financial Materiality”How the Customer Retention-Focused Policy 
Based on the Core Value, the “Happy Companion,” Influences Costs
Heightened competition in the MNP market caused 
by Korea’s saturated telecommunications market may 
accelerate the termination of subscribers and long-
term customers, negatively affecting SK Telecom’s profit structure. To address such challenges, 
SK Telecom has shifted the paradigm of competition 
to provision of services for creation of the highest customer values, and focused on retaining customers 
since 2013. We anticipate that the paradigm shift will 
prove to be more effective as time passes. The churn rate, which was 2.6% in 2012 at average, showed a decline to 2.07% in the 4th quarter of 2013, thanks to an initiative focusing on customer values (The annual 
average churn rate in 2013: 2.3%). More notably, the 
“Good Device Change” program, the reward program for long-term customers who wish to upgrade their 
devices, was adopted, reducing the churn rate of 
long-term subscribers (eligible for the “Good Device Change” program) by approximately 8.6% from 48.2% 
of 2012 to 39.6% in 2013, preventing the loss of long-
term customers. SK Telecom’s marketing expenses for 2013 are about KRW 1.8 trillion in terms of customer attraction 
commissions, and the marketing expenses per 
subscriber are approximately KRW 236,196. The fact that the churn rate showed a year-on-year decline 
of 0.5% as of the end of 2013 indicates that 
SK Telecom has retained over 130,000 customers, which is equivalent to saving the costs of attracting 
new subscribers of about KRW 30.7 billion. It is 
expected that the marketing strategy focusing on customer retention, including the “Good Device Change” program, will positively affect business in the near future, as the strategy promotes a corporate 
image of integrity, builds a foundation to win a larger 
share of loyal customers, and reduces market volatility in the long-term.
Churn Rate
2.4%
1Q
20132.6%
20122.3%
2Q2.3%
3Q2.1%
 4QNumber of Subscribers 
that Used the Good Device Change Program
(Unit: Million)Percentage of Device Changes
Expenditure for Subsidy Payments 
(Unit: KRW trillion)6.0
20125.5
20130.5
1Q1.1
2Q1.8
3Q2.4
4Q 201330.8%
201235.9%
2013
*   SK Telecom’s internal CSI survey is based on the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) model developed 
by Dr. Claes Fornell (National Quality Research Center, University of Michigan, U.S.).Results of SK Telecom’s Internal CSI Survey
73
71
6974
72
7076
74
7175
73
7175
73
7276
73
7374
72
7275
73
73
1H 2010 2H 2010 1H 2011 2H 2011 1H 2012 SK Telecom A B
1H 2013 2H 2012 2H 2013Results of Three Major Customer Satisfaction Surveys
Index Organized by 2013 Results
National Customer Satisfaction Index
(NCSI)Korea Productivity Center74 (No. 1 for 16 consecutive years)
Korean Customer Satisfaction Index
(KCSI)Korea Management Association Consultants75.2 (No. 1 for 16 consecutive years)
Korean Standard Service Quality Index
(KS-SQI)Korean Standards Association73.2 (No. 1 for 14 consecutive years)(Unit: Points)Link to “Financial Materiality”
80                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  81                       Strategic FocusIncreased LTE Subscribers through Greater LTE Leadership
SK Telecom has improved the quality of smartphone services by commercializing the 
4G service, Long-Term Evolution (LTE), in 2011, and opening up the era of data by  
commercializing the LTE-A service with carrier aggregation technology for the first time in the world in June 2013. In addition, SK Telecom launched its broadband LTE 
services using the 1.8GHz band in September 2013 so that existing LTE customers 
can benefit, improving customer value. LTE-A is two-times faster than LTE, and massive, high-resolution content can be transmitted quickly and seamlessly through 
an ultra-high-speed data network. SK Telecom will cement its leadership in the 
communications market by providing diverse convergence services using LTE-A.The number of SK Telecom LTE subscribers exceeded 13.49 million in December 
2013, and about 49% of the total subscribers are using LTE, indicating that the 
leadership of SK Telecom is being cemented in the 4G LTE market, following the 3G market. As the share of LTE subscribers steadily increases, the number of 
smartphone users is also increasing.01 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
 1) Innovation   
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
FocusGreater LTE Leadership 
through Strengthened 
Network Competencies
SK Telecom provided quality network service in 2013 by continuously 
developing LTE-related technology and stably operating networks to 
maximize customer values. SK Telecom will make untiring efforts to 
provide its customers with the world’s fastest and most up-to-date technology.
Business Drivers:Network quality is still a fundamental, core factor determining competitiveness. 
Although the competition to build the LTE network has matured, data traffic is 
steadily increasing, continuously requiring adequate network investments. Steady quality improvement, technology development, and the appropriate level of 
investments should be made at the same time. 
Stakeholder Concerns:• Network Quality
• Network Coverage
Major Impact on Capital:• Financial capital: Improvement of shareholder values through mid- to long-term 
reinforcement of business competitiveness
• Manufactured capital: Expansion of social infrastructure by utilizing and building 
network facilities
• Intellectual capital: Communications and network technology development and 
expansion of intellectual properties
Operation of LTE NetworkLTE Penetration Rate49%
Improvement of Network QualityLTE Quality SurveyNo. 1 (the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, 
December 2013)
Securing of 
Technological CompetitivenessCommercialization of New Technology• Commercialization of LTE-A 
and Broadband LTE
• Continued technology 
development including 3-Band LTE-A24.3
23.030
25
201510
5
025.726.6
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 201327.027.4
Number of Subscribers by Network (Unit: Million)
CDMA WCDMA LTE (LTE includes LTE-A)
Smartphone
Numbers and Percentages of Smartphone Users
20091.9%0.5 million
201015.2%3.9 million
201141.7%11.1 million
201259.3%16 million
201366.9%18.3 millionWhere We Focus How We MeasureWhy This is “Material”
82                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  83                       Strategic FocusTechnological Leadership from LTE to 3-Band LTE-A
SK Telecom, in order to provide better calling and data services, has advanced the 
network design and operation by analyzing various big data including traffic patterns 
by time and region. As a result, SK Telecom took first place for LTE-A, LTE, and 3G in a 2013 quality survey conducted by the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future 
Planning. More notably, SK has secured the global technological leadership in LTE, 
SK Telecom’s major network, winning the Outstanding LTE Contribution of Global Mobile Award from GSMA, the world’s largest telecommunications service providers’ 
association, for two consecutive years (2013 and 2014). 
SK Telecom will continuously expand coverage of LTE-A and broadband LTE, and has planned a full transition to broadband LTE in July 2014. SK Telecom has already 
dominated the 150 Mbps ultra-high speed market in 84 cities as well as in the Seoul 
Metropolitan Area through LTE-A. SK Telecom launched broadband LTE service in Seoul in late October and in the Seoul Metropolitan Area in late November after 
it first launched the service in September 2013. It will expand service coverage to 
metropolitan cities in March and across the nation in July 2014. In addition, SK Telecom will continue to fortify its technological leadership by leading the next-
generation LTE-A service with speeds of up to 300 Mbps, driven by its success in 
the development of 3-Band LTE-A technology as well as broadband LTE-A services.
LTE-A Network Roadmap
•Securing of networks 
to respond to the data traffic increase
   
•3-Band LTE-A enables downloads of a file of 800M in 22 seconds (Vs. 1.25 
minutes for LTE)MAX  150Mbps
84 downtown areas as 
of the end of 2013LTE-A800M 1.8G
To be commercialized in the 2nd half of 2014MAX  225Mbps
Broadband LTE-A800M 1.8G
To be commercialized at the end of 2014 when the terminals are launchedMAX  300Mbps
3-Band LTE-A800M 1.8GDifferentiated Technology
SK Telecom, by focusing on developing LTE-A technology since 2012, demonstrated 
the world’s first Carrier Aggregation (CA) in February 2012 and eICIC in June 2012, 
spearheading the market. In addition to CA, SK Telecom will continuously deploy Coordinated Multiple Point (CoMP) and other technologies to improve its service 
quality at the boundaries of base stations, and to provide the best quality services.
LTE-A, which SK Telecom commercialized for the first time in the world in 2013, has 
proven SK Telecom’s excellence in network technology. SK Telecom entered into a  LTE consulting contract with China Telecom for Shanghai, China, in January 2014, 
and is gaining the attention of global telecommunications service providers.
SK Telecom is also improving the profitability of MNO by efficiently managing facility investments and marketing expenses and improving key infrastructure, including 
distribution networks and product infrastructure. Mobile IPTV is a promising prospect 
in the mid- to long-term, as VOD use is continuously increasing, as we have witnessed in the fixed IPTV sector, and it can be applied to diverse business areas. • Aggregation of multiple LTE 
frequencies and transmission to a 
handset at the same time   
• Successful demonstration in 
February 2012 for the first time in 
the world and commercialization 
in June 2013CA
Carrier 
Aggregation
• Improved service quality at 
boundaries of base stations by 
automatically controlling signal 
interference between adjacent cells   
• Commercialization in January 
2012 (Downlink)    
•Commercialization in March 2014 (Uplink)• Expansion of the coverage of small cells 
and improvement of the performance at 
boundaries through cooperation between 
macro cells and small cells   
•Successful demonstration in June 2012
•Commercialization scheduled in the 4th quarter of 2014CoMP
Coordinated
Multiple PointeICIC
enhanced 
Inter-Cell Interface 
Coordination
World’s First 
Commercialization of LTE-A Services
SK Telecom successfully 
commercialized its LTE-A services, 
doubling the speed of LTE, in June 
2013, for the first time in the world.Resolving the Digital Divide 
by Building IT Infrastructure
SK Telecom continues to extend coverage to mountainous, island, or 
remote areas where residents have difficulty accessing phone services 
and offers compensation for losses on universal service provisions to 
provide universal service. In 2013, the cost of universal service division 
supported along with other Korean operators amounted to KRW 47.5 
billion and SK Telecom covered KRW 16.9 billion. 2.1G
2012 2013
Universal Service 
Provisions Support17.4 16.9Universal Service Provisions (Unit: KRW billion)14,882Base stations installed 
in under serviced areas*
*Mountains, remote areas, hiking trails, islands
84                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  85                       Strategic FocusLifestyle Changes from Ultra-High Speed LTE-A
Network innovations driven by the penetration of ultra-high speed LTE-A have led to 
lifestyle changes, as individuals’ access to information has rapidly expanded thanks 
to real-time multimedia service and network speed on the move. For example, B tv mobile, the mobile IPTV of SK Broadband, provides a full-HD real-time video 
streaming service. The full-HD video has a resolution double that of HD video, and 
LTE-A enables seamless mobile playback of the full-HD videos.As LTE-A penetrates the market, multiple users are able to participate in group video 
calls and enjoy diverse content. Group Video Calling, launched by SK Telecom in 
June 2013, supports video calling of up to four users. LTE-A also contributed to the adoption of Free Lossless Audio Codec (FLAC), which minimizes losses of audio 
sources. SK Telecom provides about 60,000 songs in the FLAC format through 
Melon as of December 2013. SK Telecom will continue to develop convergence services among devices, network, 
and software, and build the foundation for partnerships with ICT industries, based on 
its advanced mobile network infrastructure. Preparing for Future Competition by Securing FrequencyFrequency is the most basic resource of telecommunications service, and it 
determines the network competitiveness of the telecommunications service provider. 
Unlike 3G, the bandwidth of sequential frequencies determines the maximum speed of LTE. Accordingly, the competition to win more frequencies among 
telecommunications service providers has become more intensive than ever.
Three major telecommunications service providers of Korea secured LTE frequency bands through a bid in 2011 when the LTE service was launched. In 2013, additional 
LTE frequency bands were allocated. In particular, the broadband LTE service 
was launched in 2013, so it was a matter of concern as to how the results of the frequency bid would affect the market. 
SK Telecom, when it prepared for the frequency bid, developed the strategy to 
secure competitive frequency bands with minimum costs. As a result, it secured 1.8GHz, which is the most popular LTE frequency band in the world and through 
which SK Telecom has operated services since the second half of 2012, at a price 
which was almost a half of the competitor’s price. By winning the frequency, SK Telecom was favorably positioned to accelerate the LTE service launch and easily secure equipment and terminals. The costs saved 
through the strategy enabled intensive investment into the advancement of the 
network. SK Telecom will improve the convenience and benefit of users by using the 1.8GHz frequency, allocated in 2013, to provide outstanding quality services 
including the broadband LTE-A service.  
2012 4Q 2013 1Q 2013 2Q 2013 3Q 2013 4Q
12 17 21 25 28Trends of Data Traffic (Unit: Peta Byte)
2012 4Q 2013 1Q 2013 2Q 2013 3Q 2013 4Q
33.8 33.7 34.0 34.9 35.7Quarterly Trends of ARPU (Unit: KRW thousand)Small Cell Network 
Innovation Award, Innovative 
Commercialization Technology
Small Cell 
Industry Awards
June 2013
Most Significant 
Operator Award
LTE 
Awards
June 2013LTE Awards
WinnerLTE Leadership, 
the Key to SK Telecom’s Mid- to Long-Term 
Corporate Value Improvement
The improved quality of the 4G LTE network and 
transition to LTE directly drive SK Telecom’s mid- to 
long-term corporate value improvement. Improved communications speed and service innovations 
enabled through the LTE network evolution expand our 
users’ access to information, while enabling them to watch full-HD videos and make group calls, which are 
lifestyle changes. In addition, the data use patterns of 
network users have changed. Network charges under the price plan and the products are one of the 
major profit sources of SK Telecom. The growing data 
demand from LTE users indirectly affects profit growth. Packaged price plans combining baseball, the Olympic 
Games and the World Cup, and the expansion of B2B 
services have led to the growth of ARPU. The quarterly ARPU of SK Telecom in 2013 has gradually grown 
since the second quarter as LTE subscribers have 
increased. Best Telecom 
Service Provider
Telecom Asia
Awards
April 2013
Mobile Network 
Innovation Award, 
Service Aware RAN
GTB Innovation 
Awards
June 2013Outstanding 
LTE Contribution 
Global Mobile Awards for 
two consecutive years
February 2014Link to “Financial Materiality”
86                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  87                       Strategic FocusExplosive Growth Beyond Smartphones
Global network operators are accelerating their efforts for the commercialization of 
technology evolved in terms of speed and capacity, which drives the deployment 
of diverse connected devices including wearable devices. Providing new user experiences through ICT interactions among devices, Internet of Things (IoT) is 
being evolved into Internet of Everything (IoE), and is naturally being converged with 
innovative technology including big data and cloud computing. Thanks to newly emerging technology, the era of true convergence where intelligence is added to the 
interconnection of things has emerged. 
According to the National IT Industry Promotion Agency, next-generation markets including cloud computing, big data, and mobile computing will account for 80% 
of IT-related expenditures by 2020, and the increasing use of smart devices will 
accelerate the growth of the ICT convergence sector. SK Telecom has secured a foundation for future growth by focusing on the facilitation of the use of smartphones, 
but it needs to develop and foster new business areas to achieve sustainable 
mid- to long-term growth, building on the foundation it has built. SK Telecom will lead the ICT convergence market with three growth engine businesses including solutions, healthcare and IPTV. While responding to the era of ICT convergence 
where boundaries between sectors are crossed, driven by the growing data market 
and facilitation of the use of smart devices, SK Telecom will create new value through win-win partnerships among industries.  
The ICT-Converged Solution Business as a Growth Engine
SK Telecom will further foster the ICT-based convergence business, which it has 
developed as a growth engine. To this end, SK Telecom is operating the solution 
business in the ICT convergence sector, based on key assets it has secured in the connectivity sector, the competencies in development and operation of the platform, 
and the experience in serving the large-scale customer base. SK Telecom selected 
core solution businesses by comprehensively reviewing market size and internal competencies, and since 2013 has focused on core solution businesses, including 
Smart Store, Smart Work, Smart Cloud, Green & Safety, and M-ad & Payment. 
SK Telecom will develop the solution business into a KRW 1.5 trillion business by 2015. The solution business reflects new trends driven by changes in lifestyle and 
the business environment, and has provided a new role model of ICT that meets 
economic, environmental, and social needs. SK Telecom will secure stable profit through an ICT business platform-based business structure and business model, 
and prove the value of the business as the main pillar for the mid-term growth.01 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
 1) Innovation   
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
FocusProviding Solutions 
that Lead the Era 
of ICT Convergence
SK Telecom is focusing on the development of three growth engine 
businesses including solutions, healthcare and IPTV as the data market 
expands and the use of smart devices is activated. SK Telecom will 
respond to the trend of accelerated ICT convergence and will create new values through cooperation with other industries for win-win growth.
Business Drivers:The ICT industry is currently undergoing rapid changes including innovations in 
business and customer experience driven by the penetration of smart devices, 
changes in customer needs, and ICT evolution. The expectation for SK Telecom in society is being shifted from being a provider of typical communications products 
and services to being a provider of innovative products that enable new experiences 
through optimized channels. This is the time to develop the technology that enables natural and convenient customer experiences and intelligent technology (cloud 
computing, etc.).   
Customer Concerns:• Innovative Management
• Products and Services
• Indirect Impact of ICTMajor Impact on Capital:
• Financial capital: Mid- to long-term shareholder value improvement through 
 operation of new businesses
• Social and network capital: Growth of the ICT business ecosystem through 
 expansion of boundaries and cooperation with partners
• Intellectual capital: R&D on future technology and growth engine technology
Expansion of Solution 
BusinessSolution RevenueKRW 400 billion
Expansion of 3 Strategic Healthcare 
BusinessesYear-on-Year 
Growth Rate40%
Growth of IPTV Fixed and Wireless IPTV Subscribers3.55 million subscribersWhere We Focus How We MeasureWhy This is “Material”
88                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  89                       Strategic FocusAchievements and Plans for Five Key Solution Businesses Healthcare Business as a Growth Engine
As the convergence of health- and healthcare-related technology has accelerated 
due to an aging society, healthcare is gaining attention as a future growth business. 
According to the Korea Health Industry Development Institute, the smart healthcare market of Korea will reach KRW 3.1 trillion in 2014, double the size in 2010. It is 
expected that the global healthcare-related ICT solution market will grow into USD 
50 billion by 2020, and the prevention and management service market is in its infant stage with enormous growth potential. 
SK Telecom is operating the healthcare business by considering it as a mid- to 
long-term growth engine, and plans to develop the business into a KRW 1 trillion business by 2020 with the ultimate goal of developing an ICT-based global Health 
Hub. In particular, ICT will be applied to diagnosis, prevention and management, 
three of the four major healthcare areas included in treatment, and a new business model providing both customers (patients) and service providers (medical service 
providers) with values. 
SK Telecom selected health management services, smart hospital solutions and IVD as three major areas in 2013, and built its business foundation by developing the 
health-on service, commercializing the smart hospital solution and acquiring an FDA 
approval for FREND, the instant diagnosis device (diagnosis of prostate cancer: May 
2013; diagnosis of thyroid diseases: March 2014). In particular, diagnostic devices 
have enormous growth potential as the types of diagnoses available and distributors of devices increase and the sales of reagent necessary for the diagnosis of diseases 
grow. SK Telecom will fortify its growth base in overseas markets by advancing into 
markets in the U.S., China, and Southeast Asia in 2014. 
Increasing the Marketability of IPTV
SK Telecom will launch a new service for the home market with the targets of 3.4 million fixed IPTV subscribers and 4.8 million wireless (mobile) IPTV subscribers by 
2015. SK Telecom will create the environment for customized media services based 
on big data. SK Telecom has already reinforced voice and web search functions in addition to existing services such as real-time TV, and has dominated the market 
by launching smart TVs with embedded set-top boxes (jointly with Samsung 
Electronics).The number of fixed IPTV subscribers grew to 2.05 million in 2013 with a year-on-
year increase of 0.65 million. More notably, the number of mobile IPTV subscribers 
was 1.5 million with the year-on-year increase of 1.2 million.Solution business to develop 
mobility-based solutions by reflecting the characteristics of the value chain and the business process by industry of customers, and provide the overall ICT infrastructure maximizing productivity and efficiency of business operations of customersDescription 2013 Highlights 2014 Plans
Smart grid business 
applicable to the entire value chain from production to consumption, including ICT-based energy efficiency improvement, development and operation of the new and renewable energy system, emission trade system and AMI
Business to prevent crimes 
and disasters using ICT, monitor safety of facilities and spaces, and monitor and manage the status of persons and objects
Business operated as a 
payment service provider including small-amount phone payment service, Direct Carrier Billing (DCB) service, ID authentication service, and smart billing service operated on behalf of public utilities
Various services to identify 
and control the status and location of objects, people, and environments in distant places, by applying sensor, communications, and IT technologies to buildings and spacesSecured about 70 corporate customers and recorded revenue of over KRW 30 billion with 12 solutions, including “Smart Counter,” the mobile securities account opening system; and “SmartnCare,” the traffic accident control solution run in conjunction with an insurance company
Won orders worth about 
KRW 13 billion from 13 partners and built an image as a market leader by fully expanding services
Steadily secured customers 
by reinforcing image-security products including high-resolution CCTV service, SMS alert service, and additional insurance service
Increased the payment 
service users including small-amount payment and ID authentication service users, and launched the new payment services including Mobile Token to expand the scope of the business, and achieved revenue of about KRW 200 billion
Sought business expansion 
to develop an ICT ecosystem with business partners and built the foundation for business expansion by launching the IoT platformExpand specialized businesses in the SME market, including IT Compliance, respond to regulations; and broaden the portfolio for the large enterprise market
Continuously increase 
customers of the energy management system for buildings and plants, while expanding the scope of the business to the new and renewable energy sector by advancing energy efficiency solutions like smart lighting control
Lead the ICT-based physical security market by expanding cooperation with the on-site security guard service providers and fortify position as a provider of integrated security solutions by continuously improving the competitiveness of image security products and launching IT security-related new products
Increase business size by expanding existing payment services like ARS authentication and advancing into the offline billing market, while fully entering into the payment market by launching the direct payment platform jointly with financial companies and PG service providers
Selected three core 
businesses (Automotive, Asset and Agriculture) to fully expand the IoT solution business while diversifying the business portfolio using a diverse line-connected business model
Work
Green
Safety
Payment
IoTSolution Business Revenue Growth
4815836501,005
8391,0681,1571,2761400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
2012, 1Q 2013, 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 2Q 3Q 4Q (Unit: KRW hundred million)Work
Cloud
Green & Safety
Payment
Network·System Solution
etc
90                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  91                       Strategic FocusB box, launched in 2014, is an innovative home hub, and users can use diverse 
services enabled through fixed-line and mobile communication, including IPTV, VOD, 
video calling, home monitoring, family communication through SNS (Family Board), 
and cloud computing. Not only have services evolved into the next-generation home devices that converge media and homes, but new services related to smart homes 
can also be continuously developed and deployed, and Android OS was selected for 
scalability. Users can fully enjoy the media home service with TV and smartphones connected only through B box, and there is no need to install an additional home 
device. 
R&D Investments for the Future
The foundation for innovations is in R&D. SK Telecom operates a Future Technology 
Institute and an ICT Technology Institute as R&D organizations. The Future Technology Institute operates pilot projects to verify business fit and market needs 
by selecting and developing core technologies. In 2013, SK Telecom selected 
core technologies as the foundation for mid- to long-term growth, including the processing and analysis of big data; image processing, analysis and recognition technology; voice recognition and language processing technology in Korean; and 
healthcare diagnosis reagent and device technology, and achieved its goals. In 
particular, SK Telecom decided to develop big data and reagent technologies as test businesses, and developed the operation plan and the direction of R&D strategy of 
the Future Technology Institute.
The ICT Technology Institute has operated its R&D activities based on the time-axis (current businesses vs. future businesses) and the growth-axis (current business 
model vs. growth business model). The ICT Technology Institute has used a wide 
range of technologies, including technology to improve functions like HD Voice to improving flash memory-based storage systems, to develop a broad array of 
R&D strategies in order to approve competitiveness and save telecommunications 
business costs.❶ R&D for reinforcement of competitiveness and reduction of costs of existing 
telecommunications business
— Increase of the mobile capacity through the world’s first   
commercialization of LTE-A 
— Development of technology-improving functions including HD Voice 
— Development of IT infrastructure including open source software and big data 
    
❷ R&D on technology for evolution of next-generation telecommunications 
infrastructure
— Next-generation network technologies including SDN/NFV and super cells    
❸ R&D on the telecommunications technology-based platforms and services
— Development of next-generation web (HTML 5) and open M2M·IoT platforms  
— Development of the context awareness- and augmented reality-based technology
    
❹ Mid- to long-term R&D for new growth engine businesses
— Development of the flash memory-based storage system 
— Development of the Quantum technology-based encryption technology R&D Strategy and Major Milestones
R&D 
Costs and HR
Total R&D Costs
2011   KRW 458.4 billion
2012   KRW 423.1 billion
2013   KRW 434.7 billion
R&D HR
2012   838 Employees2013   1,094 Employees
T Phone, the World’s First Phone Platform Driven Business Model Innovation
T Phone, launched in February 2014, is an easy 
and convenient phone platform with intuitive UI 
and scalable diverse functions. T Phone provides 
customers with a protection function to avoid unwanted calls including spamming and voice 
phishing. The home screen displays the names and 
images of frequent callers instead of a keypad, and users can access about 1 million phone numbers in order of proximity. T Phone will continuously evolve by embracing third party services based on open platform 
technology. It is expected that such an open platform 
will also contribute to the win-win growth of the ICT ecosystem. TelecommunicationsTechnology-Based Platformsand Services 
Reinforcement of 
Competitiveness and  Cost Saving of  
Telecommunications BusinessMid- to Long-Term R&D 
for New Growth Engine Businesses
Evolution of Next-Generation 
Telecommunications Infrastructure     
Launch of the T Phone
SK Telecom created a convenient and 
safe calling environment without the 
need for installing additional apps by 
launching T Phone, the All-IP based 
next-generation calling platform.TimeGrowth
Link to “Financial Materiality”❸
❶❹
❷
92                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  93                       Strategic Focus01 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
 1) Innovation     
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
FocusCreating 
Shared Values 
through ICT Innovation
SK Telecom is planning and operating a new CSV program to identify 
social issues that can be solved with core ICT competencies and to 
solve issues effectively. SK Telecom will spread positive energy in 
society through an in-depth understanding of social issues and through differentiated ICT competencies. SK Telecom has established the CSV organization and accelerated its efforts, based on “Happy Companion” as a method of growth and creating shared values. SK Telecom affirmed the success potential of CSV by successfully operating the 
“BRAVO! Restart” program and “Traditional Market Revitalization” project in 2013.
Pursuit of Both Social and Business Innovations
SK Telecom will refine existing CSR programs to play a leading role in creating 
shared values between business and society and in replacing corporate social contributions with CSV. While taking the macro approach to existing programs, 
SK Telecom will expand its correlation with business and create the conditions for 
the  sustainable creation of social values. SK Telecom will also build a sustainable system where all stakeholders involved can create values and produce achievements 
instead of the current one-sided and temporary system of an enterprise.
“BRAVO! Restart” Contributing to the Start-Up Ecosystem
“BRAVO! Restart” is a program supporting the establishment of start-ups by retired 
seniors, while contributing to the development of new growth engines of SK Telecom 
through joint projects with these venture businesses. SK Telecom developed the HD 
laser pico beam technology jointly with Cremotech, one of the supported business start-ups in the “BRAVO! Restart” program. Hub & Spoke, another “BRAVO! Restart” 
start-up, developed the sales channel of a product called Smart Gym Board, a 
channel that ultimately included domestic hospitals, schools, and the Chinese market, jointly with the business unit of SK Telecom. Those of the baby boom 
generation have fewer opportunities to establish high-value businesses or to be 
hired again in the job market, even though the generation was a main player of the economic development of Korea. Against this backdrop, they establish businesses 
with low barriers to entry, and more than half of them close their businesses in three 
years. ICT competencies and the resources of SK Telecom can greatly help them solve their problems in establishing their businesses. The business establishment 
support system for the baby boom generation is an integrated support system in 
which the ICT competencies of SK Telecom are concentrated. SK Telecom fosters those who will establish businesses by inviting public participation, investing in 
physical resources including funds and spaces, transferring its business know-
how to turn a business model into reality, providing one-to-one mentoring and educational programs, and providing indirect capital for developments in joint 
technology, prototype and sales channel, while increasing the chance of the success 
of the new businesses established. SK Telecom selected ten teams out of 232 
Venture Businesses Established 
through “BRAVO! Restart” Program
Hub & Spoke (“Smart Gym Board”) and Buzzbee (global 
curation) recorded the sales of over KRW 100 million, based on 
the customized business start-up support of SK Telecom.Completion of the First Session 
of the “BRAVO! Restart” Program
“BRAVO! Restart” is a program supporting start-ups by retired 
seniors, where a total of ten teams were supported in the 
program’s first round in 2013.  Business Drivers:
As the needs for corporate social contributions shift from Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) to Creating Shared Value (CSV), there is a growing need for 
the creation of social values using corporate resources and competencies. The social innovation model where social issues are solved in cooperation with business 
provides enterprises with opportunities for innovation in terms of the improvement of 
operating efficiency and the connection to new markets.  Stakeholder Concerns:
• ICT-based “Creating Shared Value” programs
• Digital Inclusion (Narrowing the digital divide among classes and the handicapped)• Indirect impacts of ICT (including the improvement of economic efficiency, 
 the activation of social communication, the improvement of values in life  and the creation of new business using ICT)
Major Impact on Capital:
• Social and network capital: Improvement of relations with local stakeholders and  
 the general public, the venture start-up ecosystem through “BRAVO! Restart” and
 “Traditional Market Revitalization Project”
Support for “Happy Start-Ups” for 
Activation of 
the Venture Start-Up Ecosystem“BRAVO! Restart” program 10 cases
Revitalization of Traditional Markets 
Using ICT“Traditional Market 
Revitalization” project2 markets (accumulated)
Improvement of Social Values and Performance of Social EnterprisesSupport for the Happy ICT Foundation: 1,200 farmhouses in Wanju became beneficiaries of the smart local food program
Support for Happy Ecophone: 
distribution of 499,000 units of EcophonesWhy This is “Material”
Where We Focus How We Measure
94                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  95                       Strategic Focusapplicants for the first round of the “BRAVO! Restart” program in 2013. The winners 
achieved impressive results including product launches, generation of revenue, 
patent applications, and advancement into the global market.
Revitalization of Traditional Markets Using ICT
SK Telecom, in order to revitalize the traditional markets that have been marginalized 
by thriving supermarkets, has conducted the “Traditional Market Revitalization” project. By combining the efforts of traditional markets for recovery and the 
competencies of SK Telecom, successful cases in the development and marketing 
of ICT solutions that meet market needs are being made. SK Telecom is supporting the traditional markets in diverse ways, including accumulating a customer DB, 
supporting DB marketing using ICT, and developing products and brands that 
specialize in the market.  
Singi Market, the Second Traditional Market Revitalization Project
SK Telecom, following the support for Jung-gok Jeil Market as the first project in 2012, revitalized Singi Market, located in Juan 7-dong, Nam-gu, Incheon 
Metropolitan City, as the second “Traditional Market Revitalization” project in 
2013. Singi Market is a traditional market with over 120 shops, and is located adjacent to Munhak Baseball Stadium. In order to increase visitors and develop Achievements of the 1st Round of the “BRAVO! Restart” Program
Items Products Descriptions
Product launches and 
sales generationBuzzbee: global curation Multi-language mapping of information about personal interests
Hub and Spoke: 
Smart Gym BoardControlling of existing games for smartphones and PCs with the feet (fitness effect)
Patent application Parcel Net: Unmanned home
delivery platformShared use of the unmanned home delivery box installed at a public place 
Wizontech: WizonSmart Stick Pairing system synchronizing smart TV dongle (Smart Stick) and other devices
Joint development Cremotech: Laser pico beamThe world’s first 40 lumen laser pico beam for the laser project display for education, jointly developed with the Network 
Technology Center of SK Telecom
Advancements into 
global marketsMerlin: Real-time Wi-Fi-based 
visitor location serviceAdvancement into the Indonesian security market
Development of Prototypes IM Technology: Cavity FilterDevelopment of the prototype of ultra-light Cavity Filter (the filter to reduce radio noise of gap fillers) with support of 
Prototype Development Center of SK Telecomthe customer DB of the market, SK Telecom carried out promotions with the 
SK Wyverns professional baseball club, including the provision of discount coupons 
to baseball game ticket holders, and supported PR activities of the market through 
lottery events. In particular, SK Telecom deployed ICT solutions like “Beep,” the 
smartphone payment solution customized for shops with delivery services, and 
“Myshop,” the management support solution for small merchants. SK Telecom also 
developed a membership program exclusively for the market, and launched special price products for subscribers, operated a mileage program, and introduced various 
programs, including Membership Day, in order to boost sales. 
The average sales of Singi Market during the project grew by 5% to 10%, and new sales generated through the membership service was over KRW 6 million a month on 
average. About 2,300 customers including 30% of new customers subscribed to the 
membership service, and young customers under 40 actively participated in the program. SK Telecom was able to identify the needs for ICT in traditional markets 
through the “Traditional Market Revitalization” project, and improved awareness 
by the government about the importance of support for traditional markets to use ICT, leading to favorable budget allocations and the facilitated development of the B2G market.
 
Support for Social Enterprises and Expansion of the Culture of Sharing SK Telecom is contributing to the creation of stable jobs for the low-income bracket 
and innovations in social services by improving the competencies of its social 
enterprises, the Happy ICT Foundation and the Happy Ecophone Foundation. By developing the smart local food system, the Happy ICT Foundation was 
designated as the preliminary social enterprise of Guro after gaining high recognition 
of its growth potential in Guro-gu, Seoul Metropolitan City. The Happy Ecophone Foundation is operating a used phone recycling business as a social enterprise 
certified by Daejeon Metropolitan City. Similarly, the Happy ICT Foundation also 
launched a mobile phone education program for multicultural families. SK Telecom is fulfilling its social responsibilities in diverse, optimal ways. It is operating the ICT 
platform for public interests, including “Give U,” “With U” and the “Happy Library.” 
It also hosted the “IT Challenge Contest for the Handicapped” to support the independence and self-sufficiency of those in the low-income bracket. 
Traditional Market 
Revitalization Project
The “Traditional Market Revitalization” 
project restores the competitiveness 
of traditional markets by utilizing ICT 
solutions and marketing competencies. 
The second project in 2013 with Singi 
Market in Incheon was successfully 
revitalized. Major Achievements of the ICT Sharing Platform
T Together
443,479 Visits
3,867 New SubscribersGive U
Accumulated Fund Raised of KRW 743 MillionWith U
1,188 Registered Jobs2,877 Applicants for Volunteer Services
Social Contribution 
Portal Participation 
by SK Telecom Customers Customer Participation 
Program Platform for Registration and Support of Volunteering 
96                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  97                       Strategic FocusNarrowing the Information Gap to Expand Information Access Using ICT
The information gap is emerging as a social issue with the development of advanced 
ICT. SK Telecom will use the ICT competencies of its members to provide education 
on the use of smartphones and ICT for those who have less access to information (North Korean defectors, multicultural families and seniors), contributing to narrowing 
the information divide. SK Telecom has operated “Happy Mobile World,” an education 
program for seniors on the use of mobile phones, with “Sunny,” the college student volunteering team of SK, since 2007. “Sunny” has entered into one-to-one sisterhood 
relations with seniors in senior centers across the nation, and its members have been 
visiting senior centers regularly and teaching seniors how to use mobile phones, including sending SMS and images, and using the alarm and calendar functions. 
More notably, the smartphone class was operated since 2011, gaining popularity 
with education on the use of the most useful applications for seniors, including SNS, subway and bus information, and information searching. To facilitate the seniors’ use 
of mobile phones, the E-um (“Connection”) Festival has been held since 2010 as a 
contest for seniors on the use of mobile phones. Over 200 seniors participated in the 4th E-um (“Connection”) Festival, held in July 2013, including honored graduates of 
the “Happy Mobile World.” According to the survey targeting trainees of the “Happy 
Mobile World,” 95% of respondents answered that the education on the use of mobile 
phones was helpful, proving the high satisfaction level of trainees. SK Telecom also 
provided education on the use of mobile phones for over 240 North Korean defectors (4 Hana Centers) and 136 multicultural family members (68 parents and 68 children) in 
2013. SK Telecom’s “IT Challenge Contest for the Handicapped Youth,” which marked 
its 15th anniversary in 2013, received participation by 121 students attending special schools. The students improved their competencies in information access and shared 
a willingness for self-support and independence. SK Telecom is also operating the 
“Happy Library,” the voice contents service for the visually handicapped. The “Happy Library” is an application jointly developed with the Korea Blind Union in 2011. 
It is a voice information service for the visually handicapped, encompassing books, 
news, magazines, living information, and rehabilitation. The service was available only for subscribers of SK Telecom when it was first launched, but it was opened to 
all smartphone users in 2013. SK Telecom will actively use ICT competencies and 
continuously make CSV efforts, pursuing both social and business values. 
IT Challenge Contest 
for Handicapped Youth
“IT Challenge Contest for Handicapped 
Youth of SK Telecom,” which marks its 15th 
anniversary in 2013, is a representative 
information search contest for handicapped 
youth, aiming to facilitate the participation 
of the handicapped in society by narrowing 
the information divide and improving public 
awareness about the handicapped.Items Targets Results Percentage of Target Achievements
Buying 455,000 Cases 
(KRW 23.32 billion)457,000 (KRW 29.8 billion)128%
Selling 497,000 Cases (KRW 33.7 billion)499,000 (KRW 35.4 billion)105%Sales Target Vs. Results of T Ecophone for 2013
*Results are based on the estimates for 2013“Smart Local Food Business Support System” of 
the Happy ICT Foundation
Local foods refer to the agricultural products cultivated 
within a 50 km radius from the place of residence of 
the consumers. If the use of local foods is activated, 
the distance of transportation from producers to consumers can be shortened, reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions in the logistics process and improving 
the freshness of the food products. In addition, consumers can purchase goods at lower prices, and 
small-scale farmers can increase their income by 
participating in production and distribution, thanks to the streamlined distribution process. SK Telecom is contributing to the economy of 
agricultural communities by applying ICT convergence 
technology that is related to local foods in Wanju-gun, Jeollabuk-do Province, through the Happy ICT 
Foundation, the preliminary social enterprise. 
Following the activation of “Smart Farm,” which enables the remote management of greenhouses using 
smartphones, the Foundation developed the “Smart Local Food Business Support System,” enabling the 
efficient management of the local food businesses.
The “Smart Local Food Business Support System” 
consists of a smartphone application and an integrated management system for farmers, a sales channel 
management of business managers, and an online 
mall for consumers. As business managers, farmers and consumers can communicate with one another in 
real-time, agricultural products can be diversified, and 
goods can be stably supplied to farmers’ markets. The local food support program was selected as the 
pilot program for smart work activation by the National 
Information Society Agency of the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, gaining the attention of the government and the industry. SK Telecom will promote 
the “Smart Local Food Business Support System” 
among local governments to activate the local food ecosystem, while identifying business feasibility in 
cooperation with the government. 
Happy Ecophone Foundation Creates Social and 
Economic Values by Recycling Used Phones 
Since its establishment, the Happy Ecophone 
Foundation has created high social values by recycling 
resources, narrowing the information gap with the low-
income bracket and creating jobs. It also contributed to achieving the sales target of T Ecophone, the used 
phone selling and buying service of SK Telecom, by stably operating the organization and improving the 
business process. The Happy Ecophone Foundation 
was designated as a preliminary social enterprise in 
August 2013, and was the first R&C-connected social enterprise.Link to “Financial Materiality”
Link to “Financial Materiality”
98                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  99                       Strategic FocusICT Facilitating Green Lifestyles
ICT can affect broad environmental areas as well as industry. Smart City, where 
ICT services and applications improve traffic flows or the energy efficiency of 
buildings while reducing greenhouse gas emissions, can be a good example. As such, ICT changes the lifestyle, the business process and the working process in an 
environmentally friendly manner, minimizing the negative effects of human activities 
on nature. The climate change responses through the reduction of energy use and greenhouse gas emissions are applicable only to Scope 1, the direct emission from 
the consumption of fuels like oil and gases; and Scope 2, the indirect emission from 
the consumption of electric power, water and steam. In the future, the scope of the responses should be expanded to Scope 3, the emission from outdoor activities. 
Scopes 1 and 2 focused on the method of reducing energy consumption, while 
Scope 3 focuses on changing the awareness and the actions of all members of society for a greener lifestyle. 
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Using T Map 
The ICT industry must continuously develop diverse and convenient ICT services 
and applications that are consumer-friendly and useful for an eco-friendly society. 
In addition, a study on methodologies for objective measuring, evaluation and 
reporting of positive and negative impacts of ICT on the environment should be 
made. The method of calculation of social greenhouse gas reduction using T Map, which was developed by SK Telecom, can be a good example of such studies. The 
methodology was finally approved as a recommended international standard by the 
ITU at the ITU-T SG5 (Study Group 5 for studies on the environment and the climate change) conference in 2012. The standard methodology was developed by 
SK Telecom and RRA for the recent two years through public-private cooperation. 
It is the first internationally recommended standard of calculating greenhouse gas emissions of specific ICT services, including real-time navigation. The methodology 
calculates greenhouse gas emissions saved through faster and shorter driving of 
drivers who use real-time navigation to detour around congested areas. SK Telecom surveyed the greenhouse gas reductions of regular navigation users (based on 
taking the shortest routes) and T Map users along with vehicle types, fuel, time and 
sampled distances as control variables in 2012 (reliability of 95%). According to the survey, T Map users reduced fuel use by 11.9% and CO
2e emissions by 12.9%, while 
driving 9.99 km/h faster. 01 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
 1) Innovation   
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
FocusReducing 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
through ICT
Climate change is an urgent issue requiring specific actions. SK Telecom 
will voluntarily reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to the 
reduction of the national greenhouse gas emissions by utilizing innovative ICT.
Cloud BEMS
Cloud Building Energy Management (BEMS) is a solution 
that improves energy efficiency by collecting data on 
the energy use of corporate customers in real-time, and 
by managing and analyzing the data in the cloud.T Map
T Map is a navigation application that offers improved user convenience. It shows the 
estimated CO
2e emission estimate and the 
fastest route for eco-driving.Business Drivers:
There are high demands for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, including the 
introduction of the greenhouse gas management target system, the introduction of 
the environmental information disclosure system and the introduction (in the future) of the emissions trading system under the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green 
Growth. Climate change broadly affects business as there are risks of regulatory 
changes, changes in the industry and lifestyle, and direct increase in disasters. Electric power shortages caused by the growing demands for cooling in the summer 
season may affect the stability of SK Telecom’s data center operation. SK Telecom 
is implementing its business strategy, considering the limited environmental capital including the climate, energy, and resources.
Stakeholder Concerns: 
• Climate Change • Energy 
• Emissions
Major Impact on Capital: • Environmental capital: The prevention of the depletion of resources by operating    
environmental initiatives like eco-friendly management, the social reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and management activities with limited environmental capital 
Responses to Greenhouse Gas 
RegulationsAchievement of the 
Greenhouse Gas 
Emission TargetMet our annual GHG emission 
target (below 722,000 tCO
2e of 
emission)  
Leadership in Social Greenhouse 
Gas IssuesDevelopment of 
the Foundation for 
Acquisition of the 
Emission RightsThe method of calculation of GHG reduction through T Map 
was approved as a recommended 
international standard
Improvement of Environmental 
AwarenessWinning of High 
Recognition in 
External EvaluationsSelected as a CDP leader 
for four consecutive years Why This is “Material”
Where We Focus How We Measure
100                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  101                       Strategic FocusAcquisition of the status of the internationally recommended standard for the 
calculation of greenhouse gas reductions through the T Map real-time navigation 
will be a stepping stone for SK Telecom to play a leading role in socially reducing 
greenhouse gases using ICT and acquiring emissions rights. 
T Membership Mobile Eco Card  
With over 30 million smartphone subscribers, it is expected that replacing the existing physical membership cards with mobile membership will significantly 
reduce the environmental impact. SK Telecom fully replaced its plastic membership 
cards with mobile cards for customers subscribing from August 2013. Previously, customers were able to get the membership benefits and the mobile cards only with 
plastic cards, but now they can immediately download the “T Membership Mobile 
Eco Card” after applying at T World Mobile App. When a customer using the “T Membership Mobile Eco Card” is added, we can save 
about 4.88 g of plastic and reduce 11 g of carbon emissions. SK Telecom has issued 
or reissued about 5 million plastic membership cards a year on average, in order to operate the T Membership program with about 9.5 million subscribers. When the 
membership cards are fully replaced with mobile cards, SK Telecom can save about 
24 t of plastic per year, and reduce carbon emission by 55 t.
Cloud BEMS and Cloud FEMS, the Energy Efficiency Improvement Solutions 
Cloud Building Energy Management System (BEMS) and Cloud Factory Energy 
Management System (FEMS), the energy efficiency improvement solutions of 
SK Telecom, improve efficiency by collecting and analyzing a range of diverse information for real-time energy management in buildings and plants. In order to 
operate the ICT-based energy saving business, SK Telecom has advanced solutions 
since 2011, when it developed and commercialized the Cloud BEMS.SK Telecom developed and deployed a platform for convenient energy management 
and cost-saving for customers, including a mobile energy data monitoring system, an 
energy target management system, and a peak management system for customers in 2014. In addition, SK Telecom will develop the technology to save energy through 
optimal operation by facility based on the accumulated data on facility operation and 
energy consumption by the end of 2014, further reinforcing its competitiveness in energy saving solutions. Minimization of Environmental Impacts
SK Telecom has made efforts to minimize the environmental impact of business 
operation processes and to expand its eco-friendly culture, including the practice 
of social greenhouse gas reduction, the operation of environmental solutions, and the adoption of eco cards. In order to improve the energy efficiency of its business 
operation processes, SK Telecom interrupted the standby power of bidets and 
vending machines in offices and turned the lights off after circuit separation of the lighting system during evening hours, saving 3,901 MWh of energy per year. 
SK Telecom will also save about 4,300 MWh of energy by continuously expanding 
this practice in 2014. As a telecom service provider, SK Telecom is not a direct manufacturer, which means it does not have significant environmental impacts such 
as discharges of toxic or hazardous chemical materials. SK Telecom was not fined or 
penalized for violating environmental laws and regulations in 2013.
-11 gWhenever a “T Membership Mobile Eco 
Card” user is added, we can save about 4.88 g of plastic, which reduces carbon emissions by 11 g. This can be translated 
to an annual saving of plastic by about 24 
t and a reduction of carbon emissions by about 55 t. 
707 ,963 tCO 2eSK Telecom recorded greenhouse gas emissions of 707,963 tCO
2e as of the end 
of 2013, exceeding its emission target of 722,000 tCO
2e.Link to “Financial Materiality”
Expansion of Energy Efficiency 
Improvement Solutions including 
Cloud BEMS and FEMS
In relation to the energy efficiency solution, SK Telecom 
has increased references by using the technology 
accumulated through empirical study on the SmartGrid in 2009 and by targeting large energy consumers, 
including buildings and plants, from 2012. SK Telecom 
has operated energy efficiency improvement programs in diverse sectors including 
hotels, hospitals, department stores, resorts, plants 
and buildings, and applied the solutions in a total of 13 buildings and plants in 2013. SK Telecom plans to 
apply these energy efficiency improvement solutions 
to over 50 buildings and plants in 2014.
Project Overview: Development of Cloud BEMS and 
improvement of the heating and cooling system
• Parallel operation of heat pumps of freezers and boilers
• Collection and analysis of data on the use of heating and 
 cooling energy by floor and zone; and data on performance 
 by equipment 
• Optimal operation and energy saving management according 
 to the temperature of the cooling water and the load on   
 heating and cooling
Results in terms of energy saving: The energy-related 
expenditure of the facility to which the energy management system was applied declined by 30.4% (KRW 0.179 billion) in 2013, compared to 2011.Project Overview: Development of Cloud BEMS and improvement of the heating and cooling system
• Improvement of the system by directly supplying cooling 
 water for freezing and refrigerating
• Inverter control and management 
 (chilling pump and air conditioner)
• Optimal operation and energy saving management according 
 to the temperature of the cooling water and the load on  
 heating and cooling
Results in terms of energy saving: About KRW 84 million of 
energy expenses were saved in the four months since the system was adopted in August 2013 (8% of the annual total energy expenses).
Hospital: Cheju Halla General Hospital Department Store: Hyundai Department Store
102                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  103                       Strategic Focus70
60
50
200750.156.8 56.8 56.760.867.470.874.3
(Estimated 
Emission Volumes)
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 201401 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
 1) Innovation   
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
FocusOur Ideal ICT Ecosystem 
Achieved with 
Win-Win Growth
SK Telecom will create an environment where the entire ICT ecosystem 
can have healthy competition and growth by avoiding competition among 
individual businesses. To improve the competitiveness of partners, 
SK Telecom will run diverse support programs for win-win growth and actively communicate with partners. 
Business Drivers: SK Telecom, during the process of providing products and services, depends on 
a value chain consisting of many partners from equipment and facility suppliers to 
construction companies, marketing partners and dealers. Win-win growth, which improves corporate competitiveness and solves the issue of bipolarization between 
large enterprises and SMEs, plays a critical role in the growth of the ecosystem. In 
addition, developing transparent transaction practices and a high level of human rights-related, environmental, ethical and social practices in the supply chain 
facilitate long-term growth and development of the entire ICT ecosystem.  
Stakeholder Concerns: • BP Win-Win Growth
• ICT Ecosystem
• Procurement Practices• Supplier Standard
Major Impact on Capital: 
•     Social and network capital: Improvement of partnerships, and the growth and  development of the entire ecosystem
Support for Sales Growth of PartnersGrowth Rate of Purchase Transactions38.8% 
Financial Supportfor PartnersIntegrated Financial SupportKRW 81.74 billion
Development of 
the Sustainable 
Supply ChainRate of Audit on the 
Supply ChainAudit in writing: 52.6%Audit on site: 8.8%Limits of Responses to Climate Change 
Regulatory and Initiative for Social Greenhouse 
Gas Emission 
Risks of Limited Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Competencies
SK Telecom depends on electric power, which accounts for over 95% of its energy use. Moreover, 
the network facilities installed across the nation are 
the main use of energy. As the network becomes more advanced, SK Telecom’s greenhouse gas emissions 
(absolute volume basis) have grown continuously. 
Despite efforts to reduce electric power for cooling by developing and deploying highly efficient communications equipment (low-power gap fillers) 
and increasing the temperatures of base stations, it 
is unavoidable to see the greenhouse gas emissions increasing due to business growth. SK Telecom 
emitted greenhouse gases of 707,963 t CO
2e in 
2013, and it is expected that the emission volume will grow in 2014 due to network facility expansion. The 
obligatory reduction volume is expected to gradually increase, and it is difficult to achieve the reduction 
target through voluntary efforts. The gap between 
government regulation and actual greenhouse gas emission is one of the major risks related to climate 
change that SK Telecom has recognized. Offsetting the Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Social 
Greenhouse Gas Reduction
As the network is operated 24 hours a day, 365 days a 
year, we cannot achieve the greenhouse gas reduction target by simply adjusting the operating time. In 
addition, massive investments amounting to a few 
trillion won should be made to improve the efficiency of network equipment installed across the nation. 
Against this backdrop, SK Telecom is developing 
strategies such as participation in the joint responses to climate change including ETS and CDM; and 
contribution to social greenhouse gas reduction using 
ICT, in order to prevent greenhouse gas emissions from directly affecting the business financially amid the future changes of regulations and costs of the 
emission rights. Efforts to calculate potential social 
greenhouse gas reduction volumes using ICT, to study social greenhouse gas reduction using T Map, and to 
develop the methodology to secure the emission right 
were made to mitigate future risks. SK Telecom will secure emission rights using T Map 
after acquiring approval for the method to secure such 
rights. It will also achieve the greenhouse gas reduction target and actively participate in the emissions trading 
system.Why This is “Material”
Where We Focus How We MeasureLink to “Financial Materiality”
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Unit: 10,000 t CO 2e)
104                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  105                       Strategic FocusSK Telecom’s Legacy of Win-Win Growth 
SK Telecom, starting with the establishment of the win-win growth and cooperation 
for co-prosperity with SMEs for the first time in the communications industry in 2003, 
has continuously conducted activities for win-win growth. SK Telecom achieved 100% cash payments to partners in 2005, established Win-Win Growth Academy 
as well as an education support system in 2006, established the Win-Win Growth 
Committee of SK Group in 2008, established a growth fund worth KRW 150 billion for discounts of interest rates of loans to partners in 2010, opened T Open Lab, 
which is the technological infrastructure support center, and the technology escrow 
contract in 2011, which are activities for win-win growth. In May 2013, based on the action plans for the “Happy Companion” announced 
by the CEO, activities such as support for small merchants in traditional markets, 
support for business start-ups through “BRAVO! Restart,” and sharing the value of growth through joint advancements into overseas markets have been continuously 
reinforced and expanded. Thanks to these efforts, SK Telecom took first place 
among 73 large enterprises in the corporate win-win growth indicator of the National Commission for Corporate Partnership and the Fair Trade Commission for 2012, 
which was released in May 2013. 
SK Telecom is working on achieving win-win growth with the aim of “pursuing 
happiness with partners by building the healthy business ecosystem of the ICT 
industry.” The win-win growth pursued by SK Telecom consists of the reinforcement of mutual trust through the removal of unfair transactions and the promotion of win-
win purchases; the facilitation of communication for expansion of the culture of 
win-win growth; reinforcement of the competitiveness of partners through talent development and technical and financial support for partners; and sharing the value 
of growth through joint launches of new businesses.  
Win-Win Growth Agreement and Cooperation for Co-Prosperity
The Fair Trade Commission developed standards for fair transactions and win-win 
growth procedures and support between large enterprises and SMEs in 2013; SK Telecom entered into relatively large transactions with 201 partners in 2012. 
SK Telecom developed the policy by reflecting four guidelines, including guidelines 
on contracting, on selection and operation of partners, on the establishment and operation of the internal deliberation committee, and on the maintenance and 
issuance of documents. The standard contract form of SK Telecom includes major 
provisions of the standard subcontract agreement of the Fair Trade Commission. The win-win growth support programs of SK Telecom are broadly divided into 
Pursuit of Co-Prosperity with Partners through  
the Development of a Healthy Business Ecosystem  Win-Win Growth Vision of SK Telecom
• Removal of Unfair Transactions 
and Promotion of Win-Win 
Purchases
• Support for Development and 
Welfare of Talented Employees of Partners
• Expansion of Technical 
Support and Financial Support for Reinforced Protection• Expansion of Culture of Win-Win Growth 
through Horizontal Communication
• Expansion of the Performance Sharing System• Sharing of Growth Opportunities for Joint 
Launches of New BusinessesReinforcement 
of Mutual Trust
Improvement 
of Competitiveness 
of PartnersActivation of  
Communication
Win-Win 
Growthfinancial support, technical support and protection, education and HR support, 
and management support. The financial support program reduces the imbalance in 
the flow of funds, and fortifies the foundation of existence of small- and mid-sized 
partners. The technical support and protection program aims to develop, transfer, and jointly develop tangible and intangible technology in the process of planning, 
development, and marketing. As for education and HR, the partners’ independence is 
supported through the reinforcement of competencies, the support of know-how and systems and support for the hiring of employees. In addition, SK Telecom supports 
the long-term operation of partners. This includes operating the management doctor 
system, allowing optional contracts with the most valuable partners, and relieving them from obligations for performance guarantees.  
Financial Support for Partner Companies
SK Telecom is operating the direct and indirect financial systems for partners to solve 
the issues of the lack of funds to make purchases, and to improve real liquidity. As 
indirect financial support, SK Telecom provides credit loans through network loans and WinC. For direct financial support, SK Telecom has, jointly with the financial 
sector, raised its win-win growth fund worth KRW 160 billion and contributed KRW 
76 billion. In 2013, SK Telecom entered into the agreement for a cooperation fund for 
technology development through public-private joint investment, and will raise a fund 
worth KRW 30 billion, including its contribution of KRW 15 billion for three years from 2014. As for the terms of payment, SK Telecom has made 100% cash payments 
(conducted since 2005) for SMEs in 2013, and has achieved the target under the 
agreement (10 days) of the average payment period of 8.7 days.
Development of the ICT Win-Win Growth Platform  
SK Telecom is conducting activities such as providing diverse technological support 
and protection and the joint development of sales channels for partners in order to 
continuously expand the ICT ecosystem. More specifically, SK Telecom is supporting 
the development ecosystem through transfers of technology and licenses; participation of the technology development program through the public-private joint 
investment, the operation of open API, the opening of the Big Data Hub, and the 
establishment of the T Open Lab. 
Win-Win Growth Committee
SK Telecom produced measures for 
true win-win growth through seven 
months of discussions with over 250 
employees of partners, and announced 
the win-win growth plan developed 
with partners through the Win-Win 
Growth Committee. 
Sharing 
Value of 
Growth
107                       Strategic FocusInstitutional Improvement
Support for Sales Growth of Partners
• Development of domestic and overseas 
sales channels
• Direct and indirect support including joint 
launch of domestic and overseas businesses 
and provision of the management information 
using WinC
• Expansion of the size of transactions 
(purchase contracts)• Domestic and overseas fairs, joint brand   
marketing, and sales channel development 
(for 41 partners)
• A purchase transaction amount growth of 38.8% 
compared to 2012
Financial Support
• Expansion of contributions of large enterprises 
for financial support
• Maintenance of 100% cash payments
• Maintenance of the payment period of ten days or less• Integrated amount of support: 
KRW 81.74 billion
Technological Support and Protection
• Expansion of technology transfer (granting of 
licenses)
• Support for technology development and 
installation
• Expansion of results of technology escrow• Technological support for 4,919 partners  
(including overlapped programs)
• Protection of technology through technology  
escrow for 26 partners 
Education and HR Support
• Expansion of educational support• HR support• Education and training for reinforcement of 
competencies of employees of 412 partners 
• Support for recruitment of 26 partners 
Opening of Big Data Hub
SK Telecom opened Big Data Hub for 
app developers so that anyone can use 
the accumulated data.T Open Lab
T Open Lab of SK Telecom has made diverse 
activities to support SMEs and individual 
developers since it opened, contributing to 
the development of the ICT ecosystem. 2013 Highlights of Win-Win Growth
In 2013, SK Telecom reinforced the foundation for win-win cooperation to improve 
technological competitiveness and the profits of partners. In particular, it significantly 
expanded technological support and contributions, including technology transfers 
(granting of licenses), joint research projects and joint technology development, facility support, technology escrow systems, joint patent application and registration, 
and support for patent application. SK Telecom supported the technology 
development of a total of 4,919 partners (possibly double-counted due to the multiple support programs) in 2013, and protected the technology of a total of 26 
partners through technology escrow. 
SK Telecom sets the ultimate goal of win-win growth as the sustainable development of the ICT ecosystem. SK Telecom will continuously expand the win-win cooperation 
activities of developing technology and new markets based on this platform, rather 
than the win-win growth driven by one-sided support. Open Innovation: 
Results of Operation of the API (Application Programming Interface) Center
Partners 
ParticipatedRemarks
Open API 
M2M platform 21 partners •Operation of joint development programs 
for five initiatives among the initiatives with SME 
development completed
• Achievement of annual revenue of KRW 2 billion 
by initiative
Open API cloud 61 partners •Donation of infrastructure for business development 
of SMEs
•New revenue can be generated when business 
development succeedsOpen API
Cornerstone WDK4,002 partners
Big Data Hub 8 partners
Total 4,092 partners
Education and Human Capital Support 
It is very important to provide proper education for the long-term success of partners. SK Telecom has maintained over 110 online education and group education programs 
in eight areas, including general management, technology and IT, leadership, 
marketing, finance and accounting, languages and OA, for the employees of partners. In 2013, a total of 412 partners used the education programs of SK Telecom. The 
company also supported the hiring of employees of partners with a lack of human 
capital. In 2013, SK Telecom entered into an industry-academia cooperation agreement with special high schools, and supported the hiring of employees of 48 
partners.
4,092partners43,512peopleBusiness Partners
Participating in 
Open Innovation API CenterNumber of 
Business Partners’ Employees 
Attending the Education Program
(From 2011 to 2013, a three-year accumulated basis)
108                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  109                       Strategic Focus01 Risks and Opportunities 
02 Material Issues 1) Customer Experience 
 1) Innovation     
 2) LTE Leadership  
 3) Value Added Solutions 
 4) Creating Shared Values 
 through ICT   
 5) Reducing Greenhouse
 Gas Emissions 
 6) Win-Win Growth  
 7) Human Capital Development3
Strategic 
FocusPursuing Growth 
through 
Human Capital Development 
The key initiative of human capital management of SK Telecom is to 
innovate human capital  and culture, enabling the achievement of the 
vision through performance-based recognition and rewards and to improve 
the competencies of employees through challenges and innovations. SK Telecom will further develop internal growth engines through 
continuous investments into human capital development.
Business Drivers: 
As traditional society moves toward being an information society, there are explosive 
demands for talented managers. As the mindset and values of talents change, the 
competitiveness of an enterprise is responsible for continuing to attract and maintain talent. Leakage of key talent directly impacts an enterprise, as it leads to the loss of 
strategic resources and lowered market value of the enterprise. 
SK Telecom is making efforts to improve the competencies of its employees and motivate them through a talent attraction strategy, a talent development system, and 
a voluntary corporate culture, with the belief that the company can be developed 
only when its employees are happy and satisfied. Stakeholder Concerns: 
• Talent Attraction and Retention
•  Human Capital DevelopmentMajor Impact on Capital: 
• Human Capital: Improvement of human capital and development of future growth 
engines of SK Telecom by attracting talent and fostering strategy
Investments in 
Human Capital 
DevelopmentHuman Capital 
Development Costs 
Per EmployeeKRW 3.38 million
Reasonable Performance Evaluation 
SystemRate of Employee 
Performance 
Evaluation96%
Improved Employee SatisfactionEmployee Survey 86 pointsPerformance Evaluations and Organizational CultureSK Telecom conducts performance evaluations for all employees. The performance evaluation considers factors such as mid- to long-term performances, contributions 
to the organization, and challenges and innovations, in a balanced manner, and 
People Review & Coaching (PR&C) activities are conducted throughout the year to improve fairness. To maximize the effect of the performance management for the 
fostering of employees, SK Telecom gives detailed feedback based on the results 
of the performance review. Such an evaluation system centered on fostering talent can motivate employees and enable the development and efficient operation of the 
organization.
As part of its efforts to respond to the rapidly changing industry, SK Telecom abolished its title-based organization in 2006 and adopted the manager system, 
creating a horizontal and creative organizational culture. All employees are called 
“managers,” and one’s position is decided based on the pay band, in order to operate the rule-based human capital management system instead of the position-
based system. 
Strengthening the Role of Field Organizations
Since it successfully adopted the growth-oriented human capital system in 2012, SK Telecom has reinforced the role of team leaders to improve its power of 
execution, and further reinforced the competencies of its field members in 2013. 
To improve the competencies of its members, SK Telecom developed its education and training system, enabling unit organizations to independently make results. For 
example, unlike the existing method where the central team provides and maintains 
the guidelines, unit organizations voluntarily develop and implement the competency development programs, and the central team focuses on enterprise-level programs, 
reinforcing the authority and roles of field organizations.
To this end, SK Telecom developed its competency development strategy by area and reviewed its programs. It also improved and maintained its systems to foster 
members of field organizations of the B2C, B2B, network and R&D programs. 
SK Telecom has also reviewed the level of achievement of SKMS twice a year. The ownership of the Individual Development Plan (IDP) to plan and develop the 
vocational competencies necessary for the achievement of the corporate vision and 
the career goals of individuals was transferred to the field organizations so that the power of execution can be further improved. In 2013, 1,222 employees used the IDP , 
which is double the number of employees who used the IDP in 2012.
Support Programs that Expand the Team Leaders’ Roles
Program Amount of Support
Support for 
Competency 
DevelopmentShort-term education programs • Overseas: Global Intensive Program (GIP) to develop global insights
• Domestic: Team Leader Intensive Program (TIP) for leadership improvement of team leaders)
Expansion of IDT of team leaders • Utilization and expansion of Individual Development Plan (IDP) of team leaders 
Expansion of communication and competencies• Operation of Breakfast Meeting for Team Leaders among team leaders 
Provision of coaching guidelines for executives • Case-centered coaching guidelines of executives
Differentiated 
BenefitHonor • Awarding of “Wings of Happiness” badges by the CEO
Health • Expansion of medical support for employees
Family care • Support for medical check-up of parents     • Expansion of support for use of leisure facilities
Support for ActivitiesOperating expenses and 
transportation expenses• Operating expenses for organization management     • Expansion of transportation supportWhy This is “Material”
Where We Focus How We Measure
110                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  111                       Strategic FocusSupporting Greater Diversity among Employees
SK Telecom has held the Global Tech Leader Summit organized by the CEO in the 
Silicon Valley on an annual basis, building a human network in the U.S. with Korean 
talent that is equipped with global skills, and creating recruitment opportunities. SK Telecom also focuses on expanding the diversity of recruitment by hiring women 
and local talent. It aims to allocate 25% to 30% of new posts to women, and to 
increase the percentage to 30% by 2014. In order to nurture female employees into leaders, SK Telecom operates the group-level mentoring system (for Assistant 
Managers and General Managers) and the “W-Network Workshop.” For maternity 
protection, SK Telecom conducts absolute rather than relative evaluations of female employees who took maternity leave, and thoroughly evaluates candidates for Band-up or HiPo selection so that female employees can have equal opportunities. 
SK Telecom also hired female consultants with discontinued careers as full-time 
employees, and conducted blind screening at all stages of the recruitment so that new employees could be hired fully based on their competencies rather than their 
backgrounds. 
SK Telecom has conducted a special screening for the handicapped from 2012. The special screening for the handicapped is conducted through absolute 
evaluation instead of relative evaluation compared with the non-handicapped. 
SK Telecom is also making efforts to develop posts for the handicapped through the recommendations of career centers of universities and centers for the handicapped.
SK Telecom also operates a recruitment process by region to attract local talent. 
Candidates from the same region (Seoul and Seoul Metropolitan Area, Chungcheong and Gangwon Area, Jeju, Honam and Gyeongsang Areas) compete within that 
region, and they can apply for posts in their regions so that they can work in a 
familiar and comfortable working environment.Fostering Key Leaders
SK Telecom newly adopted the Global Intensive Program (GIP) as a program for the 
expansion of the role of team leaders in 2013, and maintained a one-week overseas training program for the development of global insights. The High Potential (HiPo) 
system for key talent management at the enterprise level has been run in two forms: 
the h-HiPo for fostering future management members and the Sectoral HiPo for future leaders by sector. In particular, the h-HiPo for fostering future members of 
management was established in 2013, and the corporate human capital management 
team selects and relocates the key post successors for fostering them to become business leaders. Members of the Sectoral HiPo are selected by each sector, and are 
fostered to become future leaders or experts. The human capital playing key roles 
in achieving the results of the organization with expertise are selected as experts, and the growth path for promotion into executives (executive experts) is provided. 
In addition, SK Telecom operates T-MBA, where it dispatches key talent to MBA 
and graduate programs of renowned domestic and foreign universities every year to foster future leaders and experts. In 2013, SK Telecom established Advanced 
Management Program (T-AMP), the program for the reinforcement of expertise and 
provision of the growth vision, and maintained Breakfast Meeting for Team Leaders 
for the activation of communication and information sharing among team leaders. 
SK Telecom also opened 318 internal online education programs to contract employees to educate them on business manners, communication skills, 
and OA skills. 
Fostering Talents through the Special Vocational Development System 
SK Telecom has developed and maintained a professional system for the 
development of talent. Major vocational education programs include the Marketing Academy, the B2B Growth Academy, and the Tech Academy, and an executive 
leadership coaching system is maintained for new executives and executives with 
a need for leadership skills development. As for vocational programs, the Learning Account System supporting up to KRW 10 million per year was adopted, and self-
development activities including foreign language education are subsidized.
Agreement for Job Creation for 
Women with Discontinued Careers
SK Telecom entered into an agreement for job 
creation for women with discontinued careers, 
where it has obliged not to discriminate in 
benefits and wages, and maintained a public-
private joint education and free education 
programs to help women with discontinued 
careers get jobs again.regain employment. *   Recruitment focusing on subsidiaries and  
subsidiaries of subsidiaries of SK Telecom 
(Service Ace: 137 employees, Service Top: 
191 employees, F&U Credit Information: 22 
employees and SK M&S: 70 employees)*To be improved to 30% by 2015Number of Female Customer Service 
Representatives with Discontinued Careers 
Employed as Full-Time EmployeesPercentage of 
Women Newly HiredPercentage of Members of the Labor Union
420 employees 25~30% 84.2%(Unit: Hour, KRW thousand) Education for Human Capital Development
2011 2012 2013
Annual Hours of Education per Employee 74 100 83.7
Annual Educational Costs per Employee 325 293 338
112                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  113                       Strategic FocusLabor-Management Council for the Protection of Employee Rights 
SK Telecom, in order to protect the human rights of employees and create a culture 
of free participation, has provided diverse venues of communication for the labor 
union members’ community by issuing management counseling and counseling on sexual harassment, actively listening to the opinions of employees and resolving 
issues raised. More notably, SK Telecom holds Labor-Management Council meetings 
where the labor union and management express and discuss opinions on major issues such as welfare and rewards on a quarterly basis, and develop the solutions 
together for the issues raised. SK Telecom frequently communicates with the labor 
union and makes necessary actions by reaching an agreement on pending issues. 
Programs for Employee Health and Safety
For the health and safety of employees, SK Telecom operates training programs and physical and mental development programs at in-house sports facilities. The medical 
support programs include the support of full-time nurses at a medical center, health-
related counseling services, and an international SOS service for counseling and 
transportation of patients in high-risk areas. SK Telecom also supports full medical 
check-ups, special medical check-ups for specific age groups, flu vaccinations for all employees and type B influenza vaccinations for applicable employees; and supports 
the full medical expenses of employees when expenses exceed KRW 500,000 per 
year up to a ceiling of KRW 30 million per year.SK Telecom adopted the Health-On Wellness Program in 2013, providing exercise, 
diet and nursing services for all employees. The service is available in a Premium 
and Lite version, and SK Telecom also maintains an intensive program for employees intending to lose weight. In addition, team classes where nutrition and health 
information is provided are maintained during lunch hours.Labor-Management 
Council    
Frequency
Quarterly
Participants
Chairman and Executives of the 
Labor Union, CEO and Executives 
in charge of labor affairs
Agenda
– Improve productivity and 
implement results
– Improve human capital and labor 
affairs management systems 
– Perform the employees’ hiring 
placement and training
– Manage work and rest hours– Manage employee grievances
– Improve the method, system, and 
structure of wage payment
– Promote the importance of the 
employees’ health
– Introduce new machinery and 
technology that improve work 
processes
– Promote employees’ welfare
“We need to add new value to the world that we 
live in. The path toward this goal may be one that no one has ventured on before, or it may be full of unknowns.
However, we must believe that we will discover 
another world by seeing and thinking outside of the box, and look for something new with an open mindset.We never cease our efforts to achieve our ambitious goals until we succeed in surprising the world.Every customer we meet will become happier. Our 
journey is one that is made together with the world, 
and the value of everything we do is in the journey of happiness with customers.”SK Telecom’s New Talent Paradigm: An Individual Who Adds Value to the World
AimMy journey leads to a future with satisfied customers in a happier world.
ThinkI open a new world by seeing and thinking outside of the box with an open mind.
ActI never cease to strive until I succeed in surprising the world with solutions.
In April 2014, SK Telecom redefined its new talent paradigm 
as a goal related to human capital and culture, based on the 
core value, “Happy Companion.” This paradigm provides the 
necessary framework for the thoughts and actions of SK Telecom employees to achieve the Vision 2020 ideal and be a pioneering 
leader during the next three decades, while also providing the 
long-term goal of the corporate culture. SK Telecom seeks talented employees who are open to change in order to motivate 
and unite all employees in the journey to achieve its vision and 
goals.
What SK Telecom’s Talent Paradigm Means
Core Value: Happy Companion
Long-Term Goal of People and Culture: Ideal Talent Type Vision 2020 
(100 & 100)Business
People 
and CultureSpeed, execution power 
and cohesive power4th To-be
+ Challenge and 
innovations5th To-be
+ α3rd To-beThe Development of a New Talent Paradigm 
for SK Telecom’s Vision: An Individual Who Adds Value to the World
Employee Satisfaction Level 
2010
2011
2012
201381
84
86
86(Unit: Point)
114                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  115                       Strategic Focus4
Management 
Discussion & Analysis 2013 SK Telecom 
Annual Report
01 MD&A - Financial  118p  
02 MD&A - Social & Environmental  128p  
03 Report of External Auditor  150p   
04 Third Party Assurance Statement  152p     
05 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement  156pBringing happiness to society
by fulfilling our social responsibilities
Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis - 
Financial
01 MD&A - Financial  
02 MD&A - Social & Environmental  03 Report of External Auditor   04 Third Party Assurance Statement     05 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement  4
Management 
Discussion 
& Analysis
This Management’s Discussion & Analysis (MD&A) is provided to enable readers 
to assess our results of operations and financial condition for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2013, compared to the preceding year. This MD&A section should 
be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts are presented on a 
consolidated basis and are based on our audited consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by Korea. We disposed of a controlling equity interest in Loen Entertainment, 
Inc. (Loen), during the year ended December 31, 2013. We presented the results 
of operations of Loen as a discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013. The comparative information in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 
has been restated to present Loen as a discontinued operation. All amounts are in 
Korean Won (KRW). All references to “we,” “us” or “our” shall mean SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and, unless the context otherwise requires, its consolidated subsidiaries. 
References to “SK Telecom” shall mean SK Telecom Co., Ltd., but shall not include 
its consolidated subsidiaries.This MD&A section contains “forward-looking statements,” as defined in the U.S. 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are based on our current 
expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry. The forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. 
We caution you that reliance on any forward-looking statement involves risks and 
uncertainties, and that although we believe that the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions 
could prove to be inaccurate, and, as a result, the forward-looking statements based 
on those assumptions could be incorrect. Risks and uncertainties associated with our business are more fully described in our latest annual report on Form 20-F and 
other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In light of these and 
other uncertainties, you should not conclude that we will necessarily achieve any plans and objectives or projected financial results referred to in any of the forward-
looking statements. We do not undertake to release the results of any revisions of 
these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. 
1. 2013 Overview
2013 is highlighted by maintaining our leadership position in the wireless business by 
strengthening our leading position in the long-term evolution (LTE) wireless services 
market through the differentiated quality of our LTE network as demonstrated by our ability to be the first telecommunications service operator globally to commercialize 
LTE-Advanced (LTE-A) services, utilizing our carrier aggregation technology. At the 
same time, we further enhanced our competitiveness in our platform businesses such as T Store (an open marketplace for mobile applications), T Map Navigation 
(a telematics service) and 11th Street (an open marketplace for online shopping and 
m-commerce) and further established the foundation for our new businesses such as solutions, media, semiconductors and healthcare.Wireless and Fixed-line BusinessesWe maintained our leadership position in the wireless business in 2013. At the end of 2013, we had 27.4 million subscribers (including subscribers of mobile 
virtual network operators (MVNOs) that lease our networks), of which 13.5 million 
subscribed to our LTE service and 18.3 million used smartphones. Our share of the Korean wireless market based on the number of subscribers (including subscribers 
of MVNOs) was approximately 50.0% as of December 31, 2013, compared to 50.3% 
as of December 31, 2012.In 2013, the Korean telecommunications industry experienced continued strong 
growth in wireless Internet services with the introduction of LTE-A services and the 
continued nationwide expansion of services based on LTE technology as well as the continued increase in number of smartphone users. We enhanced our leadership by 
becoming the first telecommunications service operator globally to commercialize 
LTE-A services, providing reliable and fast LTE service, securing a competitive device line-up and providing differentiated services. In 2013, we also began 
offering wideband LTE service, which enables us to deliver an enhanced customer 
experience to our new and existing LTE customers.
In addition, we continue to generate synergies with SK Broadband to maximize 
customer convenience and benefits by developing new services and products, such as bundled services combining mobile phone, fixed-line phone, broadband Internet, 
VoIP and IPTV services in various combinations. Since the commercial launch of 
its mobileTV service in 2012, SK Broadband has gained over one million paying subscribers as of March 2014, which we believe was partly attributable to synergies 
created by leveraging SK Telecom’s competitive advantage in the wireless services 
business and SK Broadband’s competitiveness in the IPTV service business. 
Platform Businesses
Our key platform businesses, including T Store, T Map Navigation and 11th Street, operated by SK Planet, all showed strong growth in 2012. SK Planet was established 
in October 2011 by spinning off SK Telecom’s platform business division to develop 
a management system and corporate culture more suitable for the platform business. We have grown our platform business by sharing our telecommunications 
infrastructure with other service providers and application developers. We will 
continue to identify and foster new platform businesses to create new growth engines for us in the future. In order to further enhance its competitiveness in the 
platform business, which is expected to grow based on mobile platforms that can 
support large amounts of data, SK Planet merged with SK Marketing & Company, which has offline marketing capabilities, in February 2013. As part of our growth 
strategy, we have selectively sought attractive opportunities abroad. We are actively 
seeking various opportunities to grow platform businesses globally by developing new business models. The launch of an open online commerce market in March 
2013 by our joint venture in Turkey and the establishment of an e-commerce joint 
venture in July 2013 in Indonesia are good examples of growing opportunities globally.
118                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  119                       Management Discussion & Analysis2. Executive Summary
We earn revenue principally from our mobile service sales consisting 
of the following:
• Sign-up fees, which are initial subscription fees for our mobile services; and• Voice service fees, consisting of monthly fees and call charges, and data 
service fees, consisting of usage charges for wireless data services.
We also derive revenue from interconnection fees paid to us by other fixed-line and 
wireless telecommunications providers for use of our network by their customers 
and subscribers. In addition, we derive revenue from businesses operated by our consolidated subsidiaries, including broadband Internet and fixed-line telephone 
services offered by SK Broadband, various platform businesses conducted by 
SK Planet and handset sales made by PS & Marketing. The following selected consolidated financial information has been derived from, and should be read in 
conjunction with, the audited consolidated financial statements included in this 
annual report.Our operating revenue increased by 2.9% to KRW 16.60 trillion in 2013 from 
KRW 16.14 trillion in 2012, primarily as a result of strong growth in the number of 
subscribers to our LTE service, as well as improved revenue from our consolidated subsidiaries, including SK Planet and SK Broadband. 
Our operating expense in 2013 increased by 1.2% to KRW 14.59 trillion from 
14.41 trillion in 2012, primarily due to increases in labor cost and depreciation and amortization, which were partially offset by a decrease in commissions paid.  As the 
increase in our operating revenue exceeded the increase in our operating expense 
in 2013, our operating income from continuing operations increased by 16.2% to KRW 2.01 trillion in 2013 from KRW 1.73 trillion in 2012 and our operating margin 
increased by 1.4%p to 12.1% in 2013 and EBITDA margin increased by 2.5%p to 
29.1% in 2013. Our profit for the year increased by 44.3% to KRW 1.61 trillion in 2013 from KRW 1.12 trillion in 2012. 
Our total assets increased by 3.8% to KRW 26.58 trillion as of December 31, 
2013, compared to KRW 25.60 trillion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to an increase in investments in associates resulting from an increase in the carrying 
amount of our 20.6% stake in SK Hynix. Total liabilities decreased by 2.6% to KRW 12.41 trillion as of December 31, 2013 from KRW 12.74 trillion as of December 31, 
2012, primarily due to our repayments of long-term and short-term borrowings, a decrease in long-term unearned revenue and a decrease in long-term provisions 
reflecting the decrease in our provision for handset subsidies as we gradually ceased 
providing handset subsidies to subscribers. Total equity increased by 10.2% to KRW 14.17 trillion as of December 31, 2013 from KRW 12.85 trillion as of December 31, 
2012, primarily due to an increase in retained earnings. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of 
December 31, 2013 was 44.7%, compared to 52.0% as of December 31, 2012. 
3. Revenue 
Our operating revenue in 2013 amounted to KRW 16.60 trillion, an increase of KRW 
460.7 billion, or 2.9%, from KRW 16.14 trillion in 2012. This increase was primarily 
attributable to strong growth in the number of new subscribers to our LTE service, as well as improved revenue from our consolidated subsidiaries, including SK Planet 
and SK Broadband.Selected Financial Information (Consolidated basis)
2013 2012 
(Restated)Change
Statement of Income Data
Operating revenue 16,602.1 16,141.4 2.9%
EBITDA(1) 4,830.9 4,297.5 12.4%
Operating expense 14,590.9 14,411.4 1.2%
Operating income from continuing 
operations2,011.1 1,730.0 16.2%
Profit for the year 1,609.5 1,115.7 44.3%
Statement of Financial Position Data
Total assets 26,576.5 25,595.6 3.8%
Cash & marketable securities(2)1,816.2 1,494.7 21.5%
Total liabilities 12,410.0 12,740.8 -2.6%
Interest-bearing financial debt(3)6,332.0 6,683.6 -5.3%
Total equity 14,166.6 12,854.8 10.2%
Financial RatiosEBITDA margin 29.1% 26.6% 2.5%
Operating margin 12.1% 10.7% 1.4%
Net margin 9.7% 6.9% 2.8%
Debt-to-equity ratio
(4)44.7% 52.0% -7.3%(Unit: KRW billion)
2012
2013Consolidated Operating Revenue (Unit: KRW billion)
16,141.4
16,602.1
Subscribers and Market Share
The total number of wireless subscribers in Korea was approximately 54.7 million 
as of December 31, 2013 with a wireless telecommunications service penetration 
rate of 106.9%. Despite the saturated wireless market in Korea, SK Telecom continued to add new subscribers throughout the year, and ended the year 2013 with 
approximately 27.4 million subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs that lease 
SK Telecom’s networks). SK Telecom’s Korean wireless market share based on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) slightly decreased by 0.3%p 
to 50.0% as of December 31, 2013 from 50.3% as of December 31, 2012.
The number of SK Telecom’s LTE subscribers increased to 13.5 million as of December 31, 2013 from 7.5 million as of December 31, 2012. (1) EBITDA = Operating income from continuing operations+ Depreciation and 
amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expense
(2) Cash & marketable securities = Cash & cash equivalents + Short-term 
investment securities + Short-term financial instruments 
(3) Interest-bearing financial debt = Short-term borrowings + Current portion 
of long-term debt (excluding current portion of long-term payables related 
to payment of frequency license fee) + Debentures (excluding current 
portion) + Long-term borrowings (excluding current portion)
(4) Debt-to-equity ratio = Interest-bearing financial debt/Total equity
120                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  121                       Management Discussion & Analysis1Q
2Q3Q4QSubscribers and Market Share in 2013 (Subs: Thousands, Market share: %)
27,030
27,140
27,211
27,35250.2%
50.2%
50.2%
50%
Market Share Subscriber
ARPU and MOU
SK Telecom’s total average monthly revenue per subscriber (ARPU) increased by 5.6% to KRW 42,377 in 2013 from KRW 40,128 in 2012. This increase was primarily 
due to increases in LTE subscribers who subscribe to data plans with higher monthly 
basic charges than our other wireless services and data service usage attributable to increases in the number of smartphone users.
SK Telecom’s average monthly outgoing voice minutes per subscriber (MOU) 
increased by 1.1% to 181 minutes in 2013 from 179 minutes in 2012, which we believe was caused by our introduction of unlimited voice plans in March 2013.
2013 
Overall
1Q
2Q3Q4Q
2012 
OverallTotal ARPU and MOU in 2013 (ARPU: KRW, MOU: mins)
42,377
40,450
41,892
42,780
44,448
40,128181
168
180
183
194
179
MOU (outgoing) Total ARPU
Subsidiaries
The revenue of SK Broadband consists of (i) revenue from broadband Internet 
service, (ii) revenue from corporate data services, (iii) revenue from fixed-line 
telephone service, (iv) revenue from IPTV services and (v) other revenue. The revenue of SK Broadband increased by 2.1% to KRW 2.54 trillion in 2013 from 
KRW 2.49 trillion in 2012, primarily as a result of an increase in revenue from IPTV 
services attributable to an increased number of IPTV subscribers and increased purchases of premium product offerings. As of December 31, 2013, SK Broadband 
had approximately 4.6 million broadband Internet access subscribers, 4.6 million 
fixed-line telephone subscribers (including subscribers to VoIP services) and 2.1 million IPTV subscribers, with a market share in Korea of 24.4%, 16.9% and 24.4%, 
respectively, based on the number of subscribers.Statement of Income Data (Consolidated)
2013 % of 
Revenue2012 
(Restated)% of 
Revenue
Continuing operations
Operating revenue 16,602.1 100.0% 16,141.4 100.0%
Operating expense 14,590.9 87.9% 14,411.4 89.3%
  Labor cost(1) 1,561.4 9.4% 1,267.9 7.9%
  Commissions paid(2) 5,498.7 33.1% 5,949.5 36.9%
  Depreciation and amortization(3)2,661.6 16.0% 2,421.1 15.0%
  Network interconnection 1,043.7 6.3% 1,057.2 6.5%
  Leased line 448.8 2.7% 468.8 2.9%
  Advertising 394.1 2.4% 384.4 2.4%
  Rent 443.6 2.7% 422.4 2.6%
  Cost of products that have been resold 1,300.4 7.8% 1,292.3 8.0%
  Other operating expenses 1,238.6 7.5% 1,147.8 7.1%
Operating income from continuing 
operations2,011.1 12.1% 1,730.0 10.7%
  Finance income 113.4 0.7% 444.6 2.8%
  Finance costs (571.2) (3.4%) (638.3) (4.0%)
  Gain (losses) related to investments in     subsidiaries and associates, net706.5 4.3% (24.6) (0.2%)
  Other non-operating income 74.5 0.7% 195.9 1.2%
  Other non-operating expenses (507.2) (3.1%) (188.3) (1.2%)
Profit before income tax 1,827.1 11.0% 1,519.4 9.4%
  Income tax expense from 
  continuing operations(400.8) 2.4% (288.2) 1.8%
Profit from continuing operations 1,426.3 8.6% 1,231.2 7.6%
Discontinued operations        
  Profit (loss) from discontinued   
  operations, net of income taxes183.2 1.1% (115.5) (0.7%)
Profit for the year 1,609.5 9.7% 1,115.7 6.9%
EBITDA
(4)4,830.9 29.1% 4,297.5 26.6%(Unit: KRW billion)PS & Marketing’s revenue, which is mostly derived from sales of handsets, decreased 
by 26.2% to KRW 1.10 trillion in 2013 from KRW 1.48 trillion in 2012, primarily due to 
a decrease in handset sales to new subscribers, which was mainly attributable to an 
easing of marketing competition for new subscribers in the industry in 2013 following disciplinary measures imposed by the Government.
SK Planet’s revenue, which is mostly derived from its principal platform businesses, 
T Store, T Map Navigation and 11th Street, increased by 33.2% to KRW 1.38 trillion in 2013 from KRW 1.03 trillion in 2012, primarily due to an increase in commerce 
service revenue generated by 11th Street.
4. Profitability
(1) Labor cost = Salaries + Provisions for defined benefit liabilities
(2) Includes marketing commissions and other commissions
(3) Excludes R&D-related depreciation(4) EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization 
+ R&D-related depreciation within R&D expense
122                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  123                       Management Discussion & AnalysisOur operating income from continuing operations increased by 16.2% to KRW 2.01 
trillion in 2013 from KRW 1.73 trillion in 2012 and our operating margin increased 
to 12.1% in 2013 from 10.7% in 2012, as our operating revenue increased at a rate 
higher than that of our operating expenses. The increase in our operating expenses was attributable to, among others, a 23.1% increase in labor cost and a 9.9% 
increase in depreciation and amortization, which were partially offset by a 7.6% 
decrease in commissions paid. Our EBITDA increased by 12.4% to KRW 4.83 trillion in 2013 from KRW 4.30 trillion in 2012.
Our finance income decreased by 74.5% to KRW 113.4 billion in 2013 from KRW 
444.6 billion in 2012, primarily due to a decrease in gain on disposal of long-term investment securities, which was mainly attributable to the sale in October 
2012 of half of the POSCO shares we owned, as well as a decrease in interest 
income resulting mainly from a general decrease in interest rates. Our finance costs decreased by 10.5% to KRW 571.2 billion in 2013 from KRW 638.3 billion in 
2012, primarily due to a decrease in other finance costs resulting from a decrease 
in impairment losses for our available-for-sale financial assets, and a decrease in interest expense resulting from decreases in our interest-bearing financial debt 
and interest rates, which was partially offset by an increase in loss relating to 
financial liability at fair value through profit or loss as a result of valuation loss on our 
exchangeable bonds due to rising stock prices and loss on redemption of debentures 
upon the exercise of exchange claims. We recorded net gains related to investments in subsidiaries and associates of KRW 706.5 billion in 2013 compared to net losses 
related to investments in subsidiaries and associates of KRW 24.6 billion in 2012. 
The change to a net gain was primarily due to a KRW 610.2 billion gain attributable to our investment in SK Hynix, in which we have a 20.57% interest. Our other non-
operating expenses more than doubled to KRW507.2 billion in 2013 from KRW 
188.3 billion in 2012, primarily due to an increase in loss on disposal of property and equipment and intangible assets to KRW 267.5 billion in 2013 from KRW 15.1 billion 
in 2012, which was primarily due to loss on disposal of various intangible assets. 
With an effective tax rate of 21.9%, our profit for the year was KRW 1.61 trillion in 2013, compared to KRW 1.12 trillion in 2012.
Operating Expense
Our operating expense for 2013 amounted to KRW 14.59 trillion, representing a 
1.2% increase from KRW 14.41 trillion in 2012. The increase in operating expense 
was primarily due to (i) an increase in labor cost driven by an increase in the number of our employees and (ii) an increase in depreciation and amortization, which was 
attributable mainly to depreciation of our newly built-out LTE wireless network and 
amortization of a frequency license we started using in 2013, which were partially offset by a decrease in commissions paid driven by decreases in commissions paid 
relating to marketing expenses to acquire new subscribers.
Commissions paid accounted for 33.1% of our total revenue at KRW 5.50 trillion in 2013, which represented a 7.6% decrease from the previous year. This decrease in 
commissions paid was primarily due to a decrease in marketing expenses to acquire 
new LTE subscribers and a decrease in PS & Marketing’s sales commissions due to a decrease in LTE smartphone sales. 
Our labor cost increased by 23.1% to KRW 1.56 trillion in 2013 from KRW 1.27 
trillion in 2012, primarily due to an increase in the number of our employees resulting primarily from the merger of SK Marketing & Company into SK Planet in February 
2013 and our new business initiatives. Our network interconnection expenses 
amounted to KRW 1.04 trillion in 2013, representing a 1.3% decrease from KRW 
1.06 trillion in 2012. This decrease was primarily attributable to decreases in 
interconnection traffic volume and fee rates. Our advertising expenses increased by 2.5% to KRW 394.1 billion in 2013 from KRW 384.4 billion in 2012 primarily due to an 
increase in media advertisement expenses incurred by our consolidated subsidiaries.
Our cost of products that have been resold increased by 0.6% to KRW 1.30 trillion Labor Cost
Commissions Paid
Depreciation and 
Amortization
Network 
Interconnection
Leased Line
AdvertisingRent
Cost of Products 
that have been resold
Other Operating 
ExpensesOperating Expense (Unit: KRW billion)
1,561.4
5,498.7
2,661.6
1,043.7
448.8
394.1
443.6
1,300.4
1,238.61,267.9
5,949.5
2,421.1
1,057.2
468.8
384.4
422.4
1,292.3
1,147.8
2012 Total: 14,411.4 2013 Total: 14,590.9
in 2013 from KRW 1.29 trillion in 2012. Our depreciation and amortization, excluding 
research and development-related depreciation, increased by 9.9% to KRW 2.66 
trillion in 2013 from KRW 2.42 trillion in 2012, due principally to depreciation of our 
newly built-out LTE wireless network and amortization of a frequency license we started using in 2013.
Income Tax
Our income tax expense from continuing operations increased by 39.1% to KRW 
400.8 billion in 2013 from KRW 288.2 billion in 2012. Our effective tax rate also 
increased by 2.9%p to 21.9% in 2013 from 19.0% in 2011. The increase in our income tax expense from continuing operations and effective tax rate are primarily 
attributable to a decrease in tax credits related to our capital expenditures in 2013, 
as well as a decrease in discretionary exemptions extended by the tax authority in 2013.
5. Financial Structure
Current Assets
We had current assets of KRW 5.12 trillion as of December 31, 2013, a 3.3% decrease from KRW 5.29 trillion as of December 31, 2012. Our cash and marketable 
securities (including short-term financial instruments) increased by 21.5% to KRW 
1.82 trillion as of December 31, 2013, from KRW 1.49 trillion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from the 
merger of SK Marketing & Company into SK Planet as well as proceeds from our 
disposal of an equity interest in Loen. As of December 31, 2013, our total accounts receivable (trade and other) amounted to KRW 2.90 trillion, a 14.3% increase from 
KRW 2.54 trillion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to the merger of SK 
Marketing & Company into SK Planet.
124                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  125                       Management Discussion & AnalysisCash & Marketable 
Securities
Accounts Receivable 
(trade and other)
Short-term Loans
Inventories
Other Current 
AssetsCurrent Assets (Unit: KRW billion)
1,816.2
2,900.9
79.4
177.1
149.81,494.7
2,537.0
84.9
242.1
935.7
Property and Equipment
Intangible Assets
Investment Assets
Other Non-Current 
AssetsNon-Current Assets (Unit: KRW billion)
10,196.6
2,750.8
6,302.0
2,203.759,712.7
2,689.7
5,586.3
2,312.43Non-Current Assets 
We had non-current assets of KRW 21.45 trillion as of December 31, 2013, a 5.7% 
increase from KRW 20.30 trillion as of December 31, 2012. Our investment assets, 
consisting of long-term financial instruments, long-term investment securities and investments in associates, increased by 12.8% to KRW 6.30 trillion as of December 
31, 2013 from KRW 5.59 trillion as of December 31, 2012. This increase was 
mainly attributable to an increase in the carrying amount of our 20.6% stake in SK Hynix. Our property and equipment increased by 5.0% to KRW 10.20 trillion as of 
December 31, 2013, from KRW 9.71 trillion as of December 31, 2012, primarily due 
to an increase in investments in our LTE network.
Liabilities 
We had KRW 12.41 trillion of total liabilities as of December 31, 2013, a 2.6% 
decrease from KRW 12.74 trillion as of December 31, 2012, mainly due to our 
repayments of long-term and short-term borrowings, a decrease in long-term unearned revenue and a decrease in long-term provisions reflecting the decrease 
in our provision for handset subsidies as we gradually ceased providing handset 
subsidies to subscribers. Our total interest-bearing financial debt, which does not include long-term payables related to frequency license fees, decreased by 5.3% to 
KRW 6.33 trillion as of December 31, 2013 from KRW 6.68 trillion as of December 
31, 2012. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2013 was 44.7%, compared 
to 52.0% as of December 31, 2012.Short-Term Borrowings
Current Portion of Long-Term Debt (excluding 
current portion of frequency license payables)
Debentures (excluding current portion)Long-Term Borrowings 
(excluding current portion)Interest-Bearing Financial Debt (Unit: KRW billion)
260.0
1,061.6
4,905.6
104.8600.2
734.9
4,979.2
369.2
Share Capital
Capital Surplus (Deficit) and 
other Capital Adjustments
Retained Earnings
Reserves
Non-Controlling InterestEquity (Unit: KRW billion)
44.6
317.5
13,102.544.6
(288.9)
12,124.7
(12.3)
(25.6)
714. 2
1000.0Equity
Our total equity as of December 31, 2013 amounted to KRW 14.17 trillion, representing an increase of 10.2% from KRW 12.85 trillion as of December 31, 2012. 
This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in retained earnings to KRW 
13.10 trillion as of December 31, 2013 from KRW 12.12 trillion as of December 31, 2012. 
6. Capital Expenditure (Non-Consolidated Basis) 
SK Telecom spent approximately KRW 2.32 trillion for capital expenditures in 2013, 
representing a 19.0% decrease from KRW 2.86 trillion in 2012. Such decrease was 
primarily attributable to a decrease in our network-related investments. Our network-related investments in 2013 were used to enhance our LTE network and improve its 
quality.2012 Total: 5,294.4 2013 Total: 5,123.4
2012 Total: 20,301.1 2013 Total: 21,453.12012 Total: 6,683.6 2013 Total: 6,332.0
2012 Total: 12,854.8 2013 Total: 14,166.6
126                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  127                       Management Discussion & AnalysisManagement’s 
Discussion and Analysis - 
Social and Environmental
Basis of Preparation
This Statement of Social & Environmental Performance is prepared to present our 
management’s discussion and analysis of key non-financial performance including 
human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. SK Telecom is committed to the UN Global Compact which is a voluntary policy initiative implemented by 
UN organizations and businesses as well as the GC LEAD for the development 
and promotion of exemplary cases as part of the UN Global Compact Blueprint. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we submit Communication on Progress 
(COP) which highlights the business performance in line with the Ten Principles 
every year and this Statement of Social & Environmental Performance meets the COP requirements of GC Advanced Level. In addition, this statement complies with international reporting principles as follows:  
01_Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4
The GRI provides information for the aspects and indicators of reporting from 
economic, social and environmental perspectives so that stakeholders can recognize 
the organization’s performance. It defines the subject according to the correlation of each aspect from the impact on stakeholders and economic, social and 
environmental perspectives. Please refer to page188 for materiality assessment in 
accordance with the GRI requirements. 
02_Accountability AA1000 
The AA1000 series identifies and prioritizes the sustainability issues in relation to the organization and defines its framework and principles. The information on 
this statement is verified by third parties according to the Assurance Standard 
(AA1000AS). Please refer to page152 for the result of the third party assurance.03_International Integrated Reporting Framework (<IR> Framework)The <IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) requires a concise report on how an organization’s strategies, governance, performance 
and future outlook leads to its short-, medium- and long-term value creation in the 
economic, social, and environmental context. Please refer to page 61 for the capital model as part of the commitment to defining the integrated reporting principles and 
page 188 for the assessment of importance to define key subjects according to the 
impact on value creation. 
Scope of Data
The scope of this Statement of Social & Environmental Performance is limited to the data of SK Telecom without including its subsidiaries and supply chain unless 
specified otherwise. This coincides with the scope of unclassified sales of 
SK Telecom, which is a holding company according to K-IFRS. The environmental data regarding energy, greenhouse gas, wasted materials, and water is estimated 
based on 26 domestic businesses *(including data centers and networks). As 95% 
of SK Telecom’s sales come from South Korea, the data coverage meets the 95% 
requirement against the sales. 
*26 businesses: T-Tower, Namsan, Guro, Jangan, Seoul National University, 
FMI, Yongin, Boramae, Seongsu, Suyu, Incheon, Bundang, 
Dunsan (Old & New), Cheongju, Wonju, Taepyeong, Bonri, Shincheon, Buam, Data Center, Anrak, Wusan, Songjeong, 
Jeonju, Jeju01 MD&A - Financial  
02 MD&A - Social & Environmental  03 Report of External Auditor   04 Third Party Assurance Statement     05 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement4
Management 
Discussion 
& Analysis
128                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  129                       Management Discussion & Analysis2011 2012 2013
Total 3,877 4,081 4,203
Employment Type
Permanent 3,775 3,961 4,081
 Temporary 102 120 122
Gender
 Male 3,317 3,501 3,616
 Female 560 580 587
Age
 20s - - 328
 30s - - 1,340
 40s - - 2,372
 50s or older - - 163
Special Employment & Minority
 Employees with disabilities 35 37 49
 Veterans 184 158 146Employment(Unit: Person)Social Data
2011 2012 2013
Total New Employees 482 425 418
Gender
 Male 343 343 317
 Female 139 99 101
Age
 20s 302 191 189
 30s 142 165 161
 40s 34 66 64
 50s or older 4 3 4Recruitment2011 2012 2013
Total Number of Employees 246 155 103
Number of Employees Hired from Local 176 83 72
Total Number of Managers 38 28 28
Number of Managers Hired from Local 19 6 5Overseas Employment2011 2012 2013
Total Turnover 378 242 238
Gender
 Male 242 166 141
 Female 136 76 97
Age
 20s 225 112 116
 30s 103 67 57
 40s 32 51 52
 50s or older 18 12 13
Involuntary Turnover
 Involuntary Turnover (Dismissal) - 3 6Turnover
Maternity and Parental Leave
2012 2013
Employees on Maternity Leave 152 (Male 122) 161 (Male 124)
Rate of Return 98.7 99.4
Employees on Parental Leave 35 (Male 2) 25 (Male 2)
Rate of Return 100 100
Rate of Retirement within 
12 Months after Return 5.7 4
(Unit: Person)(Unit: Person)(Unit: Person)
(Unit: Person, %)
(Unit: %, Hours, KRW 10,000) Performance Evaluation and Training
2011 2012 2013
Rate of Employees Subject to 
Performance Evaluation98% 95% 96%
Training Hours per Employee 74 100 83.7
Training Cost per Employee 325 293 338
130                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  131                       Management Discussion & Analysis(Unit: %, Person)
(Unit: %, Case)
(Unit: KRW million)Labor Practice
2011 2012 2013
Labor Union 
Rate of Labor Union Membership 80.5 81.2 84.2
 Number of Employees Eligible for 
 Labor Union Membership2,657 2,612 2,513
 Labor Union Members 2,140 2,120 2,118
Rate of Occupational Accidents
 Rate of Occupational Accidents - 0.02 0.02
 Number of Occupational Accidents - 1 1
Product and Service
2011 2012 2013
Churn Rate 2.7% 2.6% 2.3%
Security Indicator
 Rate of Mobile Payment Fraud - - 0.12%
 Rate of Roaming Charge VoC - - 0.28%
Customer Information Security
 Customer Information Leakage None None None
Electromagnetic Field
 Number of Measuring Electromagnetic 
 Fields at Base Station3,782 18,387 17,082
Total Discount Offers for Vulnerable Population
Mutual Growth with Partners2011 2012 2013
Disabled 148,811 145,057 138,443
Low Income Families 64,825 62,503 62,891
National Merit Holders 9,589 9,960 10,105
Others 232 199 178
Total 223,457 217,719 211,617
2011 2012 2013
Mutual Growth Partnership 349 
organizations 263 
organizations201 
organizations
Total Mutual Growth Fund Loan 
(KRW Billion)124 161 183
Technology Protection (Technology Escrow)30 cases 48 cases 191 cases
Rate of Cash Payment 100% 100% 100%
Rate of Electronic Tender 37.3% 23.4% 32.5%Sustainability of Supply Chain
   2013 Remarks
Evaluation of Newly Registered Partners
 Total Registered Partners (Annual) 346 N/W Equipment, Construction, R&D, Operation, Maintenance, 
Marketing
 Performance Evaluations Conducted  
 on Human Rights, Environment, Ethics,  and Social Issues346 100%
Evaluation on Registered Partners
Total Registered Partners 1,851
 Partners Audited in Writing 974
 Partners Audited on Site 162 incl. visiting and meeting 
with those in mutual 
growth agreement
 Partners Audited by 3rd Party 864
Partners Warned 
for Correction 2 Decision making through Purchase Review 
Committee
 Banned Temporarily 1
 Banned Permanently 1
Employee Volunteer Activities
2011 2012 2013
Total Hours of Volunteer Activities 28,249 24,524 16,190
Hours of Volunteer Activities per 
Employee6.4 6.3 4.2
Rate of Volunteer Groups - 23% 49%(Unit: Organization)
(Unit: Hours)
132                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  133                       Management Discussion & AnalysisManagement Discussions and Analysis on Social Statement
Section 1. Employees and Labor Practice
1.1 Total Employment
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
The employees included in the total employment figure are those who are under employment contract with SK Telecom and divided into Permanent and Temporary 
categories. They do not include the employees and officers of its affiliated companies. 
Status:As of 2013, the total number of employees is 4,203 which is a 2.9% increase from the 
previous year. It is rising due to the company’s continuous growth. Female employees 
make up 13.9%, slightly less than the previous year’s 14.2%, while maintaining a similar ratio. In terms of age, employees in their 30s to 40s make up 64.5%.1.2 Recruitment and RetirementMethods and Basis of Estimation: The new employee figures are calculated according to their age and gender. They 
are defined as those who are subject to employment contract, either Permanent 
or Temporary. They do not include the employees and officers of its affiliated companies. Calculating retirees has been changed from the one specified in the 
2012 SKT Integrated Sustainability Report and the previous data has been updated 
for 2013. In the previous report, it only includes those who joined other companies or started their own business but now it applies to any employees who retire voluntarily 
and those whose employment contract has expired.
Status:The total number of new employees is 418, which is slightly less than those in the 
previous year. Of these, female employees make up 24.2%. The aim is to employ at 
least 25-30% women, and we plan to increase it to 30% by 2015. In terms of age, those in their 20s to 30s make up 83.7% while 64 new employees are in their 40s, 
and four of them are in their 50s or older.
5,000
4,0003,0002,0001,000
03,877
2011 2012 20134,0814,203
Total Number of Employees (Unit: Person)
600
500400
300
200100
0482
2011 201230s
Percentage of 
Female Recruits50s or older
20s40s
2013425418Recruitment Trend (Unit: Person)
28.8%
23.2%24.2%
134                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  135                       Management Discussion & AnalysisThe turnover rate in 2013 is 5.7%, a 0.2% and 4% decrease from 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. As ICT business heavily relies on employees’ knowledge and expertise, 
the executive management recognizes the importance of securing competent human 
capital and keeping the retirement rate as low as possible.  
1.3 Performance Evaluation and Training
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
This figure estimates the employees who are subject to performance evaluation 
based on the predefined system. The total training hours of the entire company is divided by the number of employees to calculate the annual training hours per 
employee. These three indicators are estimated based on those employees under 
employment contract, either Permanent or Temporary, and they do not include the employees and officers of its affiliated companies or subsidiaries. 
Status: 
The rate of performance evaluation has been maintained at over 95% since 2011 while the average training cost per employee in 2013 is KRW 3.38 million, a 15% 
increase from the previous year. Sales to training expenses ratio per employee in 
2013 is 905 (times), which is slightly less than the previous year.Turnover RateTotal Number of Turnover
400
350
300
250200150
100
50
0325
9961,032
905
2011 2012Sales to Training Expenses 
Ratio per EmployeeTraining Cost per Employee
2013293338Training Cost per Employee  (Unit: KRW million)1.4 Labor Union
Methods and Basis of Estimation:
This figure indicates the ratio of labor union members out of those who are eligible 
for membership. Status:
The rate of labor union members in 2013 is 84.2%, a 3.0% increase from the 
previous year.
Section 2. Products and Services, Customer Protection
2.1 Personal Information and Privacy Protection
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
This figure indicates the number of cases where a customer’s personal information 
is stolen or leaked by hackers who hacked into the system that stores customer’s information. The rate of mobile payment fraud indicates the number of cases of fraud 
against the total number of payments made in a year. The rate of roaming charge 
VOC indicates the number of customer complaints made on the roaming charges.Status:
There is no case where customer’s personal information is stolen or leaked in 2013, 
the same as in the previous year. The customer complaint indicators such as the rates of mobile payment fraud and roaming charge VOC accounts for 0.12% and 
0.26%, respectively.
Section 3. Supplier Assurance
3.1 Mutual Growth with Partners
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
SK Telecom participates in the assessment of the Win-Win Index conducted by the National Commission for Corporate Partnership and submits the performance 
statement under the mutual growth agreement.
Status:In 2013, the mutual growth agreement was entered with 201 companies in total 
excluding government organizations, industry-academy cooperation, overseas 
businesses, individual businesses, conglomerates (including related persons), and distributors according to the type of transaction. All the terms and conditions of the 
agreement have been performed including financial and training support.400
300
200
100
0378
2011 2012 2013242238Turnover Rate (Unit: Person)
9.7%
5.9%5.7%Rate of Labor Union Membership
2011 2012 201380.5% 81.2% 84.2%
136                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  137                       Management Discussion & Analysis3.2 Sustainability of Supply Chain
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
Any company that intends to do business with SK Telecom can join Open2U (open2u.
sktelecom.com), an electronic purchase portal system. They are required to agree to the Terms of Fair & Transparent Transaction and CSR (to be renewed on an annual 
basis) when they do so. Their compliance with human rights, environmental, and 
social policies are assessed when they are registered as suppliers.Status:
In 2013, 974 partners out of 1,851 registered partners, which accounts for 52.6%, 
were subject to assessment in writing and 162 of them which accounts for 8.8% were visited for an on-site assessment. Two of the companies were suspended temporarily or permanently according to the resolution of the Purchase Review 
Committed due to their noncompliance.
Organizations Program Descriptions
Korea Association of Senior Welfare Centers Guide senior citizens on how to use a mobile 
phone.
Rainbow Youth Center Provide education programs for North Korean refugees.
Korean Blind Union Service audio book application for the blind “Happy Library.”
Korea Guide Star Build a non-profit information system.
Korea Federation of Organizations of the DisabledOrganize IT challenges for handicapped youth.
Korea Association of School Social Workers SKT On-site Smart Class
Korea Motor Skill Development Center Wyverns Happy SQ Class
The Autism Korea Camp for children with autism
Leftovers Love Sharing Community 1318 Happy Zone English Up Challenge
Korea Basketball Association Wheelchair Basketball Championship
Copion IT Training Program in Indonesia
Healthy Family Support Center in YeongdeungpoGuide immigrants on how to use a smartphone.
Community Chest of Korea Monetary donation for low-income families
Joongang Social Welfare Center Seoul Local Volunteer Work for Kimchi-Making
Daedong Social Welfare Center Taejeon Local Volunteer Work for Kimchi-Making
Jeil Social Welfare Center Taegu Local Volunteer Work for Kimchi-Making
Gwangsangu Volunteer Center Gwangju Local Volunteer Work for Kimchi-Making
Red Cross Busan Local Volunteer Work for Kimchi-Making
Senior Citizen Health Center Busan Local Volunteer Work for Kimchi-Making
Korea Foundation for Advanced Studies Provide support for education and scholarship programs.
SK Happiness Sharing Foundation SK Sunny, Happy School, 
Social Responsibility Program 
SK Smile Microcredit Bank Smile Microcredit Project
Global Action Hub Provide support for building the Global Action Hub website.
UN Global Compact Pay for the annual membership fees of UNGC 
LEAD and sponsor global CSR conference.
The Federation of Korean Industries Build nurseries for the Federation of 
Korean Industries.
Korean Council of Food Support SK Happiness Sharing Kimchi-Making CampaignSection 4. Corporate Philanthropy
4.1 Employee Volunteer Activities
Methods and Basis of Estimation: This figure indicates the hours of volunteer activities carried out by the employees of 
SK Telecom. 
Status:In 2013, we focused on the ICT aspects of volunteer activities and talent donation 
rather than conventional social work. As a result, the hours were reduced but 
we were able to provide social services in a more specialized way based on ICT technologies. The rate of participation in these areas increased from 23% in 2012 to 
49% in 2013, and our social responsibility campaign focused on building a platform 
for sharing social values using ICT rather than monetary donation or social service. Please refer to page 94 for more details regarding this topic. 
4.2 Beneficiaries
Methods and Basis of Estimation: The following is the list of beneficiaries that we sponsored in 2013. The donation 
from our subsidiaries and affiliates are excluded from the list.43,612  peopleTraining Support for Partners
(accumulated over three years)
Rate of Supply Chains Audited for Sustainability 
Audit 
in writing
974
(52.6%)Audit on site
162
(8.8%)(Unit: Company)
Total
1,851Total
1,851
138                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  Environmental Data
2011 2012 2013
Total Emission 608,056 673,742 707,963
Direct Emission 9,561 7,803 7,375
 Stationary Combustion 6,789 5,598 5,236
 Mobile Combustion 2,772 2,205 2,139
Indirect Emission 598,495 665,939 700,588
 Electricity 593,424 665,862 700,484
 Steam 71 78 104
Intensity (tCO 2e/KRW billion) 48.45 54.63 55.05Greenhouse Gas Emission
Unit 2011 2012 2013
Total TJ 11,721 13,847 14,589
Direct Consumption TJ 167 134 163
 Natural Gas Nm3 2,315,362 1,805,327 1,610,880
 Diesel Liter 236,827 410,006 116,984
 Kerosene Liter 558,379 509,226 509,323
Indirect Consumption TJ 11,554 13,713 14,426
 Electricity MWh 1,283,482 1,428,119 1,502,377
 Steam GJ 2,728 2,608 3,318
Total Electricity Saved MWh 45,880 48,362 46,487
 Building Management MWh 6,023 5,776 3,901
 Natural Air-conditioning  
 SystemMWh 39,857 39,857 39,857
New Renewable Energy 
Generation FacilitiesMWh 2,719 2,729 2,729
Intensity TJ/KRW 
billion0.93 1.12 1.13Energy ConsumptionUnit 2011 2012 2013
Total Waste (A) Ton 1,811 1,726 1,646
 Domestic Waste Ton 773 695 556
 Large Sized Waste Ton 116 126 85
 Recyclable Waste (B) Ton 535 515 583
 Food Waste Ton 354 355 373
 Designated Waste Ton 33 36 29
Recycling Rate (B/A) % 30% 30% 36%
Intensity Ton/KRW 
billion 0.144 0.140 0.126Waste and Recycling
Unit 2011 2012 2013
Annual Water Consumptionm
3676,043 649,351 683,387
 Waterworks Usage m3590,113 583,681 623,429
 Underground Water Usage m385,930 65,670 59,908
Intensity m3/ KRW 
billion53.86 52.65 53.14Water
Unit 2011 2012 2013
Electronic Bill
 Total Electronic Bill  
 Subscribers1000 
Persons12,550 16,051 17,860
 Rate of Subscription % -90% or higher 93.4%
Device Retrieval Rate
Device Retrieval Rate % 8.8 7.4 8.0
 Device Sold 1000 Unit 12,775 11,928 9,838
 Device Retrieved 1000 Unit 1,127 885 785Resources
Unit 2011 2012 2013
Base Stations 
within Protected AreasUnit 44 56 91
Relay Stations within Protected AreasUnit 348 553 184
Rate of Eco-friendly Installation% - 40 48
New Eco-friendly Radio StationsUnit 58,345 53,498 58,419Biodiversity(Unit: tCO 2e)
140                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  141                       Management Discussion & AnalysisUnit 2011 2012 2013
Environmental 
Investment & Cost
Total (excl. Green 
Purchase)KRW 923,234,000 624,655,114 378,125,807
 Waste Disposal Service KRW 92,378,000 110,756,861 94,311,290
 Education & Training KRW 25,000,000 9,625,000 35,000,000
 Miscellaneous KRW 68,000,000 77,271,000 0
 Recycling Service KRW 4,513,000 24,134,230 28,929,653
 External Nature  Conservation CostKRW 93,825,000 108,449,622 18,390,000
 Campaigning &  PublicationKRW 167,000,000 88,880,622 53,600,000
 Charges & Taxes KRW 472,518,000 205,537,779 147,894,864
Energy Saving & Climate Changing CostKRW 123,000,000 265,000,000 197,000,000
Green Purchase
 Green Purchase Cost KRW 399,115,000 984,159,800 6,083,561,000
Environmental Volunteer 
Activities
 Volunteers Persons 1,400 1,506 1,226
 Hours of Volunteer 
 ActivitiesHours - 1,831 1,748Environmental Investment and Cost Management Discussions and Analysis on Environmental Statement
Section 1. Energy-Climate Change1.1 Greenhouse Gas Emission
Methods and Basis of Estimation: The greenhouse gas emissions are estimated based on the 26 company buildings 
of SK Telecom including data centers. It also includes the emissions from network 
facilities (e.g. stations, equipment). However, it does not include the emissions from the subsidiaries and supply chains. In 2010, SK Telecom created a greenhouse gas 
inventory system for more accurate estimation and managing of greenhouse gas 
emissions at a corporate-wide level. The intensity of greenhouse gas is calculated by dividing the total emissions of greenhouse gas by SK Telecom’s individual base sales 
(equals the data coverage). 
Status:In 2013, the total greenhouse gas emissions of SK Telecom was 708,000 tons, 
keeping it under the target of 722,000 tons set at the end of 2012. Its trend has been 
rising and it increased by 5.1% in 2013. One of the major causes that led to the 
increase is the expansion of base and relay stations due to the increasing demand 
for LTE service. The expansion of network facilities for LTE service is inevitable due to growing needs. However, we plan to minimize the rate of increase by 
replacing outdated inefficient facilities and using natural air-conditioning and energy 
consumption management systems. It is our goal to keep the increase rate at 5% (743,000 tCO
2e) in 2014. For Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3), we plan 
to expand the scope of control by conducting research for the reduction 
of greenhouse gas emissions and promoting participation in the emission trading 
scheme. Please refer to page 100 for more details.
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000400,000300,000
200,000
100,000
0608,056
48.4554.6355.05
2011 2012Intensity 
(tCO
2e / KRW billion)Direct Emission
Indirect Emission
2013673,742707,963Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Unit: tCO 2e)
(Target for 2013)722,000
142                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  143                       Management Discussion & Analysis1.2 Energy Consumption
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
The energy consumption is estimated based on the 26 company buildings of 
SK Telecom including data centers. It also includes the consumption of network facilities (e.g. stations, equipment). However, it does not include the consumption of 
subsidiaries and supply chains. The data is collected through the bills provided by 
energy suppliers. The intensity of energy consumption is calculated by dividing the total energy consumption by SK Telecom’s individual base sales (equals the data 
coverage). The amount of energy saved by using natural air-conditioning systems 
and new renewable energy sources is calculated using the actual data measured from 2011 to 2012.
Status:
Due to an increasing use of LTE network, the total energy consumption in 2013 was 14,589 TJ, a 5.4% increase from the previous year. As a result, we failed to 
keep it under the target of 13,300 TJ. Because the indirect energy consumption 
through electricity takes up 98.9% of the total energy consumption, we are replacing outdated inefficient equipment with more efficient equipment to maximize energy 
efficiency. In 2013, we built 316Mwh relay stations that require less power and 
removed 14 type systems including 1X exchangers while integrating 147 indoor 
facilities. In addition, we have introduced natural air-conditioning systems and new 
renewable energy source as part of our efforts in improving energy efficiency. The main cause of the increase in energy consumption is the increasing demand for LTE 
network service and additional construction of base and relay stations. It is our goal 
to keep the increase rate at 5% (15,318 TJ) in 2014. 
800,000
600,000
400,000
200,000
0676,043
53.86
52.6553.14
2011 2012Intensity
(m3 / KRW billion)Water Consumption
2013649,351683,387Water Consumption (Unit: m3)Section 2. Water and Waste
2.1 Water Consumption
Methods and Basis of Estimation: The water consumption is estimated based on the 26 company buildings of 
SK Telecom and does not include the consumption by subsidiaries and supply 
chains. The intensity of water consumption is calculated by dividing the total water consumption by SK Telecom’s individual base sales (equals the data coverage).
Status:
The water consumption in 2013 was 683,387 m3, a 5.2% increase from the previous year. The main causes of the increase are the change in the number of consumers 
and increasing demand for cooling water due to extended operation of coolers in 
network facilities. We adjusted the amount of water draining at the cooling tower in the Seongsu Office while making changes to the water supply for the cooling tower 
in the Wonju Office.
16,000
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,0006,000
4,000
2,000
011,721
0.981.121.13
2011 2012Intensity
(TJ / KRW billion)Direct Energy Consumption
Indirect Energy Consumption
201313,84714,589Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ)
(2013 Target)13,300
144                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  145                       Management Discussion & Analysis2,000
5001,000
01,811
0.144
0.140
0.126
2011 2012Intensity
(Ton / KRW billion)Waste Production
20131,727
1,626Waste Production (Unit: Ton)2.2 Waste and Recycling 
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
The amount of the waste is estimated based on the 26 company buildings of 
SK Telecom and does not include the amount of waste produced by subsidiaries and supply chains. The intensity of waste production is calculated by dividing the 
total waste production by SK Telecom’s individual base sales (equals the data 
coverage). As of 2013, waste production is classified into Domestic, Food, Large Size, Recyclable, and Designated, and all the data from 2011 has been updated 
accordingly. 
Status:The amount of waste produced in 2013 was 1,626 tons, a 5.8% decrease from the 
previous year.Section 3. Materials
3.1 Electronic Bills
Methods and Basis of Estimation: The total electronic bill subscriber refers to the number of customers who receive 
their bills via smart phone, email or MMS. The rate of new subscription indicates the 
customers who subscribe for electronic billing service.Status:
Since the MMS billing service was introduced in 2007 followed by the smart billing 
service in 2010, the number of people who subscribe for electronic billing service has increased at a steady pace. At the end of 2013, the total number of subscribers 
was approximately 17.86 million, an 11.3% increase from the previous year. The 
electronic billing service has the benefits of improving the security of personal information and saving on resources such as paper. The subscription rate in 2013 is 
over 90% as in the previous year.
3.2 Device Retrieval Rate
Methods and Basis of Estimation: 
The device retrieval rate is calculated by dividing the number of devices retrieved in a year by the total number of devices sold.
Status:
The device retrieval rate in 2013 was 8.0%, a 0.6% increase from the previous year.
Device Retrieval Rate
2012 20137.4% 8.0%2,000
5001,000
01,605
2012 20131,786Electronic Billing Service Subscription Trend (Unit: 10,000 Persons)
1,5001,500
146                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  147                       Management Discussion & AnalysisList of Restrictions and Measures
Date Restrictions Corrective Measures
Jan. 11, 2013 Subject to corrective action and a fine of 
KRW 100 million due to violation of Article 
23 of Fair Trade ActPaid the fine.
Mar. 14, 2013 Subject to corrective action and a fine of KRW 3.14 billion due to the “infringement 
of users’ rights with the subsidy for 
device” issued by Korea Communications 
CommissionPaid the fine and reported the 
corrective measures in April 
2013.
Jul. 18, 2013 Subject to corrective action and a fine of KRW 36.46 billion due to the “infringement 
of users’ rights by discriminating the 
subsidy for device” issued by Korea 
Communications CommissionPaid the fine and reported 
the corrective measures in 
August 2013.
Aug. 21, 2013 Subject to corrective action due to the “violation of the Terms of Use” issued by 
Korea Communications CommissionCompleted the corrective 
measures in consultation with 
the commission in November 
2013.
Sep. 16, 2013 Subject to corrective action due to the 
“violation of the electrical communication service wholesale under the Electrical 
Communication Business Act” issued by 
Korea Communications CommissionReported the corrective measures in October 2013.
Nov. 15, 2013 Subject to corrective action and a fine of 
KRW 676 million due to the “violation of 
the mobile phone service unsubscription under the Electrical Communication 
Business Act” issued by Korea 
Communications CommissionPaid the fine and reported 
the corrective measures in 
December 2013.
Dec. 27, 2013 Subject to corrective action and a fine of 
KRW 56 billion due to the “infringement 
of users’ rights with the subsidy for device” issued by Korea Communications 
CommissionPaid the fine and reported the corrective measures in 
January 2014.Section 4. Overall Environmental Investment
4.1 Environmental Investment and Cost
Methods and Basis of Estimation: The environmental investment and cost is estimated based on SK Telecom’s 
individual criteria. Due to the change in the criteria, all the data regarding the green 
purchase cost from 2011 has been updated retroactively. The green purchase cost includes energy efficiency grade, high efficiency energy certification, recycled 
product quality certification, environmental mark certification, environmental 
declaration of product, carbon reduction label, and low carbon product certification. Status:
The amount of green purchase (products certified for eco-friendly practices) in 2013 
was KRW 6.08 billion which is 6.2 times the estimate in 2012. The total environmental cost and investment including green purchase was KRW 6.46 billion, which is 3.6 
times the amount in the previous year. The total environmental cost excluding the 
green purchase was reduced as collecting waste mobile phones was transferred to SK Networks as of 2013 (Miscellaneous). Other Disclosures
At SK Telecom, we are committed to ethical business conduct and full compliance 
with applicable regulations including those specified by the Fair Trade Commission and Korea Communications Commission while making sure our business practice 
reflects the demand of the government and stakeholders. Despite these efforts, we 
have been subject to the following instructions and fines and taken the necessary measures for correction accordingly in 2013. 
60
40
20
1050
30
00.399
2011 2012 20130.9846.084
Green Purchase Cost (Unit: KRW billion)
148                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  149                       Management Discussion & AnalysisWe have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position 
of SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended. Management is 
responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements 
based on our audits.
We did not audit the financial statements of SK Broadband Co., Ltd., a domestic 
subsidiary, and an associate, whose financial statements constitute 21.2% of the Group’s consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2013, 11.7% of the Group’s 
consolidated operating revenue and 33.6% of the Group’s profit before income 
tax for the year ended December 31, 2013 and the financial statements of SK Broadband Co., Ltd., and two other domestic subsidiaries and an associate, 
whose financial statements constitute 26.6% of the Group’s consolidated total assets 
as of December 31, 2012 and 15.1% of the Group’s consolidated operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. Other auditors audited those financial 
statements and our report, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for these 
entities, is based solely on the results of other auditors. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting 
the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also 
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statements presentation. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, based on our audits and reports of other auditors, the consolidated 
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and its financial 
performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean 
International Financial Reporting Standards. Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the following:As discussed in note 38 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group disposed of its partial interests in Loen Entertainment, Inc., a subsidiary, which 
resulted in loss of control during the year ended December 31, 2013. The Group 
presented the results of operations of Loan Entertainment, Inc. as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31,
2013 and accordingly restated the comparative information for the year ended 
December 31, 2012.The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such 
consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and 
applied in other countries. Accordingly, this report is for use by those knowledgeable about Korean auditing standards and their application in practice.Based on a report originally issued in Korean
To The Board of Directors and Shareholders
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.:
Seoul, KoreaFebruary 21, 2014
This report is effective as of February 21, 2014, the audit report date. 
Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a 
material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements 
and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any.Independent 
Auditors’ Report
01 MD&A - Financial  
02 MD&A - Social & Environmental  03 Report of External Auditor   04 Third Party Assurance Statement     05 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement4
Management 
Discussion 
& Analysis
150                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  151                       Management Discussion & Analysis01 MD&A - Financial  
02 MD&A - Social & Environmental  03 Report of External Auditor   04 Third Party Assurance Statement     05 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement4
Management 
Discussion 
& Analysis
Introduction
DNV Certification Ltd. (hereinafter “DNV GL”) is commissioned to carry out the 
assurance engagement of the 2013 Annual Report (hereinafter “the Report”) of 
SK Telecom Inc. (hereinafter “SK TELECOM”). This engagement focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting 
processes. SK TELECOM is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation 
and presentation of all information within the Report. DNV GL’s responsibility in performing the work follows terms of reference and scope of work agreed. The 
assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information 
provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. SK TELECOM’s stakeholders including shareholders are the intended recipients of the assurance statement. 
Scope of Assurance
This Assurance Engagement covered data from the calendar year 2013. The scope of DNV GL’s Assurance Engagement includes only for operations under control in 
Korea the review and assessment of followings:
 • Evaluation of the sustainability reporting principles for defining the report 
 content and the quality as expressed in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4.
 • Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 
 Accountability Principles Standard (APS) 2008 with a moderate level of 
 assurance and Type 2 as stated in AA1000 Assurance Standard(AS) 2008.
 • Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In 
 accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines (Comprehensive option) 
 (Aggregated level of data that refers to the period between January and 
 December 2013) 
 • Visit to SK TELECOM Head office in Seoul, Korea in April-May 2014.Limitation
The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and 
reporting practices of SK TELECOM’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties 
mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of 
this Assurance Engagement. Any financial information from SK TELECOM’s annual business report and company reporting on operations in 2013-2014 or other sources 
are not included in the scope of the Assurance. Economic performances based 
on the financial data were cross-checked with internal documents and the audited financial statements. The aggregation and calculation process for building economic 
performances is reviewed and tested by the verification team. The baseline data for 
Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility 
for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement.
Verification Methodology
The Assurance Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the 
DNV GL Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustain
TM V.4.1) and 
AA1000AS (2008). As part of the verification, we challenged the statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. 
In accordance with the Protocol, the Report was evaluated with regard to the 
following criteria: DNV GL has examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by SK TELECOM. We acquired the information and 
technical data from the certified management systems. We performed sample-based 
audits of; 
 • The process for determining the materiality of the contents to be  
 included in the Report;
 • The process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative  
 and qualitative data included in the Report.
 • The accuracy of data verified.
Conclusion 
In DNV GL’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the 
Report provides a reliable and fair representation of SK TELECOM’s strategy, policy, 
practices and performance in 2013. Further conclusions and observations on the Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, as set 
forth in the AA1000APS(2008) are made below;
Inclusivity
SK TELECOM has conducted comprehensive engagement with a wide range of 
stakeholders. Such 6 main stakeholder groups as Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Local community and Shareholders, Government are identified in the Report. In 
addition, the communication channels with respective stakeholders are provided. 
Each business unit/department identifies the interest of stakeholders by engaging them with various ways. On-line stakeholder survey result was reflected into the 
materiality determination process. The expectation and interest of stakeholders are 
reported to the CSV Advisory group consisting of representatives from the respective stakeholder groups and the corporate citizenship committee under the board of 
directors which is the top governance organization. Then the accountable and 
strategic response to sustainability is developed by incorporating the opinions from 
stakeholders. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of 
Inclusivity is ‘Good.’Third-Party 
Assurance Statement
152                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  153                       Management Discussion & AnalysisMateriality
SK TELECOM has analysed the key issues from the global sustainability initiatives 
and standards, the topics in which industry peer group is interested and the subjects 
covered by mass media in order to form relevant issue pool. The issues are rated by stakeholders via survey, and then prioritized by the impacts on the financial 
value creation. SK TELECOM has prioritized issues that are most material. The 
output of the process clearly brings out material issues. SK TELECOM reports the performances most relevant to the material issues. In our view, the level at which the 
Report adheres to the principle of Materiality is ‘Good.’
Responsiveness:
Various stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from stakeholder 
engagement are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation of management strategy. The report is the 2nd integrated report following the one 
published in 2013. SK TELECOM shows the Shareholders who are one of the key 
stakeholders the holistic approach to sustainability based on the interrelationship between the financial and non-financial performances. SK TELECOM has clearly stated its vision and strategy as well as sustainability governance, organization and 
the activities in the Report to demonstrate the performance achieved in 2013 in line 
with the expectations of stakeholders. The communication on progress for UN Global Compact which SK TELECOM is committed to support is disclosed in the Report 
as well. DNV GL evaluates this is another way to satisfy the expectations of various 
stakeholders. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Responsiveness is ‘Good.’
Findings in Relation to Specific Performance Information:
DNV GL has evaluated the nature and extent of SK TELECOM’s adherence to the 
AA1000 Accountability Principles as described above. In addition, the reliability of 
data and information is evaluated for Type 2 Assurance. DNV GL has interviewed the personnel responsible for the data and information in order to figure out the 
generation, aggregation and processing of data and information and reviewed the 
relevant documents and records based on which the statements in the Report are addressed. Especially the in-depth review is conducted on the reliability of data and 
information with regard to Water consumption, Waste generation, Accident rate and 
Ethics & Compliance for Type 2 Assurance. The reporting of the management performance presented in the Report make it 
possible to understand the company’s impact in economic, social and environmental 
areas, as well as the company’s achievements in those regards. SK TELECOM has developed an effective methodology for gathering the specific information and 
data respectively for reporting. The personnel responsible for the data were able 
to demonstrate to trace the origin and interpret the data in a reliable manner as per internal process. Therefore, the specific data and information were found to be 
identifiable and traceable. From our analysis of the data and information, and 
SK TELECOM’s processes, we conclude that the data and information included in the Report are the results of stable and repeatable activities.Opportunities for ImprovementThe following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to 
SK TELECOM’s management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the 
Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. 
 • Disclosure of the expectations of respective stakeholders identified 
  from the engagement and response plan against the expectations.
Statement of Competence and Independence 
DNV GL is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of 
sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance specialists operate in 
over 100 countries. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains 
complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the verification 
process.
May 2014 
Seoul, Republic of Korea
In-Kyoon Ahn
Country Manager
Note: Assurance engagement was conducted based on the Report 
written in Korean. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in the Report between English version and Korean version, Korean one 
shall be given precedent.
154                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  155                       Management Discussion & Analysis01 MD&A - Financial  
02 MD&A - Social & Environmental  03 Report of External Auditor   04 Third Party Assurance Statement     05 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement4
Management 
Discussion 
& Analysis
Terms of Engagement
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for SK Telecom, Korea
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by SK Telecom to 
assure its GHG inventory Report for the calendar year 2013 and summarised in Table 
1below (hereafter referred to as “the Report”). The SK Telecom data as presented in 
the GHG Report have been prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in Korea. The 
Report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions.
Management Responsibility
The management of SK Telecom was responsible for preparing the Report and 
for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and information disclosed. 
LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract with SK Telecom.
Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of 
SK Telecom.
LTQA’s Approach
Our verification has been conducted in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas 
assertions to provide reasonable assurance that the SK Telecom.
In order to form our conclusions we have:
 • Conducted site tours of the facilities and reviewd processes related to 
  the management of GHG emissions data and records 
 • Interviewed relevant staff of the organization responsible for managing 
  and maintaining raw and consolidated data, and 
 • Verified the historical data and infomation at an aggregated level for  
  the calendar year 2013.
Level of Assurance & Materiality 
The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of 
a reasonnnnable level of assurance and at a 2.5% level of materiality.
LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach we have found that the GHG data as presented in the inventory Report of GHG emission and the amount energy used within the Report are 
materially correct, subject to the following qualifications:
 • The emissions from some small devices that have no information of the 
  amount and fee of electricity in the ERP system have been estimated
   from the similar device data. This is not considered to be material Greenhouse Gas 
Assurance Statement
LRQA Reference: SEO 6017128
Table. 
GHG emissions reported in the SK Telecom GHG inventory Report for the calendar year 2013.
This document is subject to the provision below:
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers.Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the 
‘Lloyd’s Register Group.’ The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not 
be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information 
or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. 
Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-
compliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirement set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously the evaluation of control to future periods is subjet to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may 
deteriorate. 
The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages.
Scope(as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea Year 2013
Direct GHG Emissions 7,375
Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 700,589
Total GHG Emissions 707,964
*Data is presented in tonnes of CO 2 equivalent
17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67, Yeouinaru-ro,
Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 150-923, 
Republic of Korea 
Sang-Keun Yoo
On behalf of Lloyd’s 
Register Quality Assurance Ltd.
156                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  157                       Management Discussion & Analysis5
Governance 
and Leadership
 2013 SK Telecom 
Annual Report
01 Governance Model 160p  
02 Board Activities 
and Compensation  162p 
03 Sustainable 
Management  166p
04 Risk Management 170p
05 Ethical Management  172p Maximizing Shareholders’ Value
through Integrity and Transparency  
Independent and
Transparent Corporate
Governance 
SK Telecom operates a value-creating board of directors by increasing 
the proportion of Independent Directors. To enhance management 
transparency, the company implements an Independent Directors’ approval 
system for insider transactions (a first for a Korean company) while having sub-committees such as the Capex Review Committee, and the Corporate 
Citizenship Committee, which establishes a global-standard level corporate 
governance. 
Current Status 
SK Telecom is increasing its corporate value and maximizing shareholder value 
through reasonable and progressive decision-making by the Board of Directors on the basis of transparent, responsible management. The company also fulfills 
its social responsibility by actively incorporating the stakeholders’ interests into 
business activities through establishing open communication with the stakeholders and seeking their engagement.
Independence and Transparency 
The company’s Board of Directors consists of eight members, three Executive 
and five Independent Directors, and has five committees, which are 
the Independent Director Recommendation Committee, the Audit Committee, the Compensation Review Committee, the Capex Review Committee, and the 
Corporate Citizenship Committee. To ensure the independence of each committee, 
SK Telecom has specified the ratio of Independent Directors to company directors and guarantees the transparent operation of each committee in accordance with 
the committee operating guidelines.
Separation of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer 
In 2012, SK Telecom appointed Independent Director Hyun-Chin Lim as Chairman of 
the Board of Directors and strengthened the independence of its governance. The Audit and Compensation Committees are comprised entirely of Independent 
Directors to ensure the fairness and transparency of the Board’s activities. 
On February 20, 2014, the company publicly released the personal data of Jay-Young Chung, an Independent Director candidate, Jae-Hoon Lee, an Independent 
Director candidate and Jae-Hyeon Ahn, an Independent Director candidate and 
candidate member of the Audit Committee, who were nominated by the Independent Director’s Recommendation in the notice for the 30th General Shareholders’ Meeting. 
At the meeting held on March 21, the new Directors listed were appointed. 
At the meeting held on March 21, it was resolved to appoint the new Directors. 
Transparent Nomination Process 
When appointing Directors, SK Telecom selects experts with a vast knowledge 
as well as experience in management, economics, accounting, law, and related 
technologies, who can contribute to the company’s growth and the protection 
of shareholder rights. The Independent Director Recommendation Committee nominates an Independent Director, who is then appointed by a majority vote of the Directors in attendance. In the process of the nomination process of the Director, the diversity of specialized capacities of SK Telecom board members as well as the capabilities of the individual candidate is considered. Once candidates 
are nominated, the appointment of the Director is confirmed through a transparent, 
legitimate process at a General Shareholders’ Meeting.
Independent Audit Committee  
SK Telecom specifies the committee structure, operation, rights, and responsibilities in the Audit Committee guidelines based on applicable laws and the articles of 
incorporation. The Audit Committee conducts audits on financial statements 
and supplementary schedules, on the audit process and on results from the accounting firm, and conducts additional reviews of the company’s major issues 
and the operating status of the company’s internal accounting system as reported 
by an internal accounting manager and an external auditor. 
Prevention of Conflict of Interests
Board members cannot make transactions that fall under the sales section of 
the company based on either their own calculation or that of a third party without 
the prior consent of the board. Board members are not allowed to become employees or directors with unlimited liability. In addition, concurrent positions 
as Independent Directors or auditors are limited to only two positions. 01 Governance Model
02 Board Activities 
 and Compensation 
03 Sustainable Management04 Risk Management05 Ethical Management5
Governance 
and Leadership
Nomination by 
Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee
Resolution ofDirector Appointment
by the Shareholders’ MeetingProhibiting directors 
with special interests 
from exercising 
voting rightsMajority of the quorum members attending 
and appointment 
by a majority voteExternal specialist pool
(People pursuant to Clause 3, Article 32 of 
SK Telecom’s Articles of Incorporation)Secure diversity of specialized capabilities 
in the process of Board candidate nominationIndependence SpecialtyIndependent Director 
Nomination ProcessComposition and Responsibilities of 
Sub-Committees in the Board
Sub-Committee Name Composition Rights and Responsibilities
Independent Director 
Recommendation 
CommitteeExecutive Director 1
Independent  
Director 2• Recommend candidates for Independent Directors to the Shareholders’ Meeting 
to appoint Independent Directors
Audit Committee Independent Director 3• Right of auditing the Directors’ job execution, right of requiring business report, right of
investigating financial and asset status
• Right to probe the Board in accordance with business laws
• Right to the injunction of violated actions in accordance with business laws
• Right of representing Directors in the lawsuit between Directors and the company based on 
business laws
• Right to call for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with business laws
• Right to obtain advice from outside specialists at the company’s expense
• Appointment of an auditor
• Review and approve the transactions between related affiliates or for such companies held 
during the quarter to provide products and services over the larger part of 5/100 of thecompany’s total shareholders’ equity or capital stock or for amounts of over KRW 5 billion 
• In case of optional contracts with specified affiliates, review and approval of the transactions 
of products and services for amounts of KRW 10 billion or more per transaction
• In case of continuous transaction with specific affiliates through optional contracts, review 
and approval of the transactions of products and services whose estimated transaction in the same fiscal year is KRW 10 billion or more
Compensation Review CommitteeIndependent  Director 3• Review of the remuneration system and level of the CEO
Capex Review CommitteeExecutive Director 1Independent  
Director 4• Review the Capex plan in the next year’s business plan
• Review the Capex plan when comprehensively changing the year’s business plan
• Change of major Capex (exceeding 10% of Capex)
• Quarterly or semi-annual Capex execution performance
Corporate Citizenship CommitteeExecutive Director 1Independent  
Director 3• Set and review CSR initiative direction
• Interest-party communication and difficulties treatment• Report CSR initiatives to the Board
* Four Independent Directors participated in the Corporate Citizenship Committee in 2013, 
however, the Committee is participated by three Independent Directors in 2014. 
160                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  161                       Governance and LeadershipSK Telecom annually evaluates the activities of Directors and reflects the 
results in the reappointments after their terms. The company also pays 
remuneration and severance payments fairly and transparently through 
the resolution of the Shareholders’ Meeting.
Board Activities and Evaluation
Each year, SK Telecom evaluates the Directors’ expertise regarding the company’s businesses and technologies and their active involvement in Board activities. The evaluation results are discussed at a Board of Directors meeting. Furthermore, once 
a Director’s term has expired and the Director is nominated again by the Independent 
Director Recommendation Committee, the Director’s previous performance is deliberated upon. In 2013, ten board meetings were held, in which the Directors’ 
attendance rate was 100%. The Directors’ remuneration and pension entitlements 
are determined by vote at a General Shareholders’ Meeting, and the remuneration is paid in a fair, transparent way in accordance with the remuneration policy. 
In addition, the Board is delegated by shareholders the top resolution right related 
with management strategies in accordance with related laws and Articles of Incorporation and the Board performs the responsibilities and roles upon various 
matters including the remuneration of the top management team, recommendation 
of candidates for director, and audits on accounting and performance disclosures. 
Board Activities
Round Date Major Agendas Director Attendance Rate
351st Feb. 07, 2013 • 29th Fiscal Year financial statements (plan)
• 29th fiscal year business report (plan)
• Debentures issuance (plan)100%
352nd Feb. 21, 2013 • 2013 Product· service· asset transactions with SK Planet (plan)• 29th General Shareholders’ Meeting (plan)100%
353rd Mar. 22, 2013 • Chairman of the Board appointment (plan)• Committee members appointment (plan)
• Financial transaction with affiliated financial company (SK Securities) (plan)100%
354th Apr. 25, 2013 • Sublease transaction for integrated advisors’ office (plan)
• Payment of 2013 SUPEX Pursuance Association (plan)100%
355th May 23, 2013 • FMI landscaping facilities complement construction (plan)• Debentures (hybrid bond) issuance (plan)
• Approval of electronic short-term debentures limit (plan)100%
356th Jun. 20, 2013 • Financial transaction with affiliated financial company (SK Securities) (plan)
• Service transaction with SK (China) Corporate Management LLC (plan)100%
357th Jul. 25, 2013 • Interim dividend (plan)
• Long-term borrowings (plan)
• Secure additional LTE frequencies (plan)100%
358th Sep. 26, 2013 • Financial management transaction with affiliated company (SK Securities) (plan)
• 2013 Investment in additional LTE network facilities (plan)100%
359th Nov. 18, 2013 • 2014 SK forest transaction (plan)• 2014 Customer contact channel operation outsourcing (plan)
• 2014 Base station maintenance and repairs outsourcing (plan)100%
360th Dec. 28, 2013 • 2014 Business plan (plan)
• 2014 Resale of fixed products with SK Broadband (plan)
• Financial management transaction with affiliated financial company (SK Securities) (plan)100%01 Governance Model
02 Board Activities 
 and Compensation 
03 Sustainable Management04 Risk Management05 Ethical ManagementPerformance-
Based 
RemunerationActivities of Audit Committee
Name of Committee Members Date • Agendas Attendance
Audit Committee Jae-Ho Cho
Dal-Seop Shim
Hyun-Chin Lim
Jay-Young ChungFeb. 06, 2013 • 2013 mobile phone facilities construction (plan)• 2013 transmission network facilities construction (plan)
• Auditors’ opinion on the internal monitoring system (plan)
• 2012 latter half management diagnosis· audit performance 
and 2013 management diagnosis· audit plan
• Operation status of internal accounting management system100%
Feb. 20, 2013 • Audit results of FY 2012 IFRS accounting audits• FY 2012 internal accounting management system review results
• Evaluation of operation status of internal accounting 
management system (plan)
• Confirmation of the agendas of the 29th General Shareholder’s 
Meeting and document review opinions (plan)
• The 29th Auditors’ Report (plan)
• IT SM contract 2013 transaction scale (plan)100%
Mar. 21, 2013 • 2013 2/4 quarter SK C&C Co., Ltd. transaction (plan)• Financial transaction plan with affiliated financial company 
(SK Securities)75%
Jae-Ho Cho 
Dae-Shick Oh 
Hyun-Chin Lim
Jay-Young ChungApr. 24, 2013 • Chairman appointment (plan) Jae-Ho Cho• Happynarae Co., Ltd. expendable supplies purchase (plan)
• SKTCH outsourcing contract (plan)
• 2013 independent auditor’s audit compensation (plan)
• Comprehensive approval for the 2013 independent auditor’s 
service provision (plan)
• FY 2013 accounting audit plan100%
Jun. 19, 2013 • 2013 3/4 quarter SK C&C Co., Ltd. Transaction (plan)
• “Myshop” solution provision contract with a Thai company (plan)
• Financial transaction plan with affiliate financial company (SK Securities)75%
Jul. 24, 2013 • 2013 mobile phone facilities construction (plan)• 2013 transmission network facilities construction (plan)
• FY 2013 IFRS interim review results100%
Sept. 25, 3013 • 2013 4/4 quarter SK C&C Co., Ltd. transaction (plan)• 2013 management diagnosis· audit status100%
Nov. 27, 2013 • 2014 optical fiber maintenance and repairs outsourcing (plan)
• 2014 electronic telecommunications equipment lease transaction (plan)
• 2014 fixed network service outsourcing (plan)
• 2013 mobile phone facilities construction (plan)
• 2013 transmission network facilities construction (plan)100%
Dec. 17, 2013 • 2014 1/4 quarter SK C&C Co, Ltd. transaction (plan)
• 2014 1/4 quarter products and service transaction with SK Planet (plan)
• 2014 accounts receivables collection delegation (plan)100%5
Governance 
and Leadership
162                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  163                       Governance and LeadershipActivities of Capex Review Committee
Name of Committee Members Date  Agendas Attendance
Capex Review Committee Rak-Young Uhm
Dae-Shick Oh
Jay-Young Chung
Jae-Ho Cho
Dong-Seob JeeApr. 24, 2013 • Chairman appointment (plan)
• Report on major investee companies100%
Nov. 27, 2013 • Report on major investee companies 100%
Dec. 17, 2013 • 2014 investment plan 100%Remuneration Payments
The upper limit of the Board’s remuneration in 2013 was reviewed by the Board 
and finalized through the Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with the Commercial 
Act of Korea. The set amount approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting was KRW 12 billion, and the total paid remuneration in 2013 was KRW 3,275 million. 
The remuneration of executives consists of a per annum salary based on his/her 
position grade and an Incentive Bonus (IB) based on the previous year’s business performance. SK Telecom has publicized the remuneration of individual Directors and 
auditors for amounts over KRW 500 million through its business reports since 2014.  
Director Remuneration Payments
# of 
DirectorsTotal 
AmountAverage per Person 
(Unit: KRW million)
Executive Directors 3 2,872 957
Independent Directors 1 83 83
Audit Committee Directors 4 320 80
Total 8 3,275 -
The Ratio between the Annual Median Employee Compensation 
and the Total Annual Highest Compensation
Ratio Increase/Decrease from Last Year
12.06  -1.38
* The remuneration of the highest compensation and employees includes a per annum salary 
and incentive bonus.Activities of Independent Director Recommendation Committee
Name of Committee Members Date  Agendas Attendance
Independent Director 
Recommendation CommitteeSeong-Min HaRak-Yong Uhm
Jae-Ho ChoFeb. 20, 2013 • Independent director recommendation for 
the 28th Shareholders’ Meeting (plan)100%
Apr. 25, 2013 • Chairman appointment (plan) 100%
Activities of Compensation Review Committee
Name of Committee Members Date  Agendas Attendance
Compensation Review Committee Hyun-Chin Lim
Dae-Shick Oh
Rak-Yong Uhm
Dong-Seob JeeApr. 24, 2013 • Chairman appointment (plan) 100%
Jun. 24, 2013 • Related with the public disclosure of individual 
compensation of Executive Directors100%
Activities of Corporate Citizenship Committee
Name of Committee Members Date  Agendas Attendance
Corporate Citizenship Committee Jay-Young Chung
Jae-Ho Cho
Rak-Yong Uhm
Hyun-Chin Lim
Dong-Seob JeeApr. 24, 2013 • Chairman appointment (plan)
• Report on major investee companies100%
Jun. 19, 2013 • Report on major investee companies 100%
Sep. 25, 2013 • 2014 investment plan 100%
Oct. 23, 2013 • UN Global Compact LEAD program CSR education• SK Telecom’s environmental management status 
and plan 100%
Dec. 17, 2013 • CSR activities performance review and 
comprehensive report100%
164                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  165                       Governance and LeadershipSK Telecom has openly advocated Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Sustainable Development. Furthermore, the company has been fulfilling its 
corporate social responsibility by establishing a top-level decision-making body 
and by maintaining a constant communication channel with interested parties.
Sustainability Management Governance
SK Telecom formed the Corporate Citizenship Committee as the highest-level body for social responsibility in 2008 and has fulfilled its CSR as part of its core business 
activities. The Corporate Citizenship Committee is the company’s top decision-
making body, aimed at practicing social responsibility and implementing CSR activities, and is responsible for coordinating the varying interests of stakeholders, making decisions from long-term perspectives, and contemplating SK Telecom’s 
social responsibility. The Corporate Citizenship Committee consists of four members 
in total, three Independent Directors and one Executive Director, and it sets goals in five sustainability focus areas (Customer Experience Management, Win-Win 
Growth, Social Contribution, Ethics and Compliance, and Environment) and carries 
out activities such as providing mid- to long-term goal management, major decision-making, and monitoring major issues and business results. 
In 2013, as the global standards such as the GRI Guidelines (GRI G4), the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC), and Communication on Progress (COP) requires companies to reinforce the participation of its top-level decision-making body in CSR, the company 
has further enhanced the roles of the Corporate Citizenship Committee. 
In 2013, SK Telecom first published an integrated report which combined both the existing sustainability report and financial results, and later in 2013, the Corporate 
Citizenship Committee reviewed and published the core issues of the integrated 
report. In addition, to improve the specialty of the Board on the sustainability of the economy, environment, and society sectors, SK Telecom invited external specialists 
with the help of the UN Global Compact and educated the Board members about 
CSR in October 2013.
Stakeholder Engagement
Through the company’s subsistence and development, SK Telecom aspires to create values for stakeholders and contributes to socio-economic development and 
the happiness of mankind. To realize this, the company established communication 
channels for stakeholders with distinct divisions by customers, partner companies, members, community and NGOs, shareholders, the government, and many others 
and pursues communication-oriented management activities. The company has 
communication channels by six stakeholders including an online channel, an online customer center (“T world”), a partner company portal, and a Labor-Management 
Council on the website, all of which accept opinions, grievances, and complaints from 
stakeholders and which check the demands of stakeholders on a constant basis. In 2013, SK Telecom prepared company-wide policies on stakeholder engagement 
and refined the engagement system. Additionally, the company is operating an online 
communication channel to faithfully reflect the opinions and interest of stakeholders in terms of CSR such as society, environment, human rights, labor, etc.01 Governance Model
02 Board Activities 
 and Compensation 
03 Sustainable Management04 Risk Management05 Ethical ManagementSustainability 
Management Governance and
Stakeholder’s EngagementThose opinions or measures received through this channel, if judged as having great 
impact or being material, are reported to the Corporate Citizenship Committee. Eight 
cases of major stakeholder issues were received through the online channel in 2013, 
100% of which were successfully resolved. 
Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Channels
Government
• Policy suggestion by 
participating in 
policy-related meetings 
and discussion
• Ministry of Science, ICT 
and Future Planning
• Korea Communications 
Commission
• Fair Trade Commission• National Commission for 
Corporate Partnership
Community
• One semi-annual Meeting with NGOs
• Online volunteer platform
• Online donation platform
• Residents conference 
(participating in community development)
• Social contribution program
• CSV Advisory body
01
Check through 
due diligence 
by related department02Take actions 
for issues 
and actively resolve them03Report major 
measures taken 
to the Corporate Citizenship 
Committee 
under the Board04 Drive 
improvement 
to prevent similar issues05Disclose 
major issues, 
measures taken, and external 
informationEmployees
• Labor union (labor union homepage)
• Labor-Management Council
• Letter to the HR (internal intranet)
• My counselor (internal intranet)
• Company newsletter, broadcasting, 
and in-house communication mediaPartner Companies
• VoP reception channel
• Business partner portal (Open2U)
• Win-Win Conference 
• Partner’s Day• One-on-One Meeting
• Win-Win Innovation center homepageCustomers
• Online Customer Center “T World”• CRM questionnaires
• Customer Satisfaction Survey
• SK Telecom Blog
• SNS channels such as blogs, Facebook
• Year-round meetings and events
Shareholders
• Investor meetings 
(Conference, NDR, etc.)
• Seminars on business status
• Information to investors (homepage)
• Public disclosure (FSS, KRX, SEC, LSE, etc.)
• Shareholders’ meetingOnline CSR
Grievance/Complaints 
Channel
CSR Grievance/Complaints Channel
The Resolution Process of Grievances/Complaints on 
Human Rights, Labor, Social and Environmental Issues  Partner 
Companies 
CommunityShareholdersGovernmentCustomers
Employees5
Governance 
and Leadership
166                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  167                       Governance and LeadershipIn addition, SK Telecom performs an annual online survey to understand 
the management priority rankings and major issues. The 2014 survey was conducted 
in February and March, and 426 people presented a variety of opinions. The survey 
included direct stakeholders, individuals, and corporations including executives and employees, shareholders, government organizations, and NGOs. 
Through this stakeholder survey, SK Telecom learned about 12 core issues such as 
customer retention, loyalty, and network quality, etc (For further information, please refer to page 188). The contents derived from the study were reflected in this report, 
and finally reviewed and approved by the Corporate Citizenship Committee. 
Since 2003, SK Telecom has been operating a CSR Advisory Panel comprising the  representatives of major stakeholders, which regularly holds advisory meetings 
regarding major issues. Major issues discussed in the Advisory Panel have been 
reflected in the business decision-making. From 2014, the CSR Advisory Panel will be renamed the CSV Advisory Panel, and its roles and responsibilities will be 
further enhanced. 
Supporting International Principles and Initiatives
SK Telecom has publicly advocated the principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The United Nations demands that companies support the UNGC and comply with 
the ten principles defined by the UN, including human rights, environment, labor 
and anti-corruption, and that they support a wide range of the UN’s development objectives, including the UN Millennium Development Goals. SK Telecom declared 
its support for the “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework endorsed by the UN 
Human Rights Council in June 2011. The company complies with ISO26000, the standard for corporate social responsibility, and is actively involved in 
the Integrated Reporting business network.
Externally recognized for its efforts to improve sustainability, SK Telecom has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for six 
consecutive years as of 2013, while the company has been selected as the carbon 
information disclosure leader company of the Carbon Disclosure Project Korea Committee for four years in a row.CSR Education to Improve the Specialty of Directors on the Corporate Citizenship Committee
Key Agenda Items for CSR Advisory Panel
Session Date Key Agendas
1st Jul. 11, 2013 • Report on the status of the “Traditional Market Revitalization” 
project and the progress of “BRAVO! Restart” 
2nd Aug. 29, 2013 • Understanding of CSR and future issue sharing 
• CSR activities direction reporting and discussion   
3rd Dec. 27, 2013 • Review CSR initiatives, performance and future directionsTo enhance the CSR-related specialty of the directors 
in the Corporate Citizenship Committee, SK Telecom 
participated in the UN Global Compact (UNGC) LEAD 
Program and offered a course in 2013. The UN Global Compact LEAD program is a CSR-
related educational program specially designed to 
meet the needs of directors in 2011, developed by the UN Global Compact, Boston Consulting Group 
(BCG), and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), 
an international NGO. The global leader in CSR, who was selected by the UNGC, presented major 
Letter by Mr. Georg Kell, the Secretary 
General of UN Global Compact, who 
congratulated and thanked the directors 
regarding the Board CSR course.
trends in CSR and the Board’s roles as a CSR-
driving engine through a course comprising two 
modules of “The Importance of Sustainable 
Management” and “The Roles of the Board” to the Corporate Citizenship Committee directors. 
Going forward, SK Telecom will further enhance 
the capabilities of the top-level governance body by offering the Corporate Citizenship Committee 
CSR course more than once a year.
168                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  169                       Governance and LeadershipSK Telecom 
Management Support Office
SK Telecom has established a company-wide risk management system 
by preemptively exploring potential risks, recognizing risks in places such 
as its subsidiaries and distribution network, and establishing clear response 
standards and systems. Through a strong risk management system, SK Telecom will further enhance its business stability.
Reinforcing the Risk Management System by Major Risk Issue
The recent aspects of risks faced by the company are expanding their management ranges to extents larger than those that are controllable, such as the distribution 
channels or distribution network. Due to the concentration and increasing size of 
the network and facilities, the scale of the damage and its effect on business is growing larger than before. Against this backdrop, in 2013 SK Telecom enhanced 
its basic compliance to prevent recognized risks, continued to seek out potential 
risks that might occur, expanded the risk recognition and management scope to include the distribution network and subsidiaries, and focused on checking 
the clarification of the risk judgment standards, such as service failure standards, 
thereby reinforcing its risk management system.
Subsidiaries’ Risk Management Systems
SK Telecom executed a company-wide Risk Management Working Group that 
included subsidiaries in June 2013 and established a risk reporting and management 
system that includes subsidiaries to further enhance its company-wide risk 
management system and enhance its management stability based on close cooperation with subsidiaries. Especially by clarifying the dispersion of situation 
standards into major risk types among companies, the company tried to establish 
a close risk responding system to share information among subsidiaries in case of abrupt crisis, and cope with the crisis through fast and effective decision-making. 
Furthermore, the company formalized the risk management meetings participated 
in by subsidiaries to continually seek out potential risks in the future.
 
SK will continue to secure the business stability through thorough risk management system operation in the future.01 Governance Model
02 Board Activities 
 and Compensation 
03 Sustainable Management04 Risk Management05 Ethical ManagementCompany-Wide 
Risk Management 
SystemAffiliates’ Major Risks and Management System
Management Support Office Vision Practice Group SKMS Team Management Support Office
Major 
risk 
gradeGrade A risk
• Major service failure 
• such as 11st Street, 
T store
• Customer information • leakage, etc.Grade Red Risk
• Nationwide service 
failure
• Ultra high-speed ·
IPTV VoC 
• drastic increase, etc .Company-Wide Emergency Risk
• Occurrence of environmental
 
matters such as waste 
water discharge, etc.
• Factory fire, power failure• Yield rate drastic decrease, 
etc.CEO Reporting Principles
• Judging on whether to report: 
SKT Management Support Office
• Reporting: SKT and affiliates’ 
corresponding organization
• After check: On-site 
management office and affiliates’ RM general 
management
Enhanced 
ComplianceFinding 
Potential RisksSupport Affiliates’ Risk 
Management SystemReinforce the Service 
Failure Judgment Criteria
In-depth diagnosis on B2B, 
growth business, distribution 
network, insider transaction 
status, customer information and 
checking the status of execution 
with compliance2013 Major Risk Management System Improvement
Checking for potential risks by organization and finding issues 
through company-wide Risk 
Management Working Group 
(six times)Conducting Risk Management 
Working Groups with affiliates 
and supporting each company 
in establishing the risk 
management systemStandardizing the criteria for judging 
risk response to 100 or more voice 
of customer (VoC) complaints, 
regardless of failure, and standardizing 
the judgments regarding restoring the 
situation to normal, and standardizing 
external communication criteria for 
customer VoCCEO
SK Telecom
Major Risk
Minor RiskGrade B
Grade CGrade Orange
Grade Yellow .........General RiskSK Planet SK Broadband SK Hynix
Crisis Response Center Operation System in case of Company-wide Crisis
*Flexible operation of N/W failure restoration team, customer information leakage restoration team, etc. CEO
Network Operation Business (Chief Operating Officer)
Network Part Leader
External Communication
Customer Damage 
CompensationMarketing Part LeaderHead of PR Office Head of Customer-oriented 
Management Office 
Corporate Business 
Part LeaderProduct Planning 
Part LeaderHead of Marketing 
Comm. OfficeMarketing Part LeaderCorporate Business  
Part LeaderProduct Planning 
Part LeaderOperating a Company-Wide Crisis Response Center
Since 2014, SK Telecom has enhanced its risk management system to operate a company-wide crisis response center 
that immediately handles serious crisis situations. The company-wide situation room is called on during situations of serious 
crisis, when urgent responses are required to prevent serious damage to customer value and the reputation of the company; a company-wide response is required as the risk may affect various organizations in the company. It is called on especially 
when there are drastic increases in the same type of customer complaints (for example, Voice of Customer complaints), or if 
there are a certain accumulated number of problematic cases that occur, an increase in damaging remarks from the media and social network service about a certain negative situation, etc. Such company-wide crisis situations include an occurrence of 
a nationwide network failure (including natural disasters), a leakage of customer information, investigation and media coverage 
of unethical behavior of employees and others. In case of such incidents, Management Support Office decides on the effects of such issues, reports them to the CEO, and organizes responses accordingly as  COO (Network Operations Business) calls on 
the company-wide situation room.
Management 
Support Office5
Governance 
and Leadership
Critical Risk
• Nationwide  
• telecommunications 
• service failure
• Drastic increase of 
• customer complaints
• Customer information 
• leakage, etc.
170                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  171                       Governance and LeadershipSK Telecom has established the code of conduct system necessary for 
becoming a company that earns the trust of stakeholders and continues 
its long-term relationship. The company will faithfully perform its role as 
a responsible company by internalizing ethical management while explicitly setting the ethical standards in the process of achieving strategic goals.Ethical Management Internalization and Dispersion
SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct sets forth the company’s responsibility to employees, 
partner companies, customers, shareholders, communities, employees’ attitudes, 
as well as setting forth the criteria for applying the Code of Ethics. Based on the Code of Ethics, which is central to the Code of Conduct, the company applies 
detailed guidelines for ethics and compliance, which encompass the HR policy, 
the Compliance Guidelines, the Privacy Pledge, and the Fair Trade Consent, and it clearly specifies the obligations and responsibilities relating to ethics and compliance 
in accordance with the applicable laws. All the employees of SK Telecom recognize 
the basic ethical guidelines and pledge to voluntarily practice them by pledging to conduct ethical practice at the start of each year. 
Meanwhile, SK Telecom regularly provides ethics education in order to enhance 
the employees’ understanding of ethics and to internalize the culture of practice. In 2013, 5,117 employees completed the ethical management education (including 
online education). The company also emphasized the importance of ethical 
management year-round through internal notices, increasing the sharing of values among employees on ethical management issues.
Code of Conduct Framework
SKT Statement on Human Rights (2013)
Universal Declaration of Human Right (2004)/ UNGC 10 Principles (2008)/ 
Ruggie Guiding Principles on Business & Human Right (2012)Reestablishment of the Code of Ethics System
Employees
• Code of Ethics
• Practice guidelines• Ethical management 
practice guide
• Practice pledge• Employment, 
evaluation, 
compensation 
regulations
• Anti-discrimination 
regulations• Detailed pledge of 
customer information 
protection
• Company regulations 
on personal information  
protection• Money laundering/ 
insider trading
• Anti-monopoly/ 
anti-competition 
behavior prevention • Anti-bribery ·customer 
information protection 
• Comply SK Telecom 
level social ·
environmental 
responsibilitiesEmployees Employees Employees Partner Companies01 Governance Model
02 Board Activities 
 and Compensation 
03 Sustainable Management04 Risk Management05 Ethical ManagementEstablishment of 
an All-Encompassing 
Code of Conduct
Code of Ethics Human 
Capital PolicyRegulations on Customer 
Information 
ProtectionFair trade Voluntary 
Compliance 
GuidelinesFair Trade Consent for 
Partner Companies, 
Partner CSR Guidelines
Practice PledgeCode of Ethics (Announce Ethical 
Management Ideology)
Practice Guidelines 
(Employee Behavior 
Standards and 
Operation Procedures)Ethical Management 
Philosophy 
Pronouncement
Pledge of Practice (signed annually)SK Telecom Ethical 
Management 
Practice Guidelines (FAQ)
Employee Code 
of Conduct
Ethical 
Management Practice 
Resolutions 
Operation 
and Procedures
CounselingEthical Management Counseling Center 
Regulations
Ethical 
Management 
Q&ACode of Ethics5
Governance 
and Leadership
172                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  173                       Governance and LeadershipIn November, SK Telecom re-established the current Code of Ethics system, which 
consisted of five axes comprising the Code of Ethics, the ethical management 
counseling center regulations and ethical management practice resolutions separated 
into two categories of the Code of Ethics and practice guidelines. Therefore, the company prevented the confusion that might occur due to different standards among 
individuals. At the same time, the company also made the ethical management 
practice guidelines (FAQ), judging standards by situation, further enhancing the practice.
The company continues to offer online and offline group education to subsidiaries 
and partner companies and enhances communications with them through interviews of partner companies, dispersing an ethical management culture throughout partner 
companies and subsidiaries as well.
Ethics Counseling Center
SK Telecom runs a variety of channels to collect grievances and complaints from 
employees and suggestions from stakeholders about business ethics. Since its installation in 2004, the Ethics Counseling Center is accessible through a variety 
of channels, such as the corporate website, telephone, interviews, or mail, and 
provides a place where employees can report ethical issues such as dishonesty and corruption as well as counseling services regarding ethical problems. Furthermore, 
through channels such as “My Counselor” and “Letter to the HR,” female counselors 
for sexual harassment are able to respond to employee grievances through Intranet.Actions Taken after Code of Ethics Violations
Anti-Corruption Education
Session 2011 2012 2013
Anti-corruption, 
ethical management education employees4,780 3,688 4,000 (VLS)1,117 (Group education)
Distribution network - - 152 (Corporate business)
Ethics Counseling Operation by Channel
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Channel of direct reporting to the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee44 53 21 78 146
Received by the Ethics Counseling Center 578 576 445 493 713Type Number of events Measures
Monetary bribes 4 Dismissal from office 3, Suspension 1
False reports / 
budget abuse & waste2 Suspension 4
Misappropriation of company money- -
Damage to reputation 2 Suspension 1, Dismissal at one’s request 1
Excessive loans between employees6 Dismissal from office 2, Suspension 1, Salary cut 3
Sexual harassment 2 Dismissal from office 1, Suspension 1
Total 16
Distribution Process Diagnosis and Improvement
SK Telecom recognizes the importance of preventing violations of the Code of 
Ethics in advance. Therefore, the company continues to monitor the Code of 
Ethics (Conduct) compliance status of employees and partner companies through counseling, audits, and investigative activities. The company uses its ERP system in monitoring, and interviews employees and partner companies about ethical issues 
on a regular basis. 
In 2013, SK Telecom checked the internal processes, which include the diagnosis of the fixed and wireless incentive calculation system, the terminal demand and 
supply process, and the billing process work diagnosis. The company also improved 
customary process (asset and progress system management) by checking the network sites and through circulation diagnosis. The company also contributed to 
enhancing the work efficiency and competitiveness of the subsidiaries. 
SK Telecom pays incentives in accordance with the sales performance of the distribution network. In 2013, based on policy standards, the company checked 
its internal process to prevent cases of adjusted balancing or abnormal calculations 
that were different from the existing sales policies. In the wireless incentive sectors, the company discovered cases of misuse of the compensated terminal change 
system, or cases in which the cancellation charges paid by the customers were 
delivered to the agencies that did not pay customer subsidies. In the fixed incentive sector, the company made the sales policy history in a database, 
improving the efficiency and transparency of the execution of expenses and 
supported the distribution infrastructure charges to include dealers in the system that were classified as members of an irregular distribution network, thereby 
reinforcing the management. 
Furthermore, SK Telecom improved its terminal demand and supply process. The company will collect opinions from sites, and set common goals among 
organizations to enhance the linkage between the purchase and sales. The setting 
of common goals among organizations is expected to be introduced in 2014, considering the development period of a new commonly shared index. In addition, 
in the distributed allocation of terminals by regional headquarters unit, PS&M, 
the company’s distribution affiliate shall be assigned with all terminals, improving the specialty and independence of the distribution channel. 
Public Policy Cooperation
SK Telecom abides by Korea’s Political Fund Act, which prohibits companies from 
making political contributions. It is also an active supporter of government policies 
on anti-corruption, fair competition, job creation, gender equality, and low-carbon, green growth.Employees 
33Partner 
Companies
23
Total No. 
of Cases
713Customers 
657Ethics Counseling Center Operation Status
174                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  175                       Governance and Leadership6
Additional 
Information2013 SK Telecom 
Annual Report
01 Financial Statements  178p  
02 Materiality Report  188p  
03 UN Global Compact  194p
04 CEO Statement 
 on Human Rights  196p 
05 GRI Index  198p As a Partner for New Possibilities,  
We Journey Togetherwith Our Clients and Society
Financial 
Statements
December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Assets
Current Assets:
     Cash and cash equivalents 1,398,639 920,125
     Short-term financial instruments 311,474 514,417
     Short-term investment securities 106,068 60,127
     Accounts receivable – trade, net 2,257,316 1,954,920
     Short-term loans, net 79,395 84,908
     Accounts receivable – other, net 643,603 582,098
     Prepaid expenses 108,909 102,572
     Derivative financial assets 10 9,656
     Inventories, net 177,120 242,146
     Assets classified as held for sale 3,667 775,556
     Advanced payments and other 37,214 47,896
Total Current Assets 5,123,415 5,294,421SK TELECOM CO., LTD. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million)01 Financial Statements
02 Materiality Report  03 UN Global Compact04 CEO Statement 
 on Human Rights    
05 GRI Index   6
Additional 
Information
December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Non-Current Assets:
     Long-term financial instruments 8,142 144
     Long-term investment securities 968,527 953,712
     Investments in associates and joint ventures 5,325,297 4,632,477
     Property and equipment, net 10,196,607 9,712,719
     Investment property, net 15,811 27,479
     Goodwill 1,733,261 1,744,483
     Intangible assets, net 2,750,782 2,689,658
     Long-term loans, net 57,442 69,299
     Long-term prepaid expenses 32,008 31,341
     Guarantee deposits 249,600 236,242
     Long-term derivative financial assets 41,712 52,992
     Deferred tax assets 26,322 124,098
     Other non-current assets 47,589 26,494
Total Non-Current Assets 21,453,100 20,301,138
Total Assets 26,576,515 25,595,559(Continued)
178                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  179                  Additional InformationDecember 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:     Short-term borrowings     260,000 600,245
     Current portion of long-term debt, net 1,268,427 892,867
     Accounts payable – trade 214,716 253,884
     Accounts payable – other 1,864,024 1,811,038
     Withholdings 728,936 717,170
     Accrued expenses 988,193 890,863
     Income tax payable 112,316 60,253
     Unearned revenue 441,731 258,691
     Derivative financial liabilities 21,171 —  
     Provisions 66,775 287,307
     Advanced receipts and other 102,931 108,272
     Liabilities classified as held for sale —   294,305
Total Current Liabilities 6,069,220 6,174,895(Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million)
(Continued) (Continued)
December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Non-Current Liabilities:
     Debentures, net, excluding current portion 4,905,579 4,979,220
     Long-term borrowings, excluding current portion 104,808 369,237
     Long-term payables – other 838,585 715,508
     Long-term unearned revenue 50,894 160,821
     Finance lease liabilities 3,867 22,036
     Defined benefit obligations 74,201 86,521
     Long-term derivative financial liabilities 103,168 63,599
     Long-term provisions 28,106 106,561
     Deferred tax liabilities 168,825 —  
     Other non-current liabilities 62,705 62,379
Total Non-Current Liabilities 6,340,738 6,565,882
Total Liabilities 12,409,958 12,740,777
Equity
     Share capital 44,639 44,639
     Capital surplus (deficit) and other capital adjustments 317,508 (288,883)
     Retained earnings 13,102,495 12,124,657
     Reserves (12,270) (25,636)
     Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 13,452,372 11,854,777
     Non-controlling interests 714,185 1,000,005
Total Equity 14,166,557 12,854,782
Total Liabilities and Equity 26,576,515 25,595,559
180                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  181                  Additional InformationDecember 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Continuing operations
Operating revenue:
     Revenue 16,602,054 16,141,409
Operating expense:
     Labor cost 1,561,358 1,267,928
     Commissions paid 5,498,695 5,949,542
     Depreciation and amortization 2,661,623 2,421,128
     Network interconnection 1,043,733 1,057,145
     Leased line 448,833 468,785
     Advertising 394,066 384,353
     Rent 443,639 422,388
     Cost of products that have been resold 1,300,375 1,292,304
     Other operating expenses 1,238,623 1,147,787
14,590,945 14,411,360
Operating income 2,011,109 1,730,049
     Finance income 113,392 444,558
     Finance costs (571,203) (638,285)
     Gain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries, associates 
     and joint ventures, net706,509 (24,560)
     Other non-operating income 74,467 195,910
     Other non-operating expenses (507,173) (188,304)
Profit before income tax 1,827,101 1,519,368
     Income tax expense from continuing operations 400,797 288,207
Profit from continuing operations 1,426,304 1,231,161
     Discontinued operations
     Profit (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 183,245 (115,498)
Profit for the year 1,609,549 1,115,663
Attributable to:
     Owners of the Parent Company 1,638,964 1,151,705
     Non-controlling interests (29,415) (36,042)
Earnings per share
     Basic earnings per share (in won) 23,211 16,525
     Diluted earnings per share (in won) 23,211 16,141
   
Earnings per share - Continuing operations
     Basic earnings per share (in won) 20,708 18,015
     Diluted earnings per share (in won) 20,708 17,5832013 2012
(Restated)
Profit for the yearOther comprehensive income (loss)
     Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
     Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations 5,946 (15,048)
     Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
     Net change in unrealized fair value 
     of available-for-sale financial assets2,009(149,082)
     Net change in other comprehensive income      of investments in associates and joint ventures3,034(82,513)
     Net change in unrealized fair value of derivatives 11,222 (23,361)
     Foreign currency translation differences      for foreign operations(3,714)(49,538)
   
18,497 (319,542)
   
Total comprehensive income 1,628,046 796,121
   
     Total comprehensive income attributable to:
     Owners of the Parent Company 1,655,570 851,565
     Non-controlling interests (27,524) (55,444)SK TELECOM CO., LTD. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) (Continued)
182                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  183                  Additional InformationShare capital Capital deficit
and other
capital
adjustmentsCapital deficit
and other
capital
adjustmentsReserves Sub-total Sub-total Total equity
Balance, January 1, 2012 44,639 (285,347) 11,642,525 260,064 11,661,881 1,070,828 12,732,709
     Cash dividends —   —   (655,133) —   (655,133) (2,133) (657,266)
     Total comprehensive income
     Profit (loss) —   —   1,151,705 —   1,151,705 (36,042) 1,115,663
     Other comprehensive loss —   —   (14,440) (285,700) (300,140) (19,402) (319,542)
             
—   —   1,137,265 (285,700) 851,565 (55,444) 796,121
     Changes in ownership 
     in subsidiaries—   (3,536) —   —   (3,536) (13,246) (16,782)
             
Balance, December 31, 2012 44,639 (288,883) 12,124,657 (25,636) 11,854,777 1,000,005 12,854,782
             
Balance, January 1, 2013 44,639 (288,883) 12,124,657 (25,636) 11,854,777 1,000,005 12,854,782
     Cash dividends —   —   (655,946) —   (655,946) (2,242) (658,188)
     Total comprehensive      income
     Profit (loss) —   —   1,638,964 —   1,638,964 (29,415) 1,609,549
     Other comprehensive loss —   —   3,240 13,366 16,606 1,891 18,497
             
—   —   1,642,204 13,366 1,655,570 (27,524) 1,628,046
     Issuance of hybrid bond —   398,518 —   —   398,518 —   398,518
     Interest on hybrid bond —   —   (8,420) —   (8,420) —   (8,420)
     Treasury stock —   271,536 —   —   271,536 —   271,536
     Business combination 
     under common control—   (61,854) —   —   (61,854) —   (61,854)
     Changes in ownership       in subsidiaries—   (1,809) —   —   (1,809) (256,054) (257,863)
             
Balance, December 31, 2013 44,639 317,508 13,102,495 (12,270) 13,452,372 714,185 14,166,557(Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million)
December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Cash flows from operating activities:
     Cash generated from operating activities
     Profit for the year 1,609,549 1,115,663
     Adjustments for income and expenses 3,275,376 3,289,861
     Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating activities (969,870) 204,308
     Sub-total 3,915,055 4,609,832
     Interest received 64,078 88,711
     Dividends received 10,197 27,732
     Interest paid (300,104) (363,685)
     Income tax paid (130,656) (362,926)
Net cash provided by operating activities 3,558,570 3,999,664
   
Cash flows from investing activities:
     Cash inflows from investing activities:     Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net 186,425 464,531
     Decrease in short-term investment securities, net —   65,000
     Collection of short-term loans 290,856 282,658
     Proceeds from disposal of long-term financial instruments 16 23
     Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities 287,777 511,417
     Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures 43,249 1,518
     Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 12,579 271,122
     Proceeds from disposal of investment property
—   43,093
     Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 2,256 21,048
     Net proceeds from the disposition of non-current assets held for sale 190,393 —  
     Collection of long-term loans 13,104 11,525
     Decrease of deposits 8,509 41,785
     Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets 683 1,853
     Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries 215,939 89,002
     Increase in cash due to acquisition of a subsidiary —   26,651
     Sub-total 1,251,786 1,831,226SK TELECOM CO., LTD. and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 SK TELECOM CO., LTD. and SubsidiariesConsolidated Statements of Changes in Equity
For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012
184                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  185                  Additional InformationDecember 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Cash outflows for investing activities:
     Increase in short-term investment securities, net (45,032) —  
     Increase in short-term loans (279,926) (245,465)
     Increase in long-term loans (4,050 ) (3,464 )
     Increase in long-term financial instruments (7,510) (16)
     Acquisition of long-term investment securities (22,141) (92,929)
     Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures (97,366) (3,098,833)
     Acquisition of property and equipment (2,879,126) (3,394,349)
     Acquisition of investment property —   (129)
     Acquisition of intangible assets (243,163) (146,249)
     Increase in assets held for sale —   (51,831)
     Increase in deposits (83,314) (43,534)
     Increase in other non-current assets (1,830) (8,619)
     Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired (94,805) (43,389)
     Decrease in cash due to disposal of a subsidiary —   (12,003)
     Sub-total (3,758,263) (7,140,810)
   
Net cash used in investing activities (2,506,477) (5,309,584)December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012
(Restated)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Cash inflows from financing activities:
Issuance of debentures 1,328,694 2,098,351
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 105,055 2,059,004
Issuance of hybrid bond 398,518 —  
Cash inflows from derivative transactions 19,970 87,899
   
Sub-total 1,852,237 4,245,254
Cash outflows for financing activities:
Decrease in short-term borrowings, net (340,245) (61,401)
Repayment of current portion of long-term debt (161,575) (102,672)
Repayment of debentures (771,976) (1,145,691)
Repayment of long-term borrowings (467,217) (1,660,509)
Cash outflows from derivative transactions —   (5,415)
Payment of finance lease liabilities (20,342) (20,794)
Payment of dividends (655,946) (655,133)
Decrease in cash from the consolidated capital transaction (8,093) (8,372)
   
Sub-total (2,425,394) (3,659,987)
   
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (573,157) 585,267
   
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 478,936 (724,653)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 920,125 1,650,794
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash 
equivalents(422)(6,016)
   
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,398,639 920,125(Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) (Continued) (Continued)
186                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  187                  Additional InformationMateriality 
Report
SK Telecom Materiality Analysis Process
SK Telecom complies with the GRI guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) and the guides relating to deciding on report topics and composing contents 
recommended by the <IR> framework of the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC), and selects report topics through its annual materiality analysis process. 
“Materiality” as defined by SK Telecom refers to relevance in business and 
sustainability aspects and the impact that the level of aforementioned topics actually have on SK Telecom’s stakeholders and SK Telecom’s ability to create sustainable value. For the quantitative analysis of materiality, the company 
assessed the topics in terms of corporate vision and strategies, industry competition, 
international standards and media exposure, and incorporated the impact evaluation of stakeholders collected from a survey that targeted those stakeholders 
that participate each year. The final evaluation in this report was conducted 
in March 2014, and the 2014 evaluation also reflected the financial materiality which considered the risks and opportunity factors in terms of financial aspects 
compared with the previous year and its effects on future value creation.
M-1. Evidence of Relevance
 
To identify the relevance of each topic in business and sustainability aspects, 
the company assessed the relevance of its corporate vision and strategy, industry 
competition issues, the relevance of topics to international initiatives, and keywords 
appearing in the media. The assessments were conducted based on document analyses, and report topics were prioritized according to the assessment results.Universe of Issues
Materiality Test01.
Customer, Products 
and Services02. 
Supply Chain03. Environment
M-1. Evidence of Business and Sustainability Relevance• Assessments of a vision and future strategies, industry 
competition, laws and international standards, and media exposure 
• Based on document analyses 
M-2. Evidence of Stakeholder Impact• Evaluation of impact from major stakeholders, including employees, 
customers, shareholders and investors, NGOs, partner companies, 
media, and government 
• Based on a survey 
M-3. Financial Materiality Adjustment
• Adjustment through evaluating the financial impact level 
in terms of Risks, Market Competition, Future Value Creation04. Business Ethics05. Community
08. Economic Value 
Creation 06. 
Employees
07. Business Model 
& Innovation *8 areas, 
38 issuesMateriality Analysis Process
01 Financial Statements
02 Materiality Report  03 UN Global Compact04 CEO Statement 
 on Human Rights     
05 GRI Index   6
Additional 
Information
Reporting Topics
Prioritized Reporting Topics Set
188                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  189                  Additional InformationVision and Strategy 
Relevance 
 
In 2012, SK Telecom declared its new vision called, “Partner 
for New Possibilities,” and 
in 2013, the company also declared “Happy Companion,” 
the core value for achieving its 
vision. The company evaluated whether each subject was related 
to achieving the mid- to long-term 
vision and detailed strategies of “Happy Companion.” 
 
• Survey details: Vision 2020 
relevance, 4
th To-be Model, 
BOD Corporate Citizenship 
Committee official reports, past 
sustainability reports, data from 
analyst meetings in 2013
Relevance to International Initiatives
 
SK Telecom assessed the relevance 
of each topic based on the initiatives 
and standards deemed to be credible, 
including the UNGC Advanced Level 
program (for which SK Telecom publicly declared its support), 
ISO26000 (the global standard for 
social responsibility), and the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), 
all of which are benchmarks of global 
sustainability. 
 
• Analysis targets: UNGC 
Advanced Level, ISO26000, 
DJSI, GRI G4 GuidelinesTelecommunications Industry Issues
 
The company assessed whether 
each topic was an issue facing global 
telecommunications companies. It 
also examined the topics that global 
mobile and cable telecommunications 
leaders regard as high priority issues. 
 
• Target companies: 12 global cable 
and mobile telecommunications 
operators 
• Survey content: Material 
topics reported in major telecommunication companies’ 
environmental and social reports
Media 
Keywords
 
Topics that appeared in the media 
in 2013 were surveyed. In 2013, 
965 keywords were analyzed as 
the most popular in the articles 
except those related to stock 
markets or personnel issues.
• Target period: January 1, 2013 
through December 31, 2013 
• Target outlets: 15 daily 
newspapers, including 
The Chosun Ilbo, 
the Joongang Daily, 
and the Dong-a IlboEmployees42.3%
Customers
10.3%
Shareholders 
and Investors
6.1%NGO
8.2%Partner Companies
12.7%Media
7.7%Government2.8%Academia and Experts
9.9%M-2. Evidence of “Impact” 
To identify the impact of each topic on stakeholders, an online stakeholder survey 
was conducted. The survey targeted about 426 parties, including SK Telecom’s six biggest stakeholders, the media, and academia. The survey consisted of questions 
that asked about the interest and materiality of each major issue as perceived by 
the stakeholders. • Survey period: February 20, 2014 through March 3, 2014 
• Survey method: Online survey 
• Responses: 426 people
N=426Response Composition
190                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  191                  Additional InformationShareholders 
and Investors 
Mirae Asset Securities
Daewoo SecuritiesUBSCLSAKTB Investment 
& Securities
etc.Government 
Korea Information 
Society Development 
Institute (KISDI)
Korea Communications 
Commission (KCC)
Ministry of Science, 
ICT and Future Planning
etc. NGO
Kids and Future 
Foundation
Compassion Korea
Save the ChildrenBeautiful Foundation 
etc.
Academia and Experts 
UN Global 
Compact Korea
Korea 
Telecommunications 
Operators Association 
(KTOA)
Corporate Governance 
Service 
etc.Business Partners 
INTECH & Company
Opasnet
Teletron
R&B System 
etc.Shareholders and InvestorsMaterial Aspect Related GRI Aspects Location
01   Customer 
Retention 
and LoyaltyProduct and Service 
Labeling Customer Satisfactionp.76
02   Quality and  
Service-Based MarketingProduct and Service Labeling
Marketing Communicationsp.76
03   Talent Attraction 
and RetentionEmployment
Market Presence Diversity 
and Equal Opportunityp.134
04   Financial and
Business 
PerformanceEconomic Performance p.44, 62, 118
05   Human Capital 
DevelopmentTraining and Education p.110
06   Network Quality Non-GRI p.82
07   Anti-
Corruption ·
EthicsAnti-Corruption p.172
08   Creating 
Shared Values through ICTLocal Communities
Indirect Economic Impactp.94
09   Innovation 
ManagementNon-GRI p.88
10   Laws and 
Regulations Compliance ·
Fair OperationCompliance
Environment Compliance 
Product Responsibility 
Compliance p.149
11   Personal 
Information and Privacy 
ProtectionCustomer Privacy p.76
12   Convergence ·
B2B·New 
Business ModelNon-GRI p.88 Anti-Corruption ·Ethics
 Creating Shared Values through ICT
 Quality and Service-Based Marketing Talent Attraction and Retention Customer 
 Retention and Loyalty
 Network Quality
 Laws and Regulations Compliance ·Fair Operation
 Innovation Management
 Expansion of ICT-Based Sharing Culture Business Partner Support
 Harmful Contents ·Customer Protection
 Non-Discrimination ·Diversity 
 and Equal Opportunities
 Suppliers’ Responsibility
 Management-Labor Relationship ·Labor and Human Rights
 Health and Safety
 Waste and Pollution Discharge
 Resources ·Water
 Universal Human Rights ·Due Diligence
 Supply Chain Diversity
 Biodiversity Difficulty Resolution of Stakeholders
 Investor ·Shareholder Values Enhancement and
  Return to Shareholders ICT EcosystemHigh Group
ImpactHigh
LowMiddle Group
Low Group Direct·Indirect Economic Impacts
 such as Corporate Tax ·Employment ·Purchase Class·Disability Digital Inclusion
 Energy·Climate Change Strategy
 Eco-Friendly ICT Technology ·Infrastructure Privacy Protection
 Human Capital Development Financial and business 
 Performance
 Convergence ·B2B·
 New Business Model Reasonableness of Price Plans
 Brand
 Distribution Channel
 Investment (SK Hynix ·SK Planet, etc.) Electromagnetic Waves  ICT-based Social Company 
 Establishment Resolving Regional Information Gap
Low High Relevance
M-3. Financial Materiality Adjustment 
The effects each subject has on creating SK Telecom’s financial value on a 
mid- to long-term basis were assessed and weighed in terms of  “Risk,” 
“Market Competition,” and “Future Value Creation.” 
Results of the Selection of Material Aspects
Finally, material aspects are prioritized in terms of business and sustainability relevance, stakeholder impact and financial value creation, and are reflected in 
the report. As for the twelve “High Group” items, including “Customer Retention 
and Loyalty,” the management approach method and major data for each subject are all made public through narrative methods. Most of the “Middle Group” is also 
reported; however, parts of issues such as shareholder return, the management-labor 
relationship, labor and human rights, health and safety were reported only through data. The material aspects selected through the materiality test are reported in 
seven strategic main themes of Part 3 and MD&A of Part 4. Please refer to the 
following table for detailed reporting locations of the “High Group” issues.Materiality Assessment Results Location of Material Aspects in the Report
192                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  193                  Additional InformationUN 
Global Compact
Since joining the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007, SK Telecom has performed 
various activities to resolve national and international social problems, and to spread 
the global CSR trend. In 2013, SK Telecom entered a partnership with UN Global 
Compact (MOU), and launched the Social Enterprise Action Hub (pilot), a website which connects entrepreneurs of social companies worldwide with investors, 
and therefore, contributed to resolving global social problems by activating social 
companies. In addition, as the only company to participate in LEAD, a leading company consultative body under the UN Global Compact, SK Telecom in 2013 
offered the Board Program (a CSR education for board members and a key project 
of LEAD), to the Corporate Citizenship Committee, taking the initiative in applying 
the global CSR trend to Korea. SK Telecom is a founding member of UNGC Korea, 
a local association of UNGC, and has served as an operation committee member. As such, the company has been contributing to the taking root and expansion of 
CSR among Korean companies. In 2013, in major events organized by the UN Global 
Compact Korea such as the Global CSR Conference, Korea, China, Japan Round Table, the company introduced the “Research on social greenhouse gas reduction 
using ICT” case as a leading example of CSR in the environment management 
sector, thereby actively participating in the CSR expansion in Korea. As a result of such activities, SK Telecom was awarded the 2nd UN Global Compact Value Award 
in the “Community sharing” category as a superior company, being highly recognized 
as a leading company in CSR inside and outside of Korea.
Associations ·Initiatives Date Purpose ·Note
UN Global Compact 
HeadquartersMay 2007 Through its global CSR initiative activities, SK Telecom refined its CSR system and improved 
its CSR reputation both inside and outside of Korea.
UN Global Compact Korea Sep. 2007
UN Global Compact Jan. 2011 Jan. 2011 As an exemplary member of UNGC, SK Telecom was invited to be a founding member of 
UNGC LEAD and has participated in LEAD 
since 2011, greatly contributing to the development of good CSR examples and their expansionUN Global Compact ActivitiesUN Global Compact Advanced Criteria Index
UNGC Advanced Criteria Cross Reference/Direct Answer
Fulfillment of the UNGC 10 Principles in Strategy and Operation
Criterion 1 Commitment to integrate the UNGC 10 principles into 
business function and unitsp.34-37, p.194-195
Criterion 2 Practicing the UNGC 10 principles across the value chain p.166-169
Definite Human Rights Policy and Procedure
Criterion 3 Human rights commitment, strategy, and policy p.196-197
Criterion 4 Effective management system to incorporate the human 
rights principles into business and management proceduresp.196-197
Criterion 5 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the human right principles in the business and 
management proceduresInterpreted formal grievance 
mechanism for human rights, and 
evaluation mechanisms for human 
rights/labor/environment operated 
when evaluating partner companies
Definite Labor Policy and Procedure
Criterion 6 Labor commitment, strategy, and policy p.134-137
Criterion 7 Effective management system to incorporate the labor 
principles into business and management proceduresp.114, Through the trade union and collective bargaining, the labor 
principles are integrated and 
the labor-management council 
holds regular meetings
Criterion 8 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance 
with the labor principles in the business and management 
proceduresp.114, p.134-137, 
The Labor-Management Council 
holds regular meetings and operate 
the grievance channel for employees
Definite Environmental Policy 
and Procedure
Criterion 9 Environment commitment, strategy, and policy p.100-104
Criterion 10 Effective management system to incorporate 
the environmental principles into business and 
management proceduresp.100-104
Criterion 11 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the environmental principles in the business 
and management proceduresp.100-104
Definite Ethics and Compliance Policy and Procedure
Criterion 12 Ethics commitment, strategy, and policy p.172-175
Criterion 13 Effective management system to incorporate the ethical 
principles into business and management proceduresp.172-175
Criterion 14 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance 
with the ethical principles in the business and management 
proceduresp.172-175
Activities to Support the More Broad and Comprehensive UN Objectives 
and Goals
Criterion 15 Contribution through key businesses to help achieve
the UN objectives and goalsp.94-99
Criterion 16 Strategic community investment and charity work to help 
achieve the UN objectives and goalsp.94-99
Criterion 17 Public engagement and communication to help achievethe UN objectives and goalsp.166-169, p.194-195
Criterion 18 Partnerships and outside initiatives to help achieve 
the UN objectives and goalsp.166-169, p.194-195
Governance and Leadership 
for Sustainability
Criterion 19 CEO’s sustainability commitment and leadership p.34-37
Criterion 20 The Board of Directors’ selection and oversight 
of sustainability agenda itemsp.166-169
Criterion 21 Stakeholder engagement p.166-16901 Financial Statements
02 Materiality Report  03 UN Global Compact04 CEO Statement 
 on Human Rights     
05 GRI Index   6
Additional 
Information
194                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  CEO Statement 
on Human Rights
Under the SKMS principle, “For the company’s continuous development, the 
company creates value for customers, employees, and shareholders, fulfills 
a key role in social and economic development, and makes contributions to 
the happiness of mankind,” SK Telecom aims to accomplish its business goals while fulfilling its social responsibilities and codes of conduct. The company’s 
social responsibilities defines its human rights duties towards customers, 
employees, partner companies, and community.
SK Telecom, as a company that practices a high level of awareness of global 
citizenship, respects the basic rights of all stakeholders that it encounters through 
products, services, contracts, purchases, and other business activities.
SK Telecom declares its support for the human rights principles stated in the UN 
Universal Declaration Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Ruggie Framework and pledges to fulfill its human rights 
responsibilities. SK Telecom will make every effort to prevent human rights abuse 
involving business and avoid complicity in such abuses. Furthermore, the company will ensure governance with integrity to take measures and provide communication 
regarding an organization responsible, under the UNGC Human Rights/Labor 
Principles, the operating structure, the monitoring process, and incidents. SK Telecom will exercise due diligence to assure compliance of the policy within 
whole supply chain as well as SK Telecom and its subsidiaries.  
Specifically, SK Telecom, as an ICT provider, is aware of potential human rights 
risks in the following aspects and will do its utmost to prevent any problems 
that may occur:01 _ Human Rights of Employees and Partner Companies 
(Human Rights in the Workplace) 
• Fundamental prevention of wrong labor practices, such as child and forced labor
• Prevention of discrimination by gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, and race
• Political, religious, and physical freedom, and respect of civil rights
Other labor principles recommended by the International Labor Organization (ILO) 
and endorsed by the government: safety/health, working hours, etc.
02 _ Human Rights in Privacy Policies 
• Demanding minimum personal information, recording and saving to comply 
with laws
• Notification prior to saving information, fiduciary duty, and ability to freely delete 
information
• Optimal security system for preventing leaks, including data encryption
• Limited and responsible use of personal information for service/marketing purposes
03 _ Human Rights in Access to Information & Freedom of Expression 
• Obligation to ensure equality of access to services regardless of class/disabilities
• Efforts to bridge the digital/smart divide: education, price plans, and systems
• Responsibility for distributed information to protect minors, including children and
adolescents
• Fundamental support for freedom of expression
04 _ Prevention of Misuse of Technologies, Services, and Data 
(Human Rights in Technology) 
• Refusal to use technologies, electronic devices, and data for dual purposes
• Prevention of misuse of technologies, such as wiretapping, signal interference, 
or hacking
SK Telecom always keeps the channels of stakeholder communication open to 
prevent any human rights violations. If you have witnessed or experienced incidents 
of such violations, please inform the Company through the appropriate channel. 
(http://sktelecom.com/en/sktelecom/csr/csr04_02.jsp)
SK Telecom is committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities and pursuing 
the happiness of stakeholders and pledges to take the lead in advocating and complying with the Human Rights principles. 01 Financial Statements
02 Materiality Report  03 UN Global Compact04 CEO Statement 
on Human Rights 
05 GRI Index   6
Additional 
Information
Sung-Min Ha
President and CEO  SK Telecom 
196                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  197                  Additional InformationGRI 
Index
Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission Assurance
Strategy and Analysis
G4-1 CEO Message ● p.34-37
G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities ● p.72-75
Organizational ProfileG4-3 Name of the organization ● SK Telecom Co., Ltd. √
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services ● p.56-59 √
G4-5 Location of the headquarters●SK-T tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, 
Korea√
G4-6 Number and name of countries the organization 
operates●p.206√
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form ● Corporation √
G4-8 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customer and beneficiaries) ●Over 95% of Revenues are generated from Republic of Korea. For our business model, 
please refer to p.56-59√
G4-9 Scale of the organization
●Employees – p.130, p.134,  Financial Statements – p.118-127, 
Number of Operations – 26 local operations 
in Korea, and 9 global offices√
G4-10 Total number of employees ● p.130, p.134 √
G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements●p.132, p.137√
G4-12 Organization’s supply chain ● p.58 √
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 
regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, 
or its supply chain●2013 Business Report p.48-65
G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach is 
addressed●p.166-169√
G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and 
social charters, principles or other initiatives to which 
the organization subscribes●p.166-169, p.194-195
G4-16 Memberships of associations ● p.5GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures
Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission Assurance
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated 
financial statements, and whether any entity is not 
covered by the report ●p.1, Entities list is included in the 2013 
Business Report p.48-65 √
G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries●p.188-193√
G4-19 List of all material aspects identified ● p.188-193 √
G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization ● p.1 √
G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization●p.1√
G4-22 Any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons●Specific attention indicated as notes if necessary
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries●Specific attention indicated as notes if necessary01 Financial Statements
02 Materiality Report  03 UN Global Compact04 CEO Statement 
 on Human Rights   
05 GRI Index   6
Additional 
Information
●Reported   / ○Not Reported ●Reported   / ○Not Reported
198                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  199                  Additional InformationIndicator Description Reported Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission Assurance
Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged ● p.188-193 √
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 
stakeholders●p.166-169 √
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement ● p.166-169 √
G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders, and how the organization has responded to 
those topics●p.188-193
√
Report Profile
G4-28 Reporting period ● FY 2013 √
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report ● p.1 √
G4-30 Reporting cycle ● Annual √
G4-31 Contact point ● p.208 √
G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option ● p.1, Comprehensive √
G4-33 Policy and current practice with external 
assurance●p.1√
Governance
G4-34 Governance structure ● p.50-51, p.160-161 √
G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, 
environmental, and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives 
and other employees●p.166-169 
√
G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an 
executive-level position or positions with 
responsibility for economic, environmental and 
social topics●p.166-169
√
G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body 
on economic, environmental and social topics●p.166-169
√
G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committee●p.160-161√
G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance 
body is also an executive officer●p.50-51, p.160-161√
G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees●p.160-161 √
G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and 
managed●p.50-51, p.160-161 
√
G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior 
executives’ roles in the development, approval, 
and updating the organization’s purpose, value 
or mission statements, strategies, policies and 
goals to economic, environmental and social 
impacts●p.160-161
√
G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the 
highest governance body’s collective knowledge 
of economic, environmental and social topics●p.166-169 
√
G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest 
governance body’s performance with respect 
to governance of economic, environmental and social topics●p.162-165
√Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission Assurance
G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks, and 
opportunities●p.160-161, p.166-169, p.170-171
√
G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk 
management process ●p.160-161, p.170-171
√
G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s 
review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities●p.160-161
√
G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally 
reviews and approves the sustainability report●p.166-169√
G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body●p.166-169√
G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that 
were communicated to the highest governance body ●p.166-169
√
G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest 
governance body and senior executives●p.162-165√
G4-52 The process for determining remuneration ● p.162-165 √
G4-53 How stakeholder’s view and sought and taken into account regarding remuneration●p.162-165√
G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for 
the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation for all 
employees●p.162-165
√
G4-55 Ratio of the percentage in annual total 
compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median percentage increase in 
annual total compensation for all employees●p.162-165
√
G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of 
behavior such as codes of conduct ●p.172-175, and please refer to http://www.sktelecom.com/ethics
G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior●p.172-175√
G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior●p.172-175√●Reported   / ○Not Reported●Reported   / ○Not Reported
200                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  201                  Additional InformationAspect Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference/
Direct Answer/OmissionAssurance
Economic 
PerformanceG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ●p.44-47 
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed●p.62-63√
G4-EC2 Financial implications and 
other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change●p.100-104
√
G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan 
obligations●Applied to all full-time employees as Defined 
Contributions or Defined Benefits
G4-EC4 Financial assistance received 
from government●p.62-63√
Market 
PresenceG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.134-137
G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 
local minimum wage ●SK Telecom provides entry level wages higher 
than local minimum wage in all regions and 
operations, and does not discriminate due to 
employee’s gender. However entry level wage 
ratio to minimum wage was not disclosed due 
to our internal information policies. . 
G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the 
local community●In Korea, all senior management were hired 
from the local community (100%). Please see 
p.130 for the oversee offices. 
Indirect Economic ImpactsG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.94-99
G4-EC7 Development and impact of 
infrastructure investments and 
services supported●p.94-99
√
G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts●p.94-99√
Products 
and ServicesG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.88-93, p.100-104
G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of 
products and services●p.100-104
√
G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials○Not Applicable. No significant level of packaging materials use. 
Employment G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.134-137
G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 
turnover●p.134-137
√
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees 
●Pension plans, medical expenses(including family), medical care, parental leaves, refresh 
vacations, educational expenses for children, 
housing funds are provided to full-time 
employees. 
G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave●p.131√Aspect Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference/
Direct Answer/OmissionAssurance
Training and 
EducationG4-DMA Disclosures and Management Approach ●p.110-115
G4-LA9 Average hours of training ● p.110-115 √
G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong 
learning that support the 
continued employability and 
assist employees in managing career endings●p.110-115
√
G4-LA11 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews●p.110-115, p.136
√
Diversity and Equal 
OpportunitiyG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ●p.110-115
G4-LA12 Composition of Governance bodies and breakdown of 
employees according to 
gender, age group, minority 
and other indicators of 
diversity●p.50-51, p.130
√
Local Communities G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.94-99 
G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with 
implemented local community engagement, impact 
assessment, and development 
programs●Over 95% of the revenues are generated from Republic of Korea, and SK Telecom fully implemented social engagement program in 
Korea local community.
G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communities●No significant actual/potential impact on local 
communities
Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on Management 
Approach●p.172-175
G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for 
risks related to corruption ●p.175, In 2013, SK Telecom mainly focused 
on the diagnosis of the distribution process. 
Number and percentage is not applicable. √
G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 
procedures●p.172-175
√
G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of  corruption and actions taken●p.172-175√
Anti-Competitive 
behaviorG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.172-175, p.149
G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions 
for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices and their outcomes●p.149
√
Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.149
G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant 
fines and total number of non-
monetary sanctions for non-
compliance with laws and 
regulations●p.149
√GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures ●Reported   / ○Not Reported ●Reported   / ○Not Reported
202                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  203                  Additional InformationAspect Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference/
Direct Answer/OmissionAssurance
Product and Service 
LabelingG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.76-81 
G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the 
organization’s procedures 
for product and service 
information labeling●p.149
√
G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary 
codes concerning product and 
service information labeling●p.149
√
G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction●p.76-81√
Marketing 
CommunicationsG4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.76-81
G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products●0 cases. SK Telecom does not sell any banned or disputed products.
G4-PR7 Total number of incidents 
of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 
communications●p.149
Customer Privacy G4-DMA Disclosures on Management 
Approach●p.76-81
G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 
of customer privacy and losses 
of customer data ●p.76-81
√
Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach●p.149
G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant 
fines for non-compliance 
with laws and regulations concerning the provision and 
use of products and services●p.149
√Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference/
Direct Answer/OmissionAssurance
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● p.140, p.144 √
G4-EN5 Energy intensity ● p.140, p.144 √
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● p.140, p.144 √
G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● p.141 √
G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions  (Scope 1) ● p.140, p.143 √
G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions  (Scope 2)●p.140, p.143√
G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ● p.140, p.143 √
G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions ● p.94-99, p.143 √
G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method●p.141, p.146√
G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total 
number of non-monetary sanctions for non-
compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations●p.149, 0 Cases. 
√
G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditure and 
investments●p.142, p.148√
G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were 
screened using environmental criteria●p.133, p.138√
G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanisms●p.167, Eight cases (in total of environmental & social) of major stakeholder issues were received 
through the online channel in 2013, 100% of 
which were successfully resolved. √
G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury
● p.132 √
G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria●p.133, p.138√
G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices 
filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 
grievance mechanisms●p.167
√
G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken
●No areas of business with the possibility of serious incidents of child labor. SK Telecom 
disclosed the human right policy in 2012, and 
included child labor criteria into the supply chain policy. 
G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having 
significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor
●No areas of business with the possibility of serious incidents of forced labor. SK Telecom 
disclosed the human right policy in 2012, and 
included forced or compulsory labor criteria into 
the supply chain policy.
G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that 
have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessments ●SK Telecom applies human right policy to all 
operations and relevant supply chains. 
G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were 
screened using human rights criteria●p.133, p.138√
G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanisms ●p.167
√
G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country 
and recipient/beneficiary●0 KRW. No donations to political parties or 
politicians. 
G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ● p.133, p.138 √
G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on 
society filed, addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanisms ● p.167 √GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures - Other Disclosures ●Reported   / ○Not Reported●Reported   / ○Not Reported
204                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  Global Network Investor Information
Korea
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu,
Seoul 100-999, KoreaTel.82-2-6100-2114
U.S.
SK Telecom Americas
310 De Guigne Drive, 
Sunnyvale, CA 94085, U.S.Tel.1-408-328-2900
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. 
New York Office
10F , 55 East 59th Street, 
New York, NY 10022, U.S.
Tel.1-646-737-3462
China
SK Telecom 
(China) Holding Co., Ltd.25F , SK Tower, No. 6 Jia, 
Jianguomenwai Avenue, 
Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, China 
Tel.86-10-5920-7777
Singapore 
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. 
Singapore Branch4 Shenton Way, SGX Centre II, 
Singapore 068807
Tel.65-6654-1320
Japan
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office
8F , NBF Hibiya Bldg., 1-1-7, 
Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, Japan
Tel.81-3-3591-3800Vietnam
The Representative Office of 
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. 
in Ho Chi Minh City, VietnamUnit 1212A, 12F , 
Diamond Plaza, 
34 Le Duan Street, Ben Ngha Ward, District 1, 
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 
Tel.84-8-3822-9145
Indonesia
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. 
Jakarta OfficeIndonesia Stock Exchange Building, 
Tower2, 26th Floor, 
Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav 52-53, Jakarta 12190, Indonesia
Tel.62-21-5140-0100
Malaysia
SK Malaysia 
Representative OfficeSuite 53A, Level 53, 
Vista Tower, The Intermark, 
348 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel.603-2166-9011Corporate Headquarters
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu,
Seoul 100-999, KoreaTel: 82-2-6100-2114
Date of Establishment
March 29, 1984
Paid in Capital
KRW 44,639 millionAs of December 31, 2012
Number of Common Shares
80,745,711 Shares
As of December 31, 2012
Securities Listings
Korea Stock Exchange: 
017670.KS (Common Stock)New York Stock Exchange: 
SKM (ADS)
Transfer Agent and Registrar
Kookmin Bank
Securities Agency Business Department,
36-3, Yeoido-dong, 
Yeongdeungpo-gu,Seoul, Korea
Tel: 82-2-2073-8110
Fax: 82-2-2073-8111
American Depositary Shares
Citibank, N.A. 388 Greenwich St., 
14th Floor, New York, 
NY 10013, U.S.Tel: 1-212-816-6855
Fax: 1-212-816-6865Available Filings
Form 20-F
Form 6-K: Quarterly Reports,
Proxy Statements, and other material announcements
Annual General 
Shareholders’ Meeting
Friday, March 21, 2014, 
at 10 AMSK Telecom Boramae Building, Boramaero 5gil 1, Gwanak-gu,
Seoul, Korea
Company Website
www.sktelecom.com/en/
Investor Relations
For investor inquiries,
Email: irmeeting@sk.com 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu,
Seoul 100-999, Korea
206                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  207                  Additional InformationTo contribute to resource recycling and 
environmental protection, 
SK Telecom used Forest Stewardship 
Council’s FSCTM-certified paper to publish the 2013 Annual Report 
and print it using soy-based ink certified 
with the FSCTM Chain of Custody (Certificate No.: C110010).
The company also participates in the 
Carbon Neutral Program run by the Korea Energy Management Corporation to offset greenhouse gas emissions 
generated from the pulp and energy 
used to print reports.
Despite the company’s varying efforts 
to reduce environmental impacts, since the process of making and printing in 
paper generates pollutants, this Report 
is published both in print and as an interactive PDF file. 
SK Telecom plans on reducing resource 
and energy use and using more interactive PDF files that contain a 
lot more information than in the print 
version due to lack of space. We encourage our readers to access 
this Report as a PDF file instead of 
the print edition to save resources and protect the environment, while 
accessing a lot more information more 
conveniently.You can download this Report as a PDF file 
from the official website of
SK Telecom (http://www.sktelecom.com)
SK Telecom 
Annual Report
2013
Publication Date
June 2014
Publishing
SK Telecom
Publisher
Sung-Min Ha
Production Direction
Strategy and Planning Division
Financial Strategy & 
Management Office 
IR Team(contact: 
hyeseung.han@sk.com)Participants of 
SK Telecom 
Office of the Board of Directors
Jin-Sok Lee 
Ethics Management Team
Sun-Yong Lee 
Management Support Team 2
Il-Young Kim
Dae-In Jeong
Big Data TF
Sun-Woo Park
Sang-Woong Jeon
CEM Team 
Min-Soo Kang
Jin-Sik Cho
Marketing Strategy Team
Hyung-Bae Lee
Distribution Innovation 
Sang-Min Lee
Enterprise Business 
Strategy TeamSeung-Taek Hwang
IoT Business Team
Woo-Yong Kim
Ju-Young Lee
Product Planning Team 1
Woo-Kyeom Lee
Mi-Youn Ko
Prouduct Planning Team 4
Jun-Young Chung
Network Strategy Team
Seung-Hoon Lee
Gangnam Network Quality 
Solution Team
Soon-Ji Choi
Healthcare Strategy Team
Ji-Young Lee
Corporate Development 
Support Team
Joon-Yub Lee
Corporate Development Team 1
Soo-Hwan Kim
Access Network Lab
Seong-Keun Kim
Security Technology Lab
In-Ho Kim
Platform Tech. Lab
Yong-Hyun Kwon
Emerging Technology R&D 
Strategy TeamMoon-Hong KimSKMS TeamJung-Hee Park
OD & EMD Team
Ji-Eun Lee
HR Strategy Team
Je-Chan Jung
HR Operation Team
Min-Jee Kim
Values Development Team
Kyoung-Hyoung Jang
Policy Development Team
Hyun-Joon Lim
Business Cooperation Team
Seong-Yeon Ryu
PR Planning Team
Hae-Jung Kwon
Jung-Han Doh
Byung-Gu Min
Sun-Oon Jeong
PR Team 1
Uk Jeong
Jae-Seok Heo
Competition Policy Team
Dong-Suk Seo
Kwang-Hwa Jung
Technology Cooperation Team
Seung-Hak Lee
Min-Seok Jang
CR Supporting Team
Jong-Hyun Chae
Dong-Kyun Ham
CSV Planning Team
Seung-Hee Lee
CSV Operation Team
Se-Young Kang
Corporate Legal Team
Un-Hyung Kim
Corporate Strategy Team
Hwan-Seok Choi
Procurement Planning Team
Joo-Young Lee
Partner Collaboration Team
Eun-Jung Kim
Accounting Team
Young-Kil KimMi-Ji Jang
Yong-Seok Jang
Tax Team
Nam-Sik ChoIR Team 
Hong-Kyu Park
Jeong-Hwan Choi
Dong-Seop Kim
Min-Joo Kim
Jung-Hyun Kim
Tae-Hee Kim
Hye-Seung Han
SK Hynix
Shin-Ji Kim
SK Planet
JI-Un Lee
SK Broadband
Baek-Hyung Lee
SK Telink
Han-Ki Song
Planning & Advisory
Korea Productivity Center
Editing
Yirang Communications
Design
AAA
Photograph
Panta Creation 
Printing
Iljin Printing
208                       SK Telecom Annual Report 2013  SK Telecom has been leading Korea’s ICT ecosystem 
based on the world’s “best” and “first” technologies and services. Furthermore, SK Telecom’s notably ceaseless pursuit of innovation is why the company has been leading the way in developing 
mobile communications technologies.