1
BEYOND 
THE NEW 
NORMAL 
SK 
TELECOM 
ANNUAL 
REPORT 
2019
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS  30
OUR BUSINESS MODEL  40
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS  42
OUR SUBSIDIARIES  44
MATERIALITY  46
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 54MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW01
MID - TO LONG - TERM STRATEGY 	 59
STRENGTHENING ICT INFRASTRUCTURE 		 60
MAXIMIZING VALUE OF NEW ICT PORTFOLIO 		 63
CREATING NEW VALUE BY SHARING INFRASTRUCTURE 		 64ADVANCED TO NEW ICT02
STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS FOR SOCIAL VALUE 	 69
SOCIAL VALUE CREATION IN LINE WITH   
STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS 	 70
SOCIAL VALUE MEASUREMENT 	 74SOCIAL VALUE03
CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE 	 82
BUSINESS OPERATIONS 	 84
CUSTOMERS 	 86
MEMBERS 	 91
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 	 94
SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 		 	 98SUSTAINABLE ISSUE04
FINANCIAL STATEMENT     146
NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT  166
I N D E X        
GRI STANDARDS / SASB / UNGC / TCFD / UN SDGS 180
FINANCIAL STATEMENT(NON-CONSOLIDATED) 202
ABOUT THIS REPORT  208APPENDIX06GOVERNANCE REPORT 102
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT  118
INTEGRITY REPORT  128
HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT  134
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  138ACCOUNTABILITY05
Beyond the new normal
The everyday lives that we will soon face, may be a world that 
no one has experienced and a future no one has ever imagined. 
However, SK Telecom believes that the approaching NEW NORMAL 
will be an era of opportunities and challenges. Based on its 5G 
and ICT technology, SK Telecom has fortified its competitiveness, 
expanded collaboration and created social value to diligently 
prepare for the NEW NORMAL before anyone else. Moving forward, 
SK Telecom pledges to grow into a new global ICT company that 
leads the global ICT industry, creating more opportunities and 
taking up bold challenges. New everyday lives with SK Telecom, 
the incredible experience is about to begin. 5 4
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TO GLOBAL 
NEW ICT 
COMPANY5 4SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
As the first in the world, SK Telecom has opened the doors to 
hyper-generation through the commercialization of 5G and is 
leading a hyper-connected generation. In 2019, SK Telecom 
built 4 portfolios for the MNO, media, security and commerce 
business sectors and recorded the highest ever sales performance, 
establishing a foundation to take another step forward as a NEW 
GLOBAL ICT company. In 2020, the company plans to solidify its 
leadership in the 4 business sectors and create synergy among the 
businesses to grow as a leader in each sector.7 6
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 7 6SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
MNO
We will solidify our leadership through differentiated 
services of 5G technology.
In 2019, SK Telecom became the first company in the world to commercialize 
5G and unlock the 5G hyper-generation. By offering differentiated services 
for 5G technology, we provided a foundation for MNO’s re-growth. This is a 
result of our company proactively pursuing value-creating programs centered 
on customers with the maximization of 5G-based network technology, and 
executing scientific marketing that is integrated with Data and AI. We plan 
to exert multi-faceted efforts to secure continued growth of MNO and robust 
leadership, create a wide range of business models through close collaboration 
with global companies, and identify new opportunities for growth. 9 8
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 9 8SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We will grow as an industry leader by building platforms and 
developing content.
In order to be a step ahead in the global media market where competition is 
getting fiercer by day, SK Telecom is continuously accepting new challenges. 
SK Broadband, which has been merged with a domestic cable TV company, 
T-Broad, is continuing to grow with increased number of premium subscribers 
and heightened content utilization. In addition, by successfully launching 
“wavve,” a  joint venture of the video streaming services oksusu and POOQ, we 
have solidified our position in the media market. Through the establishment of 
unique platforms and development of differentiated content, SK Telecom plans 
to strengthen product competitiveness and expand partnerships with domestic 
and international companies, in order to become the industry’s leading 
comprehensive media company. MEDIA11 10
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We lead the security industry by paving the way for 
convergent security.
To bolster competitiveness in the security market, SK Telecom acquired ADT 
Caps and SK infosec and successfully established a convergent security system 
that covers physical and information security as well as quantum cryptography. 
Also, we are facilitating the growth of the security business by presenting 
new services such as Cloud security, unattended parking, senior care etc. 
with our enhanced technology and broad sales capacity. We are committed 
to creating a foundation for continued growth by securing the Number 1 
spot in the information security business. To this end, we will strengthen the 
competitiveness of the convergent security business which embodies ICT 
technology and security, and pursue the expansion of synergy among the SK ICT 
affiliates as well as the enhancement of the global portfolio. 10SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SECURITY1113 12
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We provide an optimal shopping experience using our 
advanced ICT technologies. 
Even in the midst of the competitive e-Commerce industry, 11th Street, which 
provides customized services based on enhanced technologies such as 
Big Data, AI etc. and offers new shopping experiences through varied and 
differentiated promotions, is solidifying its foundation for growth. Moreover, SK 
stoa expanded its business into TV, mobile, PC and other channels, thriving as 
a total T commerce company. While working to secure partnerships with major 
domestic and international partners and establish the foundation of 11st Street 
in the e-Commerce market through differentiated ICT technology, SK Telecom 
will also strive to accelerate the growth of T commerce through partnerships 
with media companies and nurture SK stoa as number 1 in the industry. 13 12SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
COMMERCE15 14
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 15 14SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
WITH HYPER 
COLLABORA-
TION
To survive and grow in the rapidly changing global ICT industry, 
it is essential to pursue hyper-collaboration that integrates 
companies from various sectors for cooperation. SK Telecom is 
strengthening its multifaceted collaboration in various sectors 
such as MNO, media, gaming etc. by signing strategic partnerships 
with domestic and international industry leaders for synergy 
creation. By establishing a new global ICT ecosystem with leading 
companies in various sectors, we will secure new growth engines 
and expand our global market reach.  17 16
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 17 16SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We will advance into the gaming sector through cooperation 
with global companies.
Based on its superior competencies in ICT, SK Telecom has signed partnership 
agreements with domestic and international ICT companies in gaming and 
e-Sports sectors and is preparing to enter into the global market. In cooperation 
with the Microsoft, we are in the process of developing Cloud games based 
on 5G, which we will be launching soon. With Comcast, we developed a joint 
venture company inspired by SK Telecom’s eSports group, T1, and are pursuing 
an inclusive collaboration in the media sector. In 2020, we plan to establish 
state-of-the-art gaming platforms in Asia in cooperation with Singapore’s 
Singtel and Thailand’s AIS.BUILDING 
A GLOBAL 
5G ECOSYSTEM19 18
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 19 18SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We will fortify partnerships in the media sector with global 
broadcasting companies. 
For the development of new business models using SK Telecom’s competencies 
in ICT, the company is actively pursuing collaborative opportunities with global 
leaders of the broadcasting sector. By joining hands with one of the strongest 
players in the content business, the American terrestrial telecommunications 
company Sinclair Broadcast Group, we decided to officially launch ATSC 3.0, 
a standard for digital broadcasting business in the U.S starting in 2020. By 
applying SK Telecom’s excellent ICT technologies including Cloud infrastructure 
management and network technologies such as high-quality video transfers 
for mobiles, the company plans to bring a whole new viewing experience to the 
viewers. LEADING 
THE AGE 
OF HYPER-
INNOVATION21 20
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 21 20SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
FOR CREATING 
SOCIAL 
VALUE
SK Telecom employs the Double Bottom Line, a principle that 
considers not only economic value but the creation of social value 
as part of economic performances, and pursues management 
that generates long-term and sustainable growth with the 
society. In particular, we are focused on operating a wide range 
of programs and services using cutting-edge ICT technologies 
and infrastructure, and on supporting the development of social 
enterprises and startups related to ICT, thereby creating social 
value. 23 22
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 23 22SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We are broadening welfare services for the socially 
vulnerable group with our ICT technology. 
SK Telecom is expanding its series of activities with the belief that ICT technology 
has the power to instill new hope for the socially vulnerable groups. We offer 
the “AI Care service” that alleviates issues of loneliness, safety and health such 
as dementia for seniors living alone, and as the first in the country, we have 
established and are operating an “AI-based dementia prevention programs”.  
Also, through programs such as “ICT Make-a-thon,” a competition for ICT 
challenge geared toward youths with disabilities, the “T-map Taxi” service for 
taxi drivers with hearing impairment, “Library for Happiness,” providing cost-
free audio content for people with visual impairment, we are enhancing welfare 
for people with disabilities through numerous programs that embody the ICT 
technology.PROVIDING  
ICT 
WELFARE25 24
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 25 24SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We contribute to the mitigation of ICT information disparity 
through experiment-based educational programs.
ICT renders its true significance as a technology when it brings benefits to 
everyone, regardless of region, environment and age. In this respect, SK 
Telecom has been operating a variety of training programs to eliminate ICT 
information disparity. Through “T.um Mobile,” an experiment-based visiting 
program that is offered for children and youths in all regions across the country, 
we offer exciting events for children to learn about ICT and dream about the 
future. Also, for the middle and old - aged group that may be experiencing ICT 
alienation, we have been operating “Smart phone trainings for adults,” and we 
recently launched a new program called “Exciting Coding Class,” that facilitates 
easy comprehension of coding for students with the help of educational robots. REALIZING 
ICT 
EQUALITY 27 26
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
ABOUT SK TELECOM
United StatesChina
Japan
MalaysiaICT Synergy Company that pursues the happiness of customers, members 
and stakeholders as number 1 priority
SK Telecom has ranked number one on the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI), the Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) 
and the Korea Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) for the longest-running period.Recognized for superior ESG by various rating agencies including domestic 
and international institutions, NGOs, government, investment institutions etc. SK Telecom’ s business sectors and affiliates
Number 1 in all three of Korea’ s major customer satisfaction surveys  Recognition of excellence in ESG 
Innovation and 
technologyNew customer 
experiencesSocial value creation
We utilize technology such as 5G and AI to 
create innovative products and services.We offer services that are tailored to our 
customers by applying the AI technology to 
various sectors including media, security, 
commerce, etc.We work alongside our society on social 
challenges, and we find solutions through 
ICT innovation.ICT Synergy Company 
23 consecutive yearsNCSI 
22 consecutive yearsKCSI 
20 consecutive yearsKS-SQISK Telecom is building New Biz business areas of media, security and commerce in addition to wired and wireless 
communications businesses. Based on 5G communication technology, we are making headway for technology development 
in various areas such as AI(artificial intelligence), Big Data, IoT, mobility, quantum cryptography etc. and stepping forward 
as a global ICT leader. In addition, as an ICT Synergy Company, we will continue contemplating on creating happiness and 
value for our customers, members and stakeholders using our infrastructure and technical competencies as an effort to 
progress with the society. For these efforts, we set a record for placing 1st in the 3 major customer satisfaction surveys 
in 2019 for the longest period of time. 
Date of establishment
Number of employees 
Number of subsidiaries
Address of Headquarters
Corporate website  
Paid-in Capital
Number of issued 
shares in total
Stock exchange  
registration status  
 
Transfer Agent and 
Register  
Annual general  
shareholders meeting
Contact information  Available  
Filings  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 KRW 44,639million
80,745,711 shares  
Korea Stock Exchange: 107670.KS  
(common stocks) 
New York Stock Exchange: SKM 
London Stock Exchange: SKMD
Securities Agency Dept. at KB Kookmin Bank 
36-3, Yeouido-dong, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 
Korea T. 82-2-2073-8105 F. 82-2-2073-8111
Thursday, March 26, 2020 SK T Tower, 65,  
Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea(04539)
Email: skt.ir@sk.com
T. 82-2-6100-2114Korean  
Electronic Disclosure System of Financial  
Supervisory Service:  
http://dart.fss.or.kr > Search word: SK Telecom   
Public Disclosure Channel of Korea Exchange: 
http://kind.krx.co.kr> Search word: SK Telecom 
English  
New York Stock Exchange: 
www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companyse -
arch.html > Company Name: Search ‘SK Telecom’ 
London Stock Exchange: 
www.londonstockexchange.com  March 29, 1984
5,425
48
SK T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea(04539)
Korean   https://www.sktelecom.com
English   https://www.sktelecom.com/index_en.htmlCORPORATE OVERVIEW {As of the end of Dec. 2019}
INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS {As of the end of Dec. 2019}
{As of the end of Dec. 2019} GLOBAL NETWORK(AS OF THE END OF DEC. 2019)
United States
SK Telecom Americas, Inc.
310 De Guigne Drive,  
Sunnyvale, CA 94085, USA
T. 1-408-328-2900 
F . 1-408-328-2931China
SK Telecom (China) Holding 
Co., Ltd.
27F , SK Tower, No. 6 Jia,  
Jianguomenwai Avenue,  
Chaoyang District, Beijing 
100022, China
T. 86-10-5920-7777   
F . 86-10-5920-7724Japan
SK Telecom Japan Inc.
8F , NBF Hibiya Bldg., 1-1-7, 
Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyo-da-ku, 
Tokyo 100-0011, Japan
T. 81-3-3591-3800Malaysia
SK Malaysia Representative 
Office
Suite 53A, Level 53, Vista 
Tower, The Intermark, 348 Jalan 
Tun Razak, 50400 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
T. 603-2166-9011
A company specializing in security 
including unmanned security, video 
security and access control services
A company dedicated to 
digital security
An affiliate of the world’s 
number 1 quantum cryp -
tographic telecommunica -
tions company based in 
Switzerland
Best lifestyle curating digital 
platform in the countryOnline commerce portalBusiness in manufacturing 
audio devices and music 
services
A company that provides 
international calling and MVNODigital advertising business 
including Media Lab and Darwin, 
a platform for digital advertising
A company that creates new 
value in data-based businessesA company offering wire-
based services such as 
high-speed internet, IPTV, 
and voice over IP
Included in DJSI World for 
12 consecutive years
First as a telecommunications company in Asia, 
longest as a domestic companyRated Excellent on the Win Win Index 
by Korea Commission for Corporate 
Partnership 
Excellent Business of Honor for 7 consecutive years
A+ in Governance by Korea Corporate 
Governance Service, Grade A overallReceived the Telecom Asia Award
Received 7 awards including “ Best Mobile Carrier ” in Asia
29 28
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 29 28SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW
30
40
42
44
46
54 LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
OUR SUBSIDIARIES
MATERIALITY
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT31 30
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
LETTER TO 
STAKEHOLDERS
President and CEO of SK Telecom
Jung Ho Park Dear respected stakeholders, 
I’m Jung Ho Park, President and 
CEO of SK Telecom.
It has already been 3 years since taking office as CEO of SK Telecom. 
Over the past 3 years, our company has built 4 business portfolios by fostering the media, security, 
and commerce sectors in addition to creating a base for another leap forward for the MNO business. 
We strengthened the growth capacities for each business sector to take a step forward toward bigger 
synergies including the profit conversion of 11st Street, acquisition of the country ’s number 2 physical 
security services provider, ADT Caps, the number 1 information security service provider SK infosec, and 
T-Broad, the number 2 cable TV company in addition to the launch of “ wavve, ” a mobile media service. 
In 2019, w e r eac h e d t h e hig h e s t con s olidate d s ale s r evenu e sinc e t h e comp any ’s establishment. In particular, 
the non-MNO business ’s share of sales rose from 31% in 2018 to 36% in 2019, and operating profit recorded 
a surplus, making the first year in which non-MNO businesses contribute to consolidated operating profit. 
Another noteworthy accomplishment was that SK Telecom was able to break the frame of being a 
telecommunications company that settles in Korea but stepped up as a global enterprise. The environment 
of today ’s global ICT industry is not one that any company, including SK Telecom can endure on its own. 
The hyper-collaboration, in which we are collaborating with major business partners representing each 
sector by extending our hands and breaking boundaries, is not a choice but a prerequisite to future 
survival. 
Our company is fortifying its efforts to create social values as well as economic achievements. A business 
needs to be examined with a long-term perspective, and only when this is put into practice, the company 
is capable of growing sustainably. We identify methods to measure social value and pursue them 
systematically, and these efforts are being recognized on a global level as shown by the inclusion of our 
company in the DJSI World Index for the longest period. 
In 2020, we surpassed ourselves as an MNO company and transitioned as a New ICT company that 
possesses 4 business portfolios that maximizes synergy, and are creating synergy in each sector with big 
players in Korea and overseas. Moving on, we plan to gain sufficient trust as a New ICT company in the 
market and officially elevate our corporate value. 
Please read further for our detailed performance and strategies. 30SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 201933 32
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
2019 performance
MNO, 
Turnaround
The foundation of MNO needs to start from the customers’ trust. In order to grow sustainably, we recognize 
that positive changes to the SK Telecom’s sustainable growth will occur if we seek for fundamental 
changes rather than short-term market competitions and momentary profit. Realizing that pursuing MNO’s 
sustainable growth through the conventional practices and methods of communication may be difficult, we 
began to drive fundamental changes and innovation.
 
We will look at an example of the international roaming service. In 2017, the Parliamentary audit noted that 
our roaming charges were too high. As a response, our company accepted short-term loss by providing 
short calls free of charge and drastically improving call qualities. Ultimately, we achieved the revitalization 
of roaming services and an increase in sales. As such, in 2018 we pursued innovative programs for 
customer value to become a company that is cherished by our customers and as a result, the MNO 
business shifted its direction upwards in 2019. Acknowledging our goal of offering sincere communication 
rather than simple conversations, the government changed directions from cutting costs to supporting the 
revitalization of 5G, and the MNO’ s quarterly sales for the 1st quarter of 2019 made an upward transition. 
With the customers ’ support, focused on scientific marketing of MNO by integrating Data and AI. As a 
result, the marketing process was dramatically shortened while our productivity significantly increased. 
Moving on, we plan to continuously maximize business operation by converging Data and AI technologies. 
On April 3rd 2019, we faced another turning point for advancement into the hyper-generation of 5G with the 
world ’s first launch of 5G memberships. Within 9 months of the launch, 5G subscribers surpassed 2 million 
for the first time in the nation, and we provided a platform for new growth and global partnerships based 
on our advanced 5G technical competencies and services. Also by collaborating with a global enterprise of 
Microsoft, we are pursuing the development of a 5G-based Cloud gaming service and plan to launch the 
service this year. 
Name
Korean Customer Satisfaction Index  
National Customer Satisfaction Index
Korea Service Quality IndexOrganizer
Korea Management  Association  Consultants 
Korea Productivity Center
Korean Standards AssociationContent
#1 for 22 consecutive years
#1 for 23 consecutive years
#1 for 20 consecutive yearsOUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE 3 MAJOR CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEYSEstablishing media, 
an unrivaled TV platform
With IPTV recording over 10% growth in 2019 for the media business, the sales of SK Broadband recorded 
its largest ever. On April 29th of this year, the merger and acquisition agreement of T-Broad and SK 
Broadband, which was signed in April of 2019, was finalized. After the merger, SK Broadband is growing 
into a comprehensive media company with a base of 8 million subscribers.
 
Also, we launched a Korean mobile media content service “wavve, ” in cooperation with the 3 major 
broadcasting companies of KBS, MBC, and SBS, firmly establishing our presence in the media market. With 
this, we are strengthening what is one of the most important elements of media, content competitiveness, 
and have secured 10 million paid subscribers which enables bold investments.
With paid services and OTT at its side, the media business was recognized for its high corporate value. SK 
Broadband merged with T-Broad at a value of KRW 3.6 trillion, and wavve also was recognized for its KRW 
1 trillion value in the market last December, attracting an investment of KRW 200 billion. To sum up, the 
worth of our media business with the ownership ratio in consideration has a scale of about KRW 4 trillion. 
Security, 
a new axis of growth
The security sector is a market that is soon to amplify with the coming of the 4th Industrial Revolution. 
Since the revolution centers on ICT technology, we acknowledged that the security business is a sector that 
may create the biggest synergy and acquired ADT Caps and SK infosec in 2018.
A new level of security services may arise as our company’s ICT technology, SK infosec’s information 
security platform, and ADT Caps’ physical security platform converges. 
 
In 2019, the security business proved its synergy with SK Telecom to the market even in terms of profit, by 
recording a double-digit growth in both revenue and operating profit. 
Moving forward, we will continue to consolidate the capabilities in physical and information security to 
drive the market’s changes and innovation as well as lead the convergent security industry. 35 34
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Commerce, 
reaching BEPFinancial performance and 
dividends
The commerce industry was sustaining on operating deficit within the fierce competition and opinions that 
achieving both scale and profitability would be impossible were dominant due to the domestic situation 
where numerous businesses are competing. 
Even in this environment, we executed a corporate spin-off where we separated 11st Street from SK Planet 
in 2018 and restructured it to solely concentrate on e-Commerce, and focused on efficient marketing and 
service differentiation to offer an optimal shopping experience from the customers ’ perspectives. This 
resulted in improved profitability of about KRW 70 billion in 2019 compared to the previous year, and 
operating profit. 
Meanwhile, SK stoa that runs TV home shopping, grew to be the second largest T-commerce company 
in the industry through channel expansion strategies in TV, mobile, PC etc. and launch of various self-
established products, contributing to the growth in sales in the commerce sector. Sales of 2019 rose 5.2% year on year and reached its highest ever with 17 trillion KRW 743.7 billion. In line 
with the successful launch of 5G, MNO secured a foundation for subscribers, and New Biz such as media 
and security contributed to the increase in consolidated sales with their significant growth.
Operating profit recorded KRW 1.11 trillion, a 7.6% decrease compared to the previous year. MNO ’s operating 
profit decreased due to the influence of marketing expenses for the commercialization of 5G and the 
increase of depreciation. However, we were able to offset the amount of decrease in MNO through surplus 
in the commerce industry which resulted from service differentiation and efficient marketing, and the 
acquisition of ADT Caps and SK infosec in the security business, which drastically improved the New ICT 
portfolio.
The dividend was determined at the general meeting of shareholders of maintaining 10,000 KRW, including 
the interim dividend of 1,000 KRW. SK Telecom adheres to the basic principles of balancing shareholder 
return and securing resources for growth, and will strive to let the transformation and growth of the 
company be extended to that of the shareholders, and for all stakeholders ’ value to be expanded. 
Category
Sales
 MNO
 New BIz
Operating profit
EBITDA
Net income
Dividend per share (KRW)
Dividend payout*2018
168,740
117,056
42,175
12,018
44,853
31,320
10,000
77%2019
177,437
114,162
51,266
11,100
50,452
8,619
10,000
74%YoY
5.2%
△2.5%
21.6%
△7.6%
12.5%
△72.5%
-
△3%pFINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND DIVIDENDS
*Non-consolidated(Consolidated, unit: KRW 100 million)37 36
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Hyper-collaboration,
partnership with domestic and 
international industry leadersSocial Value
Now that our company possess the foundation for omnidirectional cooperation in the ICT sector beyond 
d o m e s t i c c o m p a n i e s , o u r c o m p e te n c y i s b e i n g a c k n o w l e d g e d b y b o t h d o m e s t i c a n d i n te r n a t i o n a l c o m p a n i e s .
In 2019, we focused on signing strategic partnerships with companies worldwide for synergy creation in 
various sectors such as MNO, media, and gaming. 
The eSports JV company, which was established in conjunction with Comcast is an example of hyper 
collaboration, through which we transformed our assets into a strong base for the new market. The T1 
team of eSports was one of the company ’s marketing tools, but was recognized for its KRW 110 billion 
value by Comcast and drew investments. Currently, we are developing this project as a new business asset. 
Additionally, by utilizing our company’s broadcasting technology called ATSC, we established a JV with 
US’ Sinclair through hyper collaboration, tapping into the US broadcast technology market. Based on the 
strategic partnership with Microsoft for 5G, we developed Cloud games that is soon to be commercialized. 
Through the MEC joint company with Amazon Web Services, we not only secured growth engines for B2B 
but are preparing to advance into the global market. 
In Korea, we solidified a strategic partnership with Kakao by acquiring KRW 300 billion in mutual shares, 
leading a new structure of competition and collaboration in Korea ’s ICT ecosystem.   
In such ways, we are building a platform for collaboration with domestic and international players based 
on the groundwork of hyper collaboration. We will continue to broaden the scope of hyper collaboration 
to monetize our assets and unlock new markets.SK Telecom pursues the Double Bottom Line, a principle that counts the creation of social value in 
addition to economic value during the company ’s operation as a part of its economic performance to 
ultimately achieve long-term and sustainable growth with the society. We are managing social values in 
ESG (environmental, social and governance) as indicators of economic performance and are reflecting them 
in management decision-making.  
Based on our competence in AI and data analysis, we launched the “Happy Community AI Care” service 
to resolve issues of loneliness, safety and dementia for isolated seniors along with social enterprises and 
local governments. The GSMA (Global System for Mobile Communications) also mentioned that this project 
will contribute to the alleviation of social problems and extended their apprehension and support for the 
paths SK Telecom is taking. 
This year, our company emphasized the pursuit of continued happiness of our members, and included 
the phrase that our members will strive for the shareholder ’s long-term value and the stakeholders’ 
happiness in the Articles of Incorporation. Now, the pursuit of social value is a foundation for SK Telecom’s 
management that is stated in the Articles of Incorporation.
Moving forward, we will continue striving to establish a long-term oriented relationship of trust with our 
stakeholders and pursue the enhancement of a sustainable future corporate value. 
Period
Feb. 2019
Jun. 2019
Sep. 2019
Oct. 2019
Oct. 2019
Dec. 2019
Jan. 2020  
Mar. 2020Major contents
Signed an MOU with Singtel for gaming and eSports business
Signed for JV of a tech company with Deutsche Telekom for core technologies related to 5G 
Pursuing JV with Microsoft for 5G-based Cloud gaming platform 
Established an eSports JV, SK Telecom CS T1 with Comcast 
Established a strategic partnership and exchanged shares with Kakao 
Joined AWS for global 5G mobile edge computing (MEC) business
Officially launched Cast.era, a JV with Sinclair Broadcast Group and the broadcasting 
service based in the U.S, ATSC 3.0 
Signed to establish a JV with Singtel and AIS for a gaming platform CURRENT PARTNERSHIPS WITH MAJOR COMPANIES39 38
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
2020,
Growing as a company that represents New ICT Dear respected 
stakeholders,
2020 will be a year in which the 4 major business sectors will form robust leadership in each sector and 
create synergy among the businesses, leaping forward as leading companies in each sector. 
MNO will continue its revenue growth that was made tangible last year through innovation of the 5G 
services and solidify its leadership. Based on its quality and service leadership in the 5G sector, we will 
amplify our partnerships with global companies and will continue to write stories of growth and cooperation 
through new services and products such as Cloud gaming, real-life experience services, eSports etc.
 
For the media sector, we secured its competitive advantage in the paid broadcasting market as well as 
the basis of 10 million media subscribers by merging with T-Broad this year. From this point on, we will 
strengthen competitiveness in contents by developing original content and expanding partnerships with 
domestic and international companies, nurturing our global market power.
The security business will pursue the increase in its value by creating synergy with the ICT technology-
based business models. We will strengthen our competitiveness in new sectors of Cloud security and 
technology-based convergent security in which we have exclusive capabilities. We will also continue to 
explore growth opportunities by expanding synergy among SK ’s ICT families and fortifying global portfolio. 
11th Street which made a transition to surplus last year despite the intense competition in the commerce 
industry, will continue to establish partnerships with major domestic and international companies and 
solidify its position in the market with differentiated ICT technologies.
Additionally, we will solidify the connection between commerce and media through SK stoa and accelerate 
the growth of the T commerce market. Our company achieved the innovation of transforming from the nation’s number 1 “Telecommunications 
Company ” to Korea’s representative “New ICT Company ” in the last 3 years. We are now standing at a 
significant turning point where we need to speed up the growth of our portfolio which we have boldly built 
to gain recognition in the market for its bigger value. 
In order to nurture the fruits of the New ICT portfolio even more, our company adopted the Dual Operating 
System and rearranged our organization so that the New Biz which has different characteristics than that of 
our existing businesses, can independently make optimal decisions. Through the new management system, 
we will stabilize the New ICT business and develop its scale and competitiveness to officially maximize 
our corporate value. 
Dear stakeholders, 
We are continuing to make bold and profound changes to become a ‘New Global ICT Company’ that can be 
recognized and loved by society and all customers, partners, and shareholders in Korea and abroad. We 
sincerely ask for your continued trust and encouragement during the coming generation of opportunities 
and challenges. 
     President and CEO of SK Telecom   Jung Ho Park 
ICT PORTFOLIO
5G + AINO.1 MNONO.1 MEDIA 
PLATFORMNO.1 CONVERGENCE 
SECURITYNO.1 COMMERCE 
PROFIT + GROWTH
41 40
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CAPITAL OUTPUT VALUE CREATION ACTIVITIES CAPITAL INPUT
MNO MEDIA
Creating new values through Global 
New ICT ecosystem-based Innovation, 
Collaboration and TransformationNew Biz.OUR BUSINESS MODELA NEW GLOBAL ICT LEADER THAT LEADS TRANSITION INTO ICT
SK Telecom has successfully built a portfolio for its 4 business sectors, expanding its business areas into media, 
security, and commerce, as well as establishing a relaunching base for its mobile communications (MNO) business. Using 
the synergy created through domestically and internationally shared infrastructures, we maximized competitiveness 
among the sectors and optimized the company value, stepping out as a New Global ICT company with new growth 
engines of innovative services and leading technologies. In addition, SK Telecom is fulfilling its social responsibility 
in a dedicated manner by exerting efforts in New ICT-based economic performances and in creating social values. 
FINANCIAL
•   Listed on Korea Exchange, New York Stock Ex-
change and London Stock Exchange
•  A virtuous cycle of investments in growth busi-
nesses and shareholder return and the maximiza-
tion of stakeholder value
HUMAN
•  Implement various policies to attract and retain 
talent
•  Core driving force for business innovation and 
performances
INTELLECTUAL
•  Intangible assets based on organization’s knowl-
edge such as Technical licenses and know-how
•  Contribute to creating the value of intellectual 
assets and building shared ICT infrastructure eco-
system by sharing innovative achievements with 
society
MANUFACTURED
• Tangible assets available for production or service
•  The company endeavors to maintain network 
stability and sustainability through cost-effective 
investment
SOCIAL 
•  Relationships and trust with stakeholders such 
as the community, business partners, govern-
ment, NGOs, and customers
• Creates social value based on ICT capabilities
NATURAL
•  Providing ICT environment solutions to minimize 
the environmental impacts of the nationwide net-
work and building
•  Seeking to boost environmental capital efficiency 
for providing products or servicesFINANCIAL
•  Creation of a sustainable growth base through 
creation of revenue and profit
• Contribution to economic growth
HUMAN
• Direct and indirect job creation
• Attracting and cultivating ICT talent
INTELLECTUAL
•  Development of technology and securing ecosys-
tem through R&D 
•  Social development through innovative technology
MANUFACTURED
•  Improving personal and corporate customers’  
productivity
•  Leading the 4th Industrial Revolution based on 
New ICT
SOCIAL 
•  Resolve social issues based on shared infrastruc-
ture
•  Improve quality of life of social constituents 
through products and services
NATURAL
•  Reduction of social greenhouse gas emissions  
using ICT technology
• Tackling climate change with ICT technologyEnhancing competitiveness 
and customer service by of -
fering hyper-experience with 
5G infrastructure 
•   Strengthening competitiveness 
through the establishment of 
5G-based wired and wireless net -
work infrastructure
•   Composing 5G clusters, and inno -
vating customer value by offering 
AR/VR services
•   Securing the base for sustainable 
development through partnerships 
with global playersLeading the media platform 
market with differentiated 
contents by expanding in-
vestments
•   Expansion of next-generation media 
platform based on the next-genera -
tion technology
•   Providing differentiated services 
with customized services
•   Strengthening content competitive -
ness through expansion of invest -
ment partnership and cooperation
SECURITY COMMERCE
Taking off as a leading 
security company through 
convergent security based 
on ICT technology
•   Maximizing ICT technology-related 
services
•   Expanding business fields with 
convergent security-based security 
solutions
•   Pursuing quantitative and qualita -
tive growth through global partner -
ships and investment allocationProviding customer-oriented 
services through comprehen-
sive commerce portals based 
on AI and Data
•  Providing new shopping experiences 
based on ICT synergy 
•   Increasing convenience by upgrad -
ing customer-oriented services
•  Diversifying product categories 
through ICT Family sharing infra -
structure43 42
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
SK Telecom successfully achieved the world ’s 
first commercialization of 5G as well as TV 
live broadcasting. We also succeeded in 
high-quality broadcasting even in areas of 
high data traffic by using “T Live Caster,” a 
solution of 5G commercialized services and 
live broadcasting. Starting with the success of 
the 5G live broadcasting, we plan to support 
innovation of the media industry such as im -
proving the quality of T Live Caster, pursuing 
interconnected platforms for personal broad -
casting and upgrades for 5G smartphone ap -
plications. Successfully launched the world ’s 
first TV live broadcasting through 
5G commercial networks1
5
3In response to changes in the media market, 
we integrated terrestrial content streaming 
platform POOQ and oksusu to establish a 
media ecosystem in Korea. Along with qual -
ity content of POOQ and SK Telecom ’s inte -
gration of new technologies, the base for 
advancement into the international markets 
is becoming firmer. 
We are also speeding up the globalization 
of the media business by securing rights 
of terrestrial content needed for global ad -
vancement as well as the rights for content 
distribution for partner companies in Asia. 
Moving forward, we plan to lead the glob -
al content industry by making bold invest -
ments to wavve. Led the media ecosystem  
through OTT ‘ wavve’2
4
SK Telecom is pursuing ongoing collabora -
tion to explore future growth engines based 
on ICT technology. We signed an agreement 
for strategic partnership with the world-re -
nowned media entertainment company, Com -
cast, and are in the process of pursuing joint 
development of a game streaming business 
and contents. As the e-Sports industry is ex-
pected to expand into the media market, we 
plan to secure competitiveness by building 
innovative platforms and developing a vari -
ety of contents in addition to e-Sports and 
gaming.Targeted the e-Sports market 
through the SKT and 
Comcast partnership4
We introduced next-generation media and 
mobility technologies at the “World ’s largest 
IT and electronics exhibition, CES 2019.” With 
SM Entertainment, we brought various next 
generation media content such as social VR, 
Holobox and AI media technologies to life. 
Also, with SK innovation and SK hynix, we 
revealed HD map updates and Single Photon 
LiDARs, which are proven to be key technol -
ogies for autonomous driving that will come 
into full swing in the 5G era. We are in the 
process of securing core technologies in the 
media and mobility sectors through proactive 
partnerships with domestic and internation -
al companies, and look forward to providing 
new experiences for our customers. Introduced core technologies for 
next-generation media and 
mobility in the 5G era3Along with the local government and social 
enterprises, we are offering care services 
using AI for isolated senior citizens. The AI 
care service, which is a pilot project target -
ed for seniors living alone, is expected to 
provide convenience and safety in their dai -
ly lives through the distribution AI speakers 
called “NUGU. ” We promise to contribute to 
resolving social issues by sharing and open -
ing up advanced ICT technologies such as 
AI and IoT.Launched ‘Happy Community - AI care ’ 
service for the socially disadvantaged 
class utilizing AI·IoT technology5
To improve issues with voice calling for peo -
ple with hearing impairment, we launched 
the “Sonnuri ” service in partnership with 
Seoul National School for the Deaf and As -
sociations for the Deaf across the nation.
The Sonnuri service alerts callers that are 
trying to reach people with hearing impair -
ment saying, “This is a mobile phone for 
customers with hearing impairment. Please 
contact via text messages. ” W i t h  t h i s  s e r -
vice, we look forward to alleviating the dif -
ficulties of customers with hearing impair -
ment regarding calls for mail and delivery 
services, banks as well as notification and 
guidance calls from public offices.Launched “Sonnuri” for people 
with hearing impairment facing 
difficulties in voice calling6
For creation of social and economic values, 
we have expanded Myanmar ’s Cookstove 
business to 11 affiliated companies of SK, 
and are operating them, which we have been 
pursuing since last year. This year, we plan 
to dramatically increase the size of the busi -
ness and supply 4.32 million units across 
Myanmar. Through the Cookstove business, 
we are able to contribute to local job cre -
ation and the revitalization of the local econ -
omy and address environmental issues such 
as reduction of GHG gases. Moving forward, 
we plan to explore and pursue a wide range 
of projects for the creation of social values.  Fulfilled social responsibilities by 
expanding supply business for 
“Cookstove, ” eco-friendly and 
highly efficient cookware8
By sharing the com pany ’s exclusive infra -
structure and innovative ICT technology, we 
are conducting trainings in coding and young 
adult galleries etc. We offer the program of 
“Exciting coding classes ” for students at the 
company ’s branches and offices in major cities 
across the nation, contributing to the develop -
ment of ICT talents. In addition, we offer op -
portunities for emerging artists to showcase 
their work for promotion of their pieces while 
presenting new experiences for the clients.Generating social value with 
innovative ICT technology7
1
2
 6
7
8
YEARLY ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF 5G INFRASTRUCTURE
“This is a mobile phone for 
customers with hearing 
impairment. Please contact 
via text messages.”45 44
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
OUR SUBSIDIARIES
Established in 1983, SK hynix is a global manufacturer of semiconductors with 4 manufacturing subsidiaries in Icheon 
and Cheongju, Korea as well as Wuxi and Chongqing, China. It also has 5 R&D corporations and 10 sales subsidiaries 
worldwide. Its major products are memor y semiconductors such as DRAM, NAND flashes and MCP (Multi-chip-Package)
and with its re-entry into the CIS (CMOS Image Sensor) in the LSI sector, the company is being recognized as 
an industry leader with its accumulated semiconductor manufacturing know-how of 30 years. In response to the 
developing ICT industry, SK hynix is continuing its efforts to strengthen semiconductor technologies and product 
competitiveness, and is striving to secure market competitiveness in the mobile, server, and storage solution sectors 
that are especially being emphasized for their significance. In addition, it operates its business activities based on the 
Double Bottom Line Management System (DBLMS), which integrates economic and social value. Due to the changes in 
demands and cost following the uncertain internal and external environment in 2019, there were difficulties in growth. 
However in 2020, the company will focus on recovery by accelerating its investments and strategic production in the 
market environment of recovered server demands of DRAM market and expansion of 5G smartphones. 
SK Broadband is a wired media platform company established in 1997 and is leading media technology and services 
encompassing multimedia business such as IPTV. It is leading the next-generation media business using AI and Big 
Data and in 2019, it created new customer experiences by launching new services that suits life patterns such as home 
training and home schooling. Moreover, it developed solutions for 5 Giga transfers and AI2 Setup boxes and played 
a significant role is enhancing customer convenience. By merging with T-Broad, it is exerting its efforts in developing 
the content business. In 2019, SK Broadband ’s sales revenue is KRW 3 trilion 176 billion with a 3% growth from the 
previous year. From among these, sales revenue in IPTV and media, which shows remarkable growth, recorded KRW 
1 trillion 298.5 billion with a 10% growth from the previous year due to increased subscribers of IPTV Premium and 
content consumption. In 2020, competition in the paid services market is expected to intensify, so the company will 
strive for content creation through partnerships with wavve and synergy among OTT and pay-per-view. 
Fixed line(B Telephone) High-speed Internet(B Internet) IPTV(Btv) 3,053
127
20173,078
202
20183,176
143
2019SK BROADBAND’S FINANCIAL ACHIEVEMENTS 
(CONSOLIDATED) KRW billion
685
-154
2017674
-68
2018531
1.4
2019FINANCIAL ACHIEVEMENT OF 11ST NAND Flash DRAM Operating Profit Revenuenue
Operating Profit RevenuenueOperating Profit RevenuenueKRW billion
30,109
13,721
201740,445
20,844
201826,991
2,713
2019SK HYNIX’S FINANCIAL ACHIEVEMENTS %
27.8
12.2
201728.3
12.2
201827.4
11.0
2019MARKET SHARE 
1,000 persons
2017 2018 2019NUMBER OF SUBSCRIBERS
%
61
20176568
2018 2019PROPORTION OF MOBILE TRANSACTIONS IN TOTAL 
TRANSACTIONSADT Caps Co., Ltd. was established in 1971 as a company for unmanned machine security and manpower security and 
have developed to provide high-quality security services by using next-level technologies in addition to its 48-year 
accumulated knowledge on security services. By providing integrated physical security services based on dispatch 
security and video security, it is furthering its efforts for the increase of customer value along with approximately 
4,000 security professionals. In 2019, ADP Caps strengthened its dispatch security services with synergy created with 
SK ICT Family, expanded new businesses of unmanned parking and home security, and presented convergent security 
services that covers SK infosec ’s information security along with SK Telecom ’s ICT technology. As a result, ADP Caps 
and SK infosec reached KRW 1 trillion 193.2 billion in sales in 2019 and recorded a 17.4% in growth rate since the 
previous year. Operating profit rose 21.9% to KRW 153.5 billion. While securing steadfast leadership in conventional 
physical security, the company plans to strengthen security technologies through AI-based technology and analyzing 
competency to be positioned as a leading company in the convergent security market.
Since its launch in 2008, 11st Street has grown into an open market platform where sellers and buyers can safely make 
transactions through its ongoing service improvements and technology innovation. As of now, it is growing into a 
leading company in the e-Commerce market with 34 million members and is striving to become a “ commerce portal ” 
that offers convenience to our customers in the overall process of shopping including searching via online and mobiles, 
making purchases, simple transactions etc. on top of providing high-quality products at affordable costs. In 2019, the 
“All-PRIME ” membership was launched to offer an integrated customer service that covers various benefits including 
SKT’s paid content as well as benefits for 11th Street. Though such strategic approach for improving revenue, such as 
providing customer-aligned promotions and reducing inefficient businesses, the company reached KRW 530.5 billion 
in sales in 2019, and KRW 1.4 billion in operating profit, achieving KRW 69.2 billion in profit gains compared to the 
previous year. From this point on, 11st Street will strengthen its search functions and launch customer involvement-
based services to actively promote strategies for solidifying “commerce portals”.
4,370
4,1105,2334,729
3,9275,405 5,193
3,7195,613Operating Profit RevenuenueKRW billion
2017 2018 2019ADT CAPS’ FINANCIAL ACHIEVEMENTS%
2017 2018 2019MARKET SHARE(IN TERMS OF REVENUE)1)
722
144776
101923
13031.431.832.4
Market share 1) Including the market share of NSOK
Proportion of Mobile Transactions* Profit or loss from discontinued business excludedKRW billion47 46
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
MATERIALITY
According to the result of materiality assessment, SK Telecom identified a total of 25 material issues, including Social 
Value creation, Customer Value Innovation, 5G leadership and New ICT Technology. Among them, we identified 4 key 
issues and 7 reporting issues. The company is disclosing major achievements, goals, and business cases related to 
the issues in detail throughout this report.RESULTS OF MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
TopicsStakeholders Financial MaterialityReporting 
Location Employ-
eesCus-
tomersPartnersgovern-
mentlocal 
communitiesShare-
holdersCost Revenue Risk
❶ Creating Social Value(Society) p.70-79
❷ 5G Leadership(Management/ Economy) p.60-62
❸ Customer value innovation(Customers) p.86-90
❹  New ICT(Media, Security, Commerce) Strategy 
(Management/ Economy)p.63-65
❺  Ethical management and Fair Trade 
(Management/ Economy)p.128-133
❻ Privacy protection and cybersecurity(Customers) p.90
❼ Response to climate change(Environment) p.95
❽ Mutual Growth of Supply Chains(Supply chain) p.142-143
❾  Responsible consumption and strengthening 
resource efficiency(Environment)p.96-97
❿ Corporate Governance(Management/ Economy) p.102-117
  Guarantee of diversity and equal opportunity 
(Members)p.92
MATERIALITY MAP
STAKEHOLDER INTEREST
BUSINESS IMPACTCORE ISSUE
REPORTING ISSUE
POTENTIAL ISSUECreating Social Value
5G Leadership
Customer value innovationNew ICT(Media, Security, Commerce) Strategy
Ethical management and Fair TradePrivacy protection and cybersecurity8.0
3.0
1.0
1.0 3.0 5.0 7.0 9.0Mutual Growth of Supply Chains
Response to climate change
Responsible consumption and strengthening resource efficiencyCorporate Governance
Guarantee of diversity and equal 
opportunity1
2
34
56
8
7
9
13
12
24212019
22
232510
11
14
151617
18
MATERIALITY TEST PROCESS
Drawing an issue pool 25 
issues reflecting business 
characteristics
·  7 issues in Management 
/ Economy 
· 3 issues in Customers 
· 3 issues in Society 
· 7 issues in Members 
·  2 issues in Supply 
chains 
· 3 issues in Environment Reported topics of 
companies in the industry
-  13 leading companies 
world wideEmployee survey
- 160 responses from 
employees
Media research analysis
-  A total of 33,917 articles 
(excluding articles 
related to human 
resources, stock etc.)Review of internal 
documents
-  Company newsletters, 
New Year’s messages, 
etc.
Analysis of international 
standards
-  8 global initiatives 
including GRI Standards, 
SDGs
External stakeholder 
surveys
-  526 responses from 
academics and 
professionals, business 
partners, and customersExternal environment
analysisInternal environment 
analysis·  Business relevance 
assessment
·  Assessment of impact 
on stakeholders 
·  Business (financial) 
impact assessment·  Final prioritization of 
material issues
·  Review by BOD 
(Corporate Citizenship 
Committee)
·  Performance 
management and 
reporting of material 
issuesIdentification of an 
issue poolMulti-faceted analysis of SKT’s sustainability 
managementMaterial analysis on 
‘IMPACT’ and ‘RELEVANCE’Selection of key issues 
to be reportedSTEP 1. STEP 2. STEP 3. STEP 4.
High Medium LowEvery year, SK telecom reviews material economic, social and environmental issues related to new value creation and 
sustainability, discloses our response and achievements on each issue. 
By material issues, SK Telecom refers to the issues that have relevance to the company’s business and sustainability 
as well as the actual level of impact and ability to create sustainable value for the company’s stakeholders. To select 
and prioritize the company’s material issues, SK Telecom operates a materiality assessment and response process 
based on stakeholder participation in addition to complying with the guidance on determining material issues and 
content composition as recommended by the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards and the <IR> Framework put 
forth by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).
Issues related to SK Telecom are managed as an issue pool according to SK Telecom’s stakeholder engagement 
process. Economic, environmental and social issues include global political, economic and social issues such as the 
UN’s Sustainable Development Goals(UN SDGs), global regulations, mid- and long-term social change trends, issues 
raised by international organizations and NGOs, and known externalities within the business process. 
Based on the IIRC’s recommendations, SK Telecom incorporates the following five aspects in its materiality assessment 
process: 1) Issues that may have a continual impact on SK Telecom’s value creation, 2) Issues related to the company’s 
strategy, governance and performance, 3) Issues that have a significant impact on key stakeholders, 4) Issues that 
can provide grounds for boardroom discussions, and 5) Issues that may lead to the loss of potential opportunities 
and risk if not sufficiently managed.49 48
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TOPIC CONTEXT OUR APPROACH
There is a growing awareness that corporates should 
take responsibility for the various impacts of their 
management activities on society and promote 
long-term happiness among the corporates and their 
stakeholders. Recent global trends in corporates’ 
pursuit of social value and responsible management 
emphasize social value creation through core 
business innovation, moving beyond simple social 
contribution activities. This requires a sophisticated 
system or valuation methodology to assess and 
manage the impact of corporate activities that are 
not reflected in the corporate financial statements or 
market prices.SK Telecom promotes sustainable growth by propelling 
new business strategy of ‘creating social value’ based on 
SK group’s management philosophy-SKMS(SK Management 
System). The company also strives to innovate and develop 
business models that are being required by our stakeholders 
through the Double Bottom Line (DBL), a methodology for 
evaluating and measuring both economic and social value 
creation. SK Telecom measured the integrated performance 
as a Double Bottom Line by conducting an environmental 
profit and loss analysis, to assess the environmental impact 
across the entire value chain, and through the social profit 
and loss analysis which calculates the social performance 
generated through products and services. We will continue 
to communicate social value with various stakeholders and 
upgrade our Double Bottom Line methodology. At the same
time, we will lay out the foundation for sustainable growth 
by creating true social value in the process of reviewing, 
supplementing, and improving our achievements.
5G is the 5th generation mobile communication
standard that follows CDMA (2nd generation), WCDMA
(3rd generation), and LTE (4th generation). It also 
has the characteristics of hyper- speed, hyper-
massive connections and hyper-low latency. It 
is a foundational infrastructure that connects all 
people and objects and makes it possible to collect 
and analyze data with artificial intelligence by 
converting offline areas into wireless, going beyond 
the norms of smartphones and bringing about 
structural changes in current business. As 5G was 
commercialized in Korea for the first time in the 
world on April 3, 2019, the world’s attention
has been focused on the excellence and potential of 
new network infrastructure. As a result, it is needed 
to thoroughly prepare to lead an ICT ecosystem to 
which 5G will expand.SK Telecom is implementing 5G network infrastructure  
differentiated from that of competitors by combining mobile 
edge computing (MEC), dual connectivity, and quantum 
cryptography after contributing to the standardization of 
5G technology in 2019. Based on this technology, 
SK Telecom will lead the 5G market and, at the same time, 
introduce 5G as a momentum for discovering new business 
models through services not available in the areas of 
media, security, commerce, and AI/Mobility. In particular, 
in consideration of customer needs, SK Telecom prepared 
services and content in the core areas of hyper-high 
definition media, AR/VR and games based on 5G technology, 
and secured its own technological competitiveness and 
content via exclusive business ties with global top-tier 
companies.
Customers are at the center of corporate growth and 
a company must maintain its role and reputation as a 
trusted company through customer satisfaction.
In order to attract new customers and maintain 
existing customers in mature markets such as the 
telecommunications industry, it is important to 
create a win-win cycle for the market, businesses 
and customers by increasing the benefits offered to 
customers, rather than being involved in unnecessary 
price competition and marketing policies. Companies 
can seek sustainable growth in the long term only 
if they continue to attract and retain customers by 
offering customer value in the growing business 
areas of media, security, and commerce.In order to become a trusted company for customers, in 
2019, which includes silver calling plan, Military Soldier 
calling plan etc. Strengthening benefits through reorganizing 
of membership program, and enhancing customer 
conveniences of roaming services - we were able to achieve 
tangible results such as improved customer satisfaction, 
reduced VOC, increased service usage, increased subscribers 
to price plans and reduced churn rate. In 2019, we plan 
to push forward with Customer Value Innovation 2.0, to 
enhance customer value through innovative services and 
personalized benefits across other business divisions than 
MNO.5G LeadershipCreating Social Value
Customer Value InnovationMANAGEMENT OF MATERIAL ISSUES
RECENT PROGRESS RECENT PROGRESS LONG TERM TARGET
•  We are operating programs for social value creation based on ICT technology 
and infrastructure.      
 -  ICT training to alleviate information disparity and programs to care for seniors 
using AI. 
 -  Creating various social values based on 5G technology and Big Data in sectors 
of natural disasters, safety, fine dust etc. 
•  We are fostering the growth of ICT-based social enterprises and startups and 
striving to develop outstanding talents by supporting ICT education for college 
students and youths. 
 
SOCIAL VALUE CREATION IN LINE WITH STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS, pp.70-73  Grow into a global leading company of 
social value creation in the mid to long
term, create social value at at similar 
level/amount of financial value 
(by 2028)
•  We are realizing core technologies for media and next-generation mobility 
followed by the success of TV live broadcasting using the world’s first 5G 
commercial network. 
•  We are strengthening 5G networks and enhancing the Mobile Edge Computing 
(MEC) businesses, endlessly innovating ICT infrastructure.  
•  We are suggesting new solutions through integrated 5G technology and AI, 
while presenting new media content based on 5G, using VR and AR.  
In addition, we are offering opportunities for 5G experiences by building 5G 
clusters. 
 
STRENTHENING ICT INFRASTRUCTURE, pp.60-62    •  Maintaining No. 1 in 5G M/S
•  Continuous expansion of sales for 
 the mobile business and 
 new 5G-driven BM
•  We are diagnosing our customer’s experiences by hosting monthly “Customer 
Value Innovation Meetings” to improve products and services from the 
customers’ point-of-view. 
•  We have declared to provide customer services from all aspects of ICT by 
announcing “Customer Value Innovation 2.0” in 2019. 
•  We are maintaining 78 points on customer satisfaction of the CSI evaluations 
that we conduct regularly.      
 -   Achieved number 1 on top 3 domestic customer satisfaction surveys   
(23 consecutive years for NCSI, 22 consecutive years for KCSI,    
and 20 consecutive years for KS-SQI)
 
CUSTOMERS - CUSTOMER VALUE INNOVATION, pp.87-88   Keeping first place for longest period in 
the mobile telecommunications sector of
NCSI
* Determined by core achievements and level of contributions to attaining long-term targets in 2019.51 50
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TOPIC CONTEXT OUR APPROACH
As we move into the 5G era, ICT brings innovation 
to our lives as intelligent information technology 
that has a great impact on society and industry as a 
whole. 5G’s hyper-connection and hyper-intelligence 
are expected to considerably boost the potential 
and efficiency of the entire areas across industries, 
lifestyles and business. Thus, New ICT industry is 
expected to create a KRW 1,161 trillion market by 
2026. In order to lead the era of innovation that 
transcends borders and realms, we ought to secure 
differentiated global competitiveness beyond
paradigms of current industries.SK Telecom aims to lead the 4th Industrial Revolution by 
setting up portfolios of 4 business divisions - MNO, media, 
security, and commerce - based on 5G and AI. To this end, 
SK Telecom will innovate its business models through the 
sharing of core technology and infrastructure among the 4 
business divisions. In addition, SK Telecom will strengthen 
its cooperative structure with the SK ICT Family and create 
new business opportunities and social value through 
cooperation with business partners. We will actively build 
shared infrastructure through openness and cooperation 
beyond the boundaries and realize the growth of the value 
of our company while leading the New ICT ecosystem 
through the shared structure.
A company should communicate with various 
stakeholders and any unfair acts and unethical 
behavior that arises internally during various 
activities of the company can act as a significant 
threat to the company’s competitiveness. Therefore, 
awareness on the significance of ethical management 
and fair trade and its consistent management of 
overall behaviors of the company is essential.SK Telecom creates value with various stakeholders in 
mind based on SKMS (SK Management System) that acts 
as a backbone of SK’s corporate management and is 
implementing corporate management that contributes to the 
happiness of mankind. The company is setting an example 
by implementing ethical management within employee’s 
fair business operations, transparent management centered 
on the BOD and fair trades with business partners and 
adherence to social policies.
An increase in the use of mobile phones, the 
internet, and e-mail services has triggered more 
attention on personal information and privacy issues, 
expanding the need for strong policy guidelines and 
privacy protection activities for information security. 
In particular, the importance and impacts of related 
issues are expected to grow as important information 
held by telecom companies, such as Location Based 
Service (LBS) data and demographic information, 
will be used by third parties or linked directly to 
sales activities. The use of personal information 
through ICT has recently been transformed into a 
human rights issue, and is emerging as an important 
management area for corporate activities.SK Telecom has secured the core ability to provide the most 
secure 5G services by implementing 5G technology that 
combines quantum cryptography communication technology. 
We also strive to prevent human rights violations by ICT 
technologies in all service areas through due diligence 
process based on our human rights policies. SK Telecom 
has been conducting diagnoses of personal information 
protection at all retail shops that are in business with   
SK Telecom within the distribution network since 2015.
Due to a variety of environmental causes for 
climate change including greenhouse gas emissions, 
wastewater and waste, deforestation etc., the 
importance of reduction in GHG emissions and energy 
conservation is being highlighted. Worldwide joint 
cooperation is required for climate change response 
to slow down global warming and reduce risks of 
occurrence of natural disasters and changes in the 
ecosystem.SK Telecom recognizes the need for an active response to 
climate change and works in a variety of ways to leverage 
our capabilities, including ICT infrastructure and networks. 
The company is working to fulfill its social value through 
local job creation, reduction of GHG emissions through the 
Cookstove business in Myanmar and the development of 
5G-based smart energy solutions. RECENT PROGRESS RECENT PROGRESS LONG TERM TARGET
•  We are pioneering new value-added creation for the MNO business by offering 
hyper-experiences such as 5G-based cluster composition and strengthening of 
the network infrastructure.
•  In January of 2019, we strengthened our media business by amplifying our 
partnerships and investments with global partners and advancing into the 
U.S.’ next-generation broadcasting solutions markets. And in September, we 
launched the integrated domestic OTT service called “wavve” along with   
the 3 terrestrial broadcasting companies, expanding our media business. 
•  In March of 2019, we presented a new business model of convergent security 
in the security sector with ADP Caps and SK infosec, suggesting new security 
solutions. In the commerce sector, we are offering new shopping experiences by 
strengthening ICT synergy.  
 
BUSINESS MODEL, pp.40-41   
MAXIMIZING VALUE OF NEW ICT PORTFOLIO, p.63  •  No. 1 Media platform company   
(by 2022)
•  No. 1 Tech-based security company 
(by 2022)
•  Establish a basis for successful IPO 
(by 2022)
•  In 2018, we strengthened practicing guidelines for ethical management and 
refined practicing areas by linking them to the company’ s core values. We have 
implemented and elaborated the code of conduct framework by establishing 
rules of ethics, HR regulations, CP guidelines, customer information protection 
regulations for all members, and by establishing fair trade agreements for partners.
•  For fair trades with business partners, we are consistently expanding the 
percentage of ESG diagnoses for the supply chain network, and 100% of 
business partners newly registered in 2019 have completed the early screening.
INTEGRITY REPORT , pp.128-133   
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - Advance Screening of Supply Chain, 
pp 139  
• There were zero cases of customer information leakage in 2019.  
•  In 2019, we maintained 100% inspection rate for customer information 
protection in the distribution network, and fulfilled improvement measures 
found through the diagnosis of information security management.
HUMAN RIGHT REPORT - Protection of Personal Information, pp.136-137  •  Accomplishing zero leakage of cus-
tomer information through advanced 
diagnosis of distribution networks’ 
information protection (by 2022)
•  Maintaining 100% inspection rate of 
customer information protection in 
distribution networks
•  The Myanmar Cookstove business, which started in 2018, expanded to the 
level of SK’s affiliates in November 2019, supplying 4.32 million cookstoves 
throughout Myanmar.  
•  In November of 2019, SK Telecom installed a smart grid in Gwangju to reduce 
indiscriminate consumption of electricity and produce energy efficiently and 
announced that it will pursue future energy businesses by utilizing solar panels 
and distributed energy resources. 
•  In accordance to GSMA’s (Global System for Mobile Communications) goal of 
net-zero emissions by 2050, we have declared our implementation plans.  
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT - RESPONSE TO CLIMATE CHANGE, p.95  •  2030 Green Parity
Response to climate changePrivacy protection and 
cybersecurityEthical management 
and Fair TradeNew ICT (Media, Security, 
Commerce) Strategy
* Determined by core achievements and level of contributions to attaining long-term targets in 2019.53 52
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TOPIC CONTEXT OUR APPROACH
With the expansion of the scale and influence 
of companies today, there is a higher need for 
partnership among the supply chain as well as the 
companies’ management of supply chains. 
The importance of acknowledging and minimizing 
supply chain risks and mutual growth and 
co-prosperous partnerships with goals of long-term 
growth is being even more emphasized. SK Telecom is striving to strengthen mutual growth with 
its partners and competitiveness of SMEs. In particular, 
we are strengthening partner relations through advisory 
and consulting support and sharing of technologies with 
SMEs in the 5G and IoT technology sectors and we are 
also expanding a culture of mutual growth with programs 
to support SMEs capital and finances. Also, by hosting the 
“New ICT Prize Awards,” we are providing a platform to 
discuss yearly achievements as well as next year’s directions 
and goals with our partner companies. 
Since industrialization, resource depletion has 
become a major problem worldwide. Sustainable 
management with efforts in increasing the efficiency 
of renewable energy use and developing new 
resources such as renewable energy is in demand.SK Telecom recognizes the seriousness of resource depletion 
issues and works to increase resource conservation 
and efficiency. In addition to minimizing the amount of 
plastic consumption by reducing the size of sim cards, we 
collectively use telecommunication equipment to reduce 
cost and prevent redundant investments to pursue efficient 
resource management. 
Also, we are committed to identifying new energy resources 
such as smart grid development for infrastructure of 
renewable energy and future energy. 
Transparency of corporate governance can suggest 
genuine corporate value in business operations. 
Soundness of corporate governance enables effective 
risk management and therefore, many companies are 
working to improve corporate governance. For robust shareholder profit and enhancing corporate 
value, SK Telecom is making reasonable decisions centered 
on the BOD. We are solidifying corporate transparency 
and responsible management and was recognized for our 
excellent responsible management system by acquiring 
an A+ rating for governance at the Corporate Governance 
Assessment hosted by the Korea Corporate Governance 
Service in 2019. 
In the midst of a social atmosphere where demands 
for diversity and equal job opportunities are on 
the rise, many companies are respecting diversity 
of gender, regional and national backgrounds, 
academic and educational backgrounds, religion, 
marital status, political orientation and membership 
in labor unions etc. Also, recruitment and retention, 
talent development and competency strengthening 
programs are offered to guarantee equal 
opportunities for our employees. SK Telecom continues to increase employment of female 
workers, and encourages the use of maternity and childcare 
leaves without feeling pressure. In such methods, we are 
respecting the characteristics of female workers and other 
employees that need to balance family duties. Moreover, we 
are continuing to create jobs and benefits for the vulnerable 
group including employees with disabilities. RECENT PROGRESS RECENT PROGRESS LONG TERM TARGET
•  To establish a healthy ecosystem in the ICT industry, we are establishing and 
implementing key plans for mutual growth.   
 - Signed partnership agreement for inclusive growth with 189 corporate partners 
 -  Developed infrastructure for conference, education, and seminar by opening 
‘SK Telecom’s Inclusive Growth Center’
•  In July of 2019, we opened a job recruitment fair for business partners called 
“Hope for Recruitment, Do Dream” and conducted employee competency 
trainings and job matching for our partners. 
•  We held the “New ICT Collaboration Day” and discussed New ICT business and 
the development of an ICT ecosystem.  
•  We received an Excellent rating (for 7 consecutive years) on the Win Win Index 
in 2019 and were selected as an Excellent Business of Honor.
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT - MUTUAL GROWTH WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS, 
pp.142-143  •  Maintaining 100% on ESG   
pre-screening
•  We are strengthening efficiency and reducing costs.    
  -  Issuing electronic bills, mobile cards for T members and retrieving card 
readers. (Users of electronic bills is continuing to grow with 25.14 million  
members as of the end of 2019) 
  -  Converting plastic T memberships cards to mobile cards(Saving around   
24 tons of plastic annually)
 -  Release of half-sized USIM (reduction of around 5.5 ton of plastic waste   
expected)
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT-REDUCTION OF RESOURCE CONSUMPTION, 
pp.96-97  •  Transitioning to electronic billing
•   Terminating plastic membership cards
•  We have been recognized by Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS) 
in their 2019 Corporate Governance Evaluation for excellent responsible 
management with an A+ rating.    
 - Maintaining 62.5% of outside directors
  -  Specified standards for judging independence and transparency of outside 
directors in the Board Of Directors regulation.
  -  Secured independence of Board of Directors by outside director proportion of 
Affiliate Board of Directors specifying in the management guidelines
•  In March of 2019, we held a general meeting of shareholders in open methods 
where the CEO directly moderated questionnaires and the Head of the 4 major 
businesses gave presentations, providing a platform for direct communication 
among the management and the shareholders. 
GOVERNANCE REPORT, pp.102-117  •  Maintaining more than 60% of outside 
directors(by 2022)
•  In 2019, the percentage of female members was 18.7%, an increase of 1.8%p 
compared to 2018, while the percentage of female managers was 7.4%,   
an increase of 0.5%p.
•  SK Telecom is committed to fostering female managers by conducting 
leadership training for female members. 
•  In 2019, we established a subsidiary-type Standard Workplace for people 
with disabilities called the “Happy Hanool” to create jobs for people with 
disabilities.
MEMBERS-Respect for Diversity, p.92  Mutual Growth of
 Supply Chains
Responsible consumption 
and strengthening 
resource efficiency
Corporate Governance
Guarantee of diversity 
and equal opportunity 
* Determined by core achievements and level of contributions to attaining long-term targets in 2019.55 54
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Through the company’s continued success and development, SK Telecom seeks to create value for its stakeholders 
as well as contribute to social and economic development and the well-being of humankind. In October 2016, SK 
Group revised its management system, SKMS, and expressed its resolution to make ‘stakeholders’ happiness’ its top 
philosophy and increase the company’s social value. SK Telecom amended its corporate Articles of Incorporation to 
include this resolution in March 2017, and reflected it in the Corporate Governance Charter adopted in February 2018. 
To put this into practice, SK Telecom clearly delineates its stakeholders into six groups, namely, customers, business 
partners, employees, local communities/NGOs, shareholders, and the government and reflected corporate Articles of 
Incorporation pursuing stakeholders’ happiness in 2020.
Based upon this, the company further improves the transparency and efficiency of its management through stakehold -
er engagement and seeks to acquire stakeholders’ support and trust. SK Telecom established its stakeholder engage -
ment policies and both internally and externally expressed its commitment to stakeholder engagement. SK Telecom’s 
stakeholder engagement policies define the requirements for internal and external stakeholders to participate inall 
management activities, and to provide guidelines from the company-wide perspective related to stakeholder commu -
nication to the relevant internal organizations, and to provide a process to resolve stakeholder issues. 
SK Telecom transparently discloses its management direction and achievements through various public disclosures, 
general shareholders meetings, BOD meetings, business reports, and its homepage. The company constantly collects 
stakeholders’ opinions through various communication channels and promptly responds to them. In accordance with 
the company’s stakeholder engagement policy, SK Telecom operates a responsibility system in which designated 
departments and staff in charge are assigned by individual departments to manage and process the communication 
channels. In 2018, the company was able to identify stakeholders’ main issues through stakeholder communication 
channels - the issues were then discussed with internal and external experts and were incorporated into the materiality 
assessment process which is approved by the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the BOD. Through such efforts, 
SK Telecom was able to expand the overall scope of stakeholder feedback incorporation. SK Telecom will continue 
to maintain a transparent process to factor material issues through its constant communication channels in order to 
maximize the management’s strategic decision-making and creation of long-term value.
SK Telecom operates a comprehensive online channel that collects stakeholders’ CSR grievances regarding labor, 
human rights, environment, and ethics. Through this channel, the company is able to comprehend stakeholders’ 
feedbacks on its management activities, as well as actively resolve managerial grievances and complaints on cases 
such as company’s actions that are not socially responsible or any cases of inflicted damage. The received feedbacks 
and grievances through the CSR Grievance Channel are resolved by the departments through a process of fact-checking, 
monitoring and due diligence. For cases that seem to be a material CSR issue, SK Telecom reports the content and 
the handling process itself to the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the BOD. SK Telecom is constantly putting 
in efforts of improvement to prevent similar cases from happening through incorporating such process into business 
activities.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION CHANNELS
PROCESS UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF AN ISSUE•  Labor Union (website for labor unions)
•  Letter to HR (in-house intranet)
•  My Counselor (in-house intranet)
1) Exploration of solutions locally  
2)  Engagement with    
the central department   If the locally responsible department that first encounters the issue deems that it is unable to de-
rive a solution in terms of the issue’s urgency, impact, and solution methods, it engages the central 
department for the issue. 
 Additionally, if it is deemed possible to resolve the issue through the involvement of R&C and 
delegation of  rights, the local department is empowered for issue resolution. If it is judged that a 
company-wide response is required, the company’ s responsible department-in-charge solves the issue. •  Hosting the Win Win Council 
•  Conducting BP satisfaction surveys HR related issues such as changes in management 
environment, salary negotiations etc.  
Mutual cooperation related issues such as fair 
contract signing, unfair trading, etc. Issues in stock price changes and dividend 
fluctuations, changes in the management 
environment and management performance, 
general meeting of shareholders 
Telecommunication policies, business 
opportunities and risksInquiries on products and services, suggestions 
and other comments
Consumer complaints, communication policies, 
environmental protection issues etc. MEMBERS
BUSINESS PARTNERS
Analysis of 
issueExploration 
of solutions 
locally 1)S/H
CommunicationFeedback
& Report• T world (customer website), customer centers
• Blogs, Facebook and other SNS channels
• Hosting annual conferences and eventsCUSTOMERS
•  Hosting biannual meetings with NGOsNGO & LOCAL COMMUNITIESSHAREHOLDERS
•  Corporate Day
•  Regular general meeting of shareholders 
once a year
•  Quarterly Results Announcement and NDR
GOVERNMENT
•  Holding regular meetings and 
discussionsCSR 
GRIEVANCES/
COMPLAINTS 
CHANNEL
Drawing of solutions locallyEngagement with the 
central department 2)Empowerment of 
solutions locally
Identification of 
solutions on a central 
department level57 56
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 57 56SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
ADVANCED TO NEW ICT
59
60
63
64MID - TO LONG - TERM STRATEGY
STRENGTHENING ICT INFRASTRUCTURE
MAXIMIZING VALUE OF NEW ICT PORTFOLIO
CREATING NEW VALUE BY SHARING INFRASTRUCTURE59 58
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SECURITY New Biz
MNOCOMMERCE MEDIA
Maximizing value of New ICT portfolio➋
Creating new value by sharing infrastructure➌
Strengthening
 ICT infrastructure“Securing differentiated competitiveness by establishing best
technology and infrastructure to lead global ICT ecosystem”
• Taking lead in 5G technology and services and completing 5G Infrastructure
•  Strengthening competitiveness of business portfolios with support by AI/
data in all directions
Maximizing 
value of 
New ICT portfolio“Boosting value of media, security, and commerce business through 
reinforcement of MNO innovation capacity as anchor business and synergies 
among businesses”
• Portfolio expansion
  - Accomplishing business restructuring by business model innovation 
through ICT synergies among 4 business divisions
  - Seeking opportunities for sustainable cooperation and alliance with 
domestic and international top-notch players within business area
• Realizing growth of portfolios
  - Reaching major subsidiary IPO through independent growth and increase 
in value of each portfolio
Creating 
new value by 
sharing 
infrastructure“Creating new value through opening and cooperation with various players”
•  Creating business synergy internally within SK Telecom ’s 4 business 
divisions, and sharing capabilities and infrastructure with SK ICT Family
•  Business model innovation by establishing a win-win framework among 
industry peers and integrating competencies with companies in different 
industries
•  Creation of social value by opening up and sharing SK Telecom’s 
infrastructure
  - Become a global leading company of social value creation within 10 years, 
create social value at similar level of financial value➊
➌➋
GLOBAL NEW ICT COMPANY
TAKING LEAD IN ICT SHARING AND 
COLLABORATION ECOSYSTEMS
ISSUE
Importance of an issue
With the 4th Industrial Revolution impend-
ing, convergence among industries is 
actively progressing on a global level. In 
particular, development of solutions using 
AI is already impacting our lives. In such 
environment, it is necessary for companies 
to identify new opportunities of growth and 
establish methods to expand and revitalize 
their businesses in order to become global 
ICT companies. APPROACH 
Approach strategy of SK Telecom
By adopting the Dual OS system, SK Tele-
com has rearranged the business structure 
to MNO (telecommunications) and New Biz 
(Media, security, commerce) and with the 
two sectors as its major business, the com-
pany is operating multi-faceted businesses 
in media, security, and commerce in addi-
tion to telecommunications. Particularly, we 
are operating focused management so that 
each business can effectively grow with our 
sector-specific management. We are creat-
ing new values for the hyper-generation by 
building a system of hyper-collaboration 
with global companies based on our 5G 
technologies and network infrastructure. VALUE CREATION
Performance achievements and 
management
5G: Based on the network capacity, inno-
vate marketing and build new business 
models to increase number of subscribers 
and to achieve a higher ratio of new busi-
nesses within 3 years of reaching the goal 
of expanding ARPU and sales
Media:  Enhance platforms, increase cus-
tomer base, and expand business models 
to leap forward as the number 1 media plat-
form company based on AI/DT in all areas 
including sales and memberships by 2020 
Security : Reaching successful IPO by corpo-
rate value maximizing through new business 
developments such as innovation of tech-
nology-based business models, convergent 
security, parking, etc., and global business 
expansion.
Commerce : Strengthen customer influx and 
activity, fortify growth of existing business 
models, pursue proactive external partner -
ships and provide a base of sustainable 
growth, securing a foundation for IPOSK Telecom is stepping up as 
a global ICT synergy company 
beyond mobile communications. 
We are solidifying the base for 
our businesses and expanding 
the business fields into various 
sectors, leading the innovation 
of the ICT ecosystem. In addition, 
we are creating new economic 
values by setting expansion of 
the ICT industry through hyper-
collaboration with global  
companies as the new growth 
engine. MID - TO LONG - TERM STRATEGY
Strengthening ICT infrastructure(5G, AI/Mobility)➊61 60
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SK Telecom is strengthening ICT infrastructure by innovating 5G and infrastructure through the 
development of new technologies. We are continuously innovating the information and communication 
infrastructure that acts as the foundation for development into a global ICT company.
LEADING GLOBAL 5G 
Elaborating on the 5G Network Design  
We are building 5G coverage by sophisticating our self-developed 3D coverage design system with real 
3D data. The “Real 3D Data” that we acquired by signing an MOU with Space En Co., Ltd under the 
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport was manufactured by applying the 3D precision model 
after shooting actual geographic features with a flight measuring camera. By using this, SK Telecom 
was able to design the optimal location and height for equipment installation from the building stage 
of the base station and also by using the regularly delivered spatial information, the company is now 
able to efficiently manage network quality in line with the environmental changes.
5G MEC (Mobile Edge Computing) Business 
MEC is a technology that provides the core of 5G, which are hyper-low latency services that are made 
possible from reduced data transfer intervals through a small-scale data center installed in close prox -
imity to the customers. SK Telecom is building MEC centers in a total of 12 major 5G locations across 
the country, and in August 2019 the company unveiled a differentiated 5GX MEC platform by applying 
MEC to the base station that is closest to customer contact as the world’s first. We also work with 
Amazon Web Services (AWS) to prepare infrastructure that maximizes the functions of user services 
through AWS Wavelength. By building a computing and storage infrastructure at the edge of the 5G 
network, AWS Wavelength created an environment where developers can develop new applications 
by using the hyper-low latency speed of 1/1,000 seconds per minute. SK Telecom plans to combine its 
network competitiveness with AWS ’s outstanding Cloud ser vices to build a MEC ecosystem that encom -
passes both individual and corporate customers. We will continue to work with leading companies in 
each industry to lead the domestic digital transmission market.STRENGTHENING ICT INFRASTRUCTURE
SECURING COMPETITIVENESS BY 
DEVELOPING NEXT-GENERATION 
TECHNOLOGY
Awarded for 
7 consecutive years 
as the world ’s firstWBA Industry Awards1)  Technology to ensure traffic quality 
customized to customers’ circumstances 
by separating the networks into physical 
and virtual networks 
2)  Technology to quickly provide new 
services by combining features as if 
they were building blocks
5G MOBILE EDGE COMPUTING(MEC) BUSINESS
GENERAL 
TRANSMIS -
SION 
METHOD
SKT
WHEN 
5G-MEC IS 
APPLIED5G 
smartphoneBase 
stationSwitch 
station
Switch 
stationInternet 
networkInternet data 
center
5G
5G 
smartphoneAutonomous 
drivingSmart 
factoryBase 
stationMECCustomer Value Innovation through Ultra-Fast 5G
We are developing our data communication technology to deliver faster 5G to our customers. 
In December of 2018, SK Telecom succeeded in service 5G as the world ’s first based on 5G NSA 
(5G-LTE composite standard, non-standalone), which significantly increases transmission speed by 
simultaneously utilizing 5G and LTE networks for data transmission and reception. Furthermore, as the 
first for a domestic mobile operator, we succeeded in 5G SA (5G single standard, 5G standalone) data 
communication by using only the 5G system. With this, we shortened the access time and increased 
the efficiency for data processing in three folds. In addition, core technologies for 5G such network 
slicing1), and function modularization2) became possible. Once the 5G era comes into full swing, 80% of 
all traffic is expected to occur indoors. For issues that may arise as a result including traffic overload 
and barriers, we developed the 5GX inbuilding solution. In the future, we hope to continue providing 
customers with high quality 5G services in densely populated areas such as subways and indoor areas 
that are difficult for radiowaves to reach.
Sophisticating 5G-Based Services
Following the world ’s first 5G launch, we also started the 5G roaming service as the first in the world. 
This is the result of exerting our efforts for the commercialization of 5G roaming after signing an 
agreement for a strategic partnership with Swisscom, the number 1 telecommunications service based 
in Switzerland. When using roaming services in Switzerland, customers are able to use streaming 
services with high frequency of use and traffic such as Youtube and wavve as well as a variety of 
5G services such as AR and VR, at the same quality as they would in Korea. Meanwhile, SK Telecom 
launched the Callar 2.0 which enables video calls in QHD(Quad High Definition) in 5G networks. The 
existing video call service, “Callar ” was released in 2018 and recorded a cumulative call volume of 150 
million calls. The upgraded “Callar 2.0 ” enables QHD video calls up to four times sharper than that of 
HD quality. We will continue enhancing customer satisfaction by applying 5G in various services such 
as roaming and video calls. 
Expanding Business Portfolio 
As a provider for LTE-R (Long Term Evolution-Railway,) SK Telecom is building a control system for the 
main center for railway sections such as the Incheon Subway and the Jeolla Line. LTE-R is a wireless 
communication system with LTE technology applied on railways that increases convenience and safety 
of railway operations by enabling receiving and sending of information among the control center, rail 
operator and safety personnel concurrently. Based on the 5G technology, we plan to proactively pursue 
various businesses by exploring opportunities for open collaboration in the future. 
SECURING COMPETITIVENESS BY DEVELOPING NEXT-GENERATION 
TECHNOLOGY
Technological Innovation for Quality Improvement 
We are continuously conducting R&D to improve quality for data and calls. As part of the effort, we 
have applied for a patent for technology in antenna adjustment, and with this technology, we are 
expected to reduce battery consumption and heighten call and data quality by adjusting the antennas’ 
electrical characteristics even when the user environment, for example, the user ’s way of holding The world’s first 5G launchNETWORK CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 
(CAPEX) *Non-consolidated basis
KRW 2.5 trillion 2019
R&D MANPOWER
1,538 personsR&D COST
KRW 582.5 billion63 62
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
ENHANCEMENT OF CORPORATE VALUE THROUGH EXPANSION OF 
MAJOR BUSINESSES 
MNO will officially initiate its growth based on the full-fledged expansion of 5G services. By providing 
even higher values to our existing customers through 5G services, we plan to promote natural growth 
in sales. Also, by expanding new B2B platforms including new subscription-type services, new B3B 
Cloud businesses based on MEC, and messaging/ verification/ and transaction etc., we will identify 
new sources for sales. Along with these service developments, we plan to realize sustainable value 
with marketing innovation, such as digital innovation in distribution. In the media sector, we plan 
to advance the media platform through technology innovation that includes new monthly plans, 
innovation of products, expansion of channels, maximization of AI-driven scheduling/recommendation 
systems etc. Additionally, through growth in partnerships with affiliated companies and reinforcement 
of online competencies, we plan to expand services for customers and BM including advertisements, 
contents etc. to create additional value and leap forward as the No.1 media platform company. As for 
the security sector, we plan to convert the human-driven business structure to a technology-driven 
business structure and expand the fundamentals of convergent security based on “Safety & Care,” 
going beyond the conventional physical “security.” In addition, we plan to take the scope of business 
that is currently within the national boundary and expand it to a global scale, gaining the title of 
the No. 1 technology-based security company. Moving forward, we plan to maximize our corporate 
value through our advancement in the market. With its efforts to improve search quality, provide 
customer-led shopping information, and expand SK Pay etc., the commerce sector is reinforcing 
customer attraction and activity, broadening partnerships, diversifying products and strengthening 
delivery competitiveness. Moving forward, we will pursue successful IPO and secure a foundation for 
sustainable value creation through proactive external partnerships, such as maximizing the growth 
of the existing Open Market model, partnerships with domestic and international top players, vertical 
competencies for markets and fashion etc.
5G-BASED MEDIA INNOVATION
Based on 5G, we are showcasing the next generation of media content. Through this service, we offer 
various content such as live broadcasting for TV and professional baseball games using 5G commercial 
networks, while proactively pursuing business for 5G virtual world. In this process, we are working with 
domestic and foreign platform and content companies such as Facebook, Kakao and Nexon. We plan 
to release VR games using Kakao Friends IP with Kakao VX and are in the process of developing VR 
games using Nexon ’s popular games. Moreover, in January of 2019, we brought into life next-generation 
media content with SM Entertainment at the world ’s largest IT and electronics exhibition of CES 2019. 
The exhibition featured a variety of media technologies, including Holobox which combined AI NUGU 
with virtual reality platforms such as social VR and hologram as well as FLO ’s song recommendation 
functions. In the future, we will collaborate with a variety of companies to deliver new experiences to 
our customers through new content.
MOBILITY TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
We have developed mobility technology in conformity with the age of autonomous driving. The 
bilateral security gateway that prevents hacking of 5G autonomous vehicles is an integrated device 
that can be installed to the interior of the vehicles and protects various electronic units for vehicle 
operation and networks from external attacks. We also featured autonomous-driving AI technology 
for 5G carsharing, an innovative technology that locates the best driving routes and calls vehicles to 
locations of customers’ preference.MAXIMIZING VALUE OF NEW ICT 
PORTFOLIO
//..CASE 1HOSTING THE AI 
CONFERENCE, AI.X 2019 
On June 25, 2019, SK Telecom held a conference called AI.X 2019 with 
global AI leaders and academics in AI to discuss the evolution of AI. 
This conference which was held under the theme of “Human-centered 
AI,” and Tom Gruber, co-founder of Siri and Professor James Randy 
participated to give their speeches, along with other major partici -
pants to discuss and explore the developmental direction of AI tech -
nology. SK Telecom will continue to provide a platform for sharing 
knowledge on AI development and personal exchanges to provide 
true value that customers want.
5Gthe smartphone changes. Also, to offer uninterrupted Wi-Fi to our customers, we have developed 
and commercialized “Wi-Fi 6” as world premier and also developed the wireless mesh technology. 
“Wi-Fi 6” offers up to 4.8 Gbps speed, which is 4 times faster than the existing system, and provides 
excellent quality even when multiple users are connected at the same time. SK Telecom installed “Wi-
Fi 6” in traffic-heavy areas such as Coex in Samsung-dong to improve quality that customers can feel. 
For wireless mesh technology, a large number of Wi-Fi devices are installed in a walled and spacious 
indoor space and are interconnected. Therefore, it allows the users to access the best Wi-Fi device 
according to their location. In recognition of its development and use of Wi-Fi 6 as the world ’s first, and 
its commitment to developing wireless mesh technology, SK Telecom was awarded the “Best Indoor 
Wi-Fi Network ” at the WBA broadband Alliance Industry Awards. With this, we also won the WBA 
Industries Award for 7 consecutive years for the first time in the world. We will continue to develop 
innovative solutions and equipment to deliver the best network service for our customers.
HYPER INNOVATION THROUGH THE COMBINATION OF 5G AND AI
Suggesting New Solutions 
The new combination of AI analyzing a vast amount of information produced by 5G and suggesting 
solutions is affecting a variety of sectors including quality improvement solutions. AI-based media 
quality improvement solution, “Super Nova,” analyzes media files in various ways to improve quality 
of videos and audio files and dramatically reduces processing time. For this, technology based on 
deep learning algorithm that process images, videos and audio data was applied. SK Telecom applied 
“Super Nova ” i n  t h e  q u a l i t y  a s s e s s m e n t  p r o c e s s  o f  S K  h y n i x ’s semiconductors, and continuously 
improved functions to drastically reduce time required to assess wafer images, providing productivity. 
In addition, by applying “Super Nova ” to SK Broadband ’s IPTV infrastructure, we provided viewers 
with original footage sent by the broadcasting company at higher quality. In addition to “Super Nova, ” 
we used “Machine Vision, ” which quickly checks for defects in products to enable workers to increase 
productivity by up to two times per person.
Enhancing NUGU Service 
Through continued innovation, AI speaker has been established as a staple in our daily lives. Moving 
a step ahead, SK Telecom developed “NUGU Nemo, ” an AI speaker that has evolved into an AI device 
that users listen to and watch with an added display to the existing speaker. With this product, users 
can now check information that was provided only in audio form in a more accurate and quicker way. 
Customers are now able to make calls in a more convenient way with NUGU Call service that allows 
making and receiving calls. On the other hand, we launched a product that combines NUGU and a 
two-way English language learning content, enabling AI speakers to act not only as communication 
functions, but also as learning content. In the future, we will continue to add a variety of communication 
services based on AI.QUALITY IMPROVEMENT 
SOLUTIONS FOR 
AI-BASED MEDIA
Super Nova-
applied 
screenOriginal 
screen
5GQUALITY IMPROVEMENT 
SOLUTIONS FOR AI-BASED MEDIA65 64
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CREATING NEW VALUE THROUGH 
SHARED INFRASTRUCTUREand distance measurement. In the future, we will continue to build a system of hyper-collaboration 
with various companies within the industry.
Smart Public Service 
By introducing 5G technology to public services, we are improving the convenience of various areas.
First, through an agreement with the Korea Military Academy, we carried out integrated combat 
training that resembles real life situations using VR and AR. We also built the Smart Military Academy 
integrated with 5G infrastructure throughout the campus with smart lectures and physical fitness 
using AI and Big Data technology. In addition, the introduction of AI, quantum cryptography, and 
AR technologies increased convenience in medical areas. We build a 5G network within the Yongin 
Severance Hospital and introduced innovative technologies through the hospital such as hologram visits, 
advanced security solutions, location guides etc. using AR.
Furthermore, in cooperation with Ucon System, we developed 5G drone solutions and focused on de -
veloping technologies applicable to various sectors such as public safety and security, and together 
with Busan Silla University, the 53rd Division of the Army, and Hanbit Drone, we established a social 
safety network by assessing collective response systems for illegal drone use. 
Moreover, by signing with Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power to establish smart plants, we are in the pro -
cess of developing future energy solutions and new energy businesses using ICT technology. With Ko -
rea Rail Network Authority, we established highly dense railway communication networks, improving 
the speed and safety of railway telecommunications. 
Cooperation with Local Organizations 
Together with each local municipality, we are leading the development of transportation services and 
infrastructure for autonomous-driving. By using T map service, we collected data on public parking 
lots in cooperation with local municipalities in Suwon City and Anyang City. Through this, we offered 
a convenient parking system by delivering information on location of the parking lot and remaining 
parking spaces in real time. Also, by working with the National Police Agency, we linked traffic signal 
data to T map and amplified services by increasing the accuracy of routes and estimated arrival time. 
We also contributed to traffic issues by alleviating high traffic during rush hours by providing traffic 
information instantaneously. Meanwhile, by cooperating with Seoul city, we pursued demonstration 
of Cooperative-Intelligent Transport Systems(C-ITS) to establish cutting-edge transportation infrastruc -
ture. We built 5G sensors and IoT on major roads, installed 5G ADAS on public transportation vehicles 
to deliver traffic information, lane departure warnings, anti-collision systems, thereby reducing risks of 
accidents. Furthermore, we officially kicked off building the 5G infrastructure for autonomous driving 
such as advanced driver assistance systems and developed technology for real-time updates of HD 
maps. As a result, in June 2019, we successfully completed a demonstration of autonomous driving on 
buses with added autonomous driving technology.SK Telecom is sharing its internal infrastructure to explore new business opportunities. By sharing 
infrastructure for mobile telecommunications (MNO), media, security, and commerce, we achieve the 
assimilation of various services in autonomous driving and health care based on data and network 
infrastructure. For the SK ICT Family, an ICT affiliate within the SK Group, we hope to build an advanced 
cooperation system. Internally and externally, we plan to build new business models through a variety 
of hyper-collaboration with domestic and international companies. We are creating synergy by acting 
as a Hyper Connector at the center of hyper-collaboration of Insuretech, smart construction etc. We 
also share infrastructure with the society to create social value in a variety of areas. SK Telecom will 
continue to serve as a corporate citizen by expanding social value in addition to economic value.
SHARING CAPACITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE FOR 4 MAJOR 
BUSINESSES AND BUILDING A HYPER-COLLABORATION SYSTEM 
Sharing Technologies with Global Companies   
Based on our leading 5G technology, we are sharing our technology and operational know-how with 
prominent companies overseas. For commercialization of 5G in Guam and Saipan, we have shared 
information with IT&E, telecommunications company, regarding designing and building 5G networks, 
and quality optimizing solutions, and with Rakuten, Japan ’s telecommunications company, we signed 
a contract for export of network related technology. Also, we have actively begun the 5G business 
collaboration by providing B2B solutions including new technologies, inbuilding solutions, private 
corporate networks with the Philippines ’s Now Corporation Group. At the APAC 5G Summit held in May 
2019, over 20 global carriers shared core technologies for 5G commercialization, cases of overcoming 
obstructive factors, and 5G killer services under development, contributing to growth of a global 5G 
ecosystem. Further, we provided experimental opportunities by introducing our company ’s innovative 
ICT technologies to leaders of OECD telecommunications infrastructure and service policy using 
T.um, our company ’s ICT exhibition gallery. In addition, SK Telecom has presented on its current 
ICT technologies including quantum cryptography technologies and internet service solutions, and 
discussed policies for enhancing networks and transitioning into the digital stage with OECD ’s ICT 
policy leaders, contributing to the future-oriented growth of OECD member countries. 
Business Model Innovation
We are developing new business opportunities by collaborating with various business areas including 
insurance, finance, distribution, construction, sports etc. In conjunction with Hanwha Insurance 
and Hyundai Motor Group, we established Insuretech, an insurance company using AI, establishing 
even more convenient insurance services. In the financial sector, we provided NH Card with card 
services that use artificial intelligence platforms and achieved innovation of financial services by 
integrating 5G, IoT and Big Data with the Industrial Bank of Korea. Also, we suggested future-oriented 
shopping solutions with ICT technology applied to the overall process of shopping with Sinsegye and 
collaborated with them to establish distribution stores based on 5G. In the field of construction, we 
collaborated with Hyundai Construction and SK Construction to manage construction sites in real 
time using remote monitoring and drone control. We also succeeded in demonstrating smart road 
constructions by applying ICT technology in the overall process of measurement, design, construction 
and management stages. In addition, in the mobility sector, we successfully demonstrated 5G-based 
broadcasting in a running vehicle and added Car-to-Home and Home-to-Car services which allow 
remote bilateral controlling of electronics at home and cars. In the sports sector, we used IoT and 
adopted technology that innovates golf services by providing location information within golf courses //..CASE 2T map LOGISTICS 
SHIPPING SERVICE
SK Telecom increased the efficiency of logistics delivery by expanding 
and revamping T map ’s programming interface. We enhanced multi-stop 
capabilities and increased shipping efficiency, and developed image 
path APIs to help drivers find optimal routes. Also, we introduced new 
solutions in the delivery sector including enhancement of TMS functions 
that distributes multiple deliveries for multiple vehicles on optimal 
routes. The application of the new map engine (Java-script) has also 
improved the loading and movement speed of maps. Through improved 
services, we are heightening convenience by adding estimated delivery 
time, delivery proficiency, assignment options for vehicle count etc. 
67 66
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 67 66SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SOCIAL VALUE
69
70
74STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS FOR SV 
SOCIAL VALUE CREATION IN LINE WITH STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS
SOCIAL VALUE MEASUREMENT69 68
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS FOR 
SOCIAL VALUECREATION OF FUTURE VALUE BY
MEASURING SOCIAL VALUE BASED
ON DOUBLE BOTTOM LINETo maximize the creation of future 
value, SK Telecom employs the 
Double Bottom Line which pursues 
economic and social value simulta -
neously. To accomplish sustainable 
growth in tandem with the wider 
community, we carry out a range 
of activities that reflect our firm’s 
characteristics and endlessly strive 
for innovation in tackling social 
challenges and exploring ways to 
create differentiated social value. Social Value - New Management Strategies for Survival and Growth
With the development of digital technology, the broad paradigm shift taking place in politics, the 
economy, society, and culture is accelerating. Also, the arrival of the hyper-connected society is 
expanding the scope of stakeholders that surround the company, and impact of  business activities 
on them is broadening. Corporates are expected not only to  create conventional economic value , but 
also serve more significant roles as members of society.  
SK Telecom believes that the pursuit of social value is not an option but a prerequisite to survival, 
and so it is pursuing a transformation which not only includes economic value for shareholders and 
customers, but also social value that fulfills the various demands of the stakeholders.
Strategic Directions for Social Value - DIGITAL LIFE CHANGER 
By combing unique characteristics of SK Telecom and the needs of external stakeholders like the New 
Normal to come post-COVID-19, SK Telecom seeks to create new values that goes beyond simple social 
contribution activities to ones that can be sensed in our daily lives. As Digital Life Changers, we will 
continue to innovate the new ICT business model and accelerate the creation of social value through 
hyper-cooperation with various entities so that customers can enjoy safer, healthier, and more conve -
nient lives.
DIGITAL 
LIFE 
CHANGERS,
elevating 
the quality 
of lifeAccelerate social 
value generation 
associated with 
Business ModelICT-social value
Hyper-collaborationA safer  life
(SAFETY)
A healthier  life
(HEALTH)
A more convenient  life
(CONVENIENCE)ISSUE
Importance of an issue
As corporate social responsibility and 
corporate citizenship are getting more em-
phasized, a corporate start to monitor eco-
nomic and social value at the same time, 
out of traditional ‘profit seeking focused’ 
approach. SK Group set the Double Bottom 
Line, based on both economic and social 
value, as its performance measurement 
standard for social value,  and build mon-
itoring and management system for social 
value of corporate operation based on it.APPROACH 
SK Telecom's strategies
SK Telecom reflects social value creation and 
responsibility in its corporate philosophy. 
Through a variety of institutional support 
programs, social value measurement and 
performance analysis, we are exploring op-
portunities to positively impact our society 
and resolve social challenges. SK Telecom 
plans to contribute to the creation of social 
value as well as the expansion of the eco-
system by applying enhanced social value 
measuring methodologies to various areas.VALUE CREATION
Performance achievements and 
management
Become a leading company in creating 
social value by establishing social value 
management  system and upgrading social 
value measurement methodology based on 
Double Bottom Line (by 2028)71 70
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SOCIAL VALUE CREATION IN LINE WITH 
STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS
SK Telecom shares ICT and distribution infrastructure to pursue projects that create a variety of social 
values. We are committed to creating social value by improving the quality of life through utilizing our 
ICT capabilities and organizing various programs such as IT education.   
INCREASING SOCIAL VALUE BY USING ICT
“AI Care,” the role of social safety nets for isolated senior citizens 
B a s e d o n S K T ’s ( A I ) ( A r t i fi c i a l I n t e l l i g e n c e) t e c h n o l o g y a n d d a t a a n a l y z i n g c a p a b i l i t i e s , i n A p r i l 20 19 w e l a u n c h e d  
a social value business in conjunction with social enterprises (Happy Connect) and local municipalities (Local 
Government Association for Social and Solidarity Economy, etc.) to address the issues of loneliness, safety, 
and dementia among socially vulnerable groups, including senior citizens and the people with disabilities. The 
‘AI Care’  service is provided by the company to share and support AI as well as home IoT(Internet of Things) 
and data analytics technologies, together with local organizations that create local jobs where workers carry 
out on-site care services for the company ’s service targets and operate the ‘ICT Care Center ’ which is the 
backbone of on-site projects. Through the AI care service, which was developed for isolated senior citizens, 
we set up AI speakers in 13 municipalities and public institutions (LH, Korean Land and Housing Corporation) 
3,200 households across the country in 2019. With an AI speaker, senior citizens can feel less lonely by 
asking it questions about music, lifestyle information, and carrying on conversations. When users call for 
help, AI speakers recognize this as an emergency and automatically notify an ICT Care Center, responsible 
care managers, and ADT Caps (at night-time/holiday) so that emergency services can be immediately alerted 
if monitoring personnel determine the situation to be an emergency. With the service especially useful for 
senior citizens who are not very familiar with information and communication devices, we were able to rescue 
15 isolated senior citizens in response to calls for help made through AI speakers. Also, by developing the 
nation ’s first AI-based “Dementia Prevention ” p r o g r a m  a l o n g  w i t h  S e o u l  N a t i o n a l  U n i v e r s i ty ’s College of 
Medicine, we are establishing our company as a trustworthy keeper of the physical and mental wellbeing of 
senior citizens. Thanks to advanced ICT and accumulated infrastructure, the company will exert its efforts to 
create social value and tackle social challenges.
ICT training to reduce digital divide
Since November 2019, we have been operating “E a s y T Smar t phone Cla sse s ” and “ Exciting Coding Classes ” with 
the Association of Elementary Computing Teachers. With our stores and branches in major cities nationwide 
acting as educational centers, we help students easily understand coding with the help of our educational 
robot, ALBERT. Currently, more than 300 elementary schools are receiving coding lessons in regular and after-
school classes, and more than 10 countries overseas are also conducting pilot programs. Through coding 
education, we are contributing to children ’s creative learning and the development of future ICT talent.
SKT Happy Insight
To identify social value creating items based on ICT, SK Telecom has been hosting the “SKT Happy Insight” 
contest each year since 2017. Any one that is a Korean national can par ticipate in the contest, and the company 
plans to support businesses of innovative items that were selected as a solution for social issues using ICT. SK 
Telecom strives to create social values and to build a social safety network along with all citizens.
“Red Connect,” the world’s first health management service for blood donors
As the world’s first, we developed and are operating “Red Connect,” which is an innovative application 
that provides health management services by utilizing Big Data on health care and health information 
of blood donors. With this, we are contributing to the expansion of a life-sharing culture by supporting 
healthy, transparent, and easy blood donations of 1.3 million donors in Korea.Launch of services for people with hearing impairment 
To enable people with hearing impairments to advance into the taxi industry, we launched the “T map 
Taxi” app for hearing impaired people in cooperation with Co:actus, a social enterprise. By proactively 
accommodating taxi drivers with a hearing impairment, we are providing significant assistance in their 
business activities such as blinking alerts to prevent missed calls, messaging functions between customers 
and drivers for communication of special requests, etc. Also, to ease discomfort caused by voice calls, we 
launched the “Sonnuri Ring ” service in conjunction with the Seoul National School for the Deaf as well 
as nationwide associations for the deaf. The service informs callers that are trying to reach people with a 
hearing impairment, “This is a mobile phone for customers with a hearing impairment. Please contact via 
text message. ” With this service, we hope to alleviate telephony-related difficulties of hearing impaired 
customers. SK Telecom plans to continue its efforts to create social value for socially vulnerable groups. 
Happy Coding School for youths with disabilities
Back in 2018, SK Telecom decided to promote a new program to support socially vulnerable groups 
with company members and the company working as a team. Starting in 2019, for the past 2 years 
the company has been operating Happy Coding Schools targeting approximately 100 special education 
schools or special needs classes around the country. To facilitate specialized coding education for 
youths with disabilities, we completed the development of 14 different Korean and English textbooks 
classified by disability-type. Also, by conducting classes with professional instructors on-site, we are 
contributing to the improvement of the ICT competencies and the establishment of their plans for 
further schooling and future careers. As a recognition of these efforts, we were awarded the mobile 
STEAM Activity for Children Award by the highest renowned awards in the telecommunication sector, 
the GSMA Global Mobile Awards.
Support for small business owners
With services equipped with 5G technology, we are supporting small business owners across the 
country. By applying AR (augmented reality) technology in Daegu’s Jung-gu, and Incheon’s Namdong-
gu, we diversified content for local tourism. Also, we are offering T membership services, such as 
open streets and open bakeries, in which users can enjoy discounts and promotional benefits at 
local business districts. Additionally, to enhance information accessibility for small business owners, 
we opened off-line consulting centers called “Centers for the happiness of small business owners ” 
in Seoul and Daejeon and are providing guidance on various support systems, consultations about 
specialized ICT services for small business owners, analysis on business districts, consultations for 
SK Smile microcredit loan etc. Moreover, we launched and are operating Bizit (www.skbizit.co.kr), 
an online platform that handles not only the tasks related to startup launch and management which 
ICT Make-a-thonTotal number of participants in ICT training2017 2018 2019CURRENT ICT TRAINING PROGRAMS
544
1122,395
122942 
112
Number of participants in smart phone training 
for senior citizens (cumulative)Smart phone training for the elderly43212,832
20172,27315,105
830 15,935 
2018 2019STATUS QUO AT HAPPY CODING SCHOOL FOR YOUNG DISABLED PEOPLE 
Nurturing instructors/ 
operating curriculums
Established Basic and 
Intensive Courses for 
CodingDeveloping curriculums/ consulting, 
selecting schools
SKT
SW Education 
Innovation Center National Institute of 
Special Education
Special 
schools 
nationwide
* Co-working with Korea 
Differently Abled Federation
Finalizing participating institu -
tions and kick-off of Working 
Group
Developing curriculum by 
disability type, operating pilot 
programs in 10 schools 
Expanding target group to 300 
students at 30 special schools 
nationwide
Promoting follow-up organiza -
tion of regular education activ -
ities for students with special 
needs 73 72
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
small business owners need, such as taxes, market analysis, policy fund information, hiring part-time 
employees, sales management etc. but also handles financial tasks such as applications for loans and 
deposit products. 
T map Parking
We released “T map Parking ” with ADT Caps. This is a “one-stop ” parking-related service app that 
provides details about parking space availability in real-time, in addition to discounts and automatic 
payment systems. Through the T map service, we are maximizing the efficiency of the operation of 
parking lots while eliminating parking-related inconveniences. ADT Caps handles real-time complaints 
through a 24-hour call center with over 2,000 patrol crews across the country and plans to expand 
the number of directly-managed and affiliated parking lots to more than 600 locations by 2020 (about 
100,000 parking space). In addition, along with the launch of T map Parking, we have established our 
own standard guidelines for parking guidance systems and equipment for entering and exiting parking 
lots. With the parking operation platform that enables the remote control of a variety of parking 
equipment, we are offering a new parking paradigm for both suppliers and users in the domestic 
parking market. Moreover, we are enhancing the efficiency of parking lot operations by analyzing 
supply and demand for parking by each day and hour for specific areas through pre-analysis and 
operation based on Big Data.
Social Value Creation Based on Public Data 
For the balanced development of regional communities and data-based economic revitalization, we 
signed an agreement on data cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. By using Big 
Data from the telecommunications sector for location-based map services, population flow, fine dust, 
etc. and the government ’s publicly available data, we are generating social value in various sectors 
such as natural disasters and health. Through data cooperation, we are also contributing to economic 
revitalization by jointly implementing analyzing activities for social value creation and providing data 
to ministries and municipalities to create new business models that cater to local characteristics. And 
from mid- to long-term perspectives, we are providing online analysis services using data for Insight, the 
Ministry of the Interior and Safety’s Big Data platform. We strive to bridge regional gaps by providing 
quality data and facilitate high-quality administrative services. Furthermore, with Seoul Metro, we signed 
a cooperation agreement to research the safety of public transportation and the alleviation of traffic 
congestion. By combining SK Telecom ’s communication data and Seoul Metro ’s transpor tation card usage 
as well as their load sensor data of subway trains, we are providing optimal routes for users. Additionally, 
we are exploring methods to simplify the entering and exiting of subway platforms by using wireless 
communication and sending notification messages to customers in case an accident occurs on a subway 
nearby. By using our communication infrastructure and ICT, we are striving to improve convenience for 
customers including enhancing the efficiency of train operation management and securing passenger 
safety. We will explore further ways to improve our services based on our analysis of Big Data.
SOCIAL IMPACT CREATION BASED ON OPEN COLLABO
Accelerating ICT-based social enterprises and startups 
By Accelerating startups, we are contributing to the growth of new industries and job creation. Since 
2013, we have operated various programs such as “Bravo Restart, ” a support program for ICT-convergent 
venture star tups that is operated by middle-aged people, the “SK Young Adult Launch” program kickstar t 
startups by university students, the “Dream Venture Star” to establish a startup ecosystem in the 
Daejeon region, the “Agriculture Venture Star” for the development of ventures specializing in ICT-based 
agriculture, the “101 Startup Korea,” a startup accelerating program for young adults and so on. We have 
launched and are currently operating a more evolved and systemized program called “True Innovation, ” 
which is composed of a “Collabo Project ” that leads innovation through collaboration with domestic and 
international partner companies, and an “Accelerator, ” that links innovative companies with potential 
partners. In 2019, we revamped the program with a new name: “True Innovation Accelerator, ” which identifies and develops innovative star tups specializing in sectors such as 5G, Mobility, and AI. Moreover, 
we conducted the “2019 Smart Tour App. Development Competition ” to find an outstanding tourism-
related smartphone app by working with the Korea Tourism Organization. So far, we have accelaerated 
268 innovative startups and helped around 100 teams receive investment funds worth approximately 
KRW 260 billion. As a result, 24 innovative startups directly have linked their businesses to SK Telecom. 
In addition, we launched the “ImpactUps ” program with 11 innovative startups that address social issues 
by using technology. We set social value and impact goals that these 11 companies can create together, 
and we publicize them through business cooperation and exhibitions, PR, etc. In this way, we are striving 
to contribute to the expansion of an ecosystem for social value by heightening the possibility of reaching 
the impact goals and collaborating on tackling social challenges.
Curriculum development through cooperation with universities   
We are amplifying collaboration with nationally distinguished universities to nurture AI talent that will 
lead the new generation. Starting with the off-line “AI Curriculum ” established with Seoul National 
University, we pursued industry and academic cooperation for AI curriculums with Hanyang, Sogang, 
and Kwangwoon Universities. Also, we are pursuing joint research for the expansion of the AI eco -
system by signing agreements. With the AI education curriculum created through business-academia 
partnerships, we are looking forward to not only delivering theoretical knowledge but also practical 
skills required on-site. Moving forward, we plan to provide the students with business opportunities 
that can be applied to SK Telecom ’s AI services. 
Development of young talent
To support the development of outstanding young talent with creative ideas in ICT, we launched the 
“SmarTeen App Challenge (STAC) 2019, ” the nation ’s largest app development competition for teens, 
along with SK Planet and the Ministry of SMEs and startups. In addition, we are operating a Youth 
Technology Class, a knowledge-sharing platform that introduces global ICT trends in a comprehensible 
way to science prodigies across the nation. Company members in corresponding departments in 5G 
and AI directly visit locations and give lectures on current trends and technologies in future ICT such 
as AI, machine learning, Big Data, blockchain etc., helping these talented people to dream new dreams. 
PURSUIT OF GLOBAL SV COLLABORATION  
Coding Training Using the Game, Minecraft 
We are working with Microsof t to provide coding training free of charge. We of fer cost-free coding classes 
by using the block-type construction game Minecraft, in the 5 cities of Seoul, Busan, Daejeon, Daegu, 
and Gwangju. Minecraft is a game in which players can build and explore virtual worlds with different 
types of blocks, and is useful for improving coding skills, digital competence and creativity. Microsoft 
has been operating a global coding education program called “Hour of Code”  and in collaboration with 
that firm we have expanded the target to higher elementar y grade levels and are suppor ting good quality 
computer science education. SK Telecom is proactively working with various partners and sharing the 
company ’s vision for the creation of social value. For the development of future talent in the 5G era, we 
will actively open up our tangible and intangible assets and build strategic partnerships. 
Technology development collaboration in the field of 5G and AI with Minerva School
With a Minerva School that is currently collaborating with global ICT companies such as Apple and 
Amazon, we conducted joint programs for technology development and new businesses related to 
5G and AI. For 3 months, SK Telecom and Minerva freely shared ideas via on-site visits, emails, 
and SNS messaging with a focus on 5 tasks in new business development in 5G, language learning 
solutions based on 5G and AI, etc. SK Telecom defines the innovation key for the 5G era to be sharing 
and collaboration based on Digital Transformation. Therefore, the company will pursue continuous 
collaboration with competent talent and key global companies and strive to provide platforms for a 
wide range of opportunities to create next-generation growth business. Number of teams
Support for venture accelerating38
1771
2017 2018 2019CURRENT STARTUP 
ACCELERATING75 74
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SOCIAL VALUE MEASUREMENT
DOUBLE BOTTOM LINE
With the rise in the importance of social responsibility activities in corporate management, SK Telecom 
adopted the Double Bottom Line (DBL), which considers both economic and social value and deems 
the creation of social value by tackling social challenges as a component of corporate management. 
In accordance to SK Group ’s DBL measurement methodology, SK Telecom measures social value created 
through management activities in monetary value, and annually discloses the results to the public. 
In addition, we established a company-wide social value fostering system and assigned social value 
KPI assignments to all organizations, and for all employees we are conducting social value creation 
workshops as part of our efforts to create more social value. The Double Bottom Line comprises “financial outcomes ” for economic value, “business social out -
comes ” for social value “social outcomes in social contribution ” and “indirect economic contribution 
outcomes. ”  
In the area of “business social outcomes, ” SK Telecom analyzed the social value outcomes and the 
financial outcomes that occur directly from process operations and products and services to calculate 
the “social-environment profit and loss. ” The social value outcomes were calculated based on the 
Group ’s DBL measurement guide, and the “social-environmental profit and loss ” was calculated by 
applying the 2019 data to the environmental profit and loss, the reporting methodology that was 
applied to the 2018 SK Telecom Annual Report. 
1. SK TELECOM’S ENVIRONMENTAL PROFIT AND LOSS ANALYSIS 
To measure impact of the entire value chain on the enviro nment, SK Telecom uses a step-by-step 
process in calculating an environmental profit and loss. We then analyze this through 3 stages: setting 
the scope of the value chain, collecting data and calculating value.
Creation of social benefits across 
management activities
social costs from 
business activitiesSOCIAL 
VALUESOCIAL 
BENEFITSOCIAL 
COSTDEFINITION OF SOCIAL OUTCOMES OF THE DOUBLE BOTTOM LINE
SK Group Double Bottom Line
   Net income Social CSR Programs Employment
Environment 
(products and services)Donations Shareholder return
  Environment (operations) Volunteering programs Taxes paidEconomic value Social value
•  Net profit directly 
generated by the 
company’s economic 
activities (net income)Financial outcomesBusiness social 
outcomesSocial outcomes in 
social contribution Indirect economic con -
tribution performance
1
23 3
23SK GROUP AND SK TELECOM ’S SOCIAL OUTCOMES MEASUREMENT AND REPORTING RANGE
•    Business-driven social 
outcomes created by the 
business processes and 
the resulting products and 
services•  Additional social 
outcomes created through 
the company’s social 
contribution activities•  Employment, tax, and 
other expenses incurred 
through corporate  
activities1
2
3Within the scope of this report  – Net 
Income, Social, Environment (products and 
services), Environment (operations)
Application of environmental profit and loss 
measurement methodology - Environment 
(products and services), Environment 
(operations)
Application of SK Group’s double bottom 
line measurement methods – Net Income, 
Social, Environment (products and services)
Setting Scope and Data Collection
In order to analyze the environmental profit and loss, SK Telecom divided the value chain into 5 
categories: buildings, networks, employees, handsets, and services and solutions. Based on this,  
environmental data was identified from the perspective of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): the collection, 
production, operation, use and disposal of raw materials. SETTING THE SCOPE IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROFIT AND LOSS ANALYSIS
(*)  Handset: Environmental or carbon label, CTS and LCA Certification Standard: Galaxy S8, Galaxy S7 Edge, iPhone 7, iPhone 8, iPhone X,  
iPhone Xs, iPhone XR, iPhone XS MAX, iPhone 11 Pro MAX, iPhone 11 Pro, iPhone 11Network
Employee ServiceBuilding
Traditional 
Handset(*)Pur-
chaseConstruc-
tionPurchase
Produc-
tionInstal-
lation
Component 
productionAssembly
CB
Component 
productionAssemblyServices and 
Solutions(EMS)Collection of raw 
materials
Collection of raw 
materials
Collection of raw 
materials
CB
Collection of raw 
materialsDisposal
Recycle and 
Disposal
Collection/Recycle 
and Disposal
CB
Collection/Recycle 
and DisposalBuilding operation
Network operation
Business trips
Distribu-
tionUse  E CB WT WS
  E CB
CB CB  E CB
Distribu-
tionUse
  E CB WSEnergy   E100% appliedProducts and Services
GHG 
(Greenhouse Gases)CB
Water WT
Waste WSRaw material 
collectionProduction Operation/Use Disposal77 76
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
We strive to accurately measure and manage the social value of business activities by upgrading the 
way social and environmental impacts are calculated. In particular, when measuring the impact of 
greenhouse has emissions, we have recognized limitations that market prices in the emission trading 
system do not reflect all potential effects of global warming. Therefore, since 2017, the results have 
been calculated by Eco-Cost1), a substitute measure that is used to calculate environmental burden 
generated by products and services. In addition, from 2018, we tried to convert environmental out -
come and impact regarding business operations into currency value, going further from the existing 
input-based measurement. To this end, we were able to calculate a more complete and comprehensive 
environmental impact, as a result of re-exporting the environmental impact indicators and coefficients 
based on major domestic/foreign indicators and research data. 
1)  Eco-Cost: EVR (Eco-costs /Value Ratio) A standard for measuring the environmental impacts of products and services based on models. Calcu -
lates costs generated to reduce environmental pollution and resource depletion of products and services to a level acceptable for the earthRegarding building and network, only the operation phase (of the entire life cycle) in which data is 
constantly managed is included in our assessment. The standard device is set as the most widely 
used smartphones of Apple and Samsung that is verified by Environmental Product Declaration. And 
we have recalculated the result of overall environmental impact assessment conducted by the man -
ufacturer as all users. Environmental social performance that occurs from the manufacturing process 
is classified into resource consumption and environmental pollution. The total amount of resource 
consumption was measured by calculating the use/discharge of water resources and environmental 
unit costs, and environmental pollution was measured by the same method while being classified 
into waste and greenhouse gases. In the impact assessment, SK Telecom included the environmental 
performance in product and service areas such as FEMS (Factory Energy Management System), BEMS 
(Building Energy Management System), recycling of T-rental recovery phones, reduction of USIM card 
package, and introduction of electronic application system for sales stores.
ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Names of products and 
servicesDescription of products and services Measurement of environmental outcomes
Factory Energy Manage-
ment System (FEMS)Energy Management System in factory 
operationActual outcomes compared to annual reductions 
of greenhouse gas emissions and energy 
consumption in contracts
Building Energy Manage-
ment System (BEMS)Energy Management System in building 
managementActual outcomes compared to annual reductions 
of greenhouse gas emissions and energy con-
sumption in contracts
Reuse of T rental phones Renting out used T rentalphonesReduction of impact of resource consumption on 
environment by using reused phones
Reduction of SIM card 
packagesShrinking packages for SIM cards for 
sale (packaging materials, etc.) Achieved resource conservation from reduction of 
package size
Introduction of electronic 
application for sales 
outletsIntroduced the electronic application 
form that can be substituted for the 
existing paper applicationAchieved reduction of paper use MEASUREMENT OF VALUE OF ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS (EXCEPT FOR THOSE OF SERVICES)
2018 2019
Impact Area Impact Output Impact value Output Impact value
Building Building 
managementEnergy use 3,198 TJ(-) 
99,351,279,481  3,099TJ(-) 
96,275,677,020 
GHG emissions 157,149 tCO 2e(-)
2,972,630,484 150,983 tCO 2e(-)
2,855,994,428 
Water use 707,296㎥(-)
623,622,883 714,281㎥ (-)
629,781,558
Waste discharge 1,736 ton(-)
263,243,568  1,371ton (-)
207,895,698
Network Network operationEnergy use 16,006 TJ(-) 
497,253,464,469 17,349TJ(-) 
538,976,031,180
GHG emissions 777,516 tCO 2e(-) 
14,707,492,656 842,607 tCO 2e(-) 
15,938,754,012
Employee 
ServiceBusiness tripsEnergy use 72 TJ(-)
2,236,801,789 82TJ(-) 
2,547,468,705
GHG emissions 4,142 tCO 2e(-)
78,350,072 4,635 tCO 2e (-)
87,675,660
Traditional 
HandsetRaw material collection 
and productionGHG emissions 810,276 tCO 2e(-)
15,327,1811,335,495 tCO 2e (-)
25,262,223
Use GHG emissions 669,793 tCO 2e(-)
13,237,2841,116,849 tCO 2e (-)
21,126,316
Collection and reuse GHG emissions 16,077 tCO 2e (-)
304,11326,124 tCO 2e (-)
494,162
Valuation
Results of profit and loss analysis are calculated as monetary value, and our company has applied 
the results that generate minimal negative impact by analyzing ‘total performance (total amount of 
environmental impact)’ and ‘relative performance (reduction of environmental impact in the current 
period compared to the prior term).’ However, regarding environmental value calculation such as en -
ergy solutions (FEMS and BEMS), we have applied ‘relative performance’ to recognize client and user 
environmental impact benefits as social performance.79 78
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
2. SOCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS ANALYSIS
Using the Social Capital Protocol of the WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) 
as our guide, we have selected a limited set of targets and measurable impacts.
Setting Scope and Data Collection
The Social profit and loss analysis measures the social outcomes in the product/service business. We 
included 8 products and services that create social value, enhance customer convenience, eliminate 
inequality based on the outcomes in safety, ICT-based crime prevention, support for disadvantaged 
groups, etc. to conduct the social profit and loss analysis.
Valuation
In looking at our business’ social outcomes of products and services, we calculated the values by 
applying individual methodologies. For example, T map Safe Driving leads to social outcomes that 
lower the accident rates and create a safe traffic environment. However, as outcomes cannot be mea -
sured directly, we calculated the value of creating a safe traffic environment by calculating the cost of 
dealing with traffic accident damages before and after use. In the case of the electronic anklets, we 
used a direct valuation method to measure the reduction in social costs caused by crime prevention. 
We have calculated the fall in crime thanks to electronic monitoring devices, and the resulting drop in 
crime-related costs was measured as a drop in social costs.
In 2019, new indicators have generated broader business social performances. We have measured 
social value of traffic accident prevention effects generated by the emergency safety notification and 
depression reduction effects of Happy Community AI Care Service and real-time notification service to 
rear vehicles based on V2X1) technology in case of sudden stops while driving on a highway.Also, the performances of preventing voice phishing through VSFS (VOICE SPAM FILTERING SYSTEM) 
and reducing time for arrest with improved location mapping for suspects using LBS (Location-based 
service) were counted as new social values.
COMPREHENSIVE RESULTS OF THE SOCIAL-ENVIRONMENTAL PROFIT 
AND LOSS ANALYSIS
The results of the social-environmental profit and  loss analysis, which is calculated by combining the 
environmental profit and loss analysis and social profit and loss analysis, are as follows. SK Telecom 
recorded a net income of KRW 980.3 billion in 2019. In the course of business operations, we estimated 
the environmental impact of buildings, networks, employee business travel, and the environmental 
impact of the handset manufacturing-use-disposal phases by applying the domestic standard environ -
mental costs to estimate an environmental net loss of about KRW 657.5 billion. In the environmental 
product and service area, we recorded an environmental cost saving of KRW 2.1 billion through the 
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and energy using an energy management system (FEMS and 
BEMS) and the reduction of resource consumption through the reuse of T rental phones. As a result, 
our environmental net loss stood at KRW 655.4 billion.
In the social aspect, we generated about KRW 161.8 billion in social outcomes through social value cre -
ation and achievements using products/services, such as T map safe driving, electronic ankle monitor 
devices, and specialized monthly plans for people with disabilities. This analysis does not include “ad -
ditional social outcomes through social contributions” which includes CSR programs, donations and 
volunteering activities due to the issues of externality, measurement precision, and the advancement 
of calculation methods. SK Telecom will continue to lead the process of tackling social problems and 
creating innovative social value based on its 5G and ICT leadership while systemizing social environ -
ment profit and loss analyses of the whole of its business model down the road.
Names of products and services Description of products and services Measurement of social outcomes 
Safe driving with T mapDiscounts on auto insurance premiums 
based on T map driving habit scoresReduction of social costs due to 
traffic accident reduction
V2X real-time traffic and safety alertsNotification alerts for sudden braking 
on the highway
LBS IoT business (electronic anklet, 
Criminlas location tracking)Criminals location tracking based on 
IoTReduced social costs by crime type
Happy Community AI care servicesCare services for the elderly using AI 
speakers and IoT devicesProvision of emergency safety 
services and reduction of social costs 
by alleviating depression
Blocking text and voice spam Blocking spam calls and messagesReduction of social cost through pre-
vention of voice and SMS phishing
Discounts for people with disabilitiesCustomized monthly plans for 
hearing (Sonnuri) and visually
impaired people (Sorinuri)Enhancing accessibility to commu-
nication services for the vulnerable 
groups with increased convenience 
and discounted rates
Digitization for low income earners / 
Harmful content blocking servicesDiscounted rate for socially 
disadvantaged groupsIncreasing accessibility to telecommuni-
cation services with discounted rates
T World direct sales by social 
enterprisesSupporting the expansion of social 
enterprises’ sales networks through sale 
of Happy Happy Connect in T WorldCommissions to enter open market 
platformENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
1)  V2X (Vehicle to Everything): Technology 
that provides wired and wireless network 
information surrounding vehicles※All calculated data on this page have been rounded up to a decimal point.9,8035,549
261,000
0.4161,17642220
50.90.2
Net Profit Building Networks’ 
environmen -
tal impactsServices for 
employeesManufacture, 
use and 
disposal of 
handsets FEMS BEMS Use of 
secondhand 
T Rental 
phonesPrevention 
of car 
accidents 
through 
T map use1)Prevention 
of crimes 
through 
services2)Increasing 
accessibility to 
communica -
tion services 
for socially 
disadvantaged 
people3)Social 
enterprises’ 
T World 
direct salesCOMPREHENSIVE RESULTS OF THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFIT 
AND LOSS ANALYSIS
1) Includes V2X traffic safety notifications
2)  LBS IoT business (ankle monitor) + spam 
filtering
3)  Rate plans customized for people with 
disabilities/ digitization for marginalized 
groups/ services for blocking harmful 
information/ Happy Community AI Care 
Services’ emergency safety/ reduced 
depressionECONOMY ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL(As of the late December 2019) 
Non-consolidated, KRW 100 million81 80
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
80SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SUSTAINABLE ISSUE 
82
84
86
91
94
98 CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE  
BUSINESS OPERATIONS   
CUSTOMERS   
MEMBERS   
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT    
SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION   8183 82
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE
With the MNO business, SK Telecom will continue to pursue NEW ICT businesses that encompass the 
security, media and commerce sectors, and will provide corporate value by establishing the businesses 
as major growth engines. In response, SK Telecom adopted the Dual OS management system and 
is building a strong basis from which to grow as an ICT Synergy Company. In the MNO business, 
the foundation for mobile operators, we are not only researching and developing 5G ’s high-speed 
and hyper-low latency services, but are continuously strengthening network infrastructure to offer 
5G services at a stable quality. Also, by fortifying 5G-driven B2B business, we are in the process 
of developing a variety of content and services using VR and AR. Moreover, we are leading a wide 
range of technology development that can be launched based on 5G including AI, MEC (mobile edge 
computing), Cloud etc. With this technology innovation, we are partnering with a number of global 
companies and are creating economic value in a variety of business sectors. 
2019 PERFORMANCE 
Financial outcomes 
Based on the consolidated financial statement of K-IFRS (Korean version of International Financial 
Reporting Standards,) we achieved KRW 17.74 billion in operating revenue in 2019 and KRW 1.11 billion  
in operating profit (based on IFRS15). Revenue rose 5.2% compared to last year, and recorded the 
largest on an annual basis. This is the result of SK Telecom being the first to commercialize 5G and 
achieving growth in the New Biz sectors of media, security, and commerce. Operating profit fell 7.6% 
year-on-year due to the capex of network facilities including 5G frequencies, but by 2020, investment 
in network infrastructure is expected to be less and we will be able to redeem the loss. Net income 
recorded KRW 861.9 billion, a reduction of 72.5% due to the impact of SK Hynix ’s equity gains.  SK 
Telecom is continuing to grow into a hyper-ICT company through significant achievements based on 
the increase of 5G subscribers following the commercialization of 5G, and growth in media, security, 
and commerce businesses. Meanwhile, stand alone capex rose 37.1% over the last year, reaching KRW 
2,915 billion due to investments to expand 5G coverage in 2019. In the media business, we are striving to strengthen capacity in media content such as evolving 
our comprehensive media platform with SK Broadband, and entering and establishing development 
plans for the domestic OTT (over-the-top) market. Further, we plan to build collaborative relationships 
with the goal of international advancement through pan-Asian contents. In security and commerce 
businesses, we are focusing on enhancing competitiveness and value by introducing state-of-the-art 
technologies that utilize 5G-based ICT infrastructure. We are reinforcing our leadership as a new ICT 
company by setting the growth engines in motion for each of our business sectors, including enhanced 
convergent security services, ICT-based security technology capabilities, and expanded commerce 
portals across ICT. We also strive to provide differentiated customer value through mobility platform 
services such as T map and T map Taxi, and are leading innovation in various business sectors such 
as building new business models using AI and Big Data, and Smart Home and Smart Office covering 
even the IoT. In 2020, we will further coordinate the Dual OS system and effectively operate mobility 
and AI businesses, and build a robust hyper-collaboration system by working together with numerous 
global companies. In addition, we will strive to address social challenges based on our firm’s unique 
capabilities. We pledge to continue strengthening our new ICT infrastructure and to advance as a 
global ICT synergy company. 
STRATEGIES FOR 2020  
In 2020, SK Telecom will streng then the synergies of its four major business areas: MNO (mobile 
network operator), media, security and commerce, all based on 5G and AI, resulting in a boost as an 
ICT synergy company. SK Telecom will strive to achieve higher sales on a consolidated basis in 2020 
than the previous year even in the current COVID-19 situation. As for the proportion of revenue by 
business sector, sales of non-communication sectors, which stood at 35% in 2019, are expected to 
grow in 2020 as a result of accelerated growth from the expansion of the media industry, ADT Caps' 
contribution to earnings, as well as increased profitability of 11 Street. 
KRW billion 
17,520
4,784
1,536
201716,874
4,485
1,202
201817,744
1,1105,045
201912,468
4,201
1,698
201711,706 11,416
3,781 3,778
1,308 950
2018 2019NON-CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED
Operating profit EBITDA Operating revenue Operating profit EBITDA Operating revenueSTRATEGIES FOR 2020
1)  Pursue achieving higher sales than the previous year with the turnaround of sales in 
telecommunications and improved performances in the growth ICT sector
2)  Become an ICT synergy company based on convergences among MNO, media, 
security, and commerce businesses
3)  Continue to strengthen competencies and core technology of ICT such as 5G and AI 
through partnerships with leading domestic/ international companiesKRW billion 
We are anticipating that the goals for sales (on a consolidated basis) and sales ratio of non-MNO business will grow 
compared to that of last year, even in the midst of COVID-19 uncertainties.2020 OUTLOOK85 84
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
SK Telecom led the commercialization of 5G in 2019, establishing itself as the number one telecommunications company in Korea and created 
a wide range of customer experiences using 5G infrastructure. In addition, by establishing the 4 core business sectors of media, security, and 
commerce as non-communication sectors, we are growing into a New ICT Synergy Company. In 2020, SK Telecom seeks to maximize its corporate value by maintaining the stability of its wireless communications business as well as 
supporting the development of its new ICT business. We are pursuing growth in the scale of business by creating business value in the non-
communication sectors and expanding the ICT portfolio through shared infrastructures.
2019
• Increase in membership through commercialization of 5G → Increase in ARPU (Average revenue per user)
•  An increase of KRW 80 billion in revenue compared to the previous year
• Achieved the world’s first million subscribers
• Reached approximately 28.65 million wireless subscribers
• Pursued Customer Value Innovation 2.0, diversified customer experiences
• Placed first in customer satisfaction surveys for 22 consecutive years 
• Enhanced quality and inspected equipment for reliable 5G services 
• Secured exclusive partnerships with Amazon & Microsoft
• Growth in revenue in the IPTV business due to increase in premium subscribers and increased content usage
• Secured 5.19 million IPTV subscribers, 2.7 million monthly users of wavve 
•  Launched wavve by combining SK Telecom’s oksusu and 3 terrestrial broadcasters’ collective OTT (over-the-top, 
video media platforms), POOQ 
•  Initiatiated acquiring and integrating of cable TV operator T-Broad > secured platform and paid broadcasting 
subscribers due to expansion into the cable TV business  
•  Advanced into the American broadcasting market based on media technology > suggested next-generation broad-
casting solutions 
•  Signed a partnership with Kakao Corp. > collaboratively pursued communication, commerce, content, and future 
ICT sectors
17.4% growth in year-on-year sales, 21.9% expansion in operating profit 
Strengthened existing businesses, expanded new businesses, launched a convergent security market based on 
synergy between technology and sales capacity of SK ICT Family 
•  Enhanced presence of existing businesses 
•  Increase in net share for patrol security services
•  Solidified position as number 1 in the information security industry
•  Expanded new businesses
•  Continued growth in sales for unmanned parking business
•  Real growth of the home security business
•  Led the Cloud security market
•  Pioneered the convergent security market
•  Secured use cases for the convergent security business
•  Officially executed Cross-Sell
•  New technology of quantum cryptography → adopted as an international standard
•  Unveiled “quantum security solutions” – to prevent hacking
•  Preliminary approval of “Security Considerations for Quantum Key Distribution Network” at the ITU-T meeting  
•  Recorded a surplus operating profit of KRW 1.4 billion and KRW 531 billion in sales through the “Commerce 
Portal” based on ICT infrastructure and elimination of inefficient businesses
•  Provided customer-oriented services with advanced technology, such as Big Data and AI → strengthened IT tech-
nology-based partnerships, pursued development of solutions that encompass the overall shopping process 
•  Fortified service competitiveness by providing various promotional offers
•  Normalized promotion of monthly “11th Days” 
•  Acquired SK stoa → built infrastructure for AR, VR content creation 2020
Full-scale kick-off of 5G-based growth
• Pursuit of the fundamental growth of the mobile business through increase in the number of 5G subscribers and ARPU augmentation
• Continued expansion of subscription-type services, launching 5G new BM with MEC (mobile edge computing) Cloud business and B2B platform business
•  Fortification of 5G customer experience-based marketing through reasonable market operation, cluster-centric 5G network establishment & marketing, digital-ori-
ented distribution innovation
•  Reorganization of monthly plan movie products, expansion of B tv Device, enhancement of schedule/ recommendation systems using AI → Increase in monthly 
plan subscribers, revenue increase in PPC per capita 
•  Acceleration of customer-oriented service expansion including competitiveness enhancement for Kids products, 2nd TV Repackage, affiliate base expansion, 
empowerment of online sign-ins.
•  Expansion of business models such as addressable TV ads, content value chain, IDC, and submarine communications cable business etc.
Continued revenue growth in the security business based on technical leader-
ship in ICT and SK ICT Family’s synergy
•  Innovation of business model based on technology leadership
•  Strengthening of competitiveness of existing businesses through technologi-
cal innovation in AI/DT and Cloud sectors and explore New BM (e.g. AI CCTV 
based on video analysis etc.)
•  Creation of businesses value based on growthADT Caps 
•  Strengthening of leadership in patrol security through expansion of differenti-
ated value-added services 
•  Acceleration of growth of unmanned parking and home security markets
•  Provision of DT-based operational efficiency
SK infosec
•  Solidification of our position as number 1 in information security by strength-
ening industry-specific security services 
• Visible development of growth businesses such as cloud and remote control
• Enhancement of DT-based control technology
Creation of synergy from ADT Caps and SK infosec
•  Expansion of the convergent security market by widening the integrated 
(physical/ information) control platform and strengthening the ‘One-team’ 
order system
•  Integrated search bars → improve search quality, provide shopping information based on customer participation, expand SK Pay & SK Pay Point to increase 
customer expansion and activity 
•  Expansion of affiliation with top brands, diversification of products, securing growth of the existing BM (Open Market) by strengthening competitiveness in deliv-
ery based on “Today’s groceries.”
•  Active partnerships with top players at home and abroad, promotion of partnerships with grocery stores and fashion companies to enhance vertical capabilities
•  SK stoa, securing differentiated tech-based services by establishing virtual studios with full 3D VR appliedMNO
Media
Security
Commerce87 86
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CUSTOMERS
CUSTOMER VALUE INNOVATION
In order to provide optimal prod ucts and services, we are operating 
preemptive CEM (CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MANAGEMENT). SK Telecom 
won first place in the industry for the longest period, winning major 
domestic customer satisfaction surveys (the NCSI, KCSI and KSSQI) 
in 2019. Especially, in NCSI we won first place for 23 consecutive 
years. In addition, in 2019, we received a “Very Excellent ” rating on 
the “Telecommunications User Protection Evaluation, ” which was con -
ducted by the Korea Communications Commission, in recognition of 
our efforts in handling customer grievances and preventing damages. 
As a result of the regular CSI evaluation conducted twice a year by SK 
Telecom, customer satisfaction in 2019 stood at 78 points.Digital Inclusion
In order to ease and resolve the digital divide issue of disadvantaged 
groups in terms of access to information, SK Telecom is consistently 
offering a variety of ICT educations. To help senior citizens learn 
smartphone use, we operate training programs called “Generational 
empathy! Happy Mobile World ” and “Easy Smartphone Classes. ” In 
2019, we pursued the “Spring, Again ” programs where outstanding 
students from previous smartphone courses were promoted to be 
senior smartphone instructors. Feedback was received that our com -
pany effectively enhanced senior citizens’ digital facility, by for ex -
ample engaging instructors who understand the course participants’ 
perspective and speak to their needs. In addition, the company runs 
programs such as ICT Make-a-thons and Happy Coding School, aimed 
at reducing the “digital divide” experienced by young people with dis -
abilities. Also, we are developing and supporting the platform called 
“Library that reads happiness” to alleviate information disparity for 
people with visual impairment. “Library that reads happiness” is the 
nation’s largest mobile platform for audio library for people that are 
blind, and in 2019, it completed joint development with NUGU, the 
AI speaker. Through smartphone and AI speakers, we are offering a 
variety of books and supporting the use of audio information, con -
tributing to the improvement of information accessibility for people 
with disabilities.With intensified competition in the ICT industr y, securing competitive -
ness through customer-centered management is growing in impor -
tance by the day. As a new global ICT company, SK Telecom strives to 
lead 5G and deliver the best products and services to its customers.
In addition, we are expanding convenience services for socially vul -
nerable groups and are establishing long-term trust relationships 
through active communication with our customers. 
ACCESSIBILTIY TO SERVICE
SK Telecom strives to ensure equal accessibility to mobile commu -
nica tion services. By securing and maintaining subscribers and con -
necting 2nd devices to increase customer satisfaction and lower churn 
rates, we are strengthening our subscriber base. In addition, in order 
to reduce the digital divide for vulnerable groups with limited access 
to information, we provide a variety of educational programs and fee 
reduction plans, and work to expand the communication range for 
efficient communication services in the region. 
Number of Subscribers
The level of mobile internet access can be ascertained from the pro -
portion of LTE subscribers and the number of second device sub -
scrib ers. Af ter the world ’s first 5G commercialization in April 2019, the 
number of subscribers grew exponentially. By the end of 2019, the 
number of 5G subscribers stood at around 2.08 million, placing SK 
Telecom first in the domestic communications industry. By the end 
of 2019, SK Telecom ’s combined subscriber rate for LTE and 5G was 
92.5%, a 1.9% increase on the previous year.Tariff discounts for vulnerable groups 
To reduce the burden of household communication expenses for mar -
ginalized groups and expand access to services, SK Telecom supports 
them with tariff discount. The tariff discount for disabled people, the 
low-income households and basic pension recipents stood at KRW 
360.2 billion in 2019. Increased by 34.5% compared to the previous 
year due to the expansion of fee reduction benefits for marginalized 
groups enacted in December of 2017 and the fee reduction services 
for basic pension recipents established in July of 2018.
SUPPORT FOR UNDERSERVED AREAS
Remote Mountainous Areas
Hiking Trails
Island AreasSites
Sites
Sites2017
6,737
520
3582018
2,705
330
1202019
1,015
136
89Support for Underserved Areas
To help residents in remote areas with weak network connections, 
e.g. on mountains and on remote islands, we continue to grow our 
telecommunications service coverage areas. In a recent Communica -
tions Service Quality Evaluation carried out by the Ministry of Science 
and ICT, we placed first for communication quality in rural areas, in 
recognition of our work to expand coverage, which is shrinking the 
scale of areas with weak coverage and the number of new installa -
tions.TARIFF DISCOUNTS 1)
Total Bill Reduction for 
Disadvantaged Groups
Disabled
Low-income
Veterans
Basic pension recipients
MiscellaneousKRW million  
KRW million
KRW million
KRW million
KRW million
KRW million2017
197,890 
127,224
60,074
10,507
-
662018
267,720 
129,213
105,711
11,002
21,794
772019
360,129 
 
130,036 
121,172 
11,387 
97,534 
72
1)  Change in classification standards in 2018: Due to revision announced in a related notice in 2018, 
tariff discounts to basic pension recipients (the bottom 70% of senior citizens aged 65 and over 
in terms of income & assets) were implemented on 13 July 2018. The amount of tariff discounts 
to basic pension recipients is classified under a different category
2019
830 
112
450PARTICIPATION IN EDUCATION TO RESOLVE THE ICT DIGITAL DIVIDE
Smartphone Education for 
Senior Citizens
ICT Make-a-thon
Happy Coding Schoolpersons 
persons
persons2017
432 
 
1122018
2,273 
 
122CSI, CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX 1)
2017 2018 2019
NCSI (Korea Productivity 
Center)76 77 77 No.1 for 23 
consecutive years
KCSI (Korea Management 
Association)80.2 78.4 80.1 No.1 for 22 
consecutive years
KS-SQI (Korea Standards  
Association)74.2 74.5 74.8 No.1 for 20 
consecutive years
Telecommunications User 
Protection Evaluation (Korea 
Communications Commission)Excellent 
rateExcellent 
rateExcellent 
rateHighest out of 
all 22 companies 
assessed
SK Telecom Internal CSI Index 
Result 2) 78 78 78 No. 1 for 24 con-
secutive surveys
1) Based on a 100-point scale 
2)  The average of internal CSI analysis survey results conducted twice a year (in the first & second 
half)
//..CASE Spring, Again program
Last year, SK Telecom recruited outstanding students from “Easy 
Smartphone Classes ” as senior instructors for smartphone use 
trainings. Sixty-seven percent of the students of “Easy Smartphone 
Classes ” were senior citizens with difficulties in using smartphones, 
and the average age of new senior instructors that were recruited 
this year is 79.7. By recruiting instructors who can really understand 
course participants from their own experience, SK Telecom provided 
participants a more comfortable learning environment. Through this 
program, we helped alleviate the digital divide of the 5G-era by 
providing training that can be closely applied to real-life situations 
including using financial applications, booking transportation tickets, 
and preventing voice phishing. 
1,000 People 
2017 2018 2019LTE AND 5G SERVICES PENETRATION
Number of 5G SubscribersTotal Number of Subscribers Number of LTE Subscribers85.5%90.6% 92.5%
LTE/5G Subscribers Rate26,753
022,86527,382
024,79628,648 
2,08424,410  89 88
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Launch of 5G-based innovative services
5G Boost Park•  The world’s first 5G was commercialized in April 2019, and we 
operated 72 Boost Parks where customers can experience a 
variety of 5G-based services and benefits.
•  Promotions are offered at LOL Park, Olympic Park, Busan 
Haeundae, etc. taking advantage of local characteristics at 
each venue.
•  More than 700,000 people a year participate as experience 
guests, and their 5G conversion rate is twice as high as that 
of general subscribers Customer-oriented benefits
Segmented 
service 
offering•  We operate segmented services to meet various needs of 
customers
•  We have a specialized rate plan for soldiers: 133,000 sub-
scribers of 0 Hero (M/S of 49% among soldier-only plans at 3 
mobile telephony companies)
•  We launched Zem, a brand dedicated to children aged 12 
years and under. Currently there are 340,000 parent and 
270,000 children members
•  We expanded linked marketing for 1020-only communication 
brand “0” - 1.06 million subscribers of the “0” plan
Creation of social value using ICT 
AI care services We use AI speakers to provide care for senior citizens, and have supplied them to 14 local municipalities.
Open membershipWe contribute to the revitalization of local business districts by establishing memberships with 125 small businesses in 10 regions across 
the nation, including Gwanghwamun, Jamsil, Hongdae in Seoul; Nampo-dong and Seomyeon in Busan; Dongseong-ro in Daegu; Sangmu 
district in Gwangju and Dunsan in Daejeon. Customer Value Innovation Programs
We are dedicated to creating authentic innovation of customer value 
by providing special programs for customers and applying their needs 
to our services, as analyzed from the customer ’s perspective. Each 
month, we host the “Customer Value Innovation meeting ” with CEOs 
and key employees and executives in participation and eagerly work 
towards diagnosing customer experiences and reflecting the voice of 
customers. Also, we operate an “Internal Evaluation Division ” to con -
solidate products and services from customers ’ pe rs pectiv es  a n d  t o  
find and ameliorate inconveniences. We also applied advanced ICT  to 
the customer service center and are transforming it so that it becomes 
even more “customer-oriented. ” Based on Big Data analysis, we pro -
vide a customized list of consultation topics by predicting the purpose 
of customer requests. We also operate special consultancy systems for 
senior citizens and children under the age of 13. In 2019, SK Telecom 
announced “Customer Value Innovation 2.0 ”, which will focus on new 
services, customer-oriented benefits, and social value creation, and 
expanded innovation across ICT sectors, declaring that we will evolve 
into a Win-Win service company for customers, partners, and society.
SK Telecom ’s roaming service “Baro ” reached  1 1. 5  mi lli o n  ca lls  w o rldwi de  i n  the  tw o  mo nths  fo llo wi n g  its  
launch, and has surpassed 2 million total calls in Vietnam and Japan. Through “Baro ”, we provided high-quality 
call roaming services in 169 countries around the world free-of-charge to ease the burden of data costs that 
customers have while traveling. This service is available in 98 countries, securing the largest range of data 
roaming in the world, enabling customers to use roaming services without a burden when travelling between 
various countries. Also, by linking to regional data networks, we have drastically improved call quality and 
shortened the connection time for calls, increasing customer convenience. In recognition of the excellent 
services, Baro won the “Best Mobile Technology Breakthrough in Asia” at the 19th MWC Asian Mobile Awards 
that was held in Shanghai in 2019.//..CASE
Roaming 
service “Baro ”NETWORK QUALITY AND RELIABILITY
Optimal network service is S K  T e l e c o m ’s competitive edge and in 
order to maintain and strengthen the service, the company is doing 
its best to invest in networks and upgrade technology. In 2019, 
our annual wireless communication capacity totaled 43.13 million 
accounts, which tallies to 137% of the total number of subscribers 
(31.53 million). Annual processed data traf fic is maintaining its sharp 
rise with a year-on-year increase of 37%.
Date Traffic Processed 
SK Telecom maintains a high level of network quality by flexibly 
handling dense data traffic through detailed demand analyses and 
monitoring. For example, with the success of pure 5G communications 
achieved by combining “5G SA ” packet exchanges and core equipment 
in 2019, SK Telecom established a basis for handling large-scale data 
traffic.LTE Service Speed
SK Telecom was acknowledged for its outstanding telecommunication 
quality as it was selected as a company that offers the fastest LTE 
service on the Communications Service Quality Evaluation by the Min -
istry of Science and ICT. Further, through continued technology R&D 
and adoption, SK Telecom continuously improves network quality. In 
2016, we secured technologies such as 5 Band CA (Carrier Aggrega -
tion) and 4T4R (4 antenna technology) and we were the first in Korea 
to commercialize LTE-A pro services at a speed of 500Mbps. By 2017, 
we provided LTE at a speed of 900Mbps. In 2018, we launched LTE 
Cat.M1 and in 2019, subscribers to our company ’s own (Low-Pow -
er-Wide-Area, LPWA) network surpassed 1 million, the first network 
in the country to achieve that feat. Through these services, we are 
leading the charge into the hyper-connected generation. In addition, 
we improved the speed of data transmission by 60% by applying 
MEC to the base station terminals and preemptively adopting LTE 
services at 1.2Gbps. This creates a high-speed and ultra-low latency 
communication environment that allows customers to download 2GB 
movies in 13 seconds. WIRELESS NETWORK CAPACITY AND DATA TRAFFIC PROCESSED 
ANNUALLY
2017 2018 2019
Wireless Network Capacitywireless lines
in thousands45,210 40,910 43,310
Annual Data Traffic Processed TB 1,527,634 1,862,177 2,552,071
Network Failures 
In order to provide stabilized communication services, we are focus -
ing on managing risks and preventing communication disruptions, 
and are responding with emergency recovery systems for network 
failures. Further, at peak holiday times and at year-end when we can 
predict high communications traffic, we implement “Special Commu -
nication Reponses ” to provide quick response systems and preemp -
tive management for service quality. By strengthening its communi -
cations infrastructure surveillance system, SK Telecom is working to 
further increase the efficiency of its response systems to disruptions.  
NETWORK FAILURES
2017 2018 2019
Number of Large-Scale Network 
Failure Cases1)0 1 0
1)  Failures of user notifications needed or failures of a similar scale based on the Enforcement 
Decree of the Telecommunications Business Act amended in 2019Mbps
158.53211.37
LTE Download Service Speed42.8352.99
LTE Upload Service SpeedLTE SERVICE TRANSMISSION SPEED
SK Telecom Domestic Provider AverageRate Of Micro-Payment VOC
As a key customer security index, the small-payments VOC occurrence 
rate, which means the number of micro payment VOC complaints per 
annum compare to usage, decreased remarkably every year, reaching 
0.0076% in 2019.
%
2017 2018 2019RATE OF MICRO PAYMENT VOC
0.0090.0083 0.007691 90
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
MEMBERS
For a company to grow, it is important to create an environment 
where its employees can work and develop their competencies 
through proactive learning, and to build an organizational culture 
that promotes mutual learning and growth. In response, SK Telecom 
established a number of regular training support systems and 
platforms for securing and fostering professional talent and operates 
a variety of competence-building programs.
HUMAN CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT  
So that our employees can exert their competencies to the fullest 
and grow, we are supporting with securing fundamental & expert 
knowledge on New ICT and strengthening business development 
capabilities as top our priorities.
Securing basic & expert knowledge on New ICT 
In order to grow into a global ICT company, building employee capac -
ity is key. In response, through the company ’s flagship job training 
brands NEW ICT Academy and Data Camp, we offered 155 offline 
courses to a total of 3,932 employees. We created our own curriculum 
classified according to difficulty and Biz./Tech. sector topics such as 
AI, Big Data, 5G, media, and security, which are directly related to 
business units. We also established goals for non-technical talent 
(planning & management etc.) to acquire basic knowledge of ICT and 
for technical talent (development & research etc.) to build ICT exper -
tise. In addition, through exhibitions with a total of 71 topic presenta -
tions and 98 items, we hosted an SK ICT Tech Summit that showcas -
es the comprehensive ICT that SK Group possesses, assembling the 
technical capacities of the Group, creating synergy, and structuring an 
internal and external technology ecosystem. Moreover, as technology 
experts, we operated the T.E.B (Tech Expert Board) system to lead 
the dissemination of the company ’s technological competencies. In 
2019, a total of 101 TEB members were active in continuously expand -
ing ICT-related trends in the company by hosting T-T.O.C for recent AI 
research papers and T-Square, the monthly in-house lecture platform. 
Strengthening business development capabilities 
Since the launch of the Start @ Program in December 2017, an in-
house venture program in which all employees can suggest ideas 
and commercialize them, 757 ideas were proposed, of which 46 were 
refined and 5 were commercialized. Through the Idea-thon event, 
which explores new technologies and potential business ideas related 
to key issues in business and which we host in collaboration with the 
business department, we encourage the participation of employees, provide seminars on BM development methodologies and consulting 
with external BM experts, and guarantee immersion time and support 
funds for businesses, contributing to the development of in-house 
entrepreneurs. In 2019, we provided the teams that are participating 
in the business refinement phase with opportunities to experience 
the Startup Acceleration program in Silicon Valley and the SKT 
Innovation Discovery (SID) program that enhances BM completion, 
offering additional support for business ideas to be commercialized. 
Realizing Customer Value
In order to create unique customer experiences, our employees need -
ed to make changes in their experiences. Therefore, SK Telecom dif -
fused a culture through “Customer empathy Camp” where members 
experienced SK Telecom’s products and services first and made ac -
cording improvements. A continuing campaign to activate mail-based 
work sharing tools (TWC: T Work Connect) and make improvements 
to a hierarchical culture that hinders employees’ devotion to work 
contributed to making a sharing/collaboration-based working style 
part of our everyday routine. 
Through the implementation of 3 major tasks, SK Telecom operated 
289 training courses in 2019, an increase of about 15% compared 
the previous year, providing members with a more diverse selection 
of training. With a decrease in collective training that targets all 
employees, the number of annual training hours and participants in 
annual training sessions was reduced, but we are providing a more 
active voluntary learning environment by offering approximately 
1,300 types of micro-learning contents through the in-house learning 
platform (DLP), which reached a view count of 24,049 in 2019. 
Through this institutional basis, SK Telecom will further strengthen 
its existing sessions and seek out the direction of human capacity 
building that befits our Dual OS systems and our role as a New Global 
ICT leader company.
STATUS OF EMPLOYEE TRAINING
2017 2018 2019
Training Expense per Employee KRW million 1.91 2.10 1.67
Average Annual Training Hours Hour 51 70 51
Number of Training Courses 
Given AnnuallyCourses 281 250 289
Number of Training Course 
Participants Annuallypersons 17,325 21,575 13,962PERSONAL INFORMATION PROTECTION
SK Telecom  take various action and measures in order to cope 
promptly with the increasing information security issues. The compa -
ny is striving to identify and eliminate potential risk factors preemp -
tive, strengthening the information protection system, and reinforcing 
the inspection of the distribution network and subsidiaries facts. In 
2019 in particular, SK Telecom significantly fortified its company-wide 
customer information protection governance by appointing a dedi -
cated officer (CISO, Chief Information Security Officer) and secured 
professional talents for information protection.
In particular, we established and distributed the “Self-assessment 
checklists for handling customer information ” for subsidiaries and 
contract companies that handle customer information. We also car -
ried out a diagnosis for customer information protection management 
for major subsidiaries and all contract companies who handle cus -
tomer information to strengthen our customer information protection 
management.
Personal data collection 
SK Telecom notifies all subscribers of personal information items, the 
collection purposes, and retention periods in accordance with the 
Personal Information Protection Act and receives subscribers’ prior 
consent (opt-in method). Collected personal information is used only 
within the scope of agreed-upon purposes. Accordingly, we make 
every effort to protect personal information under strict principles of 
providing personal information to third-parties only under customers’ 
prior consent. In addition, SK Telecom has established human rights 
principles for the freedom of expression and against the abuse of 
technology through formalized human rights policies and is doing its 
utmost to protect user rights and human rights by keeping personal 
information safe.
Responses to Governmental Institution ’s Data Requests 
When there is a request for documents from government agencies 
under Telecommunications Business Act (Clause 6 of Article 83) and 
Protection of Communications Secrets Act (Article 13), SK Telecom 
is providing related documents abiding by the legal system and 
criteria. Also, we are reporting our quarterly statistics every year 
to the ministry in charge (Ministry of Science and ICT). During this 
process, we are minimizing human rights risks by conducting internal 
due diligence and in-depth review of potential risk factors that might 
infringe on the user’s rights.CUSTOMER INFORMATION LEAKAGES
2017 2018 2019
Customer information leakages Cases 0 0 0ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELDS
SK Telecom diligently measures the intensity of electromagnetic fields 
for customer safety and maintains them at an appropriate level. Since 
the implementation of mandatory electromagnetic fields measurement 
in June 2007 until the present, SK Telecom has been faithfully abiding 
by this regulation. According to the electromagnetic wave rating 
system (introduced in August 2014), nearly all of the wireless stations 
were found at the safest level, level 1 as more than 99.9% of the 
measured wireless stations belong to the first level and guarantee 
the customers’ safety. In 2019, a total of 35,267 measurements of 
electromagnetic fields at wireless stations were carried out by the 
company. The measurement results showed that the actual intensity 
of electromagnetic waves from the SK Telecom’s wireless stations was 
less than merely one tenth of the standard level for human safety. 
In addition, SK Telecom has been supporting a 5-year study on the 
effects of electromagnetic waves on the human body carried out by 
the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science since 
September of 2019. From the total funding of KRW 1.5 billion, we are 
sponsoring 50%. As of June 2020, the study is in its first year. 
Billion KRW
33,964 35,26738,782
2017 2018 2019MEASUREMENT OF ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD 
INTENSITY AT BASE STATIONS
Number of intensity measurements taken at 
wireless stations99.9% 99.9% 99.9%
Proportion of wireless stations at level 1 of 
the electromagnetic field rating system (%)RESPONSES TO GOVERNMENTAL INSTITUTION’S DATA REQUESTS
2017 2018 2019
No. of “ Communications Data”  Requests Cases 309,054 308,335 313,220
No. of “Communications Verification 
Data” RequestsCases 63,837 55,892 55,343
1)  Communications Data: The user’s name, resident registration number, address, phone number, 
ID, subscription start and end dates. The courts, prosecutors and investigative agencies may 
request such data when investigating a crime, executing sentences or conducting trials according 
to the Telecommunications Business Act.
2)  Communications Verification Data: The other party’s subscription number, log records (date, 
time) and IP address are classified as communications verification data according to the 
Protection of Communications Secrets Act. Investigative agencies make a request by submitting 
a warrant received from a court, their reasons for the request, the connection to the subscriber 
in question, as well as the scope of the data needed.93 92
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
Through performance evaluations based on fair processes and pro -
cedures, we assess the level of our employees’ performances and 
competencies and enhance their motivation. The rate of performance 
evaluation means the number of employees out of the total number 
of employees that received evaluations according to the pre-defined 
performance evaluation system. SK Telecom conducts performance 
evaluations on all its employees, and recorded 99% of implementa -
tion rate of evaluation in 2019. We completely abolished the relative 
evaluation of allocation methods and introduced a non-rating per -
formance evaluation based on absolute evaluation to avoid internal 
competition. In addition, the company moved away from regular/col -
lective performance management concentrated on year-end evalua -
tion, and promoted substantial performance improvement activities 
through the individualized annual performance management of each 
task. Moreover, SK Telecom set principles and criteria in advance for 
compensation/promotion/core talent selection and made each orga -
nization implement autonomous management and make decisions on 
its own through an enhanced human resource review session.FORMATION OF A HAPPY ORGANIZATIONAL 
CULTURE 
SK Telecom strives to create a happy workplace by ensuring a work-
life balance for our employees and innovating our organizational cul -
ture. In addition, we have built a system to pursue happiness man -
agement that pursues the happiness of all stakeholders, and we have 
reflected this idea in our Articles of Incorporation. 
Communication and Engagement, Horizontal Relation -
ships, Sharing and Collaboration 
In order to build a culture where employees are offered happy work -
place experiences and a workplace where they can work joyfully and 
efficiently, SK Telecom has established the strategic directions of 
our organizational culture to be “communication and engagement”, 
“horizontal relationships”, and “sharing and collaboration” and has 
pursued systematic transformation. First, to convert the existing top-
down communication methods into horizontal communication, we 
conducted a live cast of New Normal Shift meeting (company-wide 
management meeting) online and made it available for all employees 
to view. Through real-time surveys, we encouraged employees to par -
ticipate in the meeting and meetings with global companies were also 
disclosed. In addition, based on the idea that horizontal relationships 
start from “freedom from authority, ” we strived to eliminate the per -
vasive hierarchical culture or rank. Starting in 2018, we have begun 
calling our colleagues by name only, omitting titles, positions and 
ranks and simply adding the honorific “-nim” after the names of all 
employees, including executives. Going further, we worked to expand 
a flexible organizational culture and enhance efficiency throughout 
the organization by unifying the levels of executives such as “Vice 
President, Executive Directors and Directors. ” With the belief that 
horizontal workplaces also mean workers taking more initiative, we 
established a 4-week selective working system (160 hours in 4 weeks) 
on top of the existing 2-week selective working system (80 hours in 
2 weeks) and we now enable each team to autonomously select their 
working hours for each quarter by reflecting the characteristics of the team ’s duties and the needs of the employees. We also implement the 
internal recruiting system(CDC + Care Development Challenge) to help 
members challenge themselves and work on what they want accord -
ing to their expertise, competency, and career vision. 
In order to create an environment that promotes sharing and collabora -
tion between employees, we have created an infrastructure that allows 
joint document drafting and sharing as well as video conferencing. 
Based on our New ICT capabilities, we have also built the 5G Smart 
Office, a workspace that is accessible at anytime and anywhere.
Major content of evolved and advanced management 
philosophy 
•  Define management direction to be “the continued happiness of 
employees”
•  Emphasize the need to pursue the happiness of employees and 
stakeholders simultaneously
•  Clarify the concept of stakeholder happiness to be “social value”
•  Emphasize the roles and practices of “employees” in implementing 
the management philosophy
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
SK Telecom conducts a survey of  its employees to measure employee 
engagement once a year (at the end of August). The survey mea -
sures the “implementation of Voluntary & Willing Brain Engagement 
(VWBE),” the “sense of belonging and pride as an employee,” and 
“feeling rewarded and ful filled.” The results of the level of engage -
ment are calculated from the positive response rate to each question 
in the survey. In 2019, we continuously pursued the fundamental 
innovation of systems and guides covering our overall organizational 
culture. In particular, there were changes directly connected to the 
daily working lives of our employees such as addressing each other 
by name rather than job title, “Smart Office”, etc., but the changes 
felt by employees weren ’t very significant, resulting in reduced en -
gagement compared to the previous year. The Employee Engagement 
Survey was conducted on all employees in 2019 and a total of 3,206 
employees responded. According to the results, SK Telecom ’s em -
ployee engagement totaled 80% in 2019, 81% (2,804 respondents) for 
male employees and 73% (402) for female employees. 2017 2018 2019
Rate of employees’ performance 
evaluations  % 99 99 99RATE OF PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS CONDUCTED2017 2018 2019
Employee engagement analysis results % 88 85 80EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Maternity and Parental Leave
SK Telecom actively implements policies to ease employees’ burdens 
related to childbirth and childcare and encourages a healthy work-life 
balance. Periods of parental leave of up to one year are available for 
both male and female employees. For female employees, we of fer ma -
ternity leave, which is included in the maximum of 2 years of parental 
leave. The company also provides various support programs such 
as nursing rooms, congratulatory allowances for childbirth, scholar -
ships for children, operation of in-house daycare centers, a flexible 
working hour system, and camps for employees’ children. With sys -
tematic support that covers every phase of an employee’s life, we 
were awarded the Presidential Award for Outstanding Family-friendly 
Company in 2018, and in 2019 we systematically strengthened the 
basis for a health work-life balance for our employees, by for instance 
lengthening parental leave for spouses and implementing shorter 
work hours during infant childcare.
Respect for Diversity 
SK Telecom pursues diversity and actively recruits female talent to 
improve career opportunities for women. The ratio of female employ -
ees stood at 18.7%, an increase of 1.8%p from the previous year, 
and the ratio of female managers stood at 7.4%, a 0.5%p increase. 
We strive to secure female leaders through an increase in female 
role models and provision of leadership training. Also, to broaden 
job opportunities for people with disabilities, we established “Happy 
Hanool ” a  subsidiary-type  standard  workplace  for  people  with  dis -
abilities in 2019. We continue to evolve and develop as a company 
that proactively creates social value that goes beyond respect for 
diversity. 
We had previously designated a Super Friday to ensure that employees could leave the office 
at 3:00 pm one Friday a month, and we expanded this to Happy Friday in January 2020 to 
introduce a four-day-a-week work week once a month. This is applicable to all employees other 
than essential personnel that oversee network management, the customer centers, and the 
distribution networks. For days in between two holidays or for meaningful days such as Father ’s 
Day, we allow employees to change their days off, flexibly operating the “4-day work week ” 
system. This increases the effectiveness and efficiency of the work by ensuring our employees ’ 
work-life balance.//..CASE
Working 4 days a week 
once a monthREDEFINING SUPEX COMPANY
Creating 
economic valueCreating 
social valueCreating 
our happinessAs management directions change towards the happiness of 
employees, SUPEX Company goals and our work expands.
SUPEX COMPANY ’s 3 duties95 94
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 
SK Telecom is stepping up its company-wide efforts to fulfill its social obligations based on its 
environmental management system. We do not spare any expenditure or investment to implement 
environmental management including green purchasing, in addition to efforts to reduce GHG emissions 
and energy consumption. We will continue to work towards sustainable development through 
continuous communication with our stakeholders.
With the growing impact of environmental, energy and resources issues, such as the dangers of climate 
change, an ICT company’s roles in climate change responses are becoming more important. There -
fore, to achieve social value and secure competitiveness, SK Telecom is reinforcing its company-wide 
efforts for environmental management. With a vision of achieving a sustainable future based on ICT, 
our unique asset, and the goal of achieving Green Parity by 2030, we strive to transition into green 
management for future generations.
Steering committee for environmental management
In order to strengthen company-wide efforts for environmental management, SK Telecom in 2009 
established a Green ICT Committee that meets regularly with executives from each business sector re -
lated to environmental management. It discusses policies related to environmental management from 
a company-wide perspective and establishes strategies to be implemented. When major issues related 
to environmental management occur, the Green ICT Committee reports it to the Corporate Citizenship 
Committee, the highest decision-making body of the company for sustainable growth, and supports 
the board of directors in understanding the issue and making appropriate decisions. RESPONSE TO CLIMATE CHANGE
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
SK Telecom is committed to ensuring that it fulfills its social obligations on a company-wide level with 
a sense of responsibility for its impacts on society and the environment. Based on the guidelines for 
preparing and managing statements for the Emission Trading Scheme (ETS), our GHG emissions are 
calculated using data gathered from our 37 domestic business sites. The scope of this calculation in -
cludes emissions from all network facilities (base stations and equipment), but does not include emis -
sions from subsidiaries and supply chains. In 2019, total GHG emissions amounted to 1,005,576tCO2e, 
up 7.6% from 2018. Greenhouse gas intensity is calculated by dividing total emissions by SK Telecom’s 
stand alone revenues. This is mainly due to greater power consumption necessitated by the installation 
of more network equipment for 5G etc. To this end, we have strived to reduce GHG emissions by inte -
grating our network equipment, developing and adopting high-efficiency communication equipment, 
and adjusting air-conditioning and heating in of fice buildings. However, the overall amount of emis -
sions increased even with these efforts. The company plans to carry out steadfast efforts to reduce 
GHG through the management of energy-efficient repeaters and integrated management of the base 
stations. 
In addition, to prevent energy consumption by new equipment infrastructure from surpassing the 
GHG emissions trading scheme, we operate emission reduction programs. As a part of its efforts, SK 
Telecom last year began executing the cookstove supply business in Myanmar to not only create social 
value that protects nature within Myanmar and enhances the lives of the residents, but also to work 
towards securing carbon off-sets. The business was expanded to 13 affiliates of SK Group including SK 
Telecom this year, and we supplied around 1 million cookstove units across Myanmar. Due to business 
expenses, environmental costs increased in 2019, but we plan to compensate for a portion of GHG 
emissions in the form of emission rights obtained through the use of cookstoves, in accordance with 
the UN Convention on Climate Change’ s CDM (Clean Development Mechanism.)
In February 2019, GSMA (Global System for Mobile Communications) established an initiative for the 
telecommunications industry to reach net zero GHG emissions by 2050 in line with the Paris Agree -
ment. As a board member of GSMA, SK Telecom submitted its SBTi Commitment Letter on January 29, 
2020, as the first domestic communications company to participate in the initiative. Currently, we are 
assessing reduction methods to set our reduction goals and establish a roadmap. We plan to work 
towards achieving net zero by carrying out proactive reduction activities such as transitioning to low 
energy communications equipment infrastructure, efficient N/W, and introducing renewable energy 
sources etc. 1)  The Paris Agreement: an agreement made in Paris, 
France on December 12, 2015 for a worldwide 
effort to reduce greenhouse gases. The goal is 
to limit the average temperature rise to 1.5°C 
compared to the pre-industrial era 
2)  Science Based Target initiative (SBTi): a joint 
initiative of the WWF, CDP, and UNGC to establish 
a scientific and practical plan for achieving the 
1.5°C reduction target. Within 24 months of 
submitting our commitment letter, we need to 
submit reduction goals and achievement methods 
to get approved. 
By conducting research on social GHG emission reductions and providing ICT-based environmental 
solutions, we are continuously expanding the scope for GHG management. Social GHG reduction means 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our everyday lives by using the company ’s ICT services. By 
analyzing the distance between the user ’s current location and destination as well as real-time traffic 
conditions, T map navigation finds optimal paths and contributes to conserving fuel usage and reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. Through this service, the amount of 2019 GHG reductions made nationwide 
stood at 982 thousand tons, resulting in KRW 103.8 billion and KRW 117.1 billion for energy reduction and 
GHG conservation costs respectively.  //..CASE
Greenhouse gas 
reduction through 
T map navigationSTRATEGIC SYSTEM FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
VISION
2030 Green Parity GOAL
Preemptively respond to 
climate changeEnhance environmental 
management system
•  Reinforce responses to 
Emissions Trading
•  Identify reduction programs and 
strengthen investments
•  Establish and execute SBTi 
reduction goals
•  Build a basis for participating 
in RE 100•  Build an IT-driven environmental 
management system
•  Adopt KPIs for environmental 
management 
•  Strengthen eco-friendly 
purchasing system
•  Foster professional talent and 
carry out trainingEstablish an eco-friendly 
Green Culture
• Launch eco-friendly ICT services
•  Pursue eco-friendly social value 
activities
•  Reinforce environment-focused 
employee training 
•  Disclose transparent 
environment-related informationACTIVITIES IN 
PROGRESSRealizing a sustainable ICT-based future 97 96
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Energy Consumption
Our total energy consumption is calculated using data gathered from our 37 domestic business sites 
but excludes figures from subsidiaries and supply chains. Managed in compliance with guidelines on 
preparing and managing statements for the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), and numerical figures are 
aggregated by billing invoices received from energy suppliers. The intensity of energy consumption 
is calculated by dividing total energy consumption by SK Telecom’s stand alone revenues. In calculat -
ing energy reductions from the use of natural air-conditioning and generation of renewable energy, 
estimates were calculated using past data (from the year 2012-2013) and applied equally up to 2019. 
We have saved energy by, for instance, lowering the consumption of cooling energy (through the 
elimination of heat given off by equipment), integrating network equipment such as base stations and 
repeaters, and replacing old cooling equipment. All this has worked to steadily reduce SK Telecom’s 
consumption of energy, which is mostly indirect energy consumption due to power use, and accounts 
for 99.3% of the total. Accordingly, we are steadily striving to improve energy efficiency through smart 
management of office buildings and the use of new and renewable energy facilities for power genera -
tion. All this is centered around innovation of network structures and making networks leaner. Further, 
by 2020, SK Telecom plans to limit total energy consumption to no more than 28,340TJ.
REDUCTION OF RESOURCE CONSUMPTION
Water Consumption
Our total water consumption is estimated using invoices for water usage at our 37 domestic business sites, 
but excludes figures from subsidiaries and supply chains. Meanwhile, intensity of water consumption is 
calculated by dividing total water consumption by SK Telecom’s stand alone revenues. The drainage volume 
of the cooling tower on SK Telecom’s Seongsu Building was adjusted downwards and water-saving valves 
in toilets and showers in the building were installed in order to reduce overall consumption of water. The 
makeup water in the cooling tower on the mobile telephone switching of fice building was changed, but 
water consumption grew 2% on the previous year to 719,552 ㎥, because of equipment expansion.
Waste and Recycling
Our total waste discharge volume is estimated based on data from our 37 domestic business sites, 
but excludes figures from subsidiaries and supply chains. Meanwhile, intensity of waste discharge is 
calculated by dividing total waste discharge by SK Telecom’s stand alone revenues. In 2019 the total 
volume fell to 1,705 tons, a big drop of 2% from the previous year. Our rate of recycling is stable at 
30% or higher, thanks to strict separation of garbage by type for collection.
Using Resources
SK Telecom is bolstering its foundation to let customers participate in reducing the use of resources in 
the process of using SK Telecom services by issuing electronic bills and T-Membership Mobile Card and 
retrieving used handsets. The users of electronic bills have been growing steadily, and this prevents 
the leakage of personal information due to lost bills and the unnecessary waste of resources stemming 
from the use of paper bills. SK Telecom’s electronic bill users totaled 25.14 million at the end of 2019. 
Since the introduction of the electronic bill in 2010, its users have been on a steady rise. The rate 
of susbscription for new electronic bill also increased 2.3%p to 90.4%. SK Telecom began phasing 
out plastic T-Membership Cards in August 2013, replacing them with Mobile T-membership Eco Cards. 
Each year over 5 million of the plastic cards were previously issued, so switching entirely to electronic 
membership cards will reduce plastic consumption by about 24 tons and carbon emissions by 55 tons //..CASELEADING THE “ ENERGY PROSUMER ” ERA 
WITH AN INTELLIGENT POWER GRID
Through the SKT consortium, SK Telecom has entered into a future smart grid 
demonstration business agreement with Gwangju City. We plan to reduce the bur -
dens of household electricity bills by installing smart meters in homes, analyzing 
the electricity usage by hour and by device, and applying a progressive payment 
plan. Also, through our “electricity service for the renewable energy sharing com -
munity, ” solar panels will be installed on public sites such as apartment roof tops. 
In addition, we plan to ensure the stability of electricity trading with our “virtual 
energy trading service for a collection of distributed services” that integrates 
distributed energy resources and manages them as if they were a single power 
plant. Through this agreement with Gwangju City, SK Telecom will strive to create 
an ecosystem for the future energy industry and develop technologies related to 
renewable energy.
Total Electronic Bill SubscribersRate of New Subscriptions23,45125,143 22,85587.6% 88.1% 90.4% Thousand cases
2017 2018 2019ELECTRONIC BILLING 
SERVICES SUBSCRIPTIONannually. Per customer, having a Mobile T-membership Eco Card can save approx. 4.88g of plastic and 
about 12g in carbon emission. That’s about four A4 sheets of paper or the respiration of 40 pine trees. 
In 2019, the cumulative proportion of SK Telecom customers with Mobile T-membership Eco Cards grew 
roughly 4%p from 2018 to 68%, continuing its annual growth trend. In the same year, the Eco Card 
issuance rate for new customers hit 99%. These figures are expected to increase, leading to even less 
carbon emissions being produced. In addition to the Mobile T-membership Eco Card, we began making 
SIM card plates that are half the size of existing ones to reduce plastic waste. This was a method to 
solve the issue of only 3% of the actual plate being used for the IC chip, while the size of SIM card plates 
were about the size of credit cards. With the launch of smaller SIM cards, about 1.1 grams of plastic per 
card was saved, and based on our annual production of 5 million SIM cards, we are expecting about 
5.5 tons less plastic waste to be produced each year. We are also looking forward to a reduction in the 
cost of product packaging and delivery. In addition to this, we introduced the “sales branch planner ” 
upon subscribing to SK Telecom products and services, achieving a reduction in waste (paper) from the 
sales branches. To calculate the rate of old handsets being turned in, we divided the number of devices 
retrieved in a year by the number of devices sold in the same period. The rate for 2019  was 3.39%, an 
increase from 2018. This is due to a revitalization of programs for exchanging used terminal devices for 
new ones such as T Safe Reimbursement and Club device exchange programs.
ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURE AND INVESTMENT
We are expanding our expenses and inv estments for environmental protection by executing Green Pro -
curement and GHG emission reduction programs. The environmental investment and cost is estimated 
on SK Telecom’s stand alone basis. We divide those “environmental costs” into classifications for ener -
gy conservation and climate change response, waste and recycling treatment and disposal, education 
and training, conserving the natural environment outside the company, and environmental taxes and 
additional charges, and we calculate them accordingly. Not included in environmental costs are expen -
diture associated with green procurement, but the costs of buying products and services with energy 
consumption efficiency grades, high-efficiency energy equipment certification, Good Recycled Product 
certification, Eco-Label certification, Environmental Product Declaration certification, Carbon Footprint 
Labeling, and low-carbon product certification are included. In 2019, SK Telecom’s total environmental 
costs were KRW 4.01 billion.Minimized packaging for SIM cards
“Reduction of wastes 
(plastic, paper, vinyl)”
Introduced the “Sales branch planner” for 
electronic subscriptions
“Reduction of wastes (paper)”
DEVICE RETRIEVAL RATE
2017 2018 2019
T Devices 
Soldin 10 
thousands848 811 767
Devices 
Retrievedin 10 
thousands13 18 26
Devices 
Retrieval 
Rate% 1.53 2.22 3.39PIN : 0000 / PUK : 83599560    898205  15081  30128888F
USIM 관련 문의전화
휴대폰 국번없이 114 (무료)
080-011-6000 (무료)
1599-0011 (유료)NANO
USIM
15081
3012888F
NFCN-G04N
NFCN-G04NANO
USIM
N
99 98
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION
As a member of society, SK Telecom continuously supports the tackling of society ’s fundamental 
challenges and provides assistance to socially marginalized people. Moving forward, we will create 
a more integrated society by maximizing the happiness of its members through the pursuit of social 
value-seeking activities. 
 
CREATING A SOCIETY FOR ALL 
Support for the Socially Vulnerable Groups 
We support groups that may be socially marginalized, fulfilling our responsibility as a member of 
society. For the creation of jobs for people with disabilities, SK Telecom has entered into an agreement 
to establish a “subsidiary-type standard workplace ” together with the Korea Employment Agency for 
Persons with Disabilities. Under that scheme, if a subsidiary of a company meets certain requirements 
such as hiring 10 or more persons with disabilities, they are recognized as employees of the subsidiary’s 
parent company and can be factored in when calculating the proportion workers with disabilities, and 
the company can also be exempted from charges. Through this agreement, SK Telecom is contributing to 
the creation of high-quality jobs for people with disabilities. Also, to improve awareness and revitalize 
sports for the disabled, we signed an agreement with Incheon City ’s Federation of Disabled Cyclists 
to support its activities and are now actively executing that agreement. We signed an agreement with 
the Korea Wheelchair Basketball Federation to assist people with developmental disabilities to gain 
social skills by playing team sports, encouraging the development of healthy lives through physical 
activities. We are also collaborating with the Federation to train people with developmental disabilities 
to become basketball players.
We are expanding scholarship support for students from vulnerable groups. SK Telecom ’s Central 
Regional Infrastructure Office has signed an agreement with the chungcheongnamdo office of 
education to support students at vocational schools by collecting scholarship funds that come from 
voluntary contributions by employees and business partners. Since 2017, we have collected around 
KRW 16 million each year to support the students. SK Telecom ’s Western Regional Infrastructure Office 
awarded around KRW 230 million to 230 local students between 2007 and 2018 through the voluntary 
participation of its employees. Since 2014, the company is also offering students opportunities to 
experience various career options through its ICT career mentoring business. In addition, by signing an 
agreement with the Gwangju Metropolitan Office of Education for a scholarship program for students in 
the Gwangju region, the company has awarded a total of KRW 20 million in scholarships to 20 students 
with outstanding grades from socially vulnerable groups. The company also offers middle and high 
school students opportunities to experience various career options in the ICT-related industry. 
Operation of Youth Galleries
Each T WORLD branch operates a Youth Gallery that offers new artists an opportunity to showcase their 
work. By exhibiting young artist’ work, we provide new experiences for the customers to appreciate art 
and offer valuable opportunities for young artists to showcase their work. For youths with dreams of 
becoming artists, we plan to regularly operate Youth Gallery. We will strive to supply quality lifestyles 
by providing cost-free art classes for children from low-income families and also improve access to art 
and culture by hosting exhibitions for graduation projects of art major students.
Donation platform operation 
SK Telecom developed and is running a donation platform called “GiveU” and a community service 
platform called “WithU.” According to the expansion of a platform-based social contribution culture, 2017 2018 2019
Donations collected on GiveU KRW million 300 350 490
Volunteer opportunities registered on WithU Cases 24,332 53,583 45,107PROVIDING TECHNOLOGY-BASED PLATFORMS FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES
Talent donations by employees using their specialized competencies 
Through SK Telecom employees’ volunteer activities, the company has been able to contribute to the 
expansion of a sharing culture. SK Telecom has especially strengthened specialized volunteer activities 
such as ICT-related volunteer opportunities based on SK Telecom ’s capabilities and talent donations.
In 2019, ICT-related volunteer activities on the organizational level increased, with the proportion of 
employees engaging in specialized volunteer activities doubling from the previous year. As part of the 
project, the company launched the “Happy Community Project ” in cooperation with the Republic of 
Korea  National  Red Cross, and is executing volunteer activities once a month for isolated senior citizens. 
This project combines the expertise of outreach activities of the Republic of Korea  National  Red  Cross 
with SK Telecom ’s Happy Community Project. The volunteer group consists of a total of 241 members, 
including employees and volunteers of the two companies. These volunteers conduct outreach activities 
by directly visiting the homes of beneficiaries of our “AI care service ”, guiding them in the use of AI care 
services, such as NUGU, and becoming companions that senior citizens can have conversations with. 1) Ratio of specialized volunteer activities: Volunteer 
hours performed by ICT volunteers and pro bono 
volunteer groups / Total number of volunteer 
hours %
323982
2017 2018 2019RATE OF SPECIALIZED VOLUN -
TEERING BY EMPLOYEES1)
Type of social contribution Expenditure
Cash donations 16,441
Cost calculated based on employee’s volunteer hours during work hours 77
In-kind donations1)10,236
Indirect costs2)1,935EXPENDITURE FOR VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES BY CONTRIBUTION TYPE
1) In-kind donations: Cash equivalents of products/ services, projects/ products 
2) Indirect costs: Costs spent on managing programs other than costs spent on social contribution programsKRW million the total amount of donations through GiveU climbed 40% compared to the previous year to KRW 490 
million, and for WithU, a total of 45,107 services were registered, acting as a connector that efficiently 
links volunteers to organizations that need volunteers.101 100
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 101 100SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
ACCOUNTABILITY 
 102  
 118  
 128  
 134  
 138GOVERNANCE REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT
INTEGRITY REPORT
HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT103 102
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SK Telecom is committed to responsible management and sound and transparent corporate governance. This commitment forms the basis 
for SK Telecom’s corporate governance charter, that spells out that SK Telecom simultaneously pursues the enhancement of the value for not 
just shareholders but for all stakeholders, as well as the company’s own sustainable growth and development. Under this charter, we seek to 
protect the interests of shareholders by building and operating a balanced corporate governance structure, and ultimately to enhance future 
corporate value. Our charter can be found on our website and complies with the best practice standards set by the Korea Corporate Governance 
Service (KCGS).GOVERNANCE REPORT
TYPE OF SHARES AND VOTING RIGHTS
Classification
Preferred Shares
Common Shares – 
With voting stock
Treasury Shares
Total Issued SharesNumber of shares issued (Unit: No. of shares)
-
73,136,448 
7,609,263
80,745,711Ratio
0%
90.58% 
9.42%
100%Miscellaneous
Without voting rights
With voting rights 
Without voting rights
-
As of December 31, 2019OWNERSHIP BY EXECUTIVES1) AND SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS
 
CEO
President of MNO
Executive of affiliated company
Executive of affiliated companyName
Jung Ho Park
Young Sang Ryu
Tae Won Chey
Dong Hyun JangShares
1,000
100
251Total (No. of Shares)
67,504
3,092
100
251Stock options
66,504
3,092
-
-
1) Only the equity of registered executives is indicated.SHAREHOLDERS
SK Telecom follows the one-share,  one-vote principle, and its stock is composed of common shares 
without preferred shares. SK Telecom does not have a differential voting stock system that grants mul -
tiple voting rights to specific shares. The treasury stock of 7,609,263 shares are prevented from voting 
under the Commercial Act of Korea; and as 31 of December 2019, 73,136,448 shares (90.581% of total 
issued shares) have been granted voting rights.
The CEO and executives of SK Telecom are encouraged to be shareholder themselves, so that the inter -
ests of management and shareholder can align. Further, on the basis of mid- to long-term performance, 
SK Telecom pursues responsible management activities. 
The government of the Republic of Korea does not possess any SK Telecom shares, as of late Decem -
ber 2019. In relation to the founder & founding family ownership, Tae Won Chey holds 100 shares of 
SK Telecom in person, and he also serves as the representative director of SK Holdings, the largest 
shareholder of SK Telecom. Tae Won Chey holds 18.44% of stake in SK Holdings, and SK Holdings holds 
26.78% stake of SK Telecom. 
Audit CommitteeIndependent 
Director 
Recommendation 
CommitteeCompensation 
CommitteeBOD (Board of 
Directors) 
Business 
OperationsGeneral Meeting 
of Shareholders
Executives and 
the ManagementCEO External AuditorCAPEX Review 
Committee Corporate 
Citizenship 
CommitteeCommittees under BODVoting on major management agenda
Report the activities of the Board of DirectorsApproval of financial statements,
appointment of directors and auditors 
and setting remuneration limitsReporting activities of Audit Committee
Review of audit procedure and resultsAppoints CEO, oversees managementShareholders
National Pension Service
Treasury SharesInstitutional investors and minority shareholders
SK Holdings9.42%
52.68%11.12%
26.78%MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS OF 
SK TELECOMGOVERNANCE STRUCTURE105 104
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Dividend Policy and Shareholder Return
The size of dividends is determined comprehensively based on business outcomes, investment plans, 
financial conditions and forecasts in accordance with the company’s articles of incorporation. Dividends 
can be paid to shareholders in the form of cash (or cash equivalents) or stocks. In the case of issuing 
stock dividends, if the company has issued several series of stocks, it may decide on a series of new 
stocks to be issued as dividends through a resolution at the general meeting of shareholders. The 
company pays dividends to shareholders or registered pledgees listed in the shareholders’ register as 
of the end of a fiscal year; interim dividends are paid on June 30 according to a resolution by the BOD. 
Since 2015, we have raised the total dividend per share to 10,000 KRW, including an interim dividend. 
The dividend yield at the end of 2019 recorded 4.1%.
By achieving stable cash dividends based on company performances and heightened corporate value, 
the company defines its shareholder return as a long-term policy. To this end, we are maintaining 
a balance between investment for growth and shareholder return, facilitating increased corporate 
value based on the principle of capital management. In 2019 in particular, SK Telecom was the first 
corporation in Korea to successfully issue 30-year bonds, and was recognized for its outstanding 
business stability and financial soundness. 
GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
In accordance with national laws and the articles of incorporation of SK Telecom, the exercise of share -
holder rights is protected and equitable treatment of all shareholders is guaranteed. This is equally 
true for minority and foreign shareholders.
Management Oversight Function 
At the 36th General meeting of shareholders held on March 26, 2020, SK Telecom appointed Yong Hak 
Kim, Jun Mo Kim and Jung Ho Ahn as Independent Directors, and nominated Yong Hak Kim and Jung Ho 
Ahn as members of the Audit Committee. Moreover, the General meeting of shareholders implemented 
its management oversight function by approving the remuneration limit for directors and stock options 
for executives.
Shareholder-Friendly Management 
SK Telecom has a concentrated voting system to encourage general shareholders who do not own 
a controlling share to voice their opinions. In 2018, SK Telecom became the first company in the 
Korean telecommunications industry to adopt an electronic voting system to enhance voting rights of 
minority shareholders. Whereas other corporations in Korea generally hold their shareholder meetings 
on the last Friday of the month, since 2018 we have avoided holding our annual general meetings of 
shareholders on such days in order to make it easy for shareholders to exercise their rights. Since 
the beginning of 2019, we have signi ficantly expanded shareholder-friendly factors. In order that 
shareholders be able to receive sufficient information on SK Telecom’s key management performance 
and direction prior to a general meeting of shareholders, the company changed the notice announcing 
a general meeting of shareholders into a Letter to Shareholders from the CEO. At the start of the 2019 
meeting, the company demonstrated its state-of-the-art information & communications technology 
and 5G services to its shareholders. During the general meeting, SK Telecom CEO Jung Ho Park and 
the heads of the four major business units - MNO, media, security and commerce – each presented 
the business performances and the management plans and visions to shareholders. A Q&A session 
was held after the presentations for shareholders to put inquiries to the executives. The 2020 General 
meeting of shareholders was conducted online in real-time, to practice social distancing following the 
outbreak of COVID-19 and to facilitate the efficient participation of all shareholders. Moving forward, 
SK Telecom plans to create a shareholder-friendly management environment, creating a platform for 
proactive communication. BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS)
Composition and Operation
In its role as the highest decision-making body of the company, the BOD of SK Telecom mediates 
diverse stakeholders’ interests and approves management decisions. Under relevant statutes and the 
company’s Articles of Incorporation, the shareholders have granted the BOD the highest decision-
making authority on all matters related to the management of the company. The board seeks to ensure 
the realization of stable management activities and profit creation and strives to increase long-term 
corporate value by implementing growth strategies through strategic decision-making. Accordingly, 
the Board deliberates and decides upon matters such as plans for company investment, deals with 
instances of conflict of interest or insider trading, establishes transparent compensation, and examines 
matters related to general corporate risk. When a meeting of the BOD or BOD sub-committee is held, 
operational expertise is enhanced through the formation of supporting organizations, such as the BOD 
secretariat, which thoroughly explains the management status quo and the details of each agenda 
item, answers questions and provides relevant data in advance for directors’ review. In 2019, a total 
of 10 board meetings were held, with a participation rate of 97.5%. 
A Diversity and Expertise of BOD
SK Telecom is forming a diverse pool of potential BOD members with a varied range of expertise 
and industrial experience in order to represent the diversity of members of the company and its 
stakeholders. We have established a process to recommend and select directors from a variety of 
genders, races, ethnicities, national origins, or nationalities, without discrimination. In particular, we 
are concentrating on securing professional skill balance and diversity of the BOD by maintaining the 
ratio of directors with industry experience at a certain level. In addition, with the belief that director of 
SK Telecom, New ICT leader that leads innovation in daily life, must have related expertise, we provide 
extra training to independent directors in order to provide sufficient information on SK Telecom’s 
business and strategy, contributing to boosting the expertise of independent directors. As of May 
2020, the average tenure of BOD members is 2 years, and there are 8 industry experts on the board.Those who do not fall under inde-
pendence disqualification criteria 
and conflict of interest (pursuant 
to Article 32 (3) of SK Telecom’s 
Articles of Incorporation)Consideration of diversity 
including gender, race/eth-
nicity, country of origin and 
nationality, and prevention of 
discrimination on that basisMajority of shares represent-
ed at General Meeting of 
Shareholders & more than 
one fourth of total number 
of sharesIndependent 
Director 
Recommendation 
CommitteeNomination of  
Pool of Experts 
for Independent 
DirectorsResolution 
on the appoint -
ment at General 
Meeting of Share-
holdersExpertise
Independence
Industry Experience 
& TenureBOARD OF DIRECTORS NOMINATION PROCESS
EDUCATION FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS IN 2019
Date of Education
2019.04.16 
 
2019.05.08 
 
 Organizer
BOD Secretariat  
 
SK Group SUPEX 
Promotion  
Committee Participant(s)
Seok Dong 
Kim 
Seok Dong 
Kim 
 Highlights
Orientation for new independent director  - Enhancing understanding 
of company business by reporting SK Telecom management status 
quo and issues, assisting him soft-landing into the company
Enhancing new independent directors ’ understanding of SK Group ’s 
management philosophy and business  - History of SK, manage-
ment status of SK Group, discussions on managerial issues with SK 
Group executives, site visitsCOMPOSITION OF BOD
Female Male
Corporate  Research, Scholar Government
5-7 years 0-1 year 2-4 yearsFinance, Macro Economics, Accounting
ICT Convergence, Growth BusinessBusiness Strategy, Business 
Development, M&A
Communication, Media
60+41-50
51-60SPECIALTIES AGE GROUP
CAREER HIGHLIGHTS GENDER
TERM37.5%
12.5% 12.5%37.5%
50.0% 37.5%
12.5%
37.5%
62.5%87.5%12.5%50.0%25.0% 25.0%107 106
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Yong Hak Kim
Independent Director, Chairman of the Board
March 2020 to March 2023
Bachelors in Social Sciences from Yonsei University,
Masters and Ph.D in Social Sciences from the University of 
Chicago
Current Professor emeritus, Yonsei University
Former President of Yonsei University
Former Member of BK Planning Committee, Ministry of Education
Former Member of the Presidential Commission on Policy 
Planning
Social value creation
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, CAPEX Review 
Committee Jung Ho Park
SK Telecom Executive Director
March 2017 to March 2023
Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, Korea University
Master’s degree in Business Management, George Washington 
University
Current President & CEO, SK Telecom
Former President & CEO, SK Broadband
Former President & CEO, SK Holdings
Former EVP , Corporate Development Division at SK C&C
Former EVP of Business Development Division, SK Telecom
ICT, M&A/Business Development, Investment and Risk Management
Independent Director Recommendation Committee(AS OF MAY, 2020)BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS)
Seok Dong Kim
Independent Director
March 2019 March 2022
Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, Seoul National 
University
Passed the 23rd Public Administration Examination
Current Chairman, Jipyong Institute of Humanities & Society
Former Chairman, Financial Services Commission
Former Vice Minister, Ministry of Finance & Economy
Former Vice Chairman, Financial Supervisory Commission
Financial Policy, Finance, Accounting
Audit Committee, Independent Director Recommendation Commit -
tee, Compensation Committee, CAPEX Review CommitteeJung Ho Ahn
Independent Director
March 2017 to March 2023
Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering, Seoul National 
University
Master’s & PhD, Electrical Engineering, Stanford University
Current Professor, Graduate School of Convergence Science and 
Technology, Seoul National University
Former Visiting Scholar, Google Inc.
Former Senior Research Scientist, Exascale Computing Lab, HP 
Labs
ICT Science and Convergence, Growth Strategy
Audit Committee, Independent Director Recommendation Commit-
tee, CAPEX Review Committee, Corporate Citizenship CommitteeYoung Min Yoon
Independent Director
March 2018 to March 2021
Bachelor’s degree in English, Korea University
Master’s degree in Advertising, Syracuse University
PhD in Mass Communication, Syracuse University
Current Professor, School of Media & Communication, Korea University
Former Dean, Media & Communication and Graduate School of 
Journalism & Mass Communication
Former Vice-Chairwoman, Korean Academic Society for Public Relations
Former Advisor, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport
Media Industry Policy and Strategy, Communications
Audit Committee, CAPEX Review Committee, 
Corporate Citizenship CommitteeJun Mo Kim
Independent Director
March 2020 to March 2023
Bachelors in Electrical Engineering, Seoul National University
Masters and Ph.D, MIT EECS
Current Associate Professor of Electrical & Electronic Engineering at 
KAIST
Former Assistant Professor of Electrical & Electronic Engineering at 
KAIST
Former Professional research fellow at Samsung Advanced Institute 
of Technology
AI, Data growth strategy
Compensation Committee, CAPEX Review Committee, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Daesik Cho
Non-executive Director
March 2017 to March 2023
Bachelor’s degree in Sociology, Korea University
Master’s degree in Business Administration, Clark University
Current Chairman of SK SUPEX Promotion Committee
Former President & CEO, SK Holdings
Former CFO, SK Holdings
Former Head of Risk Management & Corporate Auditing Office, 
SK Holdings
Finance, Business Development, Business Strategy, 
Risk ManagementYoung Sang Ryu
SK Telecom Executive Director
March 2018 to March 2021
Bachelor’s & Master’s degrees in Industrial Engineering, Seoul 
National University
Master of Business Administration (MBA), University of Washington
Current President of MNO, SK Telecom
Former Head of Corporate Center, SK Telecom
Former EVP of Business Development Group, SK C&C
Former SVP of Business Development Office, SK Telecom 
Former SVP of Project Promotion Center, SK Telecom
M&A/Business Development, Finance, Investment, 
Management of company-wide information security
CAPEX Review CommitteeTerm of office
Career in 
Brief
Expertise
Committee
Term of office
Career in 
Brief
Expertise
Committee109 108
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
No. Date Key agenda items Attendance rate 
421 2019.1.30Donation to employee welfare fund in 2019
Contribution to Korea Fencing Association in 2019
Establishment of the Internal accounting control policy
Entrusting provision of long-term borrowings in 2019
The 35th financial statement
The 35th business report
Participation in capital increase for invested companies, SK SEA 
Investment
Evaluation of internal accounting control system
Follow-up reports from Q4 2018100%
422 2019.2.22Grant of stock options
Calling for the 35th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
Approval for the CEO of SK Telecom to serve simultaneously as 
Director of SK Broadband
Trade with SK Broadband in 2019
Donations for social value creation
Evaluation results of internal accounting control system100%
423 2019.3.26Appointment of BOD chairperson
Appointment of committee members
Trade with SK Holdings in Q2 2019
Donation to The Happiness Foundation in 2019
Donation to Chey Institute for Advanced Studies in 2019
Establishment of eSports subsidiary100%
424 2019.4.25Payment of operating expenses to SUPEX Promotion Committee 
in 2019
Purchase of shares in SK stoa
Investment in Atlas, overseas investment firm for fund invest-
ments by DTCP (Deutsche Telekom Capital Partners)
Follow-up report for establishment of eSports subsidiary
Report of merger of SK Broadband and T-Broad
Follow-up reports from Q1 2019100%
425 2019.6.27Trade with SK Holdings in Q3 2019
Cost settlement among related companies for joint R&D promo-
tion
Amendment of a section of the Audit Committee Policy87.5%No. Date Key agenda items Attendance rate 
426 2019.7.25Establishment of subsidiary-type standard workplace for people 
with disabilities
Interim dividends
Real estate equity sale with SK Planet
Reporting settlement of accounts for the 1st half of 2019
Follow-up reports from Q2 201987.5%
427 2019.9.26Trade with SK Holdings in Q4 2019
Changes to investment plans in 2019
Entrusting provision of long-term borrowings
Changes to wired and wireless infrastructure construction in 2019100%
428 2019.10.28Participation in capital increase for Kakao Corp.
Disposal of treasury stocks
Follow-up reports from Q3 2019100%
429 2019.11.28Lease agreement on SUPEX Center on Indeung Mountain for 2020
Landscape and facility management services deal with SK Forestry 
for 2020
2020 joint agreement on management of business aircraft
Results of compliance assessment and validity100%
430 2019.12.20Trade with SK Holdings in Q1 2019
Resale agreement of wired products with SK Broadband in 2020
Real estate lease deal with SK Broadband in 2020
Approval of limits in issuance of 
short-term electronic corporate bonds
Purchase of PS&M customer terminal credits in 2020
Establishment of internal accounting management standards
Cost for SK Academy operation in 2020
Subcontracting operation of customer contact channels in 2020
Wired and wireless infrastructure construction in 2020
Subcontracting maintenance services for base stations in 2020
Trade of products and services with SK Planet in 2020100%BOD ACTIVITIES (2019)111 110
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Independence and Efficiency of BOD
SK Telecom is continuing to strengthen the independency of the BOD. Currently, the percentage of 
independent directors is 62.5%, which is higher than the average of that of other major corporates in 
South Korea (51.3%, according to the large corporation governance status reported to the Fair Trade 
Commission in December 2019). We plan to maintain ratio of Independent Directors over 60%. Since 
March 2012, an independent director has been appointed as the Chairman of the Board to secure 
independence of BOD’s operation. SK Telecom’s requirements for independent directors comply with 
the domestic Commercial Act, the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act and other relevant laws, and 
they are also specified in the Board’s regulations. In the interests of improving the Board’s efficiency, 
independent directors and auditors are also limited to holding a maximum of two concurrent positions. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is operated with regulated structure, operations, rights, and responsibilities 
in accordance with the Commercial Act, the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, 
and the Articles of Incorporation. The Audit Committee conducts accounting and business audits and 
focuses on securing the independence and soundness of the governance. In order to accomplish this, 
the Committee audits the financial statements and supplementary schedules, reviews the procedures 
and results of the audits performed by independent auditors, the company’s major issues, and 
reports from the internal accounting manager and the external auditor on the operating status of 
the company’s internal accounting system. In addition, in accordance with the Commercial Act, the 
committee conducts evaluation and approves speci fic transactions such as private contracts with 
affiliated companies of a cer tain scale or larger. Moreover, the committee evaluates/approves directors ’ 
execution of duties and conducts investigation/audits on directors ’ financial and property conditions. 
It also conducts investigations on the board, claims for cease of any illegal actions, and holds the right 
to convene a temporary meeting of shareholders. The Audit Committee has to report the results of 
the evaluation/audits and major activities to the general meeting of shareholders, and disclose them 
through the Business Report.Independence
Reasons for 
disqualification 
within Board’s 
regulations 
(abiding by 
the national 
Commercial 
Act, Fair Trade 
Act, and other 
legislations)1.  Current executives, executive officers, and employees involved in the business affairs of the 
company; or former executives, executive officers and employees who were involved in the 
business affairs of the company in the past two years
2.  The largest shareholder of the company, and his/her spouse and lineal descendants and 
ascendants
3.  In case the largest shareholder is a corporate body, its directors, auditors, executive officers and 
employees
4.  Spouses and lineal descendants and ascendants of the directors, auditors and executive officers 
of the company
5.  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of the parent company or subsidiaries
6.  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of corporate bodies who are major 
stakeholders
7.  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of other companies at which a director, 
executive officer or employee of the company is serving as a director or executive officer
Transparency
Conflicts 
of Interest1.  A person who controls a company having a competitive relationship with the Company, as of inter -
est specified in the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act or any person related to such a person
2.  A person who is, or has within last two years been an officer or an employee of a company 
having a competitive relationship with the Company, or a company which belongs to the same 
enterprise group as such competitor under the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act
3.  A person who is, or has within last two years been an officer or an employee of a corporation 
that is the largest Shareholder or the 2nd largest Shareholder of a company having a competitive 
relationship with the Company, or a company which belongs to the same enterprise group as 
such corporation under the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade ActINDEPENDENCY AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST STATEMENT
OPERATIONS OF AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2019
COMMITTEES OF THE BOD
To foster efficiency and expertise, five committees are established under the Board. In order to ensure the 
independence of the committees under the BOD, the company specifies the proportion of independent 
directors at each committee within the committee operational guidelines and transparently operates 
them in accordance with each committee’s regulations. Especially, in order to safeguard fairness and 
transparency, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Citizenship Committee are 
entirely composed of independent directors.Committee Chairperson Members
Audit Committee Seok Dong Kim Seok Dong Kim, Yong Hak Kim, Jung Ho Ahn, Young Min Yoon
Independent Director 
Recommendation CommitteeSeok Dong Kim Seok Dong Kim, Jung Ho Ahn, Jung Ho Park
Compensation Committee Yong Hak Kim Yong Hak Kim, Seok Dong Kim, Jun Mo Kim
CAPEX Review Committee Jung Ho AhnJung Ho Ahn, Yong Hak Kim, Seok Dong Kim, Young Min Yoon, Jun 
Mo Kim, Young Sang Ryu
Corporate Citizenship Committee Young Min Yoon Young Min Yoon, Jung Ho Ahn, Jun Mo Kim 
 As of April, 2020
Date Agenda   Attendance rate 
2019.1.29Operation of internal accounting control system
Results of management diagnosis/audit in ’18 2H and plans for 2019
Auditor’s written opinion on internal monitoring system
Establishment of the Internal accounting control regulations 
Services with SK Hynix in 2019 regarding SK Academy75%
2019.2.7 Agreement on advisory for SK Telecom’s publication of Annual Reports for FY2018 100%
2019.2.21Results of FY 2018 audit
Results of FY 2018 internal accounting control system evaluation
Evaluation of Internal Accounting Control System Operation
Confirmation of agenda of 35th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and 
opinions about document reviews 35th Audit Report
Contract on payment of gifts to customers in 2019100%
2019.3.25Optical cable maintenance service in 2019
Transmission equipment maintenance service in 201975%113 112
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Date Agenda Attendance rate
2019.4.24Appointment of chairperson (Seok Dong Kim)
Approval of external audit service in 2019
Audit plan for 2019100%
2019.6.26 Facility construction of transfer equipment with Ubins Co., Ltd. in 2019 75%
2019.7.24 Results of external auditor’s semi-annual review of FY 2019 75%
2019.9.25Purchase of consumable materials/goods from HappyNarae in 2019 
Changes to the contract on payment of gifts to customers in 201975%
2019.10.23Understanding the Internal accounting control system under the enforce-
ment of the new Act on external auditing
Operation of the Internal accounting control system in 2020100%
2019.11.27Current status of the designated audit system of 2020
Entrusting collection of accounts receivable in 2020100%
2019.12.19Switch maintenance service in 2020
Telecommunications equipment lease in 2020
Purchase of consumable materials/goods from HappyNarae in 2020
Trade of products/services with SK M& Service Co., Ltd
Trade of products/services with 11st Street  
Trade of services with SK Wyverns in 2020
Partnership contract with One store in 2020
Trade of products/services with Dreamus Company in 2020
Trade of products/services with Contents wavve in 2020
Trade with SK infosec in 2020
Trade of products/services with ADT Caps in 2020
Audit fees for external auditors in 2020
Audit plan for 2020
Progress of the Internal control test for financial reporting in 2019100%
Independent Director Recommendations Committee 
In order to fairly recommend candidates for independent directors, the BOD operates the Independent 
Director Recommendation Committee. The committee controls nomination and selection of candidate  
to establish transparent process for  independent director recommendation. The Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee nominates candidates with independence and expertise and the nomi -
nees must receive majority of votes to be appointed as independent director candidates.OPERATIONS OF COMPENSATION COMMITTEE IN 2019
Date Agenda Attendance rate
2019.4.24 Appointment of chairperson (Jae Hoon Lee) 100%
OPERATIONS OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR RECOMMENDATIONS COMMITTEE IN 2019
Date Agenda Attendance rate
2019.2.22Recommendation of candidate for independent director in 35th General 
Meeting of Shareholders (Seok Dong Kim)100%
2019.4.24 Appointment of chairperson (Jung Ho Park) 100%
Compensation Committee 
The Compensation Committee reviews the salary and the incentive plan (stock options, etc.) of the 
CEO. If necessary, the CEO or a director nominated by the CEO may state his/her opinion on review 
of compensation. The Compensation Committee is fully composed of independent directors to secure 
fairness and transparency.OPERATIONS OF CAPEX REVIEW COMMITTEE IN 2019
Date Agenda Attendance rate
2019.4.24 Appointment of chairperson (Jae Hyun Ahn) 100%
2019.9.25 Changes of investment plan for 2019 83%
OPERATIONS OF CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP COMMITTEE IN 2019
Date Agenda Attendance rate
2019.4.24 Appointment of chairperson (Jung Ho Ahn) 100%
2019.5.22 Main contents of FY 2018 Annual Report 67%
2019.10.23SV promotion activities in 2019  
Major achievements of Win-Win growth in 2019 and strategic directions for 2020
Current status of Customer Value Innovation in 2019100%CAPEX Review Committee 
The CAPEX Review Committee deliberates investment plans for the next year and reviews investment 
plans and risk factors when collective changes in business plans happen. In addition, the committee 
reviews/inspects major investment changes exceeding 10% of CAPEX as well as quarterly and semi-an -
nual investment execution.
Corporate Citizenship Committee 
The Corporate Citizenship Committee is the highest decision-making body for sustainability whose 
purpose of long-term enhancement of corporate value and fulfill of social responsibilities as a sus -
tainable and global company. Its responsibilities include the carrying out of relevant decision-making. 
In particular, the committee set 5 strategic directions of sustainability - customer-oriented manage -
ment, mutual growth, social value innovation, transparent ethical management, and environmental 
management and reviews the performance. The committee also conducts a comprehensive review of 
the company’s mid to long-term risks and opportunities, and material issues obtained by stakeholder 
communications. SK Telecom has been reporting corporate material issues identified through materi -
ality assessments to the Corporate Citizenship Committee every year, in order to support the BOD’s 
understanding to the company’s material issues and its decision-makings. In addition, since 2013, SK 
Telecom has been publishing an annual report to investors and stakeholders to present the compre -
hensive value of the company’s financial and nonfinancial performances and plans for performances 
of the company’s social responsibility management. The Corporate Citizenship Committee reviews the 
materiality assessment process and the material issues of the annual report.OPERATIONS OF AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2019115 114
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
An independent external auditing firm audits SK Telecom’s financial statements and appendices 
to secure fairness and transparency. After the external audit, the Audit Committee reviews of the 
procedure and results of the audit to confirm properness. The external auditing firm selected for the 
2018-2020 period is KPMG Samjong Accounting Corporation, which rated SK Telecom’s 36th fiscal year 
as ‘fair’ with no other issues.Conclusion/
approval of 
audit contractEXTERNAL AUDITOR SELECTION PROCESS
Evaluation 
and Selection 
within Audit 
CommitteeReport to 
General 
Meetings of 
Shareholders
AUDITOR’S OPINION
Business Year Auditor Auditor’s opinion Explanatory paragraph
36th year (2019) KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. Unqualified Opinion None
35th year (2018) KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. Unqualified Opinion None
34th year (2017) KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. Unqualified Opinion None
AUDITING CONTRACT
Business Year Auditor Contents Fee Hours
36th year (2019)KPMG Samjong 
Accounting Corp.Quarterly, semi-annual audits
Audits of non-consolidated financial 
statements
Audits of consolidated financial 
statements
Reviews of English financial state-
ments and other audit work
Audits on the Internal accounting 
control systemKRW 1,860 million 23,040 hours FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND COMPENSATION 
Evaluation of Management performance 
Through fair performance evaluations, we are conducting reviews on the execution of the duties of 
the executive management including the CEO. The evaluation of job performances is undertaken in 
a comprehensive manner in consideration of financial and non-financial performances. We evaluate 
the performances of internal and external directors, and utilize the results of the evaluation when 
considering whether to reappoint, them or for the recommendation of them by the Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee following the end of their terms. The annual performance evaluation of 
independent directors includes a review of their BOD and committee meeting attendance rates, their 
business and technological expertise related to the company and contribution levels and whether or 
not they enthusiastically carried out their board of directors activities. Beginning in 2019, we expanded 
the measured amount of social value to 50% of the CEO’s KPI, and currently are applying the yearly 
measured amount and the strategic performances of social value to the evaluations. Through this, SK 
Telecom aims to enhance managements’ responsibility to create long-term corporate value by pursuing 
business model innovation based on social value in addition to create non-financial performances to 
promote social justice and prevent corporate risk. 
Remuneration of Executives
Directors’ salaries and severance pays are paid fairly and transparently through a resolution at the 
general shareholders’ meeting. The remuneration of executives, including the CEO, is calculated based 
on the performance within the limits determined at the general shareholders’ meeting. Remuneration 
consists of Target Incentives and Pro fit Sharing and we pay performance-based compensation of up to 
250% of the annual salary determined by a comprehensive evaluation of measurable indicators, such 
as revenue, operating profit, EVA and non-measurable indicators composed of leadership, strategic 
task achievement, expertise and other company management performances. Meanwhile, SK Telecom 
provides stock options in order to match the interest of management’s interests and shareholders’ 
interests and to provide compensation in a responsible manner in accordance with mid to long-term 
performances. In addition, we have established and are currently operating a system which pursues 
longer-term performances by setting the vesting period up to a maximum of 4 years. To enhance the 
transparency of remuneration for management and directors’ remuneration including the CEO, SK 
Telecom discloses the status of individual compensation payments to directors and auditors who have 
been paid over KRW 0.5 billion since 2014 through its business reports.
REMUNERATION PAYMENT FOR DIRECTORS (2019)
Total number (persons) Total payment (KRW million) Average remuneration (KRW million)
Registered director1)3 5,548 1,849
Independent director2)1 84 84
Audit committee 
member or auditor4 336 84
1) Registered directors include the executive director and other non-standing directors, but exclude independent directors and audit committee members
2) Excluding audit committee members117 116
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
REMUNERATION PAYMENT FOR DIRECTORS/EXECUTIVES
NameTotal payment 
(KRW million) Results
Jung Ho 
Park4,531[Earned income-salary] KRW 1,300 million
Calculation standard
Based on standards on remuneration of directors, the CEO’s yearly base salary was set at KRW 1.3 billion as the company took into 
account the CEO’s title, position, leadership, specialties and contribution to the growth of the company, with KRW 108.3 million, 
one twelfth of the amount paid each month in 2019.
[Earned income-bonus] KRW 3,288 million
Calculation standard
-  A management incentive for 2018 performance was paid in February 2019. The payment of the CEO’s performance-based com-
pensation is determined by a comprehensive evaluation of measurable indices such as financial performance including revenue 
and operating profit and non-measurable indices such as leadership, achievement of strategic goals, expertise and contribution 
to the company’s management performance
-  SK Telecom’s revenue in 2018 was KRW 16.874 trillion, while operating profit was KRW 1.2018 trillion (on a consolidated basis.) 
The company gained trust in its 8 customer value innovation activities including MNO, plan recommendation, roaming, and 
membership etc., resulting in an increase of around 185,000 subscribers increased within one year. We also recorded the lowest 
contract termination rate of 1.22% in terms of quantifiable indicators. In 2018, the company once again placed first in the three 
major customer satisfaction surveys - NCSI, KS-SQI and KCSI - setting a record for doing so for the longest-running period. 
Moreover, in the new growth sectors of media, SK Broadband recorded revenue of KRW 3.2537 trillion and operating profit of 
KRW 175.6 billion a new record, resulting in growth in terms of quantity and quality. In the security sector, we established an 
integrated service system that encompasses physical and information security by acquiring ADT and successfully merging it 
with NSOK, and through the acquisition of SK infosec. In our commerce business, we provided a basis for substantial business 
growth by securing the independence of 11th Street and attracting external investments as a pure commerce company. Based 
on the outstanding performance of SK Telecom’s mid- to long-term creation of corporate value through the establishment of a 
new ICT business portfolio in 4 major sectors of including MNO, media, security and commerce, we paid a performance bonus 
of KRW 3.23 billion.
[Earned income-others] KRW 3 million
Reward for long-term services, medical expenses etc.
Young Sang 
Ryu1,017[Earned income-salary] KRW 460 million
Calculation standard
Based on standards on remuneration of directors, the basic salary was set at KRW 460 million in total by taking into account title, 
position, leadership, specialties and contribution to the growth of the company within the limits of the remuneration of directors 
in 2019. An amount of KRW 38.8 million, one twelfth of the total amount, was paid each month.
[Earned income-bonus] KRW 553 million
Calculation standard
-  We paid a performance bonus in February of 2019 for achievements made during his tenure as a head of Corporate Center in 
2018. The payment of the performance-based compensation is determined by a comprehensive evaluation of measurable indi-
ces such as financial performance including revenue and operating profit and the non-measurable indices such as leadership, 
achievement of strategic goals, expertise and contribution to the company’s management performance
-  As a result of leading change and innovation strategies of MNO, successfully securing 5G frequency, pursuing the company’s 
re-entry into the music business, FLO, creating opportunities for business synergy in ICT convergent security by acquiring the 
Swiss quantum cryptography communications company IDQ, achieving 11st Street’s independence and attracting external invest-
ments, and successfully reorganizing the new ICT portfolio, all of which contribute to the solidification of a stable basis of growth 
as an ICT synergy company, we paid a performance bonus of KRW 553 million. 
[Earned income-others] KRW 4 million
School and medical expensesAs of December 31, 2019
Date NameBase exercise 
price1)SharesCancelled 
options Remaining 
shares Exercise period
2017Mar. 24Jung Ho 
ParkKRW 246,750 22,168 - 22,168 2019.3.25~2022.3.24
KRW 266,490 22,168 - 22,168 2020.3.25~2023.3.24
KRW 287,810 22,168 - 22,168 2021.3.25~2024.3.24
Sub-total 66,504 - 66,504
2018Feb. 20Young Sang 
RyuKRW 254,120 1,358 - 1,358 2020.2.21~2023.2.20
Sub-total KRW 254,120 1,358 - 1,358
2019Feb. 22Sung Ho Ha
KRW 265,2601,369 - 1,369
2021.2.23~2024.2.22Peter Ha 1,564 - 1,564
Jin Hyo Park 1,300 - 1,300
Poong 
Young Yoon1,244 - 1,244
Sub-total KRW 265,260 5,477 - 5,477
Mar. 26Young Sang 
RyuKRW 254,3101,734 - 1,734 2021.3.27~2024.3.26
Sub-total KRW 254,310 1,734 - 1,734
Total 75,073 75,073STOCK OPTIONS FOR EXECUTIVESAs of December 31, 2019
* Includes stock options of unregistered executives, executives currently in office
1)  The base exercise price will be calculated based on an actual amount (the arithmetic average price of a trading volume-weighted average closing 
price for two months, one month, and one week before granting stock options) based on a stock option grant date.1) The ratio was calculated by dividing the total CEO remuneration by the average employee remunerationCEO-EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION RATIO (2019)
Total CEO remuneration (KRW million) Average employee remuneration (KRW million) Ratio1)
4,531 116 39.1119 118
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT
RANGE OF RISK MANAGEMENT
We have a wide scope of comprehensive and systematic manag ement that takes into consideration 
both financial and non-financial risks. The range of SK Telecom’s company-wide risk management 
widely covers strategic risks and financial risks (the market, interest rates, taxation, foreign exchange 
rates), regulation risks, business operation risks (serious customer complaints, customer information 
leakages and network failures) and reputational/social responsibility risks (unfair trade, bribery, and 
illegal gifts). We are expanding the strategic response system based on the key elements of each 
stakeholder related area and changes in the internal and external environments by dividing the risk 
management area into business, employees, customer value, business partners, and governance.SK Telecom strives to effectively identify and prevent potential risk factors in the managing environment 
through systematic risk management. By establishing an enterprise-wide integrated risk management 
system that includes risk management processes, response systems and culture, SK Telecom will set 
a foundation for long-term  corporate operations performance and increased organizational flexibility.
INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SK Telecom operates a systematic risk management process, a system that can assess annual risks 
in accordance with procedures by securing the scopes of risks that include both financial and non-
financial factors. When risk is detected or happened, we operate company-wide risk management 
system and crisis countermeasure system led by Change Management Office, and establish self-
controlled responding system by business divisions and centers. In addition to prompt risk control in 
the organization, we are conducting various programs to spread risk management culture company-
wide. We are also establishing intertwined risk management system through SK ICT family to cope with 
the risk with cooperative manners. RISK MANAGEMENT AREAS AND FACTORS
Business•  Strategy - Predict customer needs and demands, business decision-making, changes in technol-
ogy and industry environment, etc.
•  Regulatory risks - Changes of regulations and policies in ICT industry, in areas such as telecom-
munications, media and platform.
• Financial - Exchange rate, changes in interest rates, liquidity, credit, assets, debt management
• Operational process - Appropriateness of organizational design, performing incorrect processes
Employees•  Individual corruption - Leaking company information, financial dealings with employees and 
stakeholders, illicit profits/usage, embezzlement of company funds, violation of prohibition on 
concurrent positions/outside work, etc.
• Sexual ethics - Sexual harassment, gender discrimination, etc.
• Employee conflict - Conflicts between employees, leaders, or the company
•  Employee incidents/accidents - Death from negligence or serious injuries from accidents, job-re-
lated accidents, public criticism (e.g. assault)
•  Company losses due to job-related negligence - Loss of sales opportunity, neglectful asset 
management
Customer 
Values• (Collective) customer actions
•  Customer information leaks - Leak of subscribers’ personal data, leak of device information and 
call records
• Large-scale customer complaints - Service failures, computational errors
• Spread of negative press reporting through traditional and social media
•  Unfair trade - Transactions with relatives/borrowed-name companies, illicit transactions, special 
treatment of specific enterprises and overlooking defects, etc.
•  Conflict with suppliers - Violence, sexual harassment, legal disputes due to changes in the 
business environment
Business 
Partner• Giving/receiving money and valuables or special treatment
• Business partners’ illegal actions - Customer fraud at authorized retail stores
•  Business partners’ violating data privacy - Leakage of confidential business information, unfair 
usage of business information
Governance
Relationship•  Fair trade violations - Illegal subsidies, violation of the Protection of the Communications Act, 
collusion
• Accounting fraud - Creating slush funds, fraudulent accounting, disclosure violations
• Inappropriate entertainment - Offering bribes, other special treatment
•  Search/Investigation by state institutions - Violations of laws, search/investigations on compa-
ny’s business policyPlanning and executingCompany-wide 
responses to riskInternalization of risk 
management culture
Company-wide 
responses to crisis
SK ICT Family’s 
systematic support Advancement of system 
by business divisions 
and centersEvaluation
Processing
Collection/reportingSystem 
Risk 
AreaRisk detectionFollow-up 
measuresRISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
Risk management 
process121 120
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Designated Committee
(SHE CoE/Comm. Committee)RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
SK Telecom is establishing a risk management process according to changes in the internal and exter -
nal environments and the needs of stakeholders. Risk management process is consists of evaluation 
planning, risk assessment, risk handling and risk collection reporting. The company performs risk 
management in a sophisticated manner based on collaboration between risk managers and managers 
of each operation process. Risk managers are responsible for overall risk assessment and progress 
monitoring and process managers are responsible for the overall management of risks and opportuni -
ties and management review reports, based on an approved annual risk evaluation plan.
Risk Evaluation 
The risk evaluation process is conducted in the order of identification, analysis and level determination. 
① Risk identification
Risk identification refers to the process of finding, identifying and describing factors that cause risks,  and 
aims to create opportunities through this. This process is implemented in consideration of internal 
and external issues and stakeholder needs relevant to the organization’s objectives and strategic di -
rections. It covers a wide range of risks and opportunities that affect the achievement of management 
targets if needed, and manages the number of risks/opportunities identified as the core achievements.
② Risk analysis
Risk analysis is the process of understanding the characteristics of identified risks, determining the 
impacts on risks and opportunities, and defining the possibility of the company facing them as high, 
medium or low.
③ Risk-level determination
Risk-level determination involves an analysis of risk criteria and a comparison of the results to 
determine the acceptability and level of risk. This will determine the need for dealing with risk and 
priorities based on risk impact and the likelihood of occurrence.
Follow-Up Management 
We map out appropriate risk management and action plans through risk management processes 
including decisions on risk management methodology and an effectiveness assessment. Risks that 
have undergone a risk evaluation and the risk management process are collected and reported and 
used in producing management review reports. Collected risk analysis is stored for five years on 
the Twiki System, a data-sharing DB, and is useful as an effective asset for SK Telecom’s future risk 
management strategies.COMPANY-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE SYSTEM
In order to enhance rapid response systems and follow-up management of risks, we have put into 
place an efficient system for monitoring and response. We designated multiple managers by role 
and are operating an online channel where risks are managed and shared. The Change Management 
Office, which is directly under the CEO, is responsible for monitoring and responding to SK Telecom’s 
enterprise-wide risk. It reports to the CEO when an emergency risk occurs and has the authority to 
convene a crisis response meeting supervised by the heads of the Corporate Center 1 and 2. The 
office defines the management of the risk profile, mapping responsible departments to major risks 
and countermeasures for each risk. In the occurrence of risks that may have significant effects on 
business operations and the internal organization, the heads of the Corporate centers 1 and 2, calls 
for a company-wide risk response center for risk management, in order to formulate a quick responses.
RM W/G is operated regularly when signs of risks are identified through on (Comma chat room) and 
offline channels. Also, the Board has final responsibility for risk management decisions, including 
enterprise risk profiles and risk-specific limit definitions.
COMPANY-WIDE RESPONSE SYSTEM FOR RISK INCIDENTS
SPREAD OF
 MESSAGEReal-time recognition and reporting 
(to RM W/G members only)
※Through Comma, a chat room for 
RM W/G members  
CONVENE THE COMPANY-WIDE 
RESPONSE CENTER1 HOURS 3 HOURS
-  Designated members from RM-
related teams
-  Act as a reporting/ communication 
window for each team 
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
• External / internal issues
• Stakeholder requirementsOperation and Charge : Process 
owner of related areas’ operation 
and persons in charge
INPUT Risk Evaluation
• Risks
• OpportunitiesOutput • Results of risk analysis
• Results of opportunity analysis•  Level of need of risk 
to be managed
• PrioritizeRisk 
IndentificationRisk Analysis1 2 3CONVENE THE RM W/G
(100 VOC cases, 
national-level 
disruptions etc.)
CONVENE RM W/GCONVENE THE 
COMPANY-WIDE 
RESPONSE CENTER
(1,000 VOC cases, based 
on judgment of Change 
Management Office)
Heads of Corp 
centers 1 and 2
(Control the company-wide 
risk response center)
Report to other 
committeesHead of Designated 
business department/
CenterESTABLISH METHODS 
FOR COMPENSATION
(CEO’s final approval)COMPENSATION AND 
POST-MANAGEMENT
Follow-up management 
and establish/
implement response 
methods
External communication 
of the compensation plan
Analyze opinions of 
customers, media, 
governmentConvene RM W/G
Support writing response 
messages
Respond to government 
agencies Respond to government 
agencies 
Respond to distribution 
networks/ companiesRespond to distribution 
networks/ companiesEstablish compensation 
measuresCompensation measures/
Communication through 
customer contact
Legal examination of 
compensation measures
Financial Impact analysisLitigation responses
Establish follow-up 
response strategiesOnline monitoring as a 
response to mediaDraft messages for the 
media
Respond to media
Respond through custom-
er contact points/SNS
Monitor customer trendsRespond through custom-
er contact points/SNS
Monitor customer trendsDraft response messages
(w/PR, Customer Value 
Innovation Office)Support writing response 
messages for the media
(Deliver facts/ review messages)RM W/G
Change 
Management OfficeSystem failures/ 
Occurrence of VOC  
(Infra Control Team)
Development of Me-
dia /Internet issues
(PR Office/Customer 
Value Innovation Office)
Early signs related 
to issues
(Responsible staff and 
RM W/G)
CR CenterDesignated 
department/Group
Customer Value 
Innovation Office
Business 
department/unitCommunication 
Center
Corporate Center
(Legal/Financial Group)Cognitive system
Spread of 
messageSpread of 
message
Spread of situation① Perceive situation② Report③ 1st report
Detailed report ④
Head of Corporate center 1 or 2 are responsible 
for company-wide risk response center 
depending on the organizational structure※Reports for the CEO are shared through 
Group’s SHE CoE (Change Propulsion Office Confirm)Risk management responsibility
Designated business 
department/
Group selected by the 
centerCEOBOARD OF 
DIRECTORS123 122SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SUPPORT FOR RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS OF SK ICT FAMILY
With the aim of establishing organic response system for t he risks, SK Telecom is operating a compa -
ny-wide risk management working group which also include SK ICT Family company. The company has 
clear intercompany situation reporting standards by major risk type, and has established an organic 
risk-response system for SK ICT Family companies to share information in the event of unexpected 
emergency situations, and to cope with crises through prompt decision-making. We have also formal -
ized risk management meetings that include SK ICT Family companies so that potential risks can be 
identified in an ongoing manner. Moving forward, SK Telecom will continue to ensure the stability of 
business operations by running short- mid and long-term systematic risk management and processes.INTERNALIZATION OF RISK MANAGEMENT CULTURE
We have created an environment for faster reporting of risks. We strive to spread a voluntary risk man -
agement culture throughout the organization so that all members including employees, executives, 
and board members can recognize their own responsibility for risks. To this end, we are improving 
executives and employees ’ awareness of risks and preemptive risk management capabilities by con -
ducting pre-education after selecting risks that are becoming increasingly influential mid- to long-term, 
sharing risk analysis data on our system, and conducting regular mock training. Furthermore, based on 
the principle of risk prevention, we are operating a detailed response system by including risks that are 
unpredictable but can have significant long-term effects such as climate change and natural disasters 
in our risk management area.
CEO REPORTING CRITERIA BY TYPE
Type of Risk CEO Reporting Criteria
Risks of
service failures• If more than 1,000 VOCs
 - Strengthen to 500 cases for emergency and special communication periods
• If more than 100 VOCs or more for roaming
• If over 3 hours of complete failure of core services*
   *Among our major services, we are referring to services that are difficult for RM 
responses with VOC standards 
※T world, T world direct, T membership, MoVIOS, ZEM, T ID, T phone, NUGU, T map,  
T map taxi, T map transit, T View, PASS, Jump AR, Jump VR, RCS, Bill Letter, B tv, FLO, 
11th Street, wavve, One store
• When SWING experiences complete failure for more than one hour
• When a risk becomes an issue on the Internet
 - Placing in Top 10 live search words 
 - Spreading through online news reports, SNS
Risks related to the 
reputation of company 
such as information 
security, 
BR, GR, etc.• If reported on terrestrial broadcasting and newspapers/portals
 - Terrestrial broadcasting companies: KBS, MBC, SBS
 - Major newspapers: Chosun/ Dong-a/ JoongAng/ Maeil Business
 - 3 major portals: Naver, Daum, Nate
• If trending on the top 10 live search words of major portals and SNS
Risks related to family 
company issues•  Each family company follows the CEO reporting criteria, but follows SK Telecom’s CEO 
reporting criteria for reports on major media platforms and online SNS issues
 - A rapid rise in customer complaints or failures of major services on a national level
 - Leakage of customer information and trending on other media platforms
ADVANCEMENT OF SYSTEMS BY BUSINESS DIVISIONS AND CENTERS
We established efficient risk management system through self-controlled risk response system for 
each divisions and centers. With this, we developed specific risk response process that matches the 
characteristics and situations of business divisions and centers, and heightened the level of risk 
management by advancing preceding diagnosis structure for potential risks of each divisions and 
centers. In particular, we are constantly checking the level of security policy compliance in preparation 
for information security risk, while conducting physical and technical vulnerability assessment and 
elimination activities. Moreover, we are building a quick and systematic response system in accordance 
with our manuals.RISK MANAGEMENT AND DISSEMINATION SYSTEM FOR FAMILY COMPANIES
Head of Division/Center, Head of Department/
Unit, CEO of Family Companies
Report 
Cooperative response※Control by heads of 
Corp1/Corp2
Spread of situationSituation 
report
Perceive situation Spread of situationDetermine whether to call 
crisis response meetingSituation report: 
The executives of SK Telecom and Family 
companies
Post-examination: 
Change Management Office and Chiefs of 
RM in Family companies
Crisis response➍Group/Unit, Family 
CompaniesRisk Perceived/ 
OccurredChange Management 
Office
Related DepartmentsCompany-wide crisis 
response center1
24
4563 7REPORT TO CEO 
*  Subject organizations: SKB, SKP, SKTelink, ADT Caps, SK infosec, 11st, SK ons, Servcie ACE, Service TOP, F&U, PS&M, FSK, L&S, SK Comms,  
One store, SK Wyverns, Dreamus, SK M&Service, SK stoa(including subsidiaries)CEOBOARD OF DIRECTORSRisk management 
responsibility125 124
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES CONTEXT STATUS
•  There is a limit to growth due to the saturation of the mobile communication market, 
namely 51 million units of smartphones and a 133.23% penetration rate of wireless 
communication services in Korea as of December 2019.
•  In addition, the specifications of flagship devices have been elevated, thus weakening 
demand for the latest devices and extending replacement periods. As a result, 
competition in the telecommunications market is staggering. 
•  Subscriber growth is likely to remain stagnant for a long time as the domestic 
mobile telecommunications market is maturing, which may negatively affect business 
performances. Therefore, it is necessary to strive to find and develop new sources of 
revenue and create value.Matured
•  NGOs and political circles have steadily demanded for rate discounts for the purpose 
of easing the burden of telecommunication expense burdens on households and 
increasing service accessibility.
•  From 2017 to 2018, the government expanded the tariff discount on the socially 
disadvantaged and increased the selective tariff discount rate in accordance with 
government regulations. Following the revision of the Telecommunications Business 
Act in June 2019, entry barriers to the telecommunications sector will be lowered and 
the current licensing system will be mitigated to a registration system in the mid- to 
long-term. 
•  In May of 2020, the decision for the termination of rate authorization systems was 
made but we predict that the monitoring of telecommunication charges by external 
parties including government, and consumers will continue.Matured
•  In 2019, global competition for 5G leadership became fiercer. 5G services were 
commercialized in Korea, the United States, and China and are expected to launch in 
India in 2020. As a result, many companies are fighting to uncover new services and 
contents on hyper-speed and hyper-low latency technology.
•  On April 3, 2019, we were first in the world to succeed in commercializing. Within 
about 140 days, the number of subscribers surpassed 1 million and the company is 
drawing attention for its network quality and service differentiation.
•  By the end of 2019, the total number of domestic 5G subscribers exceeded 4.67 
million, representing 6.8% of all mobile phone subscribers. We are predicting rapid 
growth for 2020 as well, namely that more than 20% of mobile phone subscribers will 
be 5G subscribers.EmergingPOTENTIAL IMPACT ON SKT WHAT WE ARE DOING ABOUT IT?
•  The domestic wireless telecommunication service market is maturing 
and mobile telecommunication demand is stabilizing.
•  As a result, we are expecting to reach a limit in the long-term growth 
of profitability of the mobile telecom business, but by launching 5G 
and a variety of services based on 5G, and differentiated customer 
value-adding services, we are creating new profit structures. •  We have steadily realized growth in the number of subscribers and the innovation of 
products/services amidst fierce market competition and tariff discounts.
•  As of December 2019, SK Telecom enjoys the largest domestic market share (46.4%, as 
of December 2019)  through its highest-quality data and voice call services, distribution 
network quality management, customer benefits and retention-oriented marketing 
activities.
•  After setting customer value innovation as a top priority in order to secure subscribers 
for mobile communication, SK Telecom is taking the initiative in the qualitative growth of 
mobile telecommunications by providing services that offer customers practical benefits. 
At the same time, we are looking for opportunities to expand revenue by providing a 
variety of services and contents based on 5G. 
•  In addition, we have attempted to restructure our business based on the core 
competencies of the existing mobile communication business. By pursuing balanced 
growth in media, security, and commerce sectors in addition to telecommunications, we 
are exerting efforts to create new profit models as a new global ICT company.
•  Due to the government’s measures to reduce household telecom 
costs and staggered growth in the mobile telecom industry, profit for 
wireless communications decreased for the first half of 2019. However, 
SKT succeeded in making a turnaround for wireless communication in 
the second-half of 2019 with the commercialization of 5G. 
•  The artificial intervention of the government may bring with it the 
risk of hindering the total structure of market competition, although 
positive changes in market such as strengthened customer benefits 
and a relief in pressure on telecom costs for normal households have 
resulted.
•  Meanwhile, if a rational conclusion can be made related to the 
self-sufficiency policy of handsets, termination of rate authorization 
systems and plan liberation, we are looking to ease customer 
inconvenience while revitalizing the market competition,thus creating 
a basis to provide higher product/service quality. •  SK Telecom is working to innovate customer value through differentiated product and 
service competitiveness including next-generation messaging service (RCS) and quality 
enhancement of voice and video calls. 
•  In particular, in order to ease the burden of socially disadvantaged subscribers such as 
low-income individuals, senior citizens, and people with disabilities, we are providing 
various tariff discount benefits and through these, we are increasing accessibility to the 
mobile services. 
•  We are striving to help governments make appropriate policies by actively discussing 
with the Ministry of Science and ICT and the Korea Communications Commission in terms 
of our role and investment ability in 5G and growing business areas.
•  With the decision to terminate rate authorization systems in May of 2020, we built the 
basis to revitalize the market competition based on product/service quality.
•  5G is expected to create markets worth a total of KRW 1,161 trillion 
by 2026, which will primarily be generated by major related industries 
such as network equipments and devices, advanced devices/security 
and convergence service.
•  Convergence between 5G and other industries is expected to 
accelerate, resulting in KRW 682 trillion new value by 2026 in the 
fields of immersive contents, smart factories, autonomous vehicles, 
smart cities and healthcare.     
* Overseas Market Outlook Survey, KISDI, January 2019
•  The excessive cost of buying 5G frequencies and massive network 
investment can be a risk to mobile operators until the establishment 
of 5G-related business models. This may hinder MNOs’ efforts to gain 
a competitive advantage in the global 5G sector.•  SK Telecom contributed to establishing international standards on core 5G technologies 
such as 5G Front Hole, network slicing, and quantum cryptography. We proved our global 
leading technical capabilities in the 5G era, by successfully commercializing 5G for the 
first time in the world in 2019.
•  In addition, we are leading the revitalization of the 5G ecosystem by expanding media 
business in VR and AR using 5G, and by increasing various 5G-based business collaboration.
•  In June 2018, at the frequency auction held by government, SK Telecom secured a band-
width of 100MHz in the C band, which is easy to expand and free from interference from 
neighboring bands in 3.5Ghz and 800Mhz in 28Ghz.
•  SK Telecom will effectively make investment at a level which will enable the company to 
take the lead in the market by closely monitoring market demand. At the same time, the 
company will position itself as the New ICT Leader in the 5G era by discovering new busi-
ness models that can realize hyper-connections and hyper-low latency which epitomize 5G 
and creating synergies among new ICT portfolios.Matured Mobile 
Telecommunications Market
Strengthened Regulatory 
Pressure on Tariff DiscountsSK Telecom is pushing forward with strategic responses after carefully analyzing and recognizing 
emerging risks that have significant impacts on the company’s management environment. From a 
long-term perspective, the company will overcome any crisis and create new opportunities through 
advanced risk management that takes future growth into account.
Launch of 5G EraRISK & OPPORTUNITIES127 126
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES CONTEXT STATUS
•  The protection of personal information is not only the basis of customer trust but also 
a basic obligation of business operators.
•  Personal information protection is a fundamental part of people’s basic rights and is 
legally protected by the Protection of Communications Secrets Act. But it is also limited 
for other public purposes such as criminal investigations, anti-terrorism measures and 
national security.
•  Mobile carriers have a duty to protect customers from hacking and virus infections with 
respect to their personal information.
•  A June 2019 amendment to the Act on the Promotion of Information and 
Communication Network Utilization and Information Protection made it compulsory 
for providers of information and communication services with total assets of over 
KRW 5 trillion to appoint a Chief Information Security Officer) to take responsibility 
on technological measure and legally respond in regard to the company’s information 
security.Emerging
•  As climate change risk has emerged as a major global issue, risks related to securing 
emission allowances and operating costs related to electricity charges are rising due 
to the strengthening of climate change related regulations including Emissions Trading 
Scheme (ETS) and renewable energy development.
•  As the post-Kyoto Protocol was completed at the COP21 (Paris Agreement) at the 
end of 2015, the Korean government has set the national greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction target to 37% compared to Business as Usual (BAU) by 2030, and to this 
end is strengthening market and non-market regulations.
•  The government announced its nuclear phase-out policy in 2017 as well as a roadmap 
for promoting renewable energy and improving the national energy system.
•  At the same time, the world is witnessing the creation of ICT based eco-friendly 
business opportunities such as Next Grid to prevent the growing risk of climate change 
and improve upon energy efficiency.
•  Telecommunications companies are making preemptive steps such as the Global 
System for Mobile Communications goal of net-zero emissions by 2050 in February of 
2019 to comply with the Paris Agreement.EmergingPOTENTIAL IMPACT ON SKT WHAT WE ARE DOING ABOUT IT?
•  SK Telecom must establish policy which  balances user rights and 
cooperation with government agencies in regard to protecting 
personal information and thus, we are considering this issue from a 
long-term risk perspective.
•  Requests of personal information from domestic law enforcement 
agencies, investigating agencies and government agencies are 
subject to the Protection of Communications Secrets Act and the 
Telecommunications Business Act in terms of procedures and grounds.
•  The number of communications data SK Telecom offered on behalf of 
government agencies including the Prosecution, Police, and National 
Intelligence Service was 313,220 ‘communications data’ and 55,343 
‘communication confirmation data’ in 2019, which demonstrated a 
slight increase compared to the previous year. It is predicted that the 
use of personal information for criminal investigation purposes will 
continue to rise.•  SK Telecom established  formalized corporate human rights policies and is committed to 
protecting the rights of users and human rights by protecting personal information.
•  We are pursuing a zero-incidents policy in regard to information protection through 
company-wide efforts such as the enhancement of functionality of a control tower 
and diagnosis system, and also by structuring data based intelligent security system, 
strengthening security diagnosis of mobile network IT systems and through the 
advancement of according defense system as well as strengthening security structure on 
both human resources and physical systems due to changes in ICT environment.
•  In accordance with an amendment to a related act in June 2019, we made responsibilities 
for information security clear and reinforced our roles in protecting information by 
appointing a chief information security officer in charge of independently formulating 
technological measures for information security and legal responsibilities.
•  Cooperation on telecommunication data, telecommunication record checks, and 
restriction measures is conducted according to strict procedures and restrictions 
stipulated by current law.
•  SK Telecom is consuming a substantial amount of electricity for its 
nation-wide network systems to operate networks and base stations, 
and thus the need to closely manage energy efficiency and GHG 
emissions is increasing.
•  In particular, the government’s relatively low GHG emissions allocation 
volume compared to the BAU level and long-term uncertainties in 
the Emissions Trading Scheme may burden SK Telecom financially, 
through environmental debts and could also negatively impact our 
business operations in the future. Thus, we are paying close attention 
to this issue.•  SK Telecom is actively  responding to issues of the Emissions Trading Scheme and 
reducing GHG emissions. SK Telecom is preparing diversified countermeasures such as 
ongoing discussions with the Corporate Citizenship Committee of the Board of Directors 
about Emissions Trading Scheme, mitigating price risks through dispersed purchasing 
arrangements of emission allowances, calling for the recognition of the early reduction 
of GHG emissions in the 2012-2013 period, and applying for the additional allocation of 
GHG emission allowances due to new equipment introduced in 2017.
•  Through our Cookstove1) project, we supplied about 54,000 cookstoves to the dry zone 
in the north central region of Myanmar in 2018, and in 2019, we supplied approximately 
4.32 million cookstoves across the country. We signed an agreement to lead locals 
to reduce approximately 106,000 tons of carbon emissions annually. In addition, by 
promoting this program as a UN Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) model, SK 
Telecom will create both social and economic value in the form of securing certified 
emission reductions of around 300,000 tons for a portion of reduced carbon emissions.
•  We are pursuing various eco-efficiency projects based on 5G such as the Building 
Energy Management System (BEMS), the Factory Energy Management System (FEMS), 
next generation smart grid project, and various ICT-based smart/green solutions by 
approaching climate change risk from a new market opportunity perspective.
1)  Cook Stove: A stove-shaped cooking tool which is made of cement material in order to reduce carbon 
emissions and the use of firewood by increasing thermal efficiency, and is also effective in shortening cooking 
time.Climate Change 
Risk and Pressure 
to Increase Energy 
EfficiencyPrivacy Risk129 128
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
INTEGRITY REPORT
ETHICAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
In regard to management activities, securing le gitimacy, ethics, transparency, and fairness among 
shareholders, customers, business partners, and employees, is becoming one of the most significant 
competitive factors. SK Telecom runs a three-step ethical management process based on Prevention, 
Detection and Response by harnessing the code of ethics and the support system of the management 
organization. In particular, in 2018, the company strengthened its virtuous cycle of ethical management 
by strengthening preventative measures, training programs, by establishing an ethical counseling 
and reporting center as well as systemizing follow-up measures in order to respond preemptively to 
complementary factors by stages and the external environment.In the process of developing corporate activities, we are pursuing corporate ethics as a top priority.
For more transparent and fair business conduct, all members of the company will take on awareness 
of corporate ethics and build a relationship of trust with our stakeholders, thus leading to a healthy 
corporate culture.
TRANSPARENT ETHICAL MANAGEMENT
SK Telecom proclaims its responsibilities for stakeholders and clearly presents ethical policies and 
regulations by which its employees must abide, as well as attitudes and direction points to be taken 
by them by establishing a Code of Conduct that underpins ethical management. Hence, a thorough 
zero-tolerance principle is being applied and actions are strictly taken against minor violations. The 
company publishes guidelines on ethical management and putting ethical management into practice 
and uses them as a basis for decision making and actions in all management activities. Following an
amendment to the Code of Ethics in November 2017, we revised the Practice Guidelines for the Code 
of Ethics in January 2018 with an eye towards strengthening the connection with the core values of 
the company and segmenting ethical practices into ‘Customers, Business Partners, the Company, 
Employees and I.’
SK TELECOM’S CODE OF CONDUCT FRAMEWORK
Business 
Partners
COMMITMENT
•Universal Declaration of Human Rights (2004)
•UNGC 10 Principles (2008)
•Ruggie Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (2012)All 
employeesCode of Ethics
HR Policy
CP Guidelines
Fair Trade 
Agreement• Code of Ethics and Practice Guidelines
• Practice Guidelines for the Code of Ethics (FAQ)
• Practice pledge
• Employment, evaluation and compensation regulations
• Detailed regulations on antidiscrimination
• Prevention of money laundering and insider trading
• Anti-monopoly and anti-competition behavior prevention
Customer 
Information 
Protection Policy•  Detailed pledge for customer information protection and practice 
guidelines
•  Personal information protection policy 
• Anti-bribery and customer information protection
• Compliance with SK Telecom’s standard for social and environmen-
tal responsibilitySK TELECOM ETHICAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Prevention Detection ResponseCode of Ethics
Disciplinary action
Examination of education/
preventionInformation channel
Diagnosis and audit
Regular monitoring
Reflected in Prevention· Information dissemination
· System improvement
· Follow-up education
Infrastructure (Management Organization)Individual OrganizationSurvey
Follow-up Feedback
• Corporate Citizenship Committee, Ethical Management Group, Ethical Management Agent etc.
• Main activities
 - Monitoring of ethical risks in unit organizations
 - Once ethics issues are detected, proceeds primary consultation/counseling
 - Verification of facts of consultation
 - Communication channel of company’s ethical management policies and future action plans
 -  Collect opinions/feedbacks of unit organizations related to establishment of ethical management 
infrastructure
 -  Return of received monetary goods and sending of official letters of cooperation to stakeholders 
involved in donations(Sents directly if needed)
 - Collaboration with local community service groups within the company131 130
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Detection
SK Telecom operates the Ethics Counseling Center to all of SK Telecom’s stakeholders for free and easy  
access. It is operated through online and offline channels such as a corporate website, face-to-face 
counseling and mail correspondence. This center includes My Counselor, Letter to HR, female coun -
selors for sexual harassment cases, intranet channels and anonymous message boards, all of which 
serve not only as a window through which to report misconduct and corruptions, but also as a tool to 
provide consulting about various ethical issues that stakeholders face. In addition, the company oper -
ates a separate counseling and witness protection program to protect the identity of informants and 
counselors of ethical concerns as well as confidential information. Moreover, we protect the identity of 
not only the counseled individual, but also the counsel/investigation collaborator as well as the details 
of the counseling report to prevent any disadvantages caused by counseling or reporting.99.8
99.1 99.1
201799.7 99.6 99.6
201899.399.1 99.1
2019STATUS OF EMPLOYEE ETHICAL MANAGEMENT EDUCATION
Online education regarding audit cases (%)
On-site education on ethical managementOnline education regarding sexual harassment prevention (%) Online practice pledge (%)25236623%37%13%8%ETHICS COUNSELING CENTER OPERATION (2019)
SK Telecom is carrying out inspections to prevent operation units’ business, management, and ethic 
risks in serial order through twenty-seven internal control audit support scenarios based on the SK 
Group Ethical Management Policy (2015). In addition, we conduct regular diagnosis and undertake 
audits to determine whether or not leaders take the initiative in putting ethical management into 
practice. In 2019 in particular, diagnoses and audits were conducted on family plan discounts, 
regulations on policies supporting distributions, and prevention of large-scale failures among others,  
and improvement measures were taken by relevant business departments according to the results of 
the diagnosis.
Response
We classified cases of a violation of ethics regulations as categories and when they happen takes actions 
accordingly. SK Telecom determines their factuality through further investigations when necessary and 
takes strict measures based on general company rules. If an employee of a partner company violates 
our ethics regulations, SK Telecom imposes restrictions on the amount of transactions with the partner 
company, in some cases terminates the contract, and keeps records for the sake of further inspections 
and improvements.
ACTIONS TAKEN AGAINST CODE OF ETHICS VIOLATIONS (2019)
Type No. of Cases Actions
Negligence of duties 4 Reprimands 4
Violations of regulations 2 Dismissal 1, Reprimands 1
Sexual harassment and workplace conduct 6 Suspension 1, Salary reduction 1, Reprimands 4
Total 1283%
1) Center investigations are implemented for ethics counseling/reporting cases and cases that are handled by the relevant department.
2) Investigations not implemented due to incomplete reported information/withdrawal of the reportEthics counseling/reporting1)
Determination as non-issue2)Issues related to subsidiaries Simple work place issues Customer complaintsTOTAL
164Prevention
SK Telecom conducts an ethical management practice surveys in order to identify preemptively potential 
risk in ethical management and improve vulnerable areas. An annual diagnosis of ethical management prac -
tice precludes all employees of SK Telecom and subsidiaries. In 2019, SK Telecom improved its practice of 
corporate ethics management by deriving improvement tasks based on the results and feedback derived 
from the annual regular diagnosis. In particular, SK Telecom has empowered executives to take the lead 
in putting ethical management into practice at each of their units by giving them feedback on awareness 
gaps with members of their units by segments and the members’ opinions. Furthermore, we are carrying 
out company-wide education activities for preventive checks to counter potential risk and to internalize 
ethical management practices. We regularly implement ethical practice pledges and ethics education for all 
employees, and have established the Code of Practice Guidelines marching the specific characteristics of 
each organization through ethical management practice workshops in which all employees participate. We 
expanded ethical management education to partner companies, distribution networks and invested compa -
nies to spread our ethical management culture throughout all of our business activities. We issue an ethical 
practice letter every other month to provide specific guidelines on ethical practice. In 2019, we held a total 
of 66 ethical management training sessions. We are achieving nearly 100% participation rate and ethical 
management internalization.133 132
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TRANSPARENT PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC POLICY
For the transparency of political funds, SK Tel ecom abides by domestic political funding law. We do 
not provide any political funding, including political funds, election funds for specific political groups, 
or lobbying funds of political parties. We are cooperating for the development of the public interest 
by supporting organizations with guaranteed political neutrality. In addition, SK Telecom supports 
public policies such as job creation, gender equality, and the protection of socially vulnerable groups, 
while we comply with anti-corruption and fair trade as a sound corporate citizen. We also recognize 
that expenses associated with policy impacts can be a potential risk to the company’s mid- to long-
term business perspectives and manage the history and size of donations from the perspective of the 
entire company. In February 2017, the Board of Directors revised the rules to enhance the fairness 
and transparency of the execution of expenses by strengthening the pre-approval process through the 
Board of Directors’ oversight on donations of over KRW 1 billion.COMPLIANCE
SK Telecom recognized that for a sustainable growth, it is a prerequisite to actively create a fair 
competition environment rather than complying passively with related laws and regulations by 
regulating organizations. Accordingly, to establish SKT group - wide fair trade culture, we are setting 
up a leading compliance system by regularly conducting compliance training for our employees and 
disclosing the status of training.
Self-Regulating Fair Trade Compliance and Transparent Trade Culture
Since 2002, SK Telecom has been running the Self-Regulating Compliance Program, an internal 
compliance system for fair competition and transaction transparency with all business partner 
companies in order to encourage their practices of fair and transparent trade. The Fair Trade 
Compliance Program consists of the CEO’s voluntary commitment to compliance, the appointment 
of a compliance officer, the establishment of a self-regulating compliance council, the creation of a 
compliance manual and training program, the construction of a material management system, and 
internal inspections. In addition, when signing contracts with partners, we make it compulsory for 
partners to comply with fair trade including fair and transparent transactions in the CSR practice 
agreement. Fair trade compliance standards for partner companies are common regardless of their 
countries or regions. If a partner company does not adhere to these rules or comply with them, 
SK Telecom is strictly complying with standards such as eliminating the partner company from our 
partner list or cancelling a contract with it.
Anti-Trust Compliance
The SK Group to which SK Telecom belongs enacted the SK Compliance System Guidelines in 2008 
and has distributed it to each affiliated company to strengthen its fair trade system. SK Telecom was 
not involved in any anti-trust investigations, nor did it pay any fines for breaching fair trade practices 
in 2019. SK Telecom will lead the establishment of a compliance system for the entire ICT industry 
with the belief that spreading a fair trade culture and creating an environment for self-regulating fair 
competition are the driving forces of sustainable competitiveness and customer trust down the road.EXPENDITURES RELATED TO POLICY BY YEAR
2017 2018 2019
Political Donations 0 0 0
Total Contributions to Associations 3,274 575 573KRW million 
LARGEST DONATIONS TO ASSOCIATIONS (2019)
Name of Association Position Donation 
Korea Telecommunications Operators Association (KTOA) Vice-Representative 207
Korea Association for ICT Promotion (KAIT) Representative 200
Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Seoul Member 102
ITU Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) Member 36
Korea Radio Promotion Association (RAPA) Vice-Representative 28KRW million 135 134
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT
SK Telecom is doing its best to respect dignity and guarantee the rights of human beings. The company is 
committed to respecting human rights as accorded in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and by 
integrating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into our overall business process.
In order to prevent human rights violations in business management processes, the company established 
a human rights policy which includes migrant worker and the local community, and does its best to 
adhere to its social responsibilities and regulations. 
HUMAN RIGHTS RISK 
Scope of Survey
SK Telecom introduced human r ig ht s policie s on a cor por ate level in 2012 and since then, ha s continuou sly 
strengthened its management practices in regard to human rights. In particular, the company adheres 
to a policy of “Protect, Respect, Remedy” in all of its business procedures with utmost significance by 
complying with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. By doing so, the 
company respects human rights, prevents violations, and proactively manages negative issues. The 
company recognizes the following as key human rights risk factors related to its business - 1) human 
rights of employees and business partners; 2) the protection of personal information and privacy; 3) 
the freedom of access and expression and 4) the prevention of technology, service and data misuse, 
and evaluates and manages in this regards. In addition, SK Telecom is checking whether there are even 
small human rights risks in its entire value chains involving SK Telecom, its subsidiaries, and partners.
Risk Identification Process
SK telecom increased the efficiency of the human rights managements by prioritizing issue among 
them. SK Telecom reestablished the priorities of human rights issues by conducting a gap analysis 
which compares its human rights policy with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
NETWORK OPERATORS’ SAFETY 
AND WORKING HOURS
2017 2018 2019
Work hours 
per person 
(Hours / Week)52.6 50.8 46.6
Measures for 
resolutionRequired mandatory 
registration of work hour 
status through system 
and management/exercise 
of work hours following 
approval from team leader 
in advance, in case of 
work during off-duty or 
night shiftsRisk Mitigation Process
In 2019,  SK Telecom selected the following as major human rights issues - 1) the conflict mineral issue 
at the stage of collecting raw materials for networks, devices and equipment; 2) safety and working 
hours of workers in network construction and operation; 3) the humanitarian treatment and protection 
of customer service consultants and 4) the protection of personal information in sales and distribution 
processes. We are conducting due diligence and finding facts for the identified major issues, and 
allocating those issues to the designated units to take relief and mitigation measures. We enhanced 
the efficiency and continuity of the issue management by having the SCM Office deal with issues 
regarding conflict minerals which are among the main risks, while the Customer Value Innovation 
Office’s Customer Care Team is responsible for call center work environment issues.HUMAN RIGHTS RISK IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURE
Refer to global 
guidelines such as OECD 
due diligence guidelines 
on conflict minerals and 
industry guidelines3rd-parties such as the 
Global Human Rights 
Action Platform and 
NGOsAnnual stakeholder 
surveysCorporate Citizenship 
Committee of the BOD 
and CSR issue channels➍Tracking human 
rights issuesIdentifying 
internal issuesGenerally review -
ing integrated 
grievance resolu -
tionsInvestigating 
human rights 
issuesDUE DILIGENCE OF CORE HUMAN RIGHTS FACTORS RESULTS 
Conflict Minerals
The term ‘conflict minerals’ refers to minerals such as gold, tungsten, tin, and tantalum mined in 
10 African nations in conflicts. With the human right issues related spreading of conflicts and labor 
e x p l o i t a t i o n ,   i t  b e c a m e  a  m a j o r  h u m a n  r i g h t s  i s s u e  i n  t h e  t e l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s  a n d  e l e c t r o n i c s  i n d u s t r i e s .  
SK Telecom is identifying products’ countries of origin and conducting due diligence, utilizing the 
Conflict Minerals Reporting Template(CRMT) provided by the Responsible Business Alliance(RBA, the 
former EICC), and the GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) to verify whether the materials, parts, or 
equipment supplied to SK Telecom contain conflict minerals. The results of the due diligence of our 
supply chain in 2019 did not show any direct purchase of conflict minerals or any direct contractual 
relationship with refineries in the disputed area. Accordingly, we found that there were no production 
minerals in the conflict-areas subject to additional supply chain inspections.
Network Operators’ Safety and Working Hours
We recognize and manage potential human rights risk in the network development and maintenance. 
In the course of carrying out data processing works and physical maintenance of the network, 
workers may be exposed to human rights issues related to accidents and working hours. SK O&S, 
a subsidiary of SK Telecom, continuously monitored the status of safety accidents at the company-
wide level including by checking the status of safety equipment (helmets, etc.) use and carrying out 
a campaign for vehicle safety. We are also preventing human rights violations due to excessive labor 
by complying with the working hour reduction regulations which reduces the legal maximum working 
hours (including overtime work.) In particular, we focused on ensuring the prevention of risks related 
to working hours in a circumstance of having to install additional base stations and devices for stable 
quality of 5G services. SKons is regulating policies for the management of the employees’ working 
hours and prevention of overtime labor including getting pre-approval for holiday/night shift work from 
the associated teams and registering working hours on the work management system. Designate the 
responsible 
organizationReview 
the mitigation 
measuresMonitoring and 
reportingIdentify human 
rights risksExternal Internal
Stakeholder Engagement 
Channels
•  Yearly survey of stake-
holders 
•  Stakeholder channels 
including discussions with 
stakeholder participationThird-party Assessment
•  Business & Human Right 
Resource Center Action 
Platform
•  Third-party human rights 
assessment results (Hu-
man Right Risk Indices, 
etc.)Grievance Resolution Channel
•  Stakeholder Grievances · 
Complaints Channel  
(Report material issues to 
the Board of Directors’s 
Corporate Citizenship  
Committee)HUMAN RIGHTS RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MITIGATION MEASURES ESTABLISHMENT PROCESS
Risk Identification
Process for Establishing Mitigation Measures
USE OF CONFLICT MINERALS
2017 2018 2019
SK Telecom’s 
Use of Con-
flict Minerals0 0 0
Measures for 
ResolutionContinuous monitoring of 
whether conflict minerals 
are used in domestic 
business sitesGlobal Guidelines
•  General guidelines in-
cluding the UNGC Human 
Rights Principles 
•  Industry guidelines  
including the Global e-sus-
tainability Initiatives (GeSI)
•  Separate issue guidelines 
including the OECD Due 
Diligence Guidance for 
Responsible Supply Chains 
of Minerals of Conflict-Af-
fected and High-Risk Areas137 136
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Service Consultant Safety
Service consultants taking various calls from customers are vulnerable to emotional labor risk at all 
times and go through verbal abuse and profanity. SK Telecom has taken protective measures such 
as improving the treatment of service consultants and enhancing their work environment by regularly 
cooperating with its call center subsidiaries. The company set up and is implementing procedures 
(service consultant protection program) including understanding (warning), terminating conversations, 
and connecting to senior employees when service consultants are exposed to human rights violation 
risks such as abusive language, profanity, intimidation, sexual harassment, or unreasonable demands, 
etc. In addition, SK Telecom operates the Mind Care program, which is a preliminary/follow-up program 
to understand service consultants’ job stress and their responses through one or more mental health 
examinations each year, and to continue personal and group consultation for those in high risk.
In the case of Service ACE in 2019, the diagnosis period and the reorganization period overlapped, 
creating lower participation in the diagnosis due to employees adapting to new organizations and 
working environments. In order to protect individual freedom and prevent stress, the company has 
been running a four-hour work system and a six-hour work system that allow employees to freely 
choose their working time since 2014. In addition, in April 2018, the company started to guarantee 
service consultant’s rights to relax and rest taking by limiting general counseling services (such as fees 
inquiries) during lunch hours (12:00 to 13:00), except for emergencies. 
EMOTIONAL HEALTH DIAGNOSES AND CONSULTATION
2017 2018 2019
Service Top
Number of Participants in Diagnoses persons 3,214 (100%) 3,839 (100%) 3,638 (100%) 
Measures for resolution - Personal consultation persons 721 677 724 
Measures for resolution - Group consultation persons 679 792  1,450
Service Ace
Number of Participants in Diagnoses persons 3,204 (96.3%) 3,159 (94.7%) 2,708 (61.6%) 
Measures for resolution - Personal consultation persons 127 123 129 
Measures for resolution - Group consultation persons 218 423  571
Protection of Personal Information
SK telecom prevents information leaks and protect personal information and privacy through deliberate 
diagnosis and investigation. We selected and implemented four major tasks: strengthening regular 
diagnosis of distribution networks; reinforcing target diagnosis through data analysis; improving 
customer information handling processes; and raising the awareness of customer information protection. 
The company conducts regular evaluations for all its business partners including distribution branches 
to assess distribution sampling and stricter customer information protection. Through such thorough 
assessments, we discover risks in blind spots and analyze the level of risk exposure to implement 
corrective actions. Since 2015, SK Telecom has conducted a survey on the personal information 
protection audit of over 3,800 stores of sales agencies in its marketing and solution distribution 
networks. The company conducts remote diagnosis of about 20,000 PCs regarding information 
leaks annually. In 2019, we also implemented diagnoses and inspection of customer information 
throughout our distribution network and take improvement measures against 234 risks found in 
sampling diagnosis. The company discovered 196 matters which need improving in detailed diagnosis 
of customer information in the distribution channel  and fully implemented improvements to all issues.
SAMPLING DIAGNOSIS OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION PROTECTION LEVEL IN THE DISTRIBUTION 
CHANNEL (2019)
TypeNumber of diagnosis 
(cases)Improvement and
mitigation casesNotes
Diagnosis of the customer 
information management status 
in the distribution channel1)2,520 234Identify risks in distribution 
channel blind spots and implement 
improvement measures1)  Regular diagnosis by sampling shops in each 
region after listing all the offline distributors.DETAILED DIAGNOSIS OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION PROTECTION LEVEL IN THE DISTRIBUTION 
CHANNEL
2017 2018 2019
Rate of inspection among all stores within distribution network % 1001)1002)1003)
Discovered cases requiring improved security Cases 153 137  196
Corrective measures- Rate of completed measures % 100 100  100
Short-term measures taken Cases 90 1373) 1964)
Long-term measures taken Cases 63 0  01)  Audited 100% of alleged stores for 1) data 
analysis based target diagnosis, 2) online sales 
store diagnosis, and 3) diagnosis on customer 
information leakages including leakage on SNS 
(100%).
 (1)  Data based diagnosis extracted through Safe 
PC/ Eagle Eye
 (2)  Analysis of T-Gate incoming URLs (about 
130,000)
 (3)  Diagnosis of customer information exposed 
on Naver Band/Cafe/KaKao Group, etc.
2)  Introduced the Customer Privacy Scoring 
System (CPSS) diagnosis system to all 
distribution channels, conducted diagnosis on 
high-risk stores such as new stores and stores 
that are in need of risk management
3)  Assessed all distribution channels using the 
CPSS, and conducted diagnosis on customers’ 
information management to support self-
improvement activities. 
4)  Conducted improvement measures for 9.5% of 
2,064 stores that were diagnosed by CPSSPOTENTIAL HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES REQUIRING ADDITIONAL ATTENTION
Residents’ Property Rights
SK Telecom has low risk in violating such property rights, as more than 99% of the company’s 
revenue is generated in Korea. Currently there are no plans to advance overseas in the MNO sector. 
When constructing domestic business sites, base stations, and network infrastructures, SK Telecom 
conducts preventive reviews to prevent violations of residents’ rights as well as safety issues such as 
electromagnetic waves. In addition, SK Telecom receives cases of rights infringements through regular 
channels (customer centers, etc.) and actively takes actions when problems occur.
Prohibition of Discrimination in Access to Information
SK Telecom is implementing digital inclusion through various approaches. As the information is getting 
more important, digital divide can lead to restrictions on civil rights and political participation. We 
recognize potential risk regarding this issue. So, we take measures such as 1)the reduction of fees for 
disadvantaged groups, 2)the improvement of accessibility through education and 3)network expansion for 
universal information access. In addition, SK Telecom supports universal measures (restriction on adult 
content, blocking illegal content, etc.) to ensure that children have safe access to online information and 
responsible content as an important rights.
1) On average of 11.9% of issues were found to be in A) Conflict minerals, B) Work hours/Safety, and C) Humane treatment, while 100% of them have been handled
2)  Audited 100% of all stores within distribution network of those that have possibilities of potential information leakage through 1) conducting targeted diagnosis based on data analysis,  
2) diagnosis on online sales stores 3) diagnosis on current state of customer information leakage on platforms such SNS2019 Due Diligence Results
Key Human Rights Issues Vulnerable Groups Subjects of Review Nature of Issues Risk LevelSurvey 
ScopeIssues 
Discovered1)Measures 
Taken
 Conflict MineralsIndigenous peo-
ple, ChildrenRaw Material 
SuppliersWhen the tin, tungsten, and tantalum used in electronic devices are products 
of the Democratic Republic of Congo or neighboring countries, it contributes 
to continued conflict in those areas as well as exploitation of child laborSubject to 
Due Diligence100% 0% 100%
 Work Hours / SafetyInstallation & Op -
eration OperatorsSubsidiary 
(SK O&S)Compliance with work hours in the network operation process and 
resolution of safety issues that threaten physical harmSubject to 
Due Diligence100% 0% 100%
 Humane Treatment ConsultantsSubsidiary (Service 
TOP , Service ACE)Protection of consultants who are exposed to customers’ irrational words 
and behavior (profanity, verbal abuse, threats, insults, sexual harassment, 
etc.) or unreasonable demandsSubject to 
Due Diligence79% 35.7% 100%
 Privacy Protection GeneralSubsidiaries, 
PartnersProtection of personal information and privacy, an important rights of the 
information ageSubject to 
Due Diligence100%2)9.5% 100%
 Work Hours Internal 
Employees SK TelecomIssues regarding forced labor in employees’ work environment, child labor 
and rights violations Precautionary 
Attention100% 0% 100%
 Indigenous Rights Indigenous people Local communitiesDirect violations of indigenous rights such as the use of land and property 
during business expansionPrecautionary 
Attention- - -
 Access to Information Children, General SK TelecomProtection of the universal right to access information and content 
responsibility toward childrenPrecautionary 
Attention- - - A
 E D
 F C B
GEquipment 
Manufacturing
Product/Service Development Sales
DeviceCollection of Raw 
MaterialsNetwork
Customer 
ServiceContentBuild OperationCollection of Raw 
MaterialsRaw Materials Sales/Distribution Manufacturing Operation
 A
 E  E D F E
 C E E B
G E
Device ManufacturingPLATFORMKEY HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES IN SK TELECOM’S VALUE CHAIN AND DUE DILIGENCE RESULTS139 138
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
SK Telecom has supply chain sustainability management policies and procedures in place. As SK Tele -
com collaborates with various partners to develop and distribute network devices, build and operate 
network infrastructure, and develop and provide platform contents, we strive to build effective and 
systematic communication channels with them. We provide stakeholders with information about the 
responsibilities and guarantee for products and services and closely monitor risks in terms of value 
chains. We are strengthening our competitiveness by managing entire value chains in a responsible 
manner with the ability to mitigate risk factors of operation process and flexible mind.
SK TELECOM’S SUPPLY CHAIN STATUS
SK Telecom’s critical suppliers are compre hensively managed and categorized according to 1) the 
relevance to the company’s core businesses and reliability, 2) high level of transaction volume and 
3) possession of proprietary technologies for which substitution is not possible. As a result, about 
192 out of a total of 1,074 registered partner companies were classi fied into the Tier 1 critical supplier 
group in 2019, and 36 companies were categorized into Non-Tier 1 critical supplier group.SUPPLY CHAIN SPEND ANALYSIS IN 2019
Partner Category Number of Partners Proportion of Procurement (%)
Tier 1Total number of registered suppliers 1,074 100
Equipment (Network and infrastructure) 131 40
Services (Software and solution development) 688 38
Goods 96 4
Construction 159 18
Critical suppliers 192 90
Non-Tier 1 Critical suppliers 36 2
SELECTION AND EVALUATION OF SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
Supplier ESG Code of Conduct
SK Telecom defines CSR compliance requirements for our partner companies through the Supplier 
ESG Code of Conduct. To all of our direct business partners and subcontractor, we recommend to 
comply with them. SK Telecom is carrying out management of sustainable supply chains based on 
a total of 10 categories within the supply chain policy.1) In addition, as a representative UNGC LEAD 
company, SK Telecom factors UNGC principles into making its supply chain guidelines based on UNGC 
LEAD activities, and refers to the recommendations of GeSI Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) Guidelines, 
the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. SK Telecom requires partner companies to comply with these 
principles in the process of signing contracts, and through regular monitoring processes. The company 
takes various measures according to compliance monitoring activities.
1) Please refer to the corporate website (www.sktelecom.com/supplychain) for details of SK Telecom’s supply chain policy.
Advance Screening of Supply Chain
To select sustainable supplier companies, we are operating a 3-step process. At first, through the 
electronic contract system (OPEN2U), SK Telecom screens newly registered partner companies. In 
this step,  we request them to comply with the ‘Fair Trade/Transparent Transactions and CSR Practice 
Agreement,’ and the supply chain policy in the contract. The company also requests partner companies 
to sign a compliance of ethical practices pledge that corresponds to SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct 
throughout the company’s business practices and contracts with all second tier suppliers. According 
to the screening results, no partner company that fails to meet the predetermined criteria can be a 
supplier of SK Telecom. SK Telecom is preemptively screening for supply chain ESG elements such as 
human rights, the environment, ethics and society before the registration of new suppliers. All new 
business partners registered in 2019 underwent preliminary screenings, while we plan to consistently 
manage preliminary screenings  to maintain 100% by 2022.
SUPPLY CHAIN ESG ASSESSMENT (PRELIMINARY SCREENING)
Partner Category 2017 2018 2019 Notes
Total Number of Newly Registered Partner Companies 615 505 568 
Screening on Human Rights-Environment-Ethics-
Social issues615 505 568 Service/ Construction/
Equipment/ Goods Suppliers
Rate of Advanced Assessments 100 100 100 Global guideline/Standards
• UNGC Principle
• OECD MNE Guidelines
•   UN Guiding Principles on  
Business and Human Rights
• RBA, etcStakeholder Engagement 
Channels
• Annual Stakeholder Survey
•  Business partner meeting 
(1-on-1 meetings, voice of 
partners)
• Business partner surveyInternal Risk Management 
Processes
•  Win-win Index Assessment Gap 
Analysis
•  Risk Management Working 
Group
SCM Risk ProfileAwareness
Guidance & 
Monitoring
Action• Supplier ESG Code of Conduct
• Procurement Guidelines• Procurement Review Meeting
Policy
• Registration requirements
• Contract provisions• Evaluation
• AuditMonitoring
Corrective measures Contract terminationSK TELECOM’S PROCESS FOR A RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN141 140
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Identification and Analysis of Key Supply Chain Risks
To identif y major risk in supply chain and mitigate them, SK Telecom conduct win-win growth satisfaction 
surveys twice or more times a year. The research methods include surveys of business partners, meeting 
with par tners, voice of par tners(communication channels), and risk management working group.  The risk 
gap analyses and risk mapping prepared by research is reviewed in purchasing performance improve -
ment meetings every month. SK Telecom defines major risks from a supply chain perspective as follows 
and factors them in managing the supply chain sustainability process. The identified risk factors are 
reflected into the “Code of Conducts for Business Partners’ in ESG ” and “ Consent to Fair and Transparent 
Trades and CSR Execution ” and are applied 100% to business partner evaluations thereafter. In 2019, 
the company conducted risk identifications and analyses for 1,074 first tier partners and 36 partners in 
second-tier or higher. For risks judged to be at “High Risk ” to exposure, we preemptively prevented their 
potential to occur through supply chain network audits, such as on-site and third-party assessments.
Evaluation of Supply Chain ESG
SK Telecom considers the percentage of written surveys and on-site surveys carried out for registered 
suppliers as a key indicator in the ESG evaluation of the supply chain. In 2019, SK Telecom investigated 
1,072 of 1,074 first-tier suppliers on paper, equal  to 99.8% of all registered suppliers. In addition, 189 
companies participating in the company’s mutual growth agreements were assessed by third-party 
external auditors and evaluators in 2019, of which the Korean Commission for Corporate Partnership 
supervised. We are applying these policies and achievement indicators to all suppliers at home and 
abroad. Our overseas purchases account for KRW 9.8 billion (0.2%) of total purchases (about KRW 4.7 Assessed Sourcing Group High Risk Rate1)
Main Risk Factors Risk Level Assessed Group Rate (No. of companies) Rate (No. of companies)
Tier 1 Overall Overall Risks - - 100% (1,074) 1.8% (19)
Economic RisksEthical and Anti-corruption Principle Violation in 
the Contract ProcessHigh All suppliers 100% (1,074) 0% (0)
Collusion and Other Unfair Trade Practices High All suppliers 100% (1,074) 0% (0)
Delayed Payment to Subcontractors High All suppliers 100% (1,074) 0% (0)
Unsound Financial Structure (low credit rating) High All suppliers 100% (1,074) 1.8% (19)
Social RisksViolation of ILO Labor Regulations and Rea-
sonable Labor Practices(compliance with work 
hours, wage payment, and other labor rights)ModerateService supplier/
construction suppliers79% (847) 0% (0)
Conflict Minerals Low Equipment suppliers 12% (131) 0% (0)
Environmental 
RisksViolations of Environmental Regulations Moderate Equipment suppliers 12% (131) 0% (0)
High GHG Emissions Moderate Equipment suppliers 12% (131) 0% (0)
Failure to Adopt an Environmental Management 
SystemLowConstruction suppliers/
Equipment suppliers27% (290) 0% (0)
Non-Tier 1 Overall Risks - Subcontract suppliers2)100% (36) 0% (0)SUPPLY CHAIN RISK IDENTIFICATION & ANALYSIS RESULTS IN 2019
1) Rate of suppliers determined to have a high risk level according to the risk analysis results.
2)  Calculation limited to cases when an interim contract instead of a direct contract is made with the small and medium-sized suppliers for construction on N/W facilities or the supply of general goods  
(SK TNS, HappyNarae).1)  SK Telecom conducts its supply chain ESG assessment on an annual basis and the above assessment rate has been calculated according to the 
suppliers that were assessed annuallyRISK MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT IN 2019 (BY TYPE)1)
Category No. of Companies No. of Companies Assessed Rate Notes
Core suppliers 228 223 98
Suppliers at a high risk level 19 19 100SUPPLY CHAIN ESG RISK ASSESSMENT (BY TIER)
1) This number includes all suppliers including those which did not have transactions with SK Telecom in the past 3 years
2)  Calculation limited to cases when an interim contract instead of a direct contract is made with the small- and medium-sized suppliers for 
network facilities construction or the supply of general goods (SK TNS, HappyNarae)
3) SK TNS’s N/W facilities construction began in 2015 and an interim contract with HappyNarae was implemented starting in 20162017 2018 2019
Tier 1 Total number of registered suppliers1)1,444 1,357 1,074 
Number of suppliers evaluated 1,340 1,342 1,072 
 Number of suppliers surveyed in writing (audit) 1,056 1,085 1,072 
Assessment rate of suppliers 93 98 99 
Non-
Tier 1Total number of core suppliers2)47 49 36
Number of core suppliers evaluated3)35 40 31
Ratio of core suppliers evaluated 74 82 86
Corrective Measures and Incentives
Using diagnosis and assessment results, SK Telecom mapped out a corrective measure plan for partner 
companies that need improvements and requested them to enhance their ESG performances accord -
ingly. No company received corrective measures according to the diagnosis and assessment results of 
partner companies in 2019.
Meanwhile, based on the results of diagnosis and evaluation of the suppliers, SK Telecom provides a 
capability improvement program and incentives to high performing suppliers to motivate effort to the 
sustainable supply chain. Through incentive program, we provide capability improvement program and 
training for risk management. The capability improvement program that SK Telecom provides includes 
technical support and protection activities such as technology transfers and open collaboration, as 
well as access to the SK Win-win Growth Academy, CEO seminars and MBA programs for suppliers and 
training for risk management. Training for risk management includes education on agreements for win-
win growth, purchasing policies and policy compliance provided in education programs for suppliers. 
More specifically, SK Telecom adjusts supply unit prices, provides funding (financial) assistance, tech -
nical and educational support and welfare benefits as incentives and support programs.trillion), while regional performance indicators are managed mainly in Korea. These are managed with 
a goal of over 95% for Tier 1 and over 80% for Non-Tier 1 by 2022.143 142
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Procurement Strategy and Supply Chain Sustainability
SK Telecom maximizes the creation of resources of our company and its business partners through the 
combination of the corporate procurement strategy and sustainability management goals. The company 
is breaking away from unnecessary procedures, forms, practices, and so on, to optimize procurement 
strategy based on efficiency. The order of priority in SK Telecom ’s purchasing strategy is as follows: 
1) securing its fundamental purchasing competitiveness by improving its purchasing structure from 
a total cost ownership (TCO) perspective; 2) boosting cost efficiency by reviewing a zero-base view 
on cost structure; 3) optimizing and improving business-friendly purchasing processes; 4) creating 
a pre-purchase risk management and compliance environment and 5) expanding joint development 
and supporting overseas export and creating a fair trade environment with the goal of managing the 
sustainability of supply chains. In addition, we are actively promoting strategic purchases through a 
purchasing synergy council with SK Group subsidiaries and information and communication divisions 
of companies invested in by SK Telecom.
MUTUAL GROWTH WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS
SK Telecom is seeking mutual growth with partner companies contribute to creating a healthy 
corporate ecosystem and value creation in the ICT industry. To this end, we build and implement a 
key growth plan for mutual growth, and implement the Fair Trade Commission’s main recommendation 
items (signing contracts, selecting and operating partner companies, internal deliberation committees, 
written preservation and issuance) and supporting funds, technology, education, human resource, and 
welfare support for SMEs. We signed a shared growth agreement with 198 partner companies selected 
based on their business areas and objectives and the proportions of transactions. In addition, SK 
Telecom opened the ‘SK Telecom Win-Win Growth Center’ to share its infrastructure by allowing its 
partners to use the space as training, seminar, and meeting spaces. By hosting a Job Fair in July of 
2019 for outstanding business partners, we not only offered job matching services but also conducted 
training sessions on building employee competency for our business partners. More specifically, by 
partnering with the National IT Industry Promotion Agency among others for building an ecosystem for 
5G IoT, we are acting as role models for mutual growth in the era of hyper-connection. 
In 2019, our continuous effort of mutual growth with partners earned SK Telecom the highest rank for 
the seventh consecutive year in the government’s evaluations based on the mutual growth index (the 
evaluation of implementation of the Mutual Growth Agreement by the Fair Trade Commission and the RISK-RELATED CORRECTIVE MEASURES FOR PARTNER COMPANIES
Partner Companies 2017 2018 2019 2022 Target Notes
Rate of High Risk Level Suppliers with Established 
Plans for Improvement100 100 100 100 
Rate of Suppliers with Improved ESG Performance with-
in 12 months of Establishing Plans for Improvement90 90 90 90 
Number of Partner Companies that Received Corrective 
Measures2 2 0 Reviewed by the 
Procurement Review 
Committee
Banned Temporarily 0 0 0 One year suspension
Banned Permanently 2 2 0 Permanent suspensionMAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS FOR MUTUAL GROWTH IN 2019
Category Contents Progress
Support for partner 
companies to generate 
increased revenue-  Supported revenue increases of KRW 45.1 billion for 182 companies by 
expanding the ICT ecosystem through commercializing new technology 
produced by SMEs100%
Improving payment methods 
and conditions- 100% cash payment to partner SMEs
- Early payment for SMEs (SME Care Program)100%
Technical support and 
protection-  Free support for technology development (T developers, T open lab, etc.)
-  Technology protection for partner companies by operating a technical 
database rental system100%
Support for education/
training and human 
resources management-  Customized training support for partner companies (Win-Win Growth 
Academy)
- Over 100 online/offline training courses
- Support for partners’ recruitment (Youth Do Dream program)100%
Financial support - Support for mutual growth fund (KRW 159.5 billion)
- SME support through equity investment (funds, direct investment)
- Direct financial support for technology development and management100%
Other supports - Support for welfare of partners’ employees (welfare points, scholarships) 100%
//..CASEOPEN COMMUNICATION 
FOR MUTUAL GROWTH
In January of 2019, we conducted a New ICT Collabo Day event in order 
to provide a platform on which to share business and development 
plans with our business partners. Representative executives of our 
company ’s business sectors, SK ICT Family companies and outstand -
ing business partners participated to share their heartfelt opinions 
on the development and growth of the global ICT ecosystem. New 
opportunities in the ICT sector were also discussed in depth. These 
included innovation of customer value, direction of mobile telecom 
businesses through the discovery of 5G business models, 5G con -
tent-driven media innovation, and convergent security services that 
cover physical and information security. Every year since 2006, the 
company has been sharing its achievements for the year and plans for 
the following year through the New ICT Pride Awards. 
evaluation of partner companies’ responses to mutual growth activities of large businesses by the 
Shared Growth Commission). In the future, SK Telecom will steadily create programs to coexist and 
cooperate with partner companies and lead the mutual collaboration in the ICT sectors. 145 144
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
 145 144SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
APPENDIX
146
166
180
202
208FINANCIAL STATEMENT
NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
INDEX
GRI STANDARDS/SASB/UNGC/TCFD/UN SDGS
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY (NON-CONSOLIDATED)
ABOUT THIS REPORT147 146SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITIONKRW million KRW million
2018     
7,958,839
1,506,699
1,045,676
195,080
2,008,640
59,094
937,837
90,072
6,066
32,368
1,768,343
1,216
13
288,053
19,682
34,410,272
1,221
664,726
12,811,771
10,718,354
2,938,563
5,513,510
43,821
29,034
274,053
895,272
313,140
55,444
92,465
31,926
26,972
42,369,1112019     
8,102,294
1,270,824
830,647
166,666
2,230,979
66,123
905,436
127,499
3,811
34,556
2,030,550
63,748
26,253
162,882
182,320
36,509,326
990
857,215
13,385,264
12,334,280
2,949,530
4,866,092
64,359
33,760
344,662
1,241,429
164,734
124,707
109,057
1,125
32,122
44,611,6202019     
7,787,722
438,297
2,521,474
0
1,350,244
191,225
1,425,251
5,450
0
0
89,446
20,603
1,017,327
423,839
304,247
319
14,000,362
7,253,894
1,972,149
1,550,167
0
7,981
408,493
32,231
172,258
1,043
53,783
2,466,295
82,068
21,788,084
22,956,829
44,639
1,006,481
22,235,285
(329,576)
(133,293)
22,823,536
44,611,6202017     
6,201,799
1,457,735
616,780
144,386
2,126,007
62,830
1,260,835
0
3,979
49,860
197,046
0
0
272,403
9,938
27,226,870
1,222
887,007
9,538,438
10,144,882
1,915,017
3,586,965
0
50,874
287,048
90,834
292,590
253,213
88,132
45,952
44,696
3,428,669Liabilities and Equity
 Current Liabilities
  Account payables
  Non-trade payables 
  Short-term Unearned revenue
  Withholdings
  Contract liabilities
  Accrued expenses
  current tax liabilities 
  Short-term unearned income
  Derivative financial liabilities
  Current liabilities
  Short-term borrowings
  Current bonds and long-term borrowings Lease liabilities
  Current portion of long-term account payables 
  Current lease liabilities
  Other current liabilities
 Non-current liabilities
  Debentures
  Long-term borrowings
  Long-term account payables
  Long-term unearned revenue 
  Long-term accrued expense
  Long-term lease liabilities
  Long-term contract liabilities
  Defined benefit liabilities
  Derivative financial liabilities
  Non-current liabilities
  Deferred tax liabilities
  Other non-current liabilities
 Total Liabilities
Equity
 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company
  Share capital
  Capital surplus and others
  Retained earnings
  Reserves
 Non-controlling interests
 Total Shareholders’ Equity
Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity2018   
6,847,557
381,302
1,913,813
0
1,353,663
140,711
1,299,217
182,343
0
0
87,993
80,000
984,272
424,243
0
0
13,172,304
6,572,211
2,015,365
1,968,784
0
0
0
43,102
141,529
4,184
99,215
2,269,792
58,122
20,019,861
22,470,822
44,639
655,084
22,144,541
(373,442)
(121,572)
22,349,250
42,369,1112017     
7,109,123
351,711
1,867,074
161,266
961,501
0
1,327,906
219,791
175,732
28,406
52,057
130,000
1,530,948
302,703
0
28
8,290,351
5,596,570
211,486
1,346,763
7,052
0
0
0
61,960
11,064
32,669
978,693
44,094
15,399,474
17,842,139
44,639
196,281
17,835,946
(234,727)
187,056
18,029,195
33,428,669Assets
 Current Assets
  Cash and cash equivalents
  Short-term financial instruments
  Short-term investment securities
  Accounts receivable
  Short-term loans, net
  Account receivable 
  Contract assets
  Accrued revenue
  Advance payment
  Prepaid expenses
  Current tax assets
  Derivative financial assets
  Inventory, net
  Other current assets
 Non-current assets
  Long-term financial instruments
  Long-term investment securities
  Investments in associates and joint ventures
  Property and equipment, net
  Goodwill
  Intangible assets, net
  Long-term contract assets
  Long-term loans, net
  Long-term accounts receivable
  Long-term prepaid expenses
  Long-term guarantee deposits
  Long-term derivative financial assets
  Deferred tax assets
  Defined benefit assets
  Other non-current assets
Total Assets149 148
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Operating revenue
 Revenue
Operating expense
 Labor cost
 Commissions paid
 Depreciation and amortization
 Network interconnection
 Leased line
 Advertising
 Rent
 Cost of products that have been resold
 Other operating expenses
Operating income (loss)
 Finance income
 Finance cost
 Other non-operating income
 Other non-operating expense
  Profit(loss) related to investments in associates and 
joint ventures, net
Profit before income tax
Income tax expense Income tax expense from continuing 
operations
Profit(loss) for the year Profit from continuing operations
Attributable to
 Controlling interest
 Non-controlling interest
Earnings per share
 Basic earnings per share (in Korean won)
 Diluted earnings per share (in Korean won)2018     
16,873,960
16,873,960
15,672,200
2,288,655
5,002,598
3,126,118
808,403
309,773
468,509
529,453
1,796,146
1,342,545
1,201,760
256,435
385,232
71,253
439,162
3,270,912 
3,975,966
843,978 
3,131,988
3,127,887
4,101
44,066
44,0662019     
17,743,702
17,743,702
16,633,722
2,822,673
5,002,174
3,771,486
752,334
272,616
434,561
231,934
1,833,362
1,512,582
1,109,980
141,977
429,758
103,140
212,227
449,543 
1,162,655
300,713 
861,942
889,907
(27,965)
12,144
12,1442017     
17,520,013
17,520,013
15,983,387
1,966,156
5,486,263
3,097,466
875,045
342,240
522,753
520,244
1,886,524
1,286,696
1,536,626
366,561
433,616
31,818
343,872
2,245,732 
3,403,249
745,654 
2,657,595
2,599,829
57,766
36,582
36,582Annual profit(loss)
Other comprehensive income (loss)
  Items not reclassified as profit or loss during the 
follow-up periods
  Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities
   Changes in other comprehensive profit and loss 
of associates
    Valuation loss on financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive income
  Items reclassified as profit or loss during the fol-
low-up periods
   Gain or loss from appreciation of tradable finan-
cial assets
   Changes in other comprehensive profit and loss 
of associates
  Net change in unrealized fair value or derivatives
   Foreign currency translation differences for over -
seas operations
Total inclusive gains and losses for the term 
Total comprehensive income attributable to
 owners of the parent company
 Non-controlling interests2018     
3,131,988
(141,584)
(187,855) 
(41,490)
(16,330) 
(130,035) 
46,271 
0 
1,753 
32,227
12,291 
2,990,404
3,000,503
(10,099)2019    
861,942
1,009
(109,817) 
(72,605)
(19,269) 
(17,943) 
110,826 
0 
75,763 
40,681
(5,618) 
862,951
892,260
(29,309)2017     
2,657,595
(1,013)
5,921 
5,921
0 
0 
(6,934) 
158,440 
(141,008) 
22,586
(46,952) 
2,656,582
2,597,160
59,422KRW million KRW million151 150
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
	
	
	
Increase (Decrease) due to changes in 
accounting policies
January 1, 2017 (Basic Capital)
Total income  
Dividends paid
Stock compensation expense
Interest on hybrid bond
Repayments of hybrid bonds
Issuance of hybrid bonds 
Disposal of treasury stocks
Comprehensive stock exchanges
Changes in equity of subsidiaries 
December 31, 2017 (End of term capital)
Increase (Decrease) due to changes in 
accounting policies
January 1, 2018 (Basic Capital)
Total income  
Dividends paid
Stock compensation expense
Interest on hybrid bond
Repayments of hybrid bonds
Issuance of hybrid bonds
Disposal of treasury stocks
Comprehensive stock exchanges
Changes in equity of subsidiaries 
December 31, 2018 (End of term capital)
Increase (Decrease) due to changes in 
accounting policies
January 1, 2019 (Basic Capital)
Total income 
Dividends paid
Stock compensation expense
Interest on hybrid bond
Repayments of hybrid bonds
Issuance of hybrid bonds  
Disposal of treasury stocks
Comprehensive stock exchanges
Changes in equity of subsidiaries 
December 31, 2019 (End of term capital)	
	
	
	
Annual Profit (loss) 
Other comprehensive income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Profit 
Other comprehensive income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Profit 
Other comprehensive income

Share 
Capital
0 
44,639
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44,639
0 
44,639
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44,639
0 
44,639
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44,639

Other Paid 
up Capital
0 
199,779
0
0
0
414
0
0
0
0
0
(3,912)
196,281
0 
196,281
0
0
0
593
0
(400,000)
398,759
0
129,595
329,856
655,084
0 
655,084
0
0
0
295
0
0
0
300,000
0
51,102
1,006,481

Retained 
Earning
0 
15,953,164
2,599,829
5,875
(706,091)
0
(16,840)
0
0
0
0
9
17,835,946
1,960,075 
19,796,021
3,127,887
(57,473)
(706,091)
0
(15,803)
0
0
0
0
0
22,144,541
(24,186) 
22,120,355
889,907
(41,513)
(718,698)
0
(14,766)
0
0
0
0
0
22,235,285

Reserves  
0 
(226,183)
0
(8,544)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(234,727)
(68,804) 
(303,531)
0
(69,911)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(373,442)
0 
(373,442)
0
43,866
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(329,576)

Total 
0 
15,971,399
2,599,829
(2,669)
(706,091)
414
(16,840)
0
0
0
0
(3,903)
17,842,139
1,891,271 
19,733,410
3,127,887
(127,384)
(706,091)
593
(15,803)
(400,000)
398,759
0
129,595
329,856
22,470,822
(24,186) 
22,446,636
889,907
2,353
(718,698)
295
(14,766)
0
0
300,000
0
51,102
22,956,829
Non-
controlling 
Interest
0 
145,031
57,766
1,656
(281)
0
0
0
0
0
0
(17,116)
187,056
0 
187,056
4,101
(14,200)
0
196
0
0
0
0
0
(298,725)
(121,572)
(503) 
(122,075)
(27,965)
(1,344)
(29,800)
764
0
0
0
0
0
47,127
(133,293)
Total Equity 

0 
16,116,430
2,657,595
(1,013)
(706,372)
414
(16,840)
0
0
0
0
(21,019)
18,029,195
1,891,271 
19,920,466
3,131,988
(141,584)
(706,091)
789
(15,803)
(400,000)
398,759
0
129,595
31,131
22,349,250
(24,689) 
22,324,561
861,942
1,009
(748,498)
1,059
(14,766)
0
0
300,000
0
98,229
22,823,536
Controlling Interest of Parent CompanyEquityCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
2018     
4,332,580
4,726,856
3,131,988
1,568,919
25,949 
59,065
195,671
(255,189)
(393,823)
(4,047,725)
686,094
0
0
117,610
5
371,816 
74,880 
58,256
5,851
10,075
7,490
0
0
1,186
0
38,925
0
(4,733,819)
373,450
49,791
112,319
6,057
2
19,114
206,340 
2,792,390
503,2292019     
3,986,082
4,376,644
861,942
4,351,037
(836,335) 
56,392
241,117
(346,343)
(341,728)
(3,582,523)
754,223
253,971
29,503
113,345
231
234,683 
220 
18,478
7,327
4,435
9,180
601
26,773
0
4,802
5,016
45,658
(4,336,746)
0
0
116,320
11,541
0
383,976
264,015 
3,375,883
141,0102017     
3,855,820
4,492,891
2,657,595
2,096,764
(261,468) 
66,713
106,674
(234,127)
(576,331)
(3,070,607)
456,778
0
0
216,700
27
129,726 
5,925 
29,368
8,848
6,205
24,550
0
1,185
0
30,132
4,112
0
(3,527,385)
156,012
28,975
205,878
5,869
2,034
19,328
193,100 
2,715,859
145,740KRW million KRW million
Cash flows from operating activities
 Cash generated from operating activities
  Net income of continued operation
  Adjustment for income and expenses
   Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating 
activities
 Interest received
 Dividends received
 Interest paid
 Income tax paid
Cash flows from investing activities
 Cash inflows from investing activities
  Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net
  Decrease in short-term investment assets
  Collection of short-term loans
  Decrease in long-term financial instruments
   Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment 
securities
   Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates 
and joint ventures
  Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment
  Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets
  Collection of long-term loans
  Decrease in deposits
  Collection of lease bonds
  Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets
  Cash inflows from derivative transactions
  Proceeds from disposals of subsidiaries
  Cash inflow from business combinations
  Cash inflows from transfer of businesses, net
 Cash outflows for investing activities
  Increase in short-term financial instruments, net
  Increase in short-term investment securities, net
  Increase in short-term loans
  Increase in long-term loans
  Increase in long-term financial instruments
  Acquisition of long-term investment securities
   Acquisition of investments in associates and joint 
ventures
  Acquisition of property and equipment
  Acquisition of intangible assets153 152
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
2018     
8,591
5,927
654,685
1,924
(238,313)
4,651,687
0
1,809,641
1,920,114
398,759
23,247 
0
499,926 
(4,890,000)
87,701
305,644
1,487,970
1,780,708
29,278 
706,091
15,803
400,000
0
76,805
46,542
1,457,735
2,422 
1,506,6992019     
6,164
0
36,910
927
(636,834)
2,047,268
0
1,633,444
0
0
12,426 
300,000
101,398 
(2,684,102)
59,860
428,153
940,000
89,882
0 
718,698
14,766
0
393,398
39,345
(233,275)
1,506,699
(2,600) 
1,270,8242017     
26,377
47
26,566
1,600
(826,618)
1,261,803
127,386
973,291
120,000
0
188 
0
40,938 
(2,088,421)
0
305,476
842,733
32,701
105,269 
706,091
16,840
0
0
79,311
(41,405)
1,505,242
(6,102) 
1,457,735SK Telecom generated a total KRW 18.714 trillion in economic value including KRW 17.744 trillion of 
operating income, financial investment income, asset sales income and other profits in 2019 on a con -
solidated basis. Out of those values generated, the company distributed a total of KRW 18.240 trillion 
to the stakeholders considering the future value and investment efficiency of the company, and added 
the total economic value of KRW 4.740 trillion, which was reserved after all the distributions, to the 
total amount of capital.CREATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE
Tax and Tax Rates Unit 2018 2019Average of 
2018 and 2019
Earnings before tax KRW million 3,975,966 1,162,655
Nominal taxes1)KRW million 1,083,029 309,368
 Nominal tax rate % 27.2% 26.6% 26.9%
Effective taxes2)KRW million 843,978 300,713
 Effective tax rate % 21.2% 25.9% 23.5%
1) Nominal taxes: Income tax expense calculated by applicable tax rate
2) Effective taxes paid: Income tax expense recognized in profit or lossReason for the difference Unit 2018 2019
Tax exempt income KRW million (19,450) (92,666)
Non-deductible expenses KRW million  26,724       14,630
Tax deductions and exemptions KRW million (17,580)    (32,877)
Changes in deferred corporate tax 
that cannot be madeKRW million (177,902)    83,940
Effects of changes in tax rates KRW million  (3,983)     4,040
Refund of corporate tax in past, etc KRW million (46,860)    14,278SK Telecom strictly complies with domestic and overseas tax laws and regulations in all transactions 
which aim at creating economic and social value in order to faithfully carry out its liability to taxation. 
The company accurately reports and pays the tax amount required in accordance with tax laws 
and regulations. In addition, the company discloses related information to stakeholders to ensure 
transparency in tax payment. In order to ensure the appropriateness of the application of the tax 
laws, the company is reporting tax amounts to the taxation items prescribed by laws and regulations 
through an accounting firm. In 2019, SK Telecom’s earnings before tax were KRW 1.163 trillion, while 
nominal taxes amounted to KRW 309 billion at a nominal tax rate of 26.6%. Meanwhile, the company’s 
effective taxes amounted to KRW 300.7 billion at an effective tax rate of 25.9%. For the past two 
years, the company’s average nominal tax rate stood at 26.9% and the effective tax rate was 23.5%. 
The effective tax rate in 2019 was 0.7%p lower than the nominal tax rate, the main reasons for which 
include the effects stemming from tax-exempt income, non-deductible expenses, and tax deductions 
and exemptions. This result is also attributable to changes in deferred income taxes that are not 
feasible, refunded income taxes from past periods, and the effect of tax rate fluctuations.EFFECTIVE TAX RATEKRW 100 millionDISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED ECONOMIC VALUE
Distribution to Business Partners and Miscellaneous Operating Expenses : Economic value distributions to business partners such as the cost of 
goods sold, commissions paid to suppliers, and R&D and network investment. and other operating expenses for service provision.  
Distribution to Employees : Wages, benefits and welfare, the reserve for retirement allowances.
Distribution to Shareholders and Investors : Dividends and interest payments.
Distribution to the Government : Payment of corporate taxes among other taxes and frequency usage fees applied.
Distribution to the Local Communities : Pure donations to local communities, not including indirect impact resulting from business investments and 
infrastructure support.KRW 
474 billionTOTAL 
18,240
14,020182,823
762
618Employees
Shareholders & Investors
Government
Local CommunitiesBusiness Partners & 
Other Operations  Increase in deposits
  Increase in other non-current assets
  Cash outflow for business combinations
  Cash outflow for disposal of subsidiaries
Cash flows from financing activities
 Cash inflows from financing activities
  Net increase in short-term borrowings
  Issuance of debentures
  Proceeds from long-term borrowings
  Insurance of hybrid bonds
   Cash inflows due to transaction of derivative 
products
  Disposal of treasury stocks
   Cash received from transfer of interests in  
subsidiaries to non-controlling interests
 Cash outflows for financing activities
  Net decrease in short-term borrowings
  Repayment of long-term account payables
  Repayment of debentures
  Repayment of long-term borrowings
   Cash outflow due to transaction of derivative 
products
  Payment of dividends
  Interest on hybrid bonds
  Repayment of hybrid bonds
  Repayment of lease liabilities
  Transactions with non-controlling shareholders
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalent at beginning of the year
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash 
equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at year-endKRW million155 154
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The Management’s Discussion & Analysis (‘MD&A’) is provided to 
enable readers to assess the results of operations and financial con -
dition for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, compared to the 
preceding year. The MD&A section should be read in conjunction with 
our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual 
report. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts are presented on a 
consolidated basis and are based on our audited consolidated finan -
cial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards, as adopted by Korea. All amounts are in Korean 
won (KRW). All references to ‘we,’ ‘us’ or ‘our’ shall mean SK Telecom 
Co., Ltd. and, unless the context otherwise requires, its consolidated 
subsidiaries. References to “SK Telecom” shall mean SK Telecom Co., 
Ltd., but shall not include its consolidated subsidiaries.
This MD&A section contains ‘forward-looking statements,’ as defined 
in the U.S Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are based 
on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections 
about us and our industry. The forward-looking statements are sub -
ject to various risks and uncertainties. We caution that reliance on 
any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties, and 
that although we believe that the assumptions on which our for -
ward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those 
assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, as a result, the for -
ward-looking statements based on those assumptions could be incor -
rect. Risks and uncertainties associated with our business are more 
fully described in our latest annual report on Form 20-F and other 
filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In light 
of these and other uncertainties, it should not be concluded that 
we will necessarily achieve any plans and objectives or projected 
financial results referred to in any of the forward-looking statements. 
We do not undertake to release the results of any revisions of these 
forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
1. 2019 OVERVIEW  
In the wireless telecommunication business that has transitioned to the 
current 5G network, the company has launched innovative products and 
services that meet the changing preferences and needs of the custom -
ers, thus enabling it to emerge as a new leader in the new ICT era. While 
maintaining our leading position in the domestic wireless telecommuni -
cation services market, we will continue to develop our next-generation 
growth business through other innovative products offered through plat -
form services including media, security, commerce, IoT and AI solutions. 
We plan to use our Big Data analytics technology to develop products 
and services that meet the changing needs of our customers and plan to 
provide a large number of products and services integrated with AI tech -
nology. In addition, we will continue to develop state-of-the-art 5G tech -nology and utilize 5G infrastructure and capabilities in the major sectors 
of media, security, commerce, and others to explore unique product and 
service creation measures tailored to evolving customer needs. Our op -
erations are reported in five segments: (1) cellular services, (2) fixed-line 
telecommunication services, (3) security services, (4) commerce services 
and (5) other businesses.
Cellular Services
We offer wireless voice and data transmission services, sell wireless 
devices and provide IoT solutions and innovative platform services 
through our cellular services segment. Our wireless voice and data 
transmission services are offered through our backbone networks that 
collectively can be accessed by approximately 99% of the Korean pop -
ulation. We maintained our leadership position in the wireless sector 
in 2019 with 31.5 million subscribers (including subscribers of mobile 
virtual network operators (‘MVNOs’) that lease our networks) as of De -
cember 31, 2019, of which approximately 2.1 million subscribed to our 
5G service, 25.0 million subscribed to our LTE service and 23.6 million 
used smartphones. Our share of the Korean wireless market based on 
the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) was ap -
proximately 46.4% as of December 31, 2019 compared to 47.2% as of 
December 31, 2018. The Korean wireless telecommunication industry is 
considered to have reached its maturation stage with more than a 100% 
penetration rate. However, with continued advancements in network 
related technology, there are further opportunities to expand market 
size and revenue of cellular services through increasing the quality of 
cellular services we provide to our subscribers. By continuing to be 
innovative in developing core competencies, we have firmly established 
our position as the market leader in wireless telecommunications.
Through innovative 5G services such as “5G clusters, ” which provide 
subscribers differentiated experiences, we will maintain our business 
leadership in the wireless service market. We also plan to speed 
up the expansion of 5G services by offering services and content 
specialized for the 5G environment such as Cloud gaming, practical 
experiencing services and e-Sports. Furthermore, we will utilize AI 
technology to continuously analyze the needs of our customers and 
provide products and services that fulfill these needs. In addition, 
with a variety of products that integrate wireless services to products 
and services in the media, security, and commerce sectors, we are 
continuously striving to reinforce bonds with our customers. 
In 2019, our cellular services segment revenue was KRW 12.17 trillion, 
representing 68.6% of our consolidated operating revenue.
Fixed-line Telecommunication Services
We offer fixed-line telephone, broadband Internet and advanced me -
dia platform services (including IPTV) and business communications services through our fixed-line telecommunication services segment. 
Our fixed-line telecommunication services are provided by our sub -
sidiaries, SK Broadband and SK Telink. As of December 31, 2019, we 
had approximately 3.9 million fixed-line telephone subscribers (in -
cluding subscribers to VoIP services of SK Broadband and SK Telink), 
approximately 5.6 million broadband Internet access subscribers and 
approximately 5.2 million IPTV subscribers, with market shares of 
15.9%, 25.6% and 14.9%, respectively, based on the number of sub -
scribers. (On an overall paid TV market standard including IPTV, cable 
TV and satellite TV)
As part of our initiative to be the leading next-generation platform 
provider, we aim to provide an advanced media platform with various 
media content and service offerings. We currently offer IPTV services 
under the brand name ‘Btv’ with access to 260 live high definition 
channels depending on the subscription service as of December 31, 
2019, as well as video-on-demand service providing a wide range of 
media content, including recent box office movie releases, popular 
U.S. and other foreign TV shows and various children’s TV programs. 
We also offer ‘B tv UHD,’ an ultra-high definition IPTV service whose 
resolution is four times as high as the standard high definition broad -
casting service in the IPTV industry. In September 2019, as part of 
our effort to strengthen the competitiveness of our media business 
and promote future growth, we acquired minority interests in Content 
wavve Co., Ltd. (Content wavve) (formerly known as Content Alliance 
Platform) We invested KRW 90.9 billion and relocated our existing mo -
bile OTT service business, “oksusu” to Content wavve, where we op -
erated over the top (OTT) service of POOQ. Content wavve combined 
oksusu with POOQ and launched a new integrated mobile OTT service 
called “wavve ” in September 2019. As of December 31, 2019, Content 
wavve possesses 30.0% of total issued shares. In 2019, our fixed-line 
telecommunications services segment revenue was KRW 2.95 trillion, 
representing 16.6% of our consolidated operating revenue.
Security Business 
Our security business sector comprises physical security services pro -
vided by the integrated subsidiary, Life & Security Holdings Co., Ltd., 
which owns ADT CAPS Co., Ltd. (together with Life & Security Holdings 
Co., Ltd. and its two other subsidiaries, “ADT Caps”). The company 
owns ADT Caps, acquired in October 2018 and SK infosec, acquired 
in December 2018. ADT Caps provides a variety of physical securi -
ty services through its major unmanned surveillance and dispatching 
services called the Central Monitoring Services (“CMS”). CMS-based 
services is utilized in a customized way depending on residential or 
commercial demands and is operated through a central system that 
provides surveillance on marginalized areas though cameras, sensors 
and emergency alarms. Through this system, suspicious activities are detected and security officers are dispatched to the location of the 
subscribers for additional on-the-scene security. SK infosec is an in -
formation security consulting service that provides managed services 
and cyber threat intelligence solutions. SK infosec ’s flagship product is 
Secudium IoT, an integrated security service that combines information 
and physical operational technology-based security services into one 
platform. Revenue for the security services division was KRW 1.11 tril -
lion, which accounts for 6.3% of consolidated revenue. 
Commerce Services
Our commerce services segment is mainly composed of 11st Street, 
and online market places operated by the subsidiary of Eleven Street 
Co., Ltd., and SK stoa, a two-directional television shopping service 
(T-commerce) that is operated by SK stoa Co., Ltd. 11st is an online 
marketplace that offers a wide range of products through an online 
and mobile interface. As of December 31, 2019, 11st was the leading 
commerce platform in Korea in terms of unique visitors, both on the 
basis of mobile version only and the combined basis of mobile and 
desktop versions, according to Nielsen Korean click. The mobile ver -
sion of 11st is continuing to grow, with an increase in the percentage 
of annual gross merchandise volume, which represents the total an -
nual monetary value of customer purchases of goods and services, 
net of estimated refunds, to 68% in 2019 from 65% in 2018. Through 
pre-recorded television programs, SK stoa offers a variety of prod -
ucts and services. Products and services promoted through SK stoa ’s 
T-commerce programs can be purchased through phone orders, SK 
stoa’s mobile applications, online markets, and virtual applications 
that appear on television screens using the viewer ’s remote control-
lers. In 2019, our commerce services segment revenue was KRW 0.71 
trillion, representing 4.0% of our consolidated operating revenue.
Other Business Sectors
We continuously strive to diversify our products and services and de -
velop new growth engines that we believe are complementary to our 
existing products and services, such as our portal service and other 
miscellaneous business areas, which we include in our others busi -
ness segment. We offer a portal service under the ‘Nate’ brand name 
through SK Communications that can be accessed through its web -
site, www.nate.com, or through its mobile application. In addition, we 
provide marketing platform services through SK Planet and the brand 
for high-end audio devices “Astell & Kern, ” which is manufactured by 
our subsidiary, Dreamus Company. We also operate a music platform 
“FLO” that analyzes individual user preferences using AI technology 
to provide customized music recommendations and user interfaces.
We also operate a mobile application marketplace, ‘One store’ in col -
laboration with KT, LG U+ and NAVER Corporation. In 2019, our others 157 156
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATIONConsolidated, KRW billion
Statement of Income Data
 Operating revenue
 EBITDA1)
 Operating expense
 Operating profit
 Annual profit 
Statement of Financial Position Data
 Total assets
  Cash & marketable securities2)
 Total liabilities
  Interest-bearing financial debt3)
 Total equity
Financial Ratios(%)
 EBITDA margin
 Operating margin
 Net margin
 Debt-to-equity ratio4)2018      
16,874
4,486
15,672
1,202
3,132
42,369
2,590
20,020
9,652
22,349
26.6
7.1
18.6
43.22019     
17,744
5,045 
16,634
1,110
862
44,612
2,102
21,788
10,264
22,824
28.4 
6.3
4.9
45.0Change      
5.2%
8.8%
6.1%
-7.7%
-72.5%
5.3%
-18.8%
8.8%
6.3%
2.1%
1.8%p
-0.8%p
-13.7%p
1.8%p
1) EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expense
2) Cash & marketable securities = Cash & cash equivalents + Marketable securities + Short-term financial instruments
3) Interest-bearing financial debt = Short-term borrowings + Current portion of long-term debt + Debentures + Long-term borrowings
4) Debt-to-equity ratio = Interest-bearing financial debt/Total equitybusiness segment revenue was KRW 0.8 trillion, representing 4.5% of 
our consolidated operating revenue.
2. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
In our cellular services segment, we earn revenue principally from our 
wireless voice and data transmission services through monthly plan-
based fees, usage charges for outgoing voice calls, usage charges for 
wireless data services and value-added service fees paid by our wire -
less subscribers as well as interconnection fees paid to us by other 
telecommunications operators for use of our wireless network by their 
customers and subscribers. We also derive revenue from sales of wire -
less devices by our subsidiary, PS&Marketing. Other sources of reve -
nue include that from our IoT solutions and platform ser vices, including 
AI solutions, as well as other miscellaneous cellular services.
In our fixed-line telecommunication services segment, we earn rev -
enue principally from our fixed-line telephone services and broad -
band Internet services and advanced media platform services 
(including IPTV) through monthly plan-based fees and usage charges 
as well as interconnection fees paid to us by other telecommunica -
tions operators for the use of our fixed-line network by their cus -
tomers and subscribers. In the security services sector, we generate revenue through each of the subsidiaries of ADT Caps and SK infosec 
in physical and information security services businesses. ADT Caps 
primarily generates revenue from physical security services through 
monthly payments and fees for value-added services paid by the 
subscribers. SK infosec generates revenue through information secu -
rity platform contracts as well as consulting services and solutions 
contracts that are paid by customers.
Sales in the commerce business sector are derived from our consol -
idated subsidiaries, 11th Street and SK stoa, with 11th Street gener -
ating profit through fees (including commissions) from 3rd parties 
for transactions that serve as sales agents for the online open mar -
ket platform “Minimall. ” SK stoa generates sales through third-party 
sales fees (including commissions) for transactions acting as a sales 
representative at SK stoa, a T-commerce network. Major sales in oth -
er business divisions come from the subsidiar y, SK Planet ’s marketing 
platform businesses, Dreamus Company ’s music streaming services 
and audio equipment manufacturing business, and the subsidiary of 
SK Communications ’ portal service, “ Nate. ”
The following selected consolidated financial information has been 
derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the audited 
consolidated financial statements included in this annual report.Our operating revenue increased by 5.2% from KRW 16.87 trillion 
in 2018 to KRW 17.744 trillion in 2019. This is due to the growth 
of new business sectors such as media and security. Our operating 
expenses increased by 6.1% from KRW 15.67 trillion in 2018 to 16.634 
trillion KRW in 2019. This is due to the increase in depreciation and 
labor costs also a result of reduced rental costs. As the increase in 
operating expenses outpaced the increase in operating expenses, 
operating profit in 2019 amounted to KRW 111 billion, a decrease of 
7.7%, while the EBITDA margin was 28.4%, an increase of 1.8%p and 
operating margin was 6.3%, a decrease of 0.8%p. Net profit for 2019 
recorded at KRW 862 billion due to equity investments by SK Hynix 
and related profit reductions. This was a 72.5% decrease from KRW 
3.13 trillion in 2018. Total assets increased by 5.3% to KRW 44.61 
trillion as of December 31, 2019, up from KRW 42.37 trillion as of 
December 31, 2018. These results are due to the increase in tangible 
assets associated with the 5G network, and the merger with Incross.
Total liabilities increased by 8.8% to KRW 21.79 trillion as of December 
31, 2019, compared to KRW 20.02 trillion as of December 31, 2018, 
primarily due to the issuance of bonds by SK Telecom, the recognition 
of lease liabilities in accordance with K-IFRS 1116R and the adoption of 
leases. Total equity was KRW 22.82 trillion as of December 31, 2019, 
a 2.1% year-on-year increase. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 
31, 2019 was 45.0%, compared to 43.2% at the end of 2018.
3. REVENUE 
Our operating revenue increased by 5.2% from KRW 16.87 trillion 
in 2018 to KRW 17.744 trillion in 2019. This increase was primarily 
attributable to the inclusion of sales from ADT Caps and SK infosec 
through the acquisition of ADT Caps in 2018 as a subsidiary, and the 
acquisition of SK infosec the following December. An increase in sales 
of wired telecommunication services and other business sectors also 
played a role. Subscribers & Market Share 
The total number of wireless subscribers in Korea was approximately 
67.9 million as of December 31, 2019 with a wireless telecommunica -
tions service penetration rate of 131.0%. Despite the saturated wire -
less market in Korea, SK Telecom continued to add new subscribers 
throughout the year, and ended the year 2019 with approximately 
31.5 million subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs that lease 
SK Telecom’s networks). SK Telecom’s wireless market share based 
on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) de -
creased by 0.8%p to 46.4% as of December 31, 2019 from 47.2% as of 
December 31, 2018. The number of 5G, which was launched in April, 
subscribers reached 2.1 million as of December 31. The number of SK 
Telecom’s LTE subscribers increased to 25.0 million as of December 
31, 2019, a slight increase from 24.8 million as of December 31, 2018.
Consolidated, KRW billion
2018 2019OPERATING REVENUE
17,744
16,874ARPU
SK Telecom’s average monthly revenue per subscriber excluding 
MVNO subscribers leasing SK Telecom’s networks (‘ARPU’) decreased 
by 3.6% to KRW 31,076 in 2019 from KRW 32,247 in 2018. (Note: This 
figure is in the 20-F format, which may be dif ferent f rom the Korea An -
nual Report figures of KRW 32,246 in 2018 and KRW 31,080 in 2019.)
SK Telecom’s average monthly revenue per subscriber including such 
MVNO subscribers (‘ARPU including MVNO’) decreased by 4.2% to 
KRW 27,414 in 2019 from KRW 28,615 in 2018. This is mainly because 
of the reduction of sales due to an increase in subscribers that chose 
to receive discounts in fees instead of receiving handset subsidies.Subs: in thousands, Market share: %
2019 1Q 2019 2Q 2019 3Q 2019 4QSUBSCRIBERS & MARKET SHARE
Subscriber Market Share31,019 31,268 31,535 31,00947.0 46.7 46.5 46.4159 158
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Subsidiaries
The consolidated revenue of SK Broadband, which is mostly generat -
ed from its fixed-line telecommunication services, increased by 0.6% 
to KRW 3.18 trillion in 2019 up from KRW 3.16 trillion in 2018, primarily 
as a result of an increase an increase in revenue from IPTV services 
attributable to growth in the number of IPTV subscribers as well as a 
rise in the number of premium IPTV subscriptions with higher monthly 
rates and purchase of premium video-on-demand content.
PS&Marketing’s revenue, which is mostly derived from sales of hand -
sets, increased by 5.7% to KRW 1.68 trillion in 2019, up from KRW 1.59 
trillion in 2018. A major factor behind this growth was the launching 
of 5G services in April of 2019 and the increase in sales of high-priced 
5G smartphones.
ADT Caps’s revenue increased by 355% to KRW 910 billion in 2019 
from KRW 200 billion in 2018. Revenue for 2018 included only revenue 
generated since October 2018.
STATEMENT OF INCOMEConsolidated, KRW billion
Operating revenue
Operating expense
Labor cost(1)
Commissions paid(2)
Depreciation and amortization(3)
Network interconnection
Leased line
Advertising
Rent
Cost of goods sold
Other operating expenses
Operating profit
Finance income
Finance costs
Gain(losses) related to investments in subsidiaries and associates, net
Other non-operating income
Other non-operating expenses
Profit before income tax
Income tax expense
Profit for the year
EBITDA(4)2019     
17,744
16,634
2,823
5,002
3,771
752
273
435
232
1,833
1,513
1,110
142
-430
450
103
-212
1,163
301
862
5,045 2018    
16,874
15,672
2,289
5,003
3,126
808
310
469
529
1,796
1,343
1,202
256
-385
3,271
71
-439
3,976
844
3,132
4,486% of Revenue     
100.0%
93.7%
15.9%
28.2%
21.3%
4.2%
1.5%
2.5%
1.3%
10.3%
8.5%
6.3%
0.8%
-2.4%
2.5%
0.6%
-1.2%
6.6%
1.7%
4.9%
28.4%% of Revenue     
100.0%
92.9%
13.6%
29.6%
18.5%
4.8%
1.8%
2.8%
3.1%
10.6%
8.0%
7.1%
1.5%
-2.3%
19.4%
0.4%
-2.6%
23.6%
5.0%
18.6%
26.6%
(1) Labor cost = Salaries + Provisions for defined benefit liabilities
(2) Includes marketing commissions and other commissions
(3) Excludes R&D-related depreciation
(4) EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expenseNon-consolidated, APRU: in KRW
2018 Overall 2019 Overall 2019 1Q 2019 2Q 2019 3Q 2019 4QARPU IN 2019
32,247
31,07630,645 30,75531,16631,738 
4. PROFITABILITYOperating Expense
Our operating expense for 2019 amounted to KRW 16.63 trillion, representing a 6.1 % decrease from KRW 15.67 trillion in 2018. The increase 
results from a 20.6% increase in depreciation, a 23.3% increase in labor costs, which was partially offset by a 56.1% decrease in rental costs.
2,823
5,002
3,771
752
808
273
435
469
232
529
1,833
1,796
1,513
1,3433103,1262,289
5,003OPERATING EXPENSE
2018 Total: 15,672 2019 Total: 16,634Labor Cost
Network 
Interconnection
RentCommissions Paid
Leased Line
Cost of Goods SoldDepreciation and 
Amortization
Advertising
Other Operating 
ExpensesKRW billion
The increase in depreciation resulted from the recognition of depre -
ciation related to license assets following the adoption of the K-IFRS 
1116 and start of repayment of frequency usage rights for 5G services. 
Rise in employee salaries is due to the increase in the number of 
employees after new business expansions including ADT Caps in Oc -
tober 2018, acquisition of SK infosec in December 2018 and platform 
services such as AI solution. The main reason for the reduction in 
rental costs is that K-IFRS 1116 has been adopted, while the payment 
for a portion of the rented property rented in 2019 was counted as 
depreciation of licensed assets rather than rental costs.  Operating Profit and EBITDA
Our operating profit decreased by 7.7% to KRW 1.11 trillion in 2019 as 
the increase in our operating expenses outpaced the increase in our 
operating revenue in 2019. Our EBITDA margin growth by 1.8%p to 
28.4% in 2019, while operating margin decreased by 0.8%p to 6.3% 
in 2019.161 160
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Our finance income decreased by 44.5% to KRW 142 billion in 2019 
from KRW 256 billion in 2018, primarily as a result of a significant 
decrease of KRW 5 billion in financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss form KRW 84 billion in 2018, primarily related to our 
disposal of 200,000 redeemable convertible preference shares of 
KRAFTON Co., Ltd. in 2018, and a decrease in dividends from KRW 
35 billion in 2018 to KRW 10 billion in 2019. This decrease is due to 
SK Planet ’s disposition of specific real estate fund investments and 
the reduction of dividend payments associated with the full sale of 
KB Financial Holdings in 2018. Such a decline has been offset in part 
due to fluctuations in the exchange rate as derivatives payments 
increased from KRW 20 billion in 2018 to KRW 29 billion in 2019. Profit 
related to joint ventures with related companies decreased 86.2% 
from KRW 3.271 trillion in 2018 to KRW 450 billion in 2019, which 
can be attributed to the decrease in profit of SK Hynix, in which SK 
Telecom has 20.1% of interest share.
Other non-operating income increased by 45.1% from KRW 71 billion 
in 2018 to KRW 103 billion in 2019, on the back of an increase in 
income from the transition of our mobile OTT service “oksusu ” to 
“wavve ” in September 2019, and the growth in income through the 
transfer of our e-Sports business following the establishment of SK 
Telecom CS T1, which was established in February 2019 as a joint 
venture with Comcast Spectacor.
Our non-operating expenses decreased by 51.7% to KRW 212 billion 
in 2019 from KRW 439 billion in 2018, which mainly reflected impair -
ment losses we recognized on the goodwill and intangible assets of 
Shopkick.
Income Tax
Income tax expense decreased by 64.3% to KRW 301 billion in 2019 
from KRW 844 billion in 2018 primarily due to a 70.7% decrease in 
profit before income tax. Our effective tax rate in 2019 increased by 
4.7%p to 25.9% from 21.2% in 2018.
Profit for the Year
Principally as a result of the factors discussed above, our profit for 
the year decreased by 72.5% to KRW 0.86 trillion from KRW 3.13 
trillion in 2018. Net margin was 4.9% in 2019 compared to 18.6% in 
2018.5. FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Current Assets
We had current assets of KRW 8.10 trillion as of December 31, 2019, 
a 1.8% year-on-year increase from KRW 7.96 trillion as of December 
31, 2018. Our cash and marketable securities (including short-term 
financial instruments) decreased by 18.8% to KRW 2.10 trillion as of 
December 31, 2019 from KRW 2.59 trillion as of December 31, 2018, 
primarily due to a decrease in cash and marketable securities. Our 
accounts receivable (trade and other) increased by 6.4% to KRW 3.14 
trillion as of December 31, 2019, up from KRW 2.95 trillion as of 
December 31, 2018.
Non-current Assets
As of December 31, 2019, our non-current assets increased by 6.1% 
from KRW 34.41 trillion as of December 31, 2018, to KRW 36.509 
trillion due to the increase in tangible assets. Our tangible assets 
increased by 15.1% to KRW 12.33 trillion as of December 31, 2019 from 
KRW 10.72 trillion as of December 31, 2018. This is attributable to the 
increase in tangible assets associated with 5G networks.
2,102
3,136
66
163
288
2,635
2,076592,590
2,946CURRENT ASSETS
2018 Total: 7,959 2019 Total: 8,102Cash & 
Marketable 
Securities
InventoriesAccounts 
Receivable 
(trade and other)
Other Current 
AssetsShort-term 
LoansKRW billion12,334
7,816
14,244
2,115
1,76213,47810,718
8,452NON-CURRENT ASSETS
2018 Total: 34,410 2019 Total: 36,509Property and 
Equipment 
Other Non-Cur -
rent AssetsIntangible 
Assets
Investment 
AssetsKRW billion
Liabilities
We had KRW 21.79 trillion of total liabilities as of December 31, 
2019, a 8.8% increase from KRW 20.02 trillion of total liabilities as 
of December 31, 2018. This increase is mainly due to the recognition 
of lease liabilities and increase in debentures and payables following 
the adoption of K-IFRS 1116. Our total interest-bearing financial debt 
increased by 10.7% to KRW 10.69 trillion as of December 31, 2019 
from KRW 9.65 trillion as of December 31, 2018. Our debt-to-equity 
ratio as of December 31, 2019 was 45.0%, compared to 43.2% as of 
December 31, 2018.
21
1,017
7,254
1,972
2,0156,57280
984INTEREST-BEARING FINANCIAL DEBT
2018 Total: 9,652 2019 Total: 10,264Short-term 
Borrowings
Long-term 
Borrowings 
(excluding cur -
rent portion)Current Portion 
of Long-term 
Debt
Debentures 
(excluding cur -
rent portion)KRW billion6. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (SEPARATE BASIS)
SK Telecom spent approxima tely KRW 2.91 trillion on capital expendi -
tures in 2019 compared to KRW 2.13 trillion for capital expenditures 
in 2018, each on a separate basis. Of the total amount spent in 2019, 
we spent approximately KRW 2.51 trillion KRW, or 86.3% on establish -
ing and enhancing wireless networks (including new 5G networks) 
while we invested KRW 401 billion on other networks including de -
velopment of new products and information technology systems and 
equipment upgrades.Equity
Our total equity as of December 31, 2019 amounted to KRW 22.82 
trillion, which increased by 2.1% from December 31, 2018, primarily 
due to an increase in capital surplus and other capital adjustments.
45
1,006
22,235
-330
-373
-133
-12222,14545
655EQUITY
2018 Total: 22,349 2019 Total: 22,824Share Capital
ReservesCapital Surplus 
(Deficit) and other 
Capital Adjustments
Non-controlling 
interestsRetained 
EarningsKRW billion163 162
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.:
OPINION
We have audited the accompany ing consolidated financial statements of SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries (the “Group”) which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of De -
cember 31, 2019 and 2018, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, chang -
es in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes to the financial statements, comprising 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. In our opinion, the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial po -
sition of the Group as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and its consolidated financial performance and 
its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial
Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”).
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audits in accorda nce with Korean Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidat -
ed Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with 
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in the 
Republic of Korea, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters.
1. Accuracy of Revenue
As described in notes 4 of the consolidated financial statements, the Group has initially adopted K-IFRS 
No.1115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“K-IFRS No. 1115”). The Group’s revenue recognition 
is based on data from complex information technology systems as the Group provides a variety of 
telecommunications services at various rate plans to numerous subscribers which involve high volume 
of transactions with subscribers. We have identified the accuracy of revenue recognition in the Group’s 
cellular and fixed-line telecommunications segments as a key audit matter due to the complexity of IT 
systems involved and management judgments involved in the application of the new revenue recog-
nition standard.The primary procedures we performed to address this key audit matter included:
•  Testing certain internal controls relating to the Group’s revenue recognition process, including eval -
uation of the environment of the IT systems supporting the accounting for revenue, including data 
records, rating and invoicing systems.
•  Testing the reconciliation of the Group’s revenue among rating system, billing system and the general 
ledger.
•  Inspecting a sample of contracts with subscribers to assess the Group’s revenue recognition policies 
upon initial adoption of K-IFRS No. 1115 based on the terms and conditions as set out in the con -
tracts, with reference to the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
2. Assessment of goodwill impairment for cash generating unites of security services
As described in note 4 of the consolidated financial statements, the Group performs impairment test 
for goodwill at least annually by comparing the recoverable amount and the carrying amount of a cash 
generating unit (“CGU”) to which goodwill is allocated. The cash generating units for security services 
within the business sectors of consolidated companies is composed of Life & Security Holdings that 
offer physical security services and SK infosec that offers information security services. As of Decem -
ber 31st, 2019, goodwill allocated to physical security services recognized by the consolidated com -
pany amounts to 1,173,382 million KRW and there is no goodwill that is allocated to the information 
security services. In carrying out the impairment assessment of goodwill, management determined the 
recoverable amount based on the value-in-use (“VIU”). Determining the VIU of the above CGUs involves 
significant judgments in estimating the expected future cash flows including the estimates of revenue, 
operating expense, perpetual growth rate, and discount rate for each CGU. Considering the potential 
impact of changes in these major assumptions on the consolidated company ’s impairment assessment 
of goodwill, we identified Assessment of goodwill impairment for cash generating unites of security 
services as a key audit matter.
The primary procedures we performed to address this key audit matter included:
•  Engaging our internal valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the key assumptions used to 
determine the VIU for each CGU which included sales growth rate, labor cost and perpetual growth 
rate by comparison with historical performance and industry reports and in assessing the appropri -
ateness of discount rate used by comparison with our expectation based on market data.
•  Performing sensitivity analysis for both the discount rates and perpetual growth rates applied the 
discounted cash flow forecasts to assess the impact of changes in these key assumptions on the 
conclusion reached in management’s impairment assessment.
•  Predicted cash flows were compared to the approved business plans by the management to assess 
its rationality and comparing the cash flow forecasts prepared in prior year with the actual results to 
assess the Group’s ability to accurately forecast.INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT165 164
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH 
GOVERNANCE FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Management is responsible for t he preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with K-IFRS, and for such internal control as management determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, man -
agement is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alterna -
tive but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial 
reporting process.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF 
THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonabl e assurance about whether the consolidated financial state -
ments as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judg-
ment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•  Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and 
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control.
•  Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
•  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by management.
•  Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ 
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease 
to continue as a going concern.•  Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, in -
cluding the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or 
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain 
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned 
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the 
year ended December 31, 2019 and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in 
our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in 
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is In Hye Kang
This report is effective as of February 28, 2019, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the 
audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and 
notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the im -
pact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any.
March 10, 2020KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp.
Seoul, Korea167 166
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT
The total number of employees includes permanent and temporary (contract-based) employees who 
have a direct employment contract with SK Telecom, but exclude employees and executives of SK 
Telecom’s affiliated companies and subsidiaries. Due to our efforts to secure professional talents to 
obtain new ICT ’s growth engines and reinforcing competencies, the total number of employees as of 
the end of 2019 was 5,336, a year-on-year increase of 6.57%. By age, the ratio of employees over 
30 years and under 50 was the highest, while the ratio of permanent employees was 95.4%, a slight 
decrease compared to the previous year but was decreased. The total number of overseas personnel 
including expatriate employees and local employees stood at 56. Compared to the total number of 
employees, the percentage of those overseas was low.RECRUITMENT AND TURNOVER
We are continuing t o hire new employees to streng then ICT competencies and secure human resources.
SK Telecom will continue to recruit new employees to secure human resources and internalize ICT capa -
bilities. The number of new employees by age and gender as well as the number of turnover employees 
is calculated based on the number of permanent and temporary workers (contract-based) who have 
a direct employment contract with SK Telecom. The number does not include employees and officers 
of affiliated companies and subsidiaries of SK Telecom. The ratio of SK Telecom’s recruitment of tech -
nology-related talents to total new recruitment rose more than 11% on a YoY basis. (54% in 2018, 63% 
in 2019) The increase was ascribed to expanded recruiting of technological human resources for the 
development of core infrastructure in the 5G era including artificial intelligence (AI), data and AR/VR. 
The total turnover rate stood at 2.8% in 2019, down 0.9%p from the previous year, showing a steady 
drop. This stemmed from the fact that the turnover rate, which showed a temporary increase due to the 
transfer of business to subsidiaries/companies invested in by SK Telecom, decreased as business hit 
its stride. SK Telecom does not discriminate between executives and employees regarding recruitment, 
evaluation, compensation, and education and contributes to expanding and maintaining employment 
by implementing various welfare systems such as flexible working hours, support for childbirth and 
childcare, sabbatical leaves (Refresh) for long-service employees and as well as employee dormitories.NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
1) Criteria for exclusion of unregistered executivesTOTAL NUMBER OF PERSONS EMPLOYED
2017 2018 2019
Total Number of Employees1)persons 4,516 5,007 5,336
Employment TypePermanent persons 4,403 4,841 5,090
Temporary persons 113 166 246
GenderMale persons 3,872 4,170 4,338
Female persons 644 837 998
AgeOver 30 persons 378 430 505
Over 30 - Under 50 persons 3,709 3,944 3,990
Over 50 persons 429 633 841
Overseas 
employmentExpatriate Employees persons 15 15 19
Local Employees persons 34 29 37
Total Number of Overseas Employees persons 49 44 56
Total Number of Overseas Managers persons 11 19 22
Total number of Local Managers persons 4 12 8
Percentage of Local Managers % 36.4 63 36.4NEW EMPLOYEES AND TURNOVER
2017 2018 2019
New 
employeesTotal Number of New Employees persons 466 595 440
GenderMale persons 349 416 328
Female persons 117 179 112
AgeOver 30 persons 181 124 106
Over 30 - Under 50 persons 268 465 324
Over 50 persons 17 6 10
TurnoverTotal Number of Turnover Employees persons 284 183 144
GenderMale persons 202 164 119
Female persons 82 19 25
AgeOver 30 persons 120 16 7
Over 30 - Under 50 persons 148 144 123
Over 50 persons 16 23 14SOCIAL DATA169 168
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
DIVERSITY EMPLOYEE HAPPINESS AND WELL-BEING PROGRAMS
2017 2018 2019
Female TalentFemale share of total workers % 14.3 16.9 18.7
Females in mangement positions % 11.1 6.9 7.4
Special
Employment 
and MinoritiesEmployees with Disabilities persons 58 59 64
- Happy Hanool1)persons - - 48
Veterans persons 124 134 161Type Key Program and Guidelines
Creating a Healthy 
Work Environment•  Building automated temperature and humidity control system and measuring them twice per day. Operation of air-conditioning and exhaust 
fan and management of internal dust/CO2 through batch ventilation before the start of working hours. Management of light intensity and 
sound levels
• Plan to expand ergonomic work environment by introducing height adjustable desks, ergonomic chairs and open standing conference rooms
Building and 
operating I’M HERE•  Building I’M HERE that allows communication among the CEO and all employees, using it as “A space for natural communication and 
interaction.” 
Fitness•  Operation of in-house physical training center, Actium and provision of 1:1 customized exercise guidance and online-to offline (O2O) 
solution that combines offline posture measurement and online coaching through the Health-On program
Nutrition• Supporting balanced eating habits by operating in-house cafeteria (T-Patio)
• As part of the Health-On program, medical professionals are invited to host a concert-type event on health, diseases and nutrition.
• Identifying and managing members’ health issues through Health-On Index check-ups
Stress Management•  Operation of employee counseling service program ‘My Counselor’ (Providing counseling on stress reduction and dealing with difficulties in 
the workplace, health, personal matters and etc.)
•  Development and launching of the new “Mindfulness” program to prevent burn-outs and facilitate healing, supporting the pursuit of happi-
ness and development of resilient competencies based on Self-Management
 - Starting in 2020, the Mindfulness app will be linked to NUGU and shared with customers and society 
Flexible Work Hours• Operation of flexible work hour system to allow employees to Manage their work hours flexibly
•  Implementation of DYWT program (Based on flexible 80-hour-in-two week work shift system, introduce 160-hour-in four week shift to 
choose and indulge in work)
Telecommuting• System for telecommuting during pregnancy (following the 29th week of pregnancy, based on consultation and registration)
• Regularized “Digital work”(telecommuniting) starting in 2020
Childcare and 
Children’s Education•  Execution of wide range of childcare support programs including operation of in-house daycare centers, support for children’s educational 
expenses (preschool, elementary/middle/high school and university) and support for camps for employees’ children.
Maternity/Parental 
Leave• Reduced work hours during pregnancy: 6-hour workday throughout pregnancy period
•  Maternity leave: The company offers 90 days of leave following birth of a child, 120 days after the birth of twins and 5 days of paid leave 
when an employee’s spouse gives birth.
•  Parental Leave: The company offers 1 year of paid leaves for employees with a child 8 years old or younger. If a female employee uses 
maternity and parental leave consecutively, she can register to use one additional year of parental leave (up to 2 years)
•  Automatic transfer for parental leave: When a maternity leave is about to expire, an employee can automatically begin to use a parental 
leave consecutively without registering separately.
•  Care leave for children who entered elementary school: 90-day leave once a year for employees with children who entered elementary school
• Made working from home possible for parents that have given birth or parents of infants since 2020
Employee-led 
happiness 
experiences•  Happier Project for enhancement and suggestion programs from the perspective of happiness, based on the participation and suggestions 
of employees 
  - Implemented around 30 new tasks including, “Happy Share Car” that lets employees rent company cars that are normally used for 
business operation for personal purposes in the evenings and on off-days, establishment of a salad corners in lunch, and simplification of 
registration processes for medical and academic expenses etc. MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE AND PARENTAL LEAVE
2017 2018 2019
Number of Employees on Maternity Leave persons 142 177 156
Maternity Leave Users - Female persons 22 27 31
Paternity Leave Users - Male persons 120 150 125
Rate of Return after Childbirth % 100 100 98.7
Number of Employees on Parental Leave persons 35 39 88
Parental Leave Users - Female persons 27 27 55
Parental Leave Users - Male persons 8 12 33
Rate of Return after Taking Leave % 97.6 97.4 98.9
Rate of Retirement within 12 months after Return % 7.1 2.6 0.7
LABOR PRACTICES
SK Telecom actively protects the freedom of association of workers under ILO Conventions 87, 98 
and domestic labor laws. Employees of SK Telecom voluntarily form labor unions by the freedom of 
association, and joined the labor unions according to their choice of freedom. As of the end of 2019, 
the rate of participation in labor unions was 88.8%, maintaining high participation rate. SK Telecom is 
striving to establish set up a win-win labor-management culture and improve working conditions for 
employees under the framework of creating a healthy relationship between labor union and manage -
ment. SK Telecom and the labor union agreed to raise wages 2% in 2019 based on the spirit of mutual 
respect and cooperation.
LIST OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2019
Program Organization
KJ Choi Scholarship Dream Tree Support Project KJ Choi Foundation
Support program for education in arts for children from marginalized groups Korea Mecenat Association
Program to improve social awareness on generational poverty Another culture
Operation of the “Library that Reads Happiness” platform Korea Blind Union
2019 Coding Challenge for youths with disabilities Korea Differently Abled Federation1)  Happy Hanool: service company that provides business support car wash, bath, massage, and physical care.
LABOR UNION MEMBERSHIP
2017 2018 20191)
Number of Employees Eligible for Labor Union Membership persons 2,523 2,791 2,940
Labor Union Members persons 2,238 2,513 2,612
Labor Union Membership Rate % 88.7 90.0 88.8
1) The collective agreement covers 99.9%.171 170
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
2017 2018 2019
Total Emissions tCO 2e 875,401 934,664 1,005,576
Intensity tCO 2e/KRW billion 70.21 79.78 88.1
Direct Emission tCO 2e 6,840 7,603 6,604
 Stationary Combustion tCO 2e 5,211 5,555 4,606
 Mobile Combustion tCO 2e 1,629 2,048 1,998
Indirect Emission tCO 2e 868,581 920,078 998,989
 Electricity tCO 2e 868,495 926,977 998,899
 Steam tCO 2e 86 101 90GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
2017 2018 2019
Volume of Water Consumption ㎥ 713,744 707,296 719,552
 Waterworks Usage ㎥ 656,668 655,204  668,513
 Groundwater Usage ㎥ 57,076 52,092  51,039
Intensity ㎥/KRW billion 57.25 60.37 63.03WATER CONSUMPTION
2017 2018 2019
Total Waste ton 1,562 1,736 1,705
 Domestic Waste ton 486 575 532 
 Large-sized Waste ton 104 136 177 
 Food Waste ton 339 396 441 
 Designated Waste ton 11 22 21 
 Recyclable Waste ton 622 607 535 
 Waste Discharge Intensity ton/KRW billion 0.125 0.148 0.149 
Recycling Rate % 40 35 30 WASTE AND RECYCLING STATUS
2017 2018 2019
Annual Cost of Purchasing GHG Emissions Credits KRW million 1,833 0 0PURCHASE OF GHG EMISSIONS CREDITS
2017 2018 2019
Green procurement costs KRW million 36,706 3,377 0GREEN PROCUREMENT COSTS2017 2018 2019
Total Environmental Costs1) KRW million 702 1,717  4,013
Energy Saving and Climate Change Response 
CostKRW million 195 236  3,365
 Waste Disposal Service KRW million 92 131 136 
 Waste Renewable service KRW million 30 32 29 
 Education/Training Cost KRW million 34 34  34
 Charges & Taxes KRW million 351 404 449
 Miscellaneous KRW million 0 880 0TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS
1) Excluding green procurement, GHG emission credits2017 2018 2019
Total Energy Consumption TJ 17,983 19,204 20,664
Energy Intensity TJ/KRW billion 1.4 1.64 1.8
Direct Consumption TJ 118.7 131.2  112.7
 Natural Gas TJ 71.1 76.4  60.5
 Diesel TJ 7.7 11.5  11.0
 Kerosene TJ 18.3 18.5  16.7
 Jet fuel TJ 1.6 1.9  1.5
 Gasoline TJ 19.7 22.5  21.6
 LPG TJ 0.3 0.4  1.4
Indirect Consumption TJ 17,864.3 19,072.8  20,569.6
 Electricity TJ 17,862.0 19,070  20,567.0
 Steam TJ 2.3 2.8  2.6
Total Power Consumption Reduction MWh 45,139 45,309 46,469 
 Reduction from Building Management MWh 2,553 2,723 3,883 
  Reduction from Natural Air-Conditioning 
SystemMWh 39,857 39,857 39,587 
  Electricity generated from renewable  
energy facilities at the office MWh 0 1 28
  Electricity generated from renewable  
energy facilities in remote areasMWh 2,729 2,729 2,729 
Total Consumption of Renewable Energy MWh 2,729 2,730 2,757
1)    The energy consumption standard is based on the methodology guidance from “verification principles and tasks outlined in the guidelines on 
the operation of GHG ETS”
※  There may be differences in the total amount of GHG emissions and energy consumption above and the calculated amount by direct and 
indirect energy resource following the government’s total that excludes business units.
※ Actual generated amount from renewable energy facilities at some offices
※ Amount of renewable energy designed to generate by equipment installed in remote areasENERGY CONSUMPTION1)ENVIRONMENTAL DATA173 172
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
major interests and opinions of the stakeholders. In addition, by conducting a stakeholder survey 
each year, the company analyzes stakeholders’ opinions on core issues and reflects them into the 
Report. The Verifier checked that all major stakeholder groups were included in the process. 
· Materiality
  By drawing an issue pool through the process of external environment analyses (benchmarking 
reported issues of companies in the same industry, media analysis, international standard analysis, 
stakeholder surveys) and internal environment analyses (employee surveys, review of internal doc -
uments,) the company prioritized 25 issues based on stakeholder impact and business relevance to 
finally draw 11 core issues. SK Telecom then categorized the core issues by stakeholder interests. The 
Verifier checked that SK Telecom identified the core issues through the material assessment process 
and did not find any evidence that significant issues were excluded from the process. 
·  Responsiveness
  SK Telecom implements items that affect stakeholders, carries out relevant activities, and reports on 
their performances. From the pool of 25 issues, the company discloses sufficient information on the 
11 issues that were identified as core issues, and also responds to the remaining issues. The Verifier 
did not find any evidence that material items were excluded from the Report or were reported inap -
propriately. 
·  Impact 
  SK Telecom established the Double Bottom Line based on both economic and social value and uti -
lizes it as a method to measure social value and builds a management system. By analyzing social 
and environmental gains and losses from its business activities, the company reports them in a 
quantifiable way. The Verifier checked that SK Telecom is considering ways material issues directly 
and indirectly affect the stakeholders and is monitoring, assessing and reporting them. 
Recommendations
The Verifier presents the following recommendations with the hope that SK Telecom continues to con -
tribute to the sustainability of the stakeholders by maximizing social value. 
·  With the substantial experiment of transitioning the company’s management paradigm to the Double 
Bottom Line which pursues both economic and social value, we recommend that SK Telecom develops 
and enhances measurement methodologies for social value in even wider sectors based on stake -
holder participation. In particular, we look forward to the company broadening the horizon for social 
value creation through the establishment of systematic climate risk responses based on the TCFD 
(Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) Framework.
June 22nd, 2020 Korea Sustainability Investing Forum
Chief Director, Young-Ho Kim
INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT
To SK Telecom’s management and stakeholders, 
Korea Sustainability Investing Forum (hereinafter “the Verifier”) has been requested by SK Telecom to 
conduct a 3rd party verification for the company’s sustainability report, “SK Telecom Annual Report 
2019” (hereinafter “the Report”) and is publishing a statement of verification as stipulated below. 
Independence and Responsibility
Other than the task of providing the 3rd party verification, the Verifier does not have any interest with 
SK Telecom that may affect the independence and fairness of the verification. This verification report 
has been published for SK Telecom’s management and stakeholders; however, the Verifier does not 
have liability or joint responsibility for any decisions made by an individual or an organization based 
on the verification report, including the consequences. 
Verification Standards
The Verifier applied the following standards for verification:
· Type 1, Moderate Level of assurance
·  Assessment of the application of the 4 principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness, and 
Impact as recommended by AA1000AP (2018)
· Compliance with the Comprehensive option of the GRI Standard Guidelines
Process of Verification and Limitations  
After conducting a primary document review with publicly disclosed data and the requested reference 
documents, the Verifier conducted an on-site verification for the headquarters of SK Telecom. Various 
data regarding economic, social and environmental issues, as well as various claims made through 
the Report were verified for their consistency through a sampling process. During the on-site visit, we 
conducted interviews with the person in charge of the Report. For a portion of the reported informa -
tion, we secured its reliability by interviewing the personnel responsible for calculating and managing 
the information. As for the financial information included in the Report, we assessed whether the 
information was appropriately derived from the financial indicators according to the electronic disclo -
sure system (http://dart.fss.or.kr/) from the Financial Supervisory Service, while information regarding 
greenhouse gas was checked for consistency with the assurance report from an assurance organization. 
From the reporting boundaries, we excluded external technology and data information, such as business 
partners etc. If additional verification is conducted hereafter, the results may change.  
Results of the Verification and Opinions
The Verifier did not find any evidence that the Report had not been drafted in accordance with the 
Comprehensive option of the GRI Standard Guidelines as well as significant errors regarding the dis -
closed information. 
The Verifier’s opinions on the principles of AA1000AP (2018) are as follows:
· Inclusivity 
  SK Telecom has a stakeholder process that includes stakeholder mapping, identification, prioritiza -
tion, engagement, communication, feedback and report and review. SK Telecom defines its stake -
holders as employees, shareholders, customers, business partners, the government, NGOs, and the 
local community and establishes constant, regular and impromptu communication channels to collect 175 174
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION 
※Total emissions may differ from the sum of 
direct and indirect emissions by applying 
the rule that emissions should be summed 
after truncating decimal places at the 
business site level.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
ASSURANCE REPORT
This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance May 7, 2020. Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any 
material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of SK Telecom is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of 
ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between the English and Korean version, the Korean version shall be given precedence.May 2020
Seoul, KoreaJang-Sub Lee   Country Manager
DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd
Introduction
DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”) was commissioned by SK Telecom Co., Ltd. (“SK 
Telecom”) to verify the SK Telecom’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2019 (“the 
report”) based upon a reasonable level of assurance. SK Telecom is responsible for the preparation of 
the GHG emissions and Energy consumption data on the basis set out within the guidelines on the op -
eration of GHG emission trading scheme (“ETS”) (Notification No. 2018-73 of Ministry of Environment)’. 
Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of SK Telecom only and in accordance 
with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for 
any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement.
Scope of Assurance
The GHG emissions and energy consumption data covered by our examination comprise direct emis -
sions (Scope 1 emissions) and energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions) from SK Telecom bound -
ary of the report;
• GHG emissions under verification: GHG emissions from 2019
• Organizational boundary for reporting: SK Telecom Co., Ltd. (in Korea)
Verification Approach   
The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from March to April 2020 and performed in accordance 
with the verification principles and tasks outlined in the guidelines on the operation of GHG ETS (No -
tification No.2018-73, Korean Ministry of Environment) and the verification guideline for GHG ETS (No -
tification No. 2018-70, Korean Ministry of Environment). We planned and performed our work to obtain 
all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to offer 
a reasonable verification opinion concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the 
reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process; 
• We have reviewed the GHG emissions and energy consumption report for the calendar year 2019
•  We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions and 
energy data
Conclusions   
As a result of the work described above, in our opinion nothing has come to our attention that would 
cause us to believe that the GHG emissions and energy consumption set out in SK Telecom’s report 
are not fairly stated. The GHG emissions and energy consumption of SK Telecom for the year 2019 were 
confirmed as below;
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS OF SK TELECOM CO., LTD. FOR YR 2019
SK Telecom Direct emissions (Scope 1) Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2) Total emissions
Domestic (in Korea) 6,604 998,989 1,005,576ton CO 2e177 176
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
3) Human Rights in Access to Information & Freedom of Expression
• Obligation to ensure equality of access to services regardless of class/disabilities
• Efforts to bridge the digital/smart divide: education, rate plans, and systems
• Responsibility for distributed information to protect minors, including children and adolescents
• Fundamental support for freedom of expression
4) Human Rights in Technology
• Refusal to use technologies, electronic devices and data for dual purposes
• Prevention of misuse of technologies, such as wiretapping, signal interference, or hacking
SK T elecom always keeps the channels of stakeholder communication open to prevent any human 
rights violations. If you have witnessed or experienced incidents of such violations, please inform 
the company through the appropriate channel. (www.sktelecom.com/humanrights) SK Telecom is 
committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities and pursuing the happiness of stakeholders as we 
pledge to take the lead in advocating and complying with the Human Rights principles.CEO HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT
Under the SKMS principle, “For the company’s continuous development, the company creates value 
for customers, employees, and shareholders, fulfills a key role in social and economic development, 
and makes contributions to the happiness of mankind,” SK Telecom aims to accomplish its business 
goals while fulfilling its social responsibilities and codes of conduct. The company’s social responsi -
bilities defines its human rights duties towards customers, employees, suppliers, partners and the 
community.
SK Telecom, as a company that practices a high level of awareness of global citizenship, respects the 
basic rights of all stakeholders that it encounters through products, services, contracts, purchases, 
and other business activities.
SK Telecom declares its support for the human rights principles stated in the UN Universal Declara -
tion Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie Framework 
and pledges to fulfill its human rights responsibilities. SK Telecom will make every effort to prevent 
human rights abuses in the course of business and also to avoid abetting or complicity in such 
abuses. Furthermore, the company will form a transparent business structure to take measures and 
provide communication regarding responsible organization, operating structure, monitoring process, 
and incidents under UNGC Human Rights / Labor Principles. SK Telecom will exercise due diligence to 
assure compliance with the policy within the whole supply chain as well as within SK Telecom and its 
subsidiaries.
Specifically, SK Telecom, as an ICT provider, is aware of potential human rights risks in the following 
aspects and will do its utmost to prevent any problems that may occur:
1) Human Rights in Workplace
• Fundamental prevention of wrong labor practices, such as child and forced labor
• Prevention of discrimination by gender, ethnicity, religion, disability and race
• Political, religious, and physical freedom, and respect for civil rights
•  Other labor principles recommended by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and endorsed 
by the government: safety/health, working hours, etc.
2) Human Rights in Privacy Policy
• Demanding minimum personal information, recording and saving to comply with laws
•  Notification and fiduciary duty prior to saving information, and ability to freely delete information
• Optimal security system for preventing leaks, including data encryption
• Limited and responsible use of personal information for service/marketing purposesJune 2019Jung Ho Park
President and CEO, SK Telecom
179 178
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
The purpose of Non-financial Management Discussion & Analysis (MD&A) to present management’s analy -
sis opinion on the key management performances from non-financial aspects such as human capital, social 
capital, and environmental capital for the reporting period from January 1 2019 to December 31, 2019. The 
following international reporting standards and principles apply to the non-financial MD&A:
1   International Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework  - The International Integrated Reporting  
Council <IR> framework requires concise reporting on the organization’s strategy, governance, and how 
the performance and future prospects are connected to the short-, mid-, and long-term value creation 
of an organization under the economic, social and environmental contexts. Please refer to pp.42-43 
for the Business Model required to implement the Integrated Reporting Principles of the International 
Integrated Reporting Council and pp.46-47 for materiality assessment to determine important topics 
depending on the impact on value creation.
2   Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards  - The GRI provides information on 
the topics and disclosures of reporting from economic, social and environmental perspectives so that 
stakeholders can discern the organization’s performance. It defines the subject according to the cor -
relation of each topics from the impact on stakeholders and from economic, social and environmental 
perspectives. Please refer to pp.46-47 for the results of the Materiality Assessment conducted in accor -
dance with the GRI requirements.
3   Accountability AA1000  - The AA1000 series identifies and prioritizes sustainability issues in relation to 
the organization and defines its framework and principles. The information in this report is verified by 
third party according to the Assurance Standard (AA1000AS). Please refer to pp.172-173 for the result 
of the third-party assurance performed by an independent institute.
REFERENCES
1   UNGC COP (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress)  - A guideline for reporting the compliance 
status to the Ten Principles of the UNGC by its members
2   ISO26000  - An international social responsibility standard of the responsible management system pre -
sented in November 2010 by the ISO (International Standard Institution).
3   CDSB Reporting Framework - Standard for carbon disclosure put forth by the Climate Disclosure Stan -
dard Board (CDSB) in September 2010
4   Sustainability Accounting Standard Board(SASB)  - Telecommunication Standards Core issues and key 
performance indicators in the telecommunications industry released in April 2014 by the U.S. SASB
5   Take Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures(TCFD)  - Designated group for financial information 
disclosure related to climate change
SCOPE OF DATA
The non-financial information presented in this non-financial MD&A is limited to the data of SK Telecom, 
which does not include subsidiaries and supply chains unless otherwise specified. Over 99% of SK Tele -
com’s revenues are generated in Korea, and thus the data coverage included meets 99% or more of the 
revenue. This coincides with the scope of separate revenues of SK Telecom, which is the controlling com -
pany under K-IFRS. Environmental data such as energy, greenhouse gases, waste, and drinking water and  
social data such as total employment, capacity development, and social contribution are calculated based 
on 37 domestic business sites* of SK Telecom (including network systems to operate networks and base 
stations etc.)REPORTING STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES
I. SCOPE
SK Telecom’s Supplier ESG Code of Conduct covers all suppliers that 
have transactions with the company. It also requires suppliers to comply 
with SK Telecom’s Business Principles and Practices in their transactions 
with sub-suppliers of SK Telecom.
II. POLICY
The phrase “Supplier” in this Supplier Policy shall, where relevant, 
also include all employees, contractors, subcontractors and agents of 
the Supplier. As one of the world’s leading ICT companies, SK Telecom 
has adopted the Business Principles to obtain stakeholders’ trust and 
ensure that its behavior meets the highest standards of integrity. Thus, 
SK Telecom requires all of its suppliers to adopt SK Telecom’s Business 
Principles and Practices as their code of conduct. Under the Business 
Principles, suppliers shall faithfully abide by the code of conduct to pre -
vent risks that may arise in finance, reputation and business concerning 
SK Telecom and the suppliers themselves, and shall realize a win-win 
partnership for mutual benefits. SK Telecom ensures that its suppliers 
will achieve sustainability by managing their economic, environmental 
and social performances based on the Supplier ESG Code of Conduct, 
and to apply such a policy to their subcontractors under the overarching 
goal of realizing the sustainable supply chain management as defined by 
SK Telecom.
1. Anti-Bribery 
Suppliers shall act with honesty, integrity, and fairness in their dealings 
both internally and externally. Suppliers shall not tolerate any form of 
bribery, including improper offers of payments or gifts to or from employ -
ees. Suppliers shall avoid any contracts that might lead to or suggest a 
conflict of interest between personal activities and business. Suppliers 
shall neither give nor accept hospitality or gifts that might appear to incur 
an obligation. Suppliers shall pursue mutually beneficial relationships and 
seek to promote the application of SK Telecom’s Business Principles with 
relevant business partners and suppliers.
2. Fair-Competition & Compliance 
Suppliers shall actively participate in SK T elecom’ s endeavors for fair  
trade compliance and shall conduct business in compliance with fair 
trade laws and systems to ensure fair competition. Suppliers shall com -
ply with the provisions of all applicable domestic and international laws 
and appropriate standards and principles.
3. Privacy Protection 
Suppliers shall protect the information they acquire in the course of their 
business operation related to SK Telecom, and shall not use such informa -
tion for purposes other than for carrying out the Company’s rightful busi -
ness activities, unless otherwise allowed under the relevant laws. Suppli -
ers shall not acquire or use SK Telecom’s or other companies’ information 
or trade confidential information in an illegal or improper manner.SUPPLIER ESG CODE OF CONDUCT
4. Financial integrity 
SK Telecom will provide the best possible return for its shareholders 
over the longer term. Suppliers support SK Telecom ’s efforts to pursue 
corporate value based on continuous innovation and healthy financial 
condition through transparent and efficient management.
5. Public Policy 
Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom maintains its political neutrality 
during its participation on public policies by avoiding contributions to 
any specific political parties, politicians or election campaigns.
6. Customer Value 
Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom shall maintain the quality of prod -
ucts and services that customers expect, and create an environment in 
which customers can use the products and services safely and benefi -
cially, thereby using its best efforts to increase its customer value.
7. Environment 
Suppliers shall practice environment-friendly business management and 
abide by international standards and laws pertaining to environmental 
protection, and the internal regulations. Suppliers are also advised to 
establish an environment management system which includes an inde -
pendent audit by a third party.
8. Health & Safety 
Suppliers shall institute systems, and provide regular education and 
training that promote employees’ health and safety, and comply with 
relevant international standards, laws and internal regulations governing 
employee health and safety. Suppliers shall exert their utmost efforts to 
encourage their employees to present a spirit of challenge and creativity 
based on mutual trust and pride, and help employees pursue happiness 
together.
9. Contribution to Community
Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom will actively participate in social 
contribution activities including volunteer activities and disaster relief as 
a responsible corporate citizen in the community, and cooperate through 
voluntary participation.
10. Human Rights
Suppliers shall not engage in any form of discrimination against their 
stakeholders including but not limited to customers, employees and com -
munity members in all locations where they conduct business based on 
race, ethnicity, religion, gender, disability, etc. Suppliers, in all locations 
where they conduct business, shall recognize and protect basic human 
rights through various activities including but not limited to underage 
protection and customer privacy protection. Suppliers will also make the 
utmost efforts to maintain the optimum working conditions for their em -
ployees including work-hour compliance, a guarantee of minimum wages, 
prohibition on the use of child or forced labor, etc.181 180
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Topic GRI Standards Description MATERIAL ISSUES Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission External Assurance
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Organizational  
Profile102-1 Name of the organization - - SK Telecom Co., Ltd. ∨
102-2 Primary brands, products, and services - · MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW > OUR BUSINESS MODEL
· MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW > PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS· p.40-41
· p.42-43∨
102-3 Location of the headquarters - - SK-T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul ∨
102-4 Number and name of countries where the main offices are located or sustainable business 
activities are conducted- · ABOUT SK TELECOM > ABOUT US · p.26 ∨
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form - · ABOUT SK TELECOM > ABOUT US
·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > SHAREHOLDERS, GENERAL MEETING OF 
SHAREHOLDERS· p.26
· p.103-104∨
102-6 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and 
beneficiaries)- · ABOUT SK TELECOM > ABOUT US
· MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW > OUR BUSINESS MODEL· p.26
· p.40-41∨
102-7 Scale of the organization (total number of employees, net sales, total capital, products 
and services, etc.)- · ABOUT SK TELECOM > ABOUT US
· MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW > PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
· FINANCIAL STATEMENT > MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS· p.26
· p.42-43
· p.154-161∨
102-8 Information on executives and employees - · GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS)
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA· p.105-110
· p.166-169
·  Please refer to the 2019 Business Report for the number 
of contract employees at SK Telecom.∨
102-9 Organization’s supply chain - · SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT · p.138-143 ∨
102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, 
ownership, or its supply chain- · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE
· SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > BUSINESS OPERATIONS· p.82-83
· p.84-85∨
102-11 Whether and how the precautionary approach is addressed and explanation on the adoption 
method- · ACCOUNTABILITY > RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT · p.118-127 ∨
102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other 
initiatives to which the organization belongs- · ABOUT THIS REPORT > GLOBAL INITIATIVES AND PARTNERSHIPS
· INDEX > SASB INDEX, UNGC, TCFD, SDGS· p.208
· p.194-201∨
102-13 Subscribes to memberships of associations and membership of national/international 
policy apparatus- · ABOUT THIS REPORT > GLOBAL INITIATIVES AND PARTNERSHIPS
· INDEX > SASB INDEX, UNGC, TCFD, SDGS· p.208
· p.194-201∨
Strategy 102-14 Organization of the highest governance body and statement of its sustainability commit-
ment- · MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW > LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS · p.30-39 ∨
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities - ·  MATERIALITY > RESULTS OF MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT,   
MANAGEMENT OF MATERIAL
· ACCOUNTABILITY > RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT· p.46-53
· p.118-127∨INDEX
GRI STANDARDS INDEX183 182
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Topic GRI Standards Description MATERIAL ISSUES Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission External Assurance
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Ethics and 
Integrity102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct of an organization - · ACCOUNTABILITY > INTEGRITY REPORT · p.128-133 ∨
102-17 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior 
and grievance handling mechanism- · INTEGRITY REPORT > TRANSPARENT ETHICAL MANAGEMENT · p.128 ∨
Governance 102-18 Report on the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 
governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environ -
mental and social impacts- · GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS) · p.105-110 ∨
102-19 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the highest 
governance body to senior executives and other employees- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS),  
Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.105-110, 113 ∨
102-20 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with respon -
sibility for economic, environmental and social topics. Additionally, an internal system within which 
the person delegated with such responsibility can directly report to the highest governance body- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS),  
Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.105-110, 113 ∨
102-21 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on 
economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and 
any feedback processes to the highest governance body- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS),  
Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.105-110, 113 ∨
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committee - ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS),  
Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.105-110, 113 ∨
102-23 Report whether the chairperson of the highest governance body is also an executive officer - · GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS) · p.105-110 ∨
102-24 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, ap-
pointment and selection criteria of the highest governance body members. - · GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS) · p.105-110 ∨
102-25 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed - · GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS) · p.105-110 ∨
102-26 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles, from the development, approval, and 
updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies and 
goals, to economic, environmental and social impacts- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS),  
Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.105-110, 113 ∨
102-27 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of 
economic, environmental and social topics- · GOVERNANCE REPORT > Corporate Citizenship Committee · p.113 ∨
102-28 Report on processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect 
to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Whether the independent evalu-
ations and self-assessments are implemented and measures taken based on the performance 
evaluation results- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND 
COMPENSATION· p.115-117 ∨
102-29 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmen-
tal and social impacts and whether a stakeholders’ meeting is held- ·  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT> STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND 
COMMUNICATION CHANNELS
· GOVERNANCE REPORT > Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.54-55
· p.113∨
102-30 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk manage-
ment process on economic, environmental and social topics- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOD (BOARD OF DIRECTORS),  
Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.110-113 ∨
102-31 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social 
impacts, risks, and opportunities- · MATERIALITY > MATERIALITY TEST PROCESS
· GOVERNANCE REPORT > Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.46
· p.113∨
102-32 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s 
sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered- · MATERIALITY> MATERIALITY TEST PROCESS
· GOVERNANCE REPORT > Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.46
· p.113∨
102-33 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body - · MATERIALITY > MATERIALITY TEST PROCESS
· GOVERNANCE REPORT > Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.46
· p.113∨
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance 
body, and policy to resolve the concerns- · MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW > STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
· GOVERNANCE REPORT > Corporate Citizenship Committee· p.54-55
· p.83∨
102-35 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and remuneration 
policy performance criteria and highest governance body and senior executives’ relevance to 
economic, environmental and social goals- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND 
COMPENSATION· p.115-117 ∨
102-36 The process for determining remuneration and criteria. Whether a consultant related to remu-
neration is engaged and whether the consultant is independent of the management activities. 
Report on all the relationships between the consultant and the company- · GOVERNANCE REPORT > COMMITTEES OF THE BOD · p.110-113 ∨
102-37 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration. If possible, 
include vote result and suggestions for remuneration policy- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND 
COMPENSATION· p.115-117 ∨
102-38 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the 
median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in 
the same area- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND 
COMPENSATION· p.115-117 ∨
102-39 Ratio of the percentage in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid 
individual to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees 
(excluding the highest-paid individual) (between the same areas)- ·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND 
COMPENSATION· p.115-117 ∨185 184
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Topic GRI Standards Description MATERIAL ISSUES Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission External Assurance
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Stakeholder
Engagement102-40 Materiality Test Process - ·  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT > STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND  
COMMUNICATION CHANNELS· p.54-55 ∨
102-41 Total percentage of employees and executives covered by collective bargaining agreements -  · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨
102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders - ·  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT > STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND  
COMMUNICATION CHANNELS· p.54-55 ∨
102-43 Status of stakeholders’ engagement in the organization such as frequency of engagement 
of the stakeholders by type and group- · MATERIALITY > MATERIALITY TEST PROCESS · p.46 ∨
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders such as publication of the report, and how 
the organization has responded to those topics- · MATERIALITY> RESULT OF MATERIALITY TEST · p.47 ∨
Reporting 
Practices 102-45 Entities and joint venture included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements - Please refer to 2019 Business Report for the entities list. ∨
102-46 Process for defining the report contents, and the Aspect Boundaries and the application of 
reporting principles on the process - · MATERIALITY > MATERIALITY TEST PROCESS · p.46 ∨
102-47 List of all material aspects identified in the process of determining the content of the 
report- · MATERIALITY > RESULT OF MATERIALITY TEST · p.47 ∨
102-48 Impact of amendments to the information provided in the previous report and the reasons 
for such amendment report - · ABOUT THIS REPORT · p.208 ∨
102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries - Specific attention indicated as notes if necessary ∨
102-50 Reporting period of the information provided (fiscal year or year) - · ABOUT THIS REPORT · p.208 ∨
102-51 The date of the most recent report - · ABOUT THIS REPORT · p.208 ∨
102-52 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) - · ABOUT THIS REPORT · p.208 ∨
102-53 Inquiries about reports and related contents - · PUBLICATION INFORMATION · p.209 ∨
102-54 Method conforming to the report the organization selected according to the GRI Standards 
(Core/Comprehensive)- · ABOUT THIS REPORT · p.208 ∨
102-55 GRI Index - · REPORTING STANDARDS > GRI · p.180-193 ∨
102-56 The report on the 3rd party assurance of the report and the external assurance report, the 
independence of the relationship between the organization and the assurance agency, and 
whether the highest governance body or executive participates in the report assurance 
process- ·  NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > INDEPENDENT LIMITED 
ASSURANCE REPORT· p.172-173 ∨
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103-1 Explanation of material issues and their boundaries o · MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW > MATERIALITY · p.46-53 ∨
103-2 Reporting on how the organization manages its material issues, the objectives of its 
management policies, and whether management policies include policies, declarations, 
purposes and objectives, accountability, resources, grievance handling systems, processes 
and projects, programs and initiativeso · MATERIALITY > MANAGEMENT OF MATERIAL
· ADVANCED TO NEW ICT > MID- TO LONG-TERM STRATEGY 
· SOCIAL VALUE
· ACCOUNTABILITY > GOVERNANCE REPORT
·  FINANCIAL STATEMENT > MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND 
ANALYSIS· p.48-53
· p.59
· p.68-79
· p.102-117
· p.154-161∨
103-3 Explanation of how the organization evaluates the management policy regarding material 
issueso · MATERIALITY > MANAGEMENT OF MATERIAL · p.48-53 ∨
ECONOMY
Economic 
Performance201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed - · APPENDIX > FINANCIAL STATEMENT · p.146-153 ∨
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities resulting from climate change - · RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT > RISK & OPPORTUNITIES
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA· p.124-127
· p.170-171∨
201-3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations - - 100% of employees are covered by SK Telecom’s defined benefit 
plan obligations during the reporting period.∨
201-4 Financial assistance received from the government - · GOVERNANCE REPORT > SHAREHOLDERS · p.103-104 ∨187 186
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Topic GRI Standards Description MATERIAL ISSUES Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission External Assurance
ECONOMY
Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage of
key operation- - [Confidentiality Constraints] SK Telecom provides entry level wages higher than 
the local minimum wage in all regional operations and does not discriminate ac-
cording to gender. However, details were not disclosed due to internal information 
policies.∨
Indirect Economic
Impacts202-2 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage of
key operation- · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨
203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported o · SOCIAL VALUE
· SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > CUSTOMERS
·  FINANCIAL STATEMENT > MANAGEMENT 
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS· p.68-79
· p.86-90 
· p.154-161∨
203-2 Significant indirect economic effects including scale of impacts o · SOCIAL VALUE · p.68-79 ∨
Procurement 
Practices204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation - ·  SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT >   
SK TELECOM’S SUPPLY CHAIN STATUS· p.138-143 ∨
Anti-corruption 205-1 Assessment of corruption risk at a work area - · INTEGRITY REPORT > Detection, Response · p.130-131 ∨
205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures - · INTEGRITY REPORT > Prevention · p.130 ∨
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken - · INTEGRITY REPORT > Detection, Response · p.130-131 ∨
Anti-competitive
Behavior206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, and unfair practices - · INTEGRITY REPORT > Detection, Response · p.130-131 ∨
Tax 207-1 Approach to tax (tax strategy, the governance body or executive-level position within the 
organization that formally reviews and approves the tax strategy and the frequency of this 
review, and how the approach to tax is linked to the business and sustainable develop-
ment strategies of the organization)
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax
207-4 Country-by-country reporting
ENVIRONMENT
Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume - [N/A] Due to industry specific characteristics, SK Telecom’s operations consume an 
insignificant amount of materials in direct manufacture, process and use stages.∨
301-2 Recycled input materials used - [N/A] Due to industry specific characteristics, SK Telecom’s operations consume an 
insignificant amount of materials in direct manufacture, process and use stages.∨
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials - [N/A] Due to industry specific characteristics, SK Telecom’s operations consume an 
insignificant amount of materials in direct manufacture, process and use stages.∨
Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
302-3 Energy intensity - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services - [N/A] During the reporting period, SK Telecom does not have a separate product 
energy requirement, while how SK Telecom’s services indirectly contributed to 
reducing energy consumption is included in p.170.∨
Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource - [Information unavailable] SK Telecom currently does not separately track data on 
water withdrawal and discharge, as we are unaware of any significant environmen-
tal impacts due to our water usage. However, we do track data on water usage 
and are implementing related reduction activities.∨
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts - [Information unavailable] SK Telecom currently does not separately track data on 
water withdrawal and discharge, as we are unaware of any significant environmen-
tal impacts due to our water usage. However, we do track data on water usage 
and are implementing related reduction activities.∨
303-3 Water withdrawal - [Information unavailable] SK Telecom currently does not separately track data on 
water withdrawal and discharge, as we are unaware of any significant environmen-
tal impacts due to our water usage. However, we do track data on water usage 
and are implementing related reduction activities.∨189 188
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Topic GRI Standards Description MATERIAL ISSUES Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission External Assurance
ENVIRONMENT
Water 303-4 Water discharge - [Information unavailable] SK Telecom currently does not separately 
track data on water withdrawal and discharge, as we are unaware of 
any significant environmental impacts due to our water usage. How-
ever, we do track data on water usage and are implementing related 
reduction activities.∨
303-5 Water consumption - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 
high biodiversity value outside protected areas- - SK Telecom is unaware of any significant impacts on biodiversity in 
protected areas resulting directly from its activities, during the report-
ing period.∨
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity - - SK Telecom is unaware of any significant impacts on biodiversity in 
protected areas resulting directly from its activities, during the report-
ing period.∨
304-3 Habitats protected or restored - - SK Telecom is unaware of any significant impacts on biodiversity in 
protected areas resulting directly from its activities, during the report-
ing period.∨
304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected 
by operations- - [Information unavailable] SK Telecom’s operations do not have a known 
impact on any endangered species. However, SK Telecom is managing 
the environmental impact of the operations through the SK Group-wide 
social performance measurement methodology.∨
Emissions 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
305-6 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) - - [N/A] Due to industry specific characteristics, SK Telecom emits an 
extremely insignificant amount of ODS.∨
305-7 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions - - [N/A] Due to industry specific characteristics, SK Telecom emits 
extremely insignificant amount of NOx and SOx.∨
Effluents and 
Waste306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts - · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT · p.94-97 ∨
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts - · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT · p.94-97 ∨
306-3 Waste generated - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA · p.170-171 ∨
306-5 Waste directed to disposal - · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA· p.94-97
· p.170-171∨
Environmental
Compliance307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 
non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations- - There is zero number of cases related to violations of environmental 
laws and regulations. There are no fines or penalties paid accordingly.∨
Supplier 
Environmental
assessment308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria - · ACCOUNTABILITY > SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT · p.138-143 ∨
308-2 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken- · ACCOUNTABILITY > SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT · p.138-143 ∨
SOCIAL
Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employees hired and employee turnover - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time  
employees- · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨
401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨
Labor/Management
Relations402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes - - SK Telecom communicates changes in management through the labor 
union website (www.sktunion.com) and the Labor Management Council.∨
Occupational 
Health
and Safety403-1 Occupational health and safety management system - · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation - · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
403-3 Employees with a high incidence or risk of disease at work - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨191 190
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Topic GRI Standards Description MATERIAL ISSUES Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission External Assurance
SOCIAL
Occupational 
Health
and Safety403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety - · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety - · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
403-6 Promotion of worker health - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.169 ∨
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by 
business relationships- · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA· p.134-137
· p.169∨
403-8 Workers covered by the occupational health and safety management system - · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨
403-9 Work-related injuries - - ∨
403-10 Work-related ill health - SK Telecom is unaware of the occurrence of any work-related 
illness or disease during the reporting period.∨
Training and 
Education404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee (by gender, and by employee category) - · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > EMPLOYEES
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA· p.91-93
· p.166-169∨
404-2 Programs for skills and lifelong learning that help employees continue their careers and 
manage their lives after retirement- · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > EMPLOYEES
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA· p.91-93
· p.166-169∨
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular review of performance and career development 
(by gender and by employee category)- · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > EMPLOYEES · p.91-93 ∨
Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity405-1 Composition of governance bodies and employees by category (by gender, age group, 
minority group, and other indicators of diversity)- · NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.166-169 ∨
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men - - Please refer to the 2019 Business Report for the ratio of basic 
salary and remuneration of women to men.∨
Non-Discrimination 406-1 Discrimination incidents and actions taken - - There is zero number of cases related to discrimination of salary 
paid by gender.∨
Freedom of 
Association and
Collective Bargaining407-1 Operations and partner companies that are judged to seriously infringe on workers’ free-
dom of association and collective bargaining- - As of the end of the reporting period, SK Telecom’s union 
membership rate is 88.8%. There are no operational sites that 
have been found to seriously violate freedom of association and 
collective bargaining during the reporting period.∨
Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 
and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor- · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
Forced or 
Compulsory Labor409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or 
compulsory labor- · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
Security Practices 410-1 Percentage of security personnel who have received the training on the human rights 
policies and procedures related to the business- - [Information unavailable] SK Telecom does not currently track 
the percentage of security personnel that have received human 
rights training.∨
Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples - · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
Human Rights 
Assessment412-1 Workplaces subject to human rights impact assessment or human rights review - · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137 ∨
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures related to business - · ACCOUNTABILITY > INTEGRITY REPORT · p.130 ∨
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that 
underwent human rights screening- - [Information Unavailable]  SK Telecom is currently unaware of 
significant investment agreements and contracts that include 
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening.∨
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Local Communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assess -
ment, and development programs- · SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION · p.98-99 ∨
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities - - SK Telecom manages the positive and negative impact of our 
operations on local communities through the SK Group-wide 
social performance measurement methodology. There have been 
no significant negative impacts on local communities during the 
reporting period.∨193 192
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
Topic GRI Standards Description MATERIAL ISSUES Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission External Assurance
SOCIAL
Supplier Social 
Assessment414-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria - · ACCOUNTABILITY > SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT · p.138-143 ∨
414-2 Significant actual and negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken - · ACCOUNTABILITY > SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY REPORT · p.138-143 ∨
Public Policy 415-1 Total value of political contributions (by country and recipient/ beneficiary) - · ACCOUNTABILITY > INTEGRITY REPORT · p.133 ∨
Customer Health and 
Safety416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories - - SK Telecom is unaware of the percentage of products and 
services that receive assessments on health and safety impacts. 
However, SK Telecom manages customer health and safety im-
pacts of products and services through the SK Group-wide social 
performance measurement methodology.∨
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and 
services- - SK Telecom manages customer health and safety impacts of 
products and services through the SK Group-wide social perfor -
mance measurement methodology. There were zero violations 
or laws and regulations related to safety and health effects of 
products and services during the reporting period.∨
Marketing and 
Labeling417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling - - [Information unavailable] SK Telecom is unaware of the percent-
age of products and services that are subject to information 
and labeling requirements. However, SK Telecom is managing 
the status of providing appropriate information to customers of 
products and services through the SK Group-wide social perfor -
mance measurement methodology.∨
417-2 Cases violating laws and self-autonomous regulations related to product and service 
information and labeling- - There is zero number of violations related to law and regulations 
regarding product and service information labeling, during the 
reporting period.∨
417-3 Number of cases violating laws and self-autonomous regulations related to marketing 
communication including
advertisement, promotion and sponsor (according to deposition result)- - There were zero cases related to violation of laws and regu-
lations related to advertisement, promotion, sponsorship and 
marketing communications.∨
Customer Privacy 418-1 The number of complaints proven to violate customer privacy and lost customer informa-
tiono · ACCOUNTABILITY > HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT
· SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > CUSTOMERS· p.134-137
·  p.90 There is zero number of incidents related to information 
loss and customer privacy violation.∨
Socioeconomic 
Compliance419-1 Violation of laws and regulations in social and economic sectors - SK Telecom has not received any penalties related to fair trade. ∨195 194
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SASB(*) INDEX UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC)
Accounting Metric Category Unit Code LocationCross Reference 
/ Direct Answer
Wireless Subscribers Quantitative Number TC-TL-000.A ·FINANCIAL STATEMENT > MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS · p.154-155
Wireline Subscribers Quantitative Number TC-TL-000.B ·FINANCIAL STATEMENT > MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS · p.154-155
Broadband Subscribers Quantitative Number TC-TL-000.C ·FINANCIAL STATEMENT > MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS · p.154-155
Network traffic and proportions of mobile 
communication networks and fixed networksQuantitativePetabytes, 
% TC-TL-
000.D·SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > CUSTOMERS · p.89
LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer
Fulfillment of the 
UNGC’ s ten Principles in 
Strategy and OperationCriterion 1 Commitment to integrate the UNGC 10 principles into business function and units · ABOUT THIS REPORT · p.208
Criterion 2 Practicing the UNGC 10 principles across the value chain · INTEGRITY REPORT · p.128-133
Definite Human Rights 
Policy and ProcedureCriterion 3 Human rights commitment, strategy, and policy · HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137
Criterion 4Effective management system to incorporate the human rights principles into
business and management procedures· HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137
Criterion 5Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the human
right principles in business and management procedures· HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT · p.134-137
Definite Labor Policy 
and ProcedureCriterion 6 Labor commitment, strategy, and policy· HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA· p.134-137
· p.168
Criterion 7Effective management system to incorporate the labor principles into business
and management procedures· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA · p.168
Criterion 8Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the labor
principles in business and management procedures·  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT > STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION CHANNELS · p.54-55
Definite Environmental 
Policy and ProcedureCriterion 9 Environment commitment, strategy, and policy· SOCIAL VALUE
· SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA· p.68-79
· p.94-97
· p.170-171
Criterion 10Effective management system to incorporate the environmental principles into business 
and management procedures· SOCIAL VALUE
· SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA· p.68-79
· p.94-97
· p.170-171
Criterion 11Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the environmental 
principles in business and management procedures· SOCIAL VALUE
· SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > ENVIRONMENTAL DATA· p.68-79
· p.94-97
· p.170-171
Definite Ethics and 
Compliance Policy and 
ProcedureCriterion 12 Anti-corruption commitment, strategy, and policy · INTEGRITY REPORT · p.128-133
Criterion 13Effective management system to incorporate the anti-corruption principles into
business and management procedures· INTEGRITY REPORT · p.128-133
Criterion 14Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the anti-corruption 
principles in business and management procedures· INTEGRITY REPORT · p.128-133
Activities to Support 
Broader and More 
Comprehensive UN 
Objectives and GoalsCriterion 15 Contribution through key businesses to help achieve the UN objectives and goals·  NEW ICT STRATEGY > CREATING NEW VALUE BY SHARING 
INFRASTRUCTURE  
· SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS(SDGS)· p.64-65 
· p.200-201
Criterion 16Strategic community investment and charity work to help achieve the UN objectives
and goals· SOCIAL VALUE
· SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION
· NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT > SOCIAL DATA
· SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS(SDGS)· p.68-79
· p.98-99
· p.166-169
· p.200-201
Criterion 17 Public engagement and communication to help achieve the UN objectives and goals · SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS(SDGS) · p.200-201
Criterion 18 Partnerships and external initiatives to help achieve the UN objectives and goals · ABOUT THIS REPORT · p.208
Governance and 
Leadership for Sus-
tainabilityCriterion 19 CEO’s sustainability commitment and leadership · LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS · p.30-39
Criterion 20 Board of Directors’ selection and oversight of sustainability agenda items·  GOVERNANCE REPORT > BOARD OF DIRECTORS, 
Corporate Citizenship committee · p.113
Criterion 21 Stakeholder engagement·  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT > STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION CHANNELS  · p.54-55ACTIVITY METRIC
UNGC ADVANCED CRITERIA(*)SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
Associations / 
InitiativesJoining date Purpose / Remarks
UNGC Headquarters May 2007 Involvement in the global CSR initiative 
activities has helped advance the internal 
CSR system and gain a better reputation 
for CSR both at home and abroad.UNGC Korea Sept. 2007
UNGC LEAD Jan. 2011UNGC ACTIVITIES
Topic Accounting Metric Category Unit Code Location Cross Reference / Direct Answer
Environmental 
Footprint of 
Operations(1) Total consumed energy, (2) percentage of 
grid electricity, (3) percentage of renewable 
energyQuantita-
tiveGJ / % TC-TL-130a.1·   NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT  
> ENVIRONMENTAL DATA·p.170-171
Data PrivacyAds, policies and practices relating to the 
retention of customers’ personal informationDiscus-
sion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-220a.1·   SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > HUMAN 
RIGHTS REPORT 
·   FINANCIAL STATEMENT > MANAGE-
MENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS·p.135-137
·p.158-159
Number of customers whose customer 
information is collected for secondary purposeQuantita-
tiveNumber
(persons)TC-TL-220a.2 - -
Amount of legal and regulatory fines associated 
with customer privacyQuantita-
tiveKRW TC-TL-220a.3 - ·  p.402-407 in Business Report
(1) Number of legal punishments related to 
customer information (2) number of customers 
whose information was requested by government 
or law enforcement agencies percentage resulting 
in disclosure (3) percentage of disclosuresQuantita-
tiveNumber / % TC-TL-220a.4 - · p.402-407 in Business Report
Data Security(1) Number of data security breaches (2) 
percentage of breaches of personally identifiable 
information (PII) security (3) number of 
customers who suffered from such breachesQuantita-
tiveNumber / % TC-TL-230a.1 - · p.402-407 in Business Report
Management approach to identifying data 
security risks including security risk related to 
utilization of third parties’ information security 
risk Discus-
sion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-230a.2·  MATERIALITY > MANAGEMENT OF 
METERIAL ISSUES 
·   SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > RISK 
MANAGEMENT REPORT ·p.50-51
·p.126-127
Product 
End-of-Life 
Management(1) Materials recycled through take- back 
programs (2) percentage of recycled materials 
(3) recycling rate (4) landfill rateQuantita-
tiveTon and 
percentage
by weightTC-TL-440a.1·  SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > ENVIRON-
MENTAL MANAGEMENT
·   NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT  
> ENVIRONMENTAL DATA·p.94-97
·p170-171
Fair CompetitionFinancial damage such as fines caused by 
violations of fair trade-related actsQuantita-
tiveKRW TC-TL-520a.1 · p.402-407 in Business Report
(1) Contents owned by company and 
commercially related contents (2) average 
download speed of unrelated contentsQuantita-
tiveMbps TC-TL-520a.2SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > CUSTOMERS 
> NETWORK QUALITY AND 
RELIABILITYSK Telecom does not disclose 
download speed by content types 
(contents owned by the company, 
commercial contents, contents not 
commercially related).
Explanations about risks and opportunities 
related to net neutrality,
paid peering, and zero ratingDiscus-
sion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-520a.3SK Telecom complies with the 
Guidelines for Network Neutrality 
and Internet Traffic Management 
established by the Ministry of 
Science and ICT.
Managing 
Systemic Risks 
from Technology 
Disruptions(1) Telecommunication interruption frequency 
and average interruption duration per customerQuantita-
tiveFrequency 
per customer, 
hours per 
customerTC-TL-550a.1SUSTAINABLE ISSUE > CUSTOMERS 
> NETWORK QUALITY AND 
RELIABILITY·p.89
Technology 
DisruptionSystem for normal service operation/provision 
against service interruptions and other similar 
situationsDiscus-
sion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-550a.2·  SUSTAINABLE ISSUE >   
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT ·p.118-127SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICSThe United Nations supports the 10 principles of the United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC) and advocates the 10 universal principles 
including those related to human rights, the environment, labor and 
anti-corruption, and requests support for a wide range of the UN’s 
development plans including the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). SK Telecom joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a UN or -
ganization that collaborates with businesses, in 2007. As a founding 
member of UNGC Korea, a local association of UNGC, SK Telecom 
not only adheres to the 10 principles but also broadly supports the 
UN’s development plans such as the SDGs. In April 2013, SK Telecom 
publicly declared its support for the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and the human rights principles in the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie Framework, and SK Telecom’s CEO affirmed that the company would fulfill its responsibility related 
to respecting human rights. By complying with and supporting the 
UNGC principles, SK Telecom will undertake a variety of activities to 
solve domestic and international social issues and to spread global 
CSR trends in the future as well.197 196
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TCFD(*) DISCLOSURE 
OF INFORMATIONcentered on the Corporate Citizenship Committee. The department-in-charge reports on greenhouse gas emissions, the percentage of mid- to 
long-term targets reached, and energy efficiency activities. Considering that climate change risks can potentially have financial impacts, SK 
Telecom utilizes the recommendations made by the FSB for TCFD, and discloses the risks and opportunities as follows:
  To enable a systematic response to climate changes, SK Telecom strives to comply with rel -
evant regulations, implement activities for energy efficiency, and establish goals for carbon 
reduction. SK Telecom continuously monitors global and local trends related to climate chang -
es and its potential effects on the company under the management of the Social Value Group 
(*)TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
TCFD RECOMMENDATIONS RESPONSE ACTIVITIES CDP MAPPING 
(INDEX)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: WE DISCLOSE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES RELATED TO CLIMATE 
CHANGE.
 a)  Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities.SK Telecom’s Corporate Citizenship Committee (under the board of directors) governs the 
overall environmental management, including the risks and opportunities related to climate 
change, and makes key decisions on climate change issues every quarter.
C1.1a
C1.1b
C1.2aProcesses and frequency by which the board and/or board 
committees (e.g., audit, risk, or other committees) are 
informed about climate-related issues,
Whether the board and/or board committees consider 
climate-related issues when reviewing and guiding 
strategy, major plans of action, risk management policies, 
annual budgets, and business plans as well as setting 
the organization’s performance objectives, monitoring 
implementation and performance, and overseeing major 
capital expenditures, acquisitions, and divestitures,SK Telecom predicts mid- to long-term GHG emissions by comprehensively considering mid- to 
long-term investments in telecommunications, as well as acquisition, merger, and divestitures.
Based on this, we establish strategies for responding to the domestic greenhouse gas 
emissions trading system, achieving mid- to long-term GHG reduction goals, and responding to 
global ESG assessments. When preparing a detailed business plan, we review resources that 
must be used and reflect the results in the year-end budget each year, as we strive to reduce 
climate change risks based on the achievements of business progress. 
How the board monitors and oversees progress against 
goals and targets for addressing climate-related issues.SK Telecom’s current status of emissions, progress of greenhouse gas reduction projects and 
domestic and international policy trends related to climate change are delivered to the board 
through the department-in-charge and the board subsequently makes decisions based on the 
information. 
 b)  Describe management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities.SK Telecom gives the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) the responsibility for risk and opportunity 
assessment, monitoring, management, and major prevention activities related to climate change 
and environmental management. The CSO reports climate change issues to the CEO who then 
shares the current status with the board (emission amount and reduction goals, current status, 
target performance and achievements compared to goals), insights from assessments and future 
forecasts (energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and policy environment.) The CEO 
also explains the overall climate strategy, the newly established reduction targets, ad reduction 
projects. The board discusses the legitimacy of strategies and projects, provides guidance and 
suggestions considering domestic and international political/social/technological environment, 
suggesting the direction and vision that SK Telecom should take.Whether the organization has assigned climate-related 
responsibilities to management-level positions or 
committees; and, if so, whether such management 
positions or committees report to the board or a 
committee of the board and whether those responsibilities 
include assessing and/or managing climate-related issues
A description of the associated organizational structure(s), The CSO receives the CEO’ s rights and oversees climate change-related issues, and reports major 
issues to the Corporate Citizenship Committee (under the board) twice a year or by quarter.
Processes by which management is informed about 
climate-related issues, With the CSO’ s position being similar to that of the Vice President, he conducts regular meetings 
and directly reports major issues related to climate. The CSO designates several environmental 
team members with expertise in climate change and energy who constantly monitor policy/
technology/market conditions and trends to formulate basic climate-related strategies. Thy then 
share all information with the CSO and discuss plans without time constraints.
How management (through specific positions and/or 
management committees) monitors climate-related issues1.  Members of the Environment team analyzes and discusses the urgency and influence of key 
issues that may affect SK Telecom. According to the results, the team decides whether to 
report it to the CSO. For non-critical issues, the Environment team autonomously solves the 
issue autonomously. 
2.  If it is a significant and urgent issue including investments for reduction projects, the 
Environment Team reports and discusses the issue with the CSO to prepare for future risks. 
3.  The Environment Team biannually evaluates the performances as it compares to the goals 
established at the beginning of the year and adjusts the goals by considering changes to 
the internal and external environment and circumstances.
4.  Every year, the board meeting is held at which the CSO prepares and reports to the CEO 
major issues and current status related to climate. When the CEO’s decision or opinion 
on investments for emissions reduction projects is needed, the CSO reports detailed 
information and relevant documents to the CEO. TCFD RECOMMENDATIONS RESPONSE ACTIVITIES CDP MAPPING 
(INDEX)
Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material. 
a)  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the short, medium, and 
long termShort-term is 1 to 3 years, with the 3 years being K-ETS’s 2nd phase from 2018 to 2020. 
Mid-term is 4 to 13 years, corresponding with the government’s mid-term GHG emission 
reduction goal for 2030. Long-term is 14 to 33 years, with 2050 being a goal year for Net-Zero 
emissions.
C2.1
C2.3a
C2.4aA description of what they consider to be the relevant 
short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons, taking into 
consideration the useful life of the organization’s assets or 
infrastructure and the fact that climate-related issues often 
manifest themselves over the medium and longer terms, 
A description of the specific climate-related issues 
for each time horizon (short, medium, and long term) 
that could have a material financial impact on the 
organization,As the first risk in the mid-term period, we are considering reputational risks due to an 
increase in stakeholder’s interests and demands and negative feedback. We placed the 
heightened cost of emissions trading as the second risk. In regard to a long-term opportunity, 
we are considering low-emission energy sources, while for a mid-term opportunity, there are 
participating in carbon market like selling emissions rights in K-ETS and the expansion and 
development of low-emission products and services.
A description of the process(es) used to determine which 
risks and opportunities could have a material financial 
impact on the organizationIn the event of changes in domestic and foreign policy related to climate change and increased 
greenhouse gas emissions within the company, the responsible department predicts financial 
loss, types of opportunities and scale, and report to the management, and collaborates with 
relevant departments such as operation, financial/accounting etc., in order to minimize risks 
and establish measures for the revitalization of opportunities as a response.
 b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.-  Products and services: In accordance with energy regulations and smart energy trends, ICT-
integrated energy services increased. Therefore, we are committed to developing new smart 
energy services and devices utilizing ICT technology.
-  Supply chain and/or value chain: To minimize emissions, we enabled telecommunications 
equipment suppliers to develop energy-efficient equipment.
-  Coordination and mitigation activities: When greenhouse gas emissions increase, the burden 
for the reduction of greenhouse gases also increases, as does the cost of purchasing carbon 
emissions. Energy expenses also significantly increase as energy consumption in order to 
cool communications equipment increases.
-  Investments in research and development: We are investing in S/W development and relevant 
devices such as EMS, autonomous driving, Smart home, Smart factory, etc., in consideration 
of the growth of the smart energy industry. 
-  Operations (Operation type and facility location included): Abnormal weather due to climate change 
may damage the mobile telecommunication network that is installed throughout the country. 
C2.5
C2.6
C3.1aOrganizations should consider including the impact on 
their businesses and strategy in the following areas:
- Products and services 
- Supply chain and/or value chain 
- Adaptation and mitigation activities
- Investment in research and development
-  Operations (including types of operations and location 
of facilities) 
Organizations should describe how climate-related issues 
serve as an input to their financial planning process, the time 
period(s) used, and how these risks and opportunities are 
prioritized. Organizations’ disclosures should reflect a holistic 
picture of the interdependencies among the factors that affect 
their ability to create value over time. Organizations should 
also consider including in their disclosures the impact on 
financial planning in the following areas: 
-  Operating costs and revenues 
-  Capital expenditures and capital allocation 
-  Acquisitions or divestments 
-  Access to capital -  Operating costs and revenue: Increased operating costs due to increased energy capacity is an 
major financial risk, and therefore, we are monitoring operating costs associated with energy 
consumption as one of the most influential KPI factors. Meanwhile, we are considering the 
increase of sales through the smart energy business sector or greenhouse gas emissions trading. 
-  Capital expenditures and capital allocation: To make up for a shortfall in emission rights, we 
have to purchase emission rights from the K-ETS market. Therefore, SK Telecom is calculating 
a budget based on insufficient emission rights every year. 
-  Acquisition or divestment: SK Telecom actively participates in the acquisition/divestment 
of companies, and as a result, total emissions and insufficient emissions can fluctuate. We 
determine the size of the budget for purchasing emission rights, by taking this fact into account.
-  Assets: Because we can purchase equipment and facilities for GHG emissions while pursuing 
GHG reduction programs to secure emission rights, our assets can increase. 
If climate-related scenarios were used to inform the 
organization’s strategy and financial planning, such 
scenarios should be described.We have quantitative scenarios. Among the risks and opportunities associated with climate 
change, greenhouse gas reduction has the biggest impact in regard to SK Telecom’ s business 
strategies. According to the K-ETS regulations, we need to reduce emissions although an increase 
in emissions is inevitable due to investments and operations of 5G equipment. In this light, we 
established a plan to reduce more than 5% in expenses as compared to the predicted energy 
consumption and developing at least one or more emission reduction projects as 2 of our KPIs. 199 198
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
TCFD RECOMMENDATIONS RESPONSE ACTIVITIES CDP MAPPING 
(INDEX)
Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
 c)  Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, 
taking into consideration different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.We use scenarios from NDCs (Nationally Determined Contributions.) As SK Telecom is a 
company under the K-ETS, it establishes various scenarios to estimate shortage of emission 
rights and insufficient purchasing costs. We establish emission allocation based on previous 
trends of quota and Korea’s NDCs. In line with the Korea NDCs’ goal year of 2030, SK 
Telecom limits the termination year of the scenarios to 2030. The scenario includes not only 
communication infrastructure, but all buildings, cars and other emission sources that SK 
Telecom possesses. The most important element in constructing the scenarios is the reduction 
rates that are applied to telecommunications standards. Based on the scenarios that were 
established according to reduction rate options, we can complete shortage of emission 
rights scenarios by adding future emissions to the reduction rate scenarios. Teams related to 
climate, including the Environmental Team, prioritize the scenarios after conducting meetings 
and debates to discuss and select the most rational scenario that can act as a foundation of 
climate change and K-ETS related strategies. 
Based on the No. 1 scenario (11.7% reduction rate by 2030,) SK Telecom decided to respond 
to the shortage of emission rights by evaluating type, size and budget for investments in 
reduction programs. At the beginning of the year, we calculate emissions from the previous 
year and compare the results of the shortage of emissions with the scenario. If there are errors 
that are not considered while constructing the scenario, we update the scenario.C3.1dOrganizations should describe how resilient their 
strategies are to climate related risks and opportunities, 
taking into consideration a transition to a lower-carbon 
economy consistent with a 2°C or lower scenario and, 
where relevant to the organization, scenarios consistent 
with increased physical climate-related risks.
Organizations should consider discussing: 
-  where they believe their strategies may be affected by 
climate-related risks and opportunities; 
-  how their strategies might change to address such 
potential risks and opportunities; and 
-  the climate-related scenarios and associated time 
horizon(s) considered
Risk Management: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
 a)  Describe the organization’s processes for identifying 
and assessing climate related risks.The process of identifying, evaluating and managing risks and opportunities related to climate 
change is integrated into the company-wide risk identification, evaluation and management 
process. The Environmental Team identifies specific climate-related issues, such as climate-
related policies, markets, and technologies, then discusses the expected risks that may arise 
from the issues and classifies them according to the type of risk. Subsequently, we assess 
the materiality of the risk and determine response methods for the issue as well as reporting 
standards. Depending on the importance, issues that may lead to serious damage of assets 
or significant financial loss are reported to the CEO. In addition, the board regularly handles 
climate issues.
C1.2a
C2.2b
C2.2dOrganizations should describe their risk management 
processes for identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks. An important aspect of this description is how 
organizations determine the relative significance of 
climate-related risks in relation to other risks.
Organizations should describe whether they consider 
existing and emerging regulatory requirements related to 
climate change (e.g., limits on emissions) as well as other 
relevant factors considered.Since SK Telecom has low potential to reduce its emissions internally, the company must 
purchase emission rights from the K-ETS market or conduct reduction programs. 
Accordingly, we consider the size and cost of the purchase with great importance.
Organizations should also consider disclosing the 
following:
-  processes for assessing the potential size and scope of 
identified climate-related risks and
-  definitions of risk terminology used or references to 
existing risk classification frameworks used.The Infrastructure Management Team assesses predicted risks regarding assets and financial 
loss according to the various loss scenarios that it originally established. The team possesses 
a manual to rapidly and effectively respond to physical damage rapidly and effectively. 
 b)  Describe the organization’s processes for managing 
climate-related risks.The Environmental Team identifies climate-related risks and opportunities, and depending on 
the types of risks and opportunities, the team evaluates potential risks, opportunities and 
urgency of the situation. After discussing this with relevant departments, the team reports it to 
the management (CSO, or CEO if needed.)
After the meeting, the team develops solutions to minimize risks and maximize opportunities. 
With the Environmental Team as the control tower, each team handles the issues. The 
Environmental Team reports the progress to management, analyzes the management’s opinions 
and delivers them to each team and finally evaluates the performance to report it to the 
management. Organizations should describe their processes for 
managing climate-related risks, including how they make 
decisions to mitigate, transfer, accept, or control those 
risks. In addition, organizations should describe their 
processes for prioritizing climate-related risks, including 
how materiality determinations are made within their 
organizations.
 c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management.The department-in-charge manages risks in terms of policies related to climate change and 
emission management.
It conducts activities to identify major trends related to domestic and international climate 
change, while the Emission Trading System and the emission risks are managed through 
estimations of emissions made by the internal GHG emission management system and 
discussions with relevant departments. Based on the information and data collected, the types 
and scale of the risks are comprehensively organized so that they can be used to support the 
process of the management identifying and making decisions on the risks. Organizations should describe how their processes for 
identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into their overall risk management.TCFD RECOMMENDATIONS RESPONSE ACTIVITIES CDP MAPPING 
(INDEX)
Metrics and Targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and 
opportunities where such information is material.
 a)  Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management 
process.To assess the risks and opportunities related to climate change, GHG 
emissions Scope 1 and 2 and GHG indicators such as emissions per unit, 
energy consumption etc. are used.
C6
C8
C1.3a
C4.5a
C11.3a
C5.1
C5.2Organizations should provide the key metrics used to measure and manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities. Organizations should consider 
including metrics on climate-related risks associated with water, energy, land 
use, and waste management where relevant and applicable.
Where climate-related issues are material, organizations should consider 
describing whether and how related performance metrics are incorporated 
into remuneration policies.Reduction performance of GHG emissions is an important factor that 
determines the financial incentives of the CSO. GHG emissions accounts 
for the largest factor of SK Telecom’s social value, while the scale of social 
value greatly affects the CSO’s performance evaluation.
Where relevant, organizations should provide their internal carbon prices as 
well as climate-related opportunity metrics such as revenue from products 
and services designed for a lower-carbon economy.SK Telecom contributes to the reduction of GHG emissions by providing 
various ICT services such as online billing, T map navigation services, Smart 
grids, and Smart city among others. In particular, the T map navigation offers 
a service where the shortest route and earliest arrival time based on real-time 
traffic data are provided free-of-charge. Based on ITU L.1410 and L.1430 
methodology and the GeSi Smart 2020 report, SK Telecom identified that T 
map contributes to a minimum of 580,000 tons equivalent in CO2 reduction 
and a maximum of 3.6 million tons per year. The revenue share of low-carbon 
products in the reporting year is zero percent. Carbon prices are used to 
calculate profitability of the reduction programs and internal cost reduction. 
The actual amount of internal carbon pricing is KRW 14,000 (in metric tons), 
which is half of the current K-ETS market price and also an implied price.
Metrics should be provided for historical periods to allow for trend analysis. 
In addition, where not apparent, organizations should provide a description of 
the methodologies used to calculate or estimate climate-related metrics.The base year for Scope 1 emissions is 2017, and the emission amount 
is 6,835 metric tons CO2e. The base year for Scope 2 (location-based) 
emissions is also 2017 and the amount is 868,566 metric tons CO2e. 
The methodology used to calculate and collect the indicator is the “IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2006” and “Korea GHG 
and Energy Target Management System Operating Guidelines.”
 b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, as well as the related risks of which.SK Telecom discloses GHG emissions through its Annual Report each year 
and relevant data is guaranteed for its objectivity and transparency through 
3rd party verification. A total of 1,005,576 tco2eq was emitted in 2019. The 
methodology used to measure the amount of greenhouse gas emissions 
over the past three years can be found on page 175 of the Annual Report.
C6.1
C6.3
C6.5Organizations should provide their Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, as well as the related risks.
GHG emissions should be calculated in line with the GHG Protocol 
methodology to allow for aggregation and comparability across organizations 
and jurisdictions. As appropriate, organizations should consider providing 
related, generally accepted and industry-specific GHG efficiency ratios.
GHG emissions and associated metrics should be provided for historical 
periods to allow for trend analysis.
In addition, where not apparent, organizations should provide a description 
of the methodologies used to calculate or estimate the metrics.
c)  Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance against targets.SK Telecom has an absolute value for its goal of GHG emissions. As an 
absolute goal for the long-term goal of 2050, we established Net-Zero 
emission. As the absolute mid-term goal for 2030, we have also set a 
target to maintain 875,401 metric tons CO2e for the base year of 2017 
even in the midst of an increase in emission amounts following the 
establishment of 5G equipment. 
C4.1aOrganizations should describe their key climate-related targets such as those 
related to GHG emissions, water usage, energy usage, etc., in line with 
anticipated regulatory requirements or market constraints or other goals.
Other goals may include efficiency or financial goals, financial loss tolerances, 
avoided GHG emissions through the entire product life cycle, or net revenue 
goals for products and services designed for a lower-carbon economy.
In describing their targets, organizations should consider including the 
following: 
- whether the target is absolute or intensity based, 
- time frames over which the target applies, 
- base year from which progress is measured, and 
- key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets.
Where not apparent, organizations should provide a description of the 
methodologies used to calculate targets and measures.201 200
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS(SDGS)
SDG CONTEXT SK TELECOM’S CONTRIBUTION
Enhancement of healthy lives and welfare for all 
ages
3.7 Ensure universal access to health services•  Provision of citizen cooperation-type customized care services (Happy Community AI Care) 
based on AI speakers to address the issues of loneliness, safety, and dementia among the 
socially vulnerable group, including the elderly and those with disabilities. 
•  Operation of the “Care Call” service that checks and analyzes health and counseling results 
with AI automatically calling the subject to reduce the burdens of the health authorities’ 
prevention management for quarantined people arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education
and promote lifelong learning opportunities
4.4  Promoting ICT skills for senior citizens and 
teenagers
4.5  Providing equal education to marginalized 
groups such as individuals with disabilities 
and indigenous people• Smartphone education for senior citizens
•  Hosting the ICT Make-a-thon competition for youths with disabilities and conducting educa-
tion on software (Happy Coding School)
•  Providing coding education program for children by utilizing the smart robot ‘Albert’
• Carrying out development programs for talented youth
Promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, full and productive employment 
and a decent work environment
8.3  Promoting creative and innovative policies for 
job creation and growth of SMEs• Fostering ICT-based social enterprises and accelerating startups
•  Supporting middle-aged entrepreneurship for ICT convergent venture businesses, supporting 
the revitalization of university student’s entrepreneurship, building an entrepreneurship 
ecosystem in the Daejeon region, developing ventures specialized for agriculture, operating 
startup accelerating programs for young adults 
•  Support with Digital Transformation and information disparity alleviation for small business owners 
through “Bizit,” “Centers for happiness of small business owners,” “T calling,” “T membership” etc.
•  Encouraging mutual growth and cooperation
•  Hosted the Smart tourism app contest, launched the IMPACTUPS program
Building resilient infrastructure, promoting sustain-
able industrialization and fostering innovation
9.1  Developing quality, reliable, sustainable and 
resilient infrastructure to support economic de-
velopment and human well-being, with focus 
on affordable and equitable access for all• Building a new ICT ecosystem by strengthening core competences  such as 5G and AI
•  Striving to secure new technologies to provide stable communication services and continu-
ously improve network quality
•  Meet customer demand for network accessibility by creating a 5G coverage map
•  Tariff discounts to expand service accessibility of low-income and socially disadvantaged 
groups
Making cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sus-
tainable
11.7  Providing universal access to safe, inclusive 
and accessible, green and public spaces, 
in particular for women and children, older 
persons and persons with disabilities
11.A  Supporting positive economic, social and 
environmental links between urban, suburban  
and rural areas by strengthening national and 
regional development planning•  Taking care of senior citizens and preventing crime by strengthening network and ICT conver -
gence security services including AI and Big Data
•  Developing electronic devices and systems for strengthening social safety network and pro-
tecting marginalized people
•  Improving rescue mission efficiency through ICT public safety solutions Realizing social value 
such as disaster and safety by using SK Telecom’s Big Data and public data analysis 
•  Investing in the improvement of communication quality in areas with poor communication 
services such as remote mountainous areas and islands Developing local economies based 
on 5G clusters
Climate action
13.2  Integrating climate change measures into 
national policies, strategies, and planning•  Devising measures with multi-pronged approach to respond to international emissions 
trading scheme
• Providing ICT-based smart/green solutions such as energy management solutions
•  Making efforts to boost energy efficiency through innovation in network structures and new 
renewable energy facilities
•  Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy by providing optimal route through T 
map navigation
• Reducing resource consumption through minimizing electronic bills, mobile cards, SIM cards etc. DBL (DOUBLE BOTTOM LINE) MID- AND LONG-TERM 
GOALSSOCIAL IMPACT BUSINESS IMPACT
•  Increase in quality of life through mental care and alleviation of loneliness 
for vulnerable groups including isolated seniors, people with disabilities etc. 
•  Provision of solutions for people in blind spots of care services with emer -
gency SOS functions that can respond 24/7 even during evenings, holidays 
etc. (To date, fifteen senior citizens have been rescued from emergencies)
•  Increase in efficiency of welfare expenditures and provision of suggestions 
for possible measures by integrating care policies and costs that were sepa-
rated by government and departments
•  Increase in self-efficacy and alleviation of information disparity through AI 
speakers that enable searches for information and life services•  Expansion of sales of AI speakers (songs/ data) 
and building of SV creating ecosystems by nur -
turing Happy Connect, a social enterprise that 
operates on-site services
•  Creation of a health management market for 
senior citizens through the commercialization of 
a dementia prevention service (Brain Tok Tok) by 
AI Care services•  Expansion of a universal social safety net-
work for healthy old age such as reducing 
loneliness and preventing isolated deaths 
for vulnerable groups including isolated 
seniors in the Untact generation
•  Eliminating the digital divide by providing ICT and smartphone education to 
marginalized people and senior citizens who have relatively low access to 
information
•  Developing professional talents and reinforcing ICT competency by conduct-
ing ICT technology education for children and youths
•  Supporting career planning and education for youths through programs for 
app development and ICT knowledge sharing•  Expanding market by inducing transition into   
ICT-friendly lifestyles
•  Long-term improvement in profitability of 
business models thanks to the increase in 
smartphone subscribers•  Strengthening ICT technology education for 
seniors and youths
•  Continuously expanding participants and 
programs for the socially vulnerable group 
such as people with disabilities, senior 
citizens etc.
•  Creating opportunities and social infrastructure support by fostering core 
infrastructure, ICT-based social enterprises, and by accelerating startups
•  Supporting funds, technology and infrastructure for business partners
•  Support for small business owners•  Securing development opportunities for 
sustainable business related to the expansion of 
social value•  Strengthening support programs for 
startups
•  Accelerating ICT-based social enterprises 
and startups.
•  Providing core infrastructure for the 4th Industrial Revolution through 5G 
commercialization
•  Developing economy and innovating human life patterns by strengthening 
ICT infrastructure
• Equal, comprehensive infrastructure access to all classes and regions•  Securing new sales opportunities linked to 
global key players•  Developing new business models based 
on 5G
• Leading global 5G collaboration
•  Pruning socio-economic losses through stronger ICT-based social safety net-
work, crime prevention and reinforcement of responses to natural disasters
•  Strengthening inter-regional connectivity by generalizing telecommunication 
services Contributing to the development of a balanced regional economy•  Increasing new sales through the development 
of isolated regions•  Building a network for social safety 
through ICT convergent security (physical 
and information security)
•  Eliminating digitally excluded regions by 
expanding communication infrastructure
•  Easing traffic congestion and slashing social GHG emissions by providing 
optimal route guidance services, considering real-time traffic conditions
•  Increasing energy efficiency by developing technology related to renewable 
energy and building an ecosystem for the future energy industry 
•  Responding to climate change by reducing resource consumption such as 
conserving plastic and reducing carbon emissions •  Expanding opportunities in the ICT-based envi-
ronmental solution market• 2030 Green Parity
193 United Nations member nations and chief of states adopted the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) aimed at addressing humanity’s 
economic, environmental and social problems in September 2015. In order to take an active approach to achieving the goals as one of com -
panies which are key players in the implementation of the SDGs, SK Telecom is committed to reaching the goals by connecting them to SK 
Telecom’s strateg y to create future value to create social value.  Based on the Double Bottom Line, SK Telecom’s strateg y to create financial and 
social value simultaneously, by strengthening the connection with the SDGs, we are developing systematic goals and plans to create positive values in terms of the economic, environmental and social aspects. As a New ICT leader, SK Telecom has set six key SDG target areas where 
the company can display its core competencies and expertise in the 5G and AI sectors among others and is both setting systematic goals and 
speeding up the implementation process from a long-term perspective. In the future, SK Telecom will continue to contribute to the creation of 
sustainable social values by pursuing SDGs, a common great goal of the international community and social value, part of SK Telecom’s future 
value creation strategy after connecting them.203 202
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (NON-CONSOLIDATED)
NON-CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
Assets
 Current Assets
  Cash and cash equivalents
  Short-term financial instruments
  Short-term investment securities
  Accounts receivable
  Short-term loans, net
  Account receivable 
  Accrued revenue
  Contract assets
  Advance payment
  Prepaid expenses
  Security deposit
  Current tax assets
  Derivative financial assets
  Inventories, net
  Other current assets
 Non-current assets 
  Long-term financial instruments
  Long-term investment securities
  Investments in subsidiaries and associates
  Property and equipment, net
  Goodwill
  Intangible assets, net
  Long-term loans, net
  Long-term accounts receivable
  Long-term contract assets
  Long-term prepaid expenses
  Long-term guarantee deposits
  Long-term derivative financial assets
  Deferred tax assets
  Defined benefit assets
  Other non-current assets
Total Assets2018     
4,679,378
877,823
99,000
47,849
1,354,260
54,336
518,451
410
1,689
10,473
1,688,234
0
0
0
22,079
4,774
24,168,645
382
410,672
10,188,914
6,943,490
1,306,236
4,010,864
7,236
274,053
5,842
753,181
184,887
50,805
0
31,834
249
28,848,0232019     
5,011,363
497,282
234,000
31,920
1,479,971
57,751
507,680
336
7,173
14,610
1,970,982
73,345
70,528
26,253
11,125
28,407
25,828,004
382
510,633
10,578,158
8,264,888
1,306,236
3,461,152
7,474
332,220
23,724
1,134,749
108,141
99,998
0
0
249
30,839,3672017     
3,768,098
880,583
94,000
47,383
1,520,209
54,403
1,003,509
659
0
13,783
121,121
0
0
0
29,837
2,611
21,789,424
382
724,603
9,152,321
6,923,133
1,306,236
3,089,545
7,512
285,118
0
25,169
173,513
30,608
30,953
40,082
249
25,557,5222019     
5,057,478
2,266,958
0
88,257
685,822
793,669
0
0
0
50,912
520,292 
207,710
423,839
20,019
8,392,150
5,900,829
19,777
1,544,699
11,342
0
0
203,179
16,359
644,754
25,093
26,118
13,449,628
44,639
715,619
16,678,787
(49,306)
17,389,739
30,839,367Liabilities and Equity
 Current Liabilities
  Account payables 
  Short-term Unearned revenue
  Contract liabilities
  Withholdings
  Accrued expenses
  current tax liabilities 
  Short-term unearned income
  Derivative financial liabilities
  Current liabilities
   Current bonds and long-term bor -
rowings Lease liabilities
  Lease liabilities
  Current long-term account payables
  Other current liabilities
 Non-current liabilities
  Debentures
  Long-term borrowings
  Long-term account payables
  Long-term contract liabilities
  Long-term unearned revenue
  Derivative financial liabilities 
  Long-term lease liabilities
  Non-current liabilities
  Deferred tax liabilities 
  Defined benefit liabilities
  Other non-current liabilities
 Total Liabilities 
Equity
 Share capital
 Other paid up capital
 Retained earnings
 Reserves
 Total Equity
Total Liabilities and Equity2018    
4,178,068
1,622,744
0
46,075
696,790
664,286
162,609
0
0
49,303
512,377 
0
423,884
0
7,782,468
5,222,865
31,764
1,939,082
8,358
0
1,107
0
12,483
523,732
0
43,077
11,960,536
44,639
415,324
16,467,789
(40,265)
16,887,487
28,848,0232017     
4,767,401
1,664,054
76,126
0
517,991
790,368
206,060
3,705
27,791
48,508
1,131,047 
0
301,751
0
5,782,730
4,334,848
42,486
1,328,630
0
7,033
10,719
0
16,178
0
0
42,836
10,550,131
44,639
371,895
14,512,556
78,301
15,007,391
25,557,522KRW million KRW million205 204
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
NON-CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME NON-CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Operating revenue
 Revenue
Operating expense
 Labor cost
 Commissions paid
 Depreciation and amortization
 Network interconnection
 Leased line
 Advertising
 Rent
 Cost of products that have been resold
 Other operating expense
Operating income(loss)
Finance income
Finance cost
Other non-operating income
Other non-operating expense
Gain (losses) related to investments in 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, net
Profit before income tax
Corporate tax
Net profit(loss) for the term
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (in won)
Diluted earnings per share (in won)2018     
11,705,639
11,705,639
10,398,145
684,777
4,454,763
2,324,509
606,452
276,699
169,003
445,122
500,119
936,701
1,307,494
279,059
255,455
41,265
149,817
(1,302) 
1,221,244
287,342
933,902
13,000
13,0002019     
11,416,215
11,416,215
10,466,106
783,124
4,419,953
2,672,597
565,084
213,753
154,124
223,439
479,605
954,427
950,109
615,589
270,795
78,212
119,075
(68,550) 
1,185,490
205,152
980,338
13,399
13,3992017     
12,468,035
12,468,035
10,770,326
624,900
4,864,463
2,370,192
628,610
290,324
150,361
435,170
515,013
891,293
1,697,709
188,025
274,098
18,471
165,783
139,484 
1,603,808
272,694
1,331,114
18,613
18,613Annual profit(loss)
Other Inclusive gains and losses
  Items not reclassified as a profit or loss 
during the follow-up periods
   Remeasurement factors of defined benefit 
systems
   Valuation loss on financial assets at fair 
value through other comprehensive income
  Items reclassified as a profit or loss during 
the follow-up periods
   Gain or loss from appreciation of tradable 
financial assets
   Net change in unrealized fair value or 
derivatives
Total inclusive gains and losses for the term2018     
933,902
(90,548)
(118,808) 
(16,354) 
(102,454) 
28,260 
0 
28,260 
843,3542019     
980,338
(19,688)
(54,692) 
(40,720) 
(13,972) 
35,004 
0 
35,004 
960,6502017     
1,331,114
141,840
1,746 
1,746 
0 
140,094 
119,910 
20,184 
1,472,954KRW million KRW million207 206
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
NON-CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY NON-CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Cash flows from operating activities
 Cash generated from operating activities
  Net Profit for the term
  Adjustment for income and expenses
  Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating activities
 Interest received
 Dividends received
 Interest paid
 Income tax paid
Cash flows from investing activities
 Cash inflows from investing activities
  Decrease in short-term investment securities, net
  Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net
  Collection of short-term loans
  Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities
  Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures
  Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment
  Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets
  Collection of lease receivables
 Cash outflows for investment activities
  Increase in short-term financial instruments
  Increase in short-term investment securities, net
  Increase in short-term loans
  Acquisition of long-term investment securities
  Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures
  Acquisition of property and equipment
  Acquisition of intangible assets
Cash flows from financing activities
 Cash inflows from financing activities
  Issuance of hybrid bonds
  Issuance of debentures
  Cash inflows due to transaction of derivative products
  Disposal of treasury stocks
 Cash outflows for financing activities
  Repayment of long-term borrowings
  Repayments of hybrid bonds
  Repayment of long-term account payables
  Repayment of debentures
  Payment of dividends
  Interest on hybrid bond
  Cash outflow due to transaction of derivative products
  Repayment of lease liabilities
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalent at beginning of the year
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year2018     
3,965,028
4,307,913
933,902
2,863,632
510,379
35,456
177,490
(183,023)
(372,808)
(3,109,284)
389,656
0
0
110,261
189,083
78,548
10,848
916
0
(3,498,940)
0
5,000
109,915
990
1,045,713
1,893,284
444,038
(858,073)
1,725,221
398,759
1,326,346
116
0
(2,583,294)
12,770
400,000
302,867
1,116,550
706,091
15,803
29,213
0
(2,329)
880,583
(431)
877,8232019     
3,115,408
3,090,855
980,338
2,793,813
(683,296)
28,388
525,045
(217,200)
(311,680)
(2,984,059)
377,937
16,217
0
107,996
223,619
0
10,767
3,843
15,495
(3,361,996)
135,000
0
111,686
321,124
379,821
2,304,512
109,853
(511,890)
1,507,700
0
1,195,274
12,426
300,000
(2,019,590)
12,882
0
425,349
550,000
718,698
14,766
0
297,895
(380,541)
877,823
0
497,2822017     
3,257,470
3,841,517
1,331,114
2,804,239
(293,836)
46,774
101,256
(183,939)
(548,138)
(2,151,918)
296,686
50,000
1,000
206,932
15,276
0
19,667
3,811
0
(2,448,604)
0
0
203,511
12,863
286,298
1,870,634
75,298
(1,099,286)
647,516
0
647,328
188
0
(1,746,802)
13,002
0
302,867
602,733
706,091
16,840
105,269
0
6,266
874,350
(33)
880,583 
Share 
Capital 
0 
44,639
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44,639
0 
44,639
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44,639
0 
44,639
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44,639 
 
Capital Excess 
of Par Value
0 
2,915,887
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2,915,887
0 
2,915,887
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2,915,887
0 
2,915,887
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2,915,887 
 
Treasury 
Stock
0 
(2,260,626)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(2,260,626)
0 
(2,260,626)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
281,151
0
(1,979,475)
0 
(1,979,475)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
282,478
(1,696,997) 
 
Hybrid 
Bond
0 
398,518
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
398,518
0 
398,518
0
0
0
0
(398,518)
398,759
0
0
0
398,759
0 
398,759
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
398,759 
 
Stock 
Options 
0 
0
0
0
0
414
0
0
0
0
0
414
0 
414
0
0
0
593
0
0
0
0
0
1,007
0 
1,007
0
0
0
295
0
0
0
0
0
1,302 
 
Total 
0 
371,481
0
0
0
414
0
0
0
0
0
371,895
0 
371,895
0
0
0
593
(400,000)
398,759
0
44,077
0
415,324
0 
415,324
0
0
0
295
0
0
0
0
300,000
715,619 
 
Other 
0 
(682,298)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(682,298)
0 
(682,298)
0
0
0
0
(1,482)
0
0
(237,074)
0
(920,854)
0 
(920,854)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
17,522
(903,332) 
Retained 
Earnings 
0 
13,902,627
1,331,114
1,746
(706,091)
0
0
0
(16,840)
0
0
14,512,556
1,773,596 
16,286,152
933,902
(30,371)
(706,091)
0
0
0
(15,803)
0
0
16,467,789
(25,229) 
16,442,560
980,338
(10,647)
(718,698)
0
0
0
(14,766)
0
0
16,678,787 
Reserves 
 
0 
(61,793)
0
140,094
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78,301
(58,389) 
19,912
0
(60,177)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(40,265)
0 
(40,265)
0
(9,041)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(49,306) 
Total  
Equity 
 
0
14,256,954
1,331,114
141,840
(706,091)
414
0
0
(16,840)
0
0
15,007,391
1,715,207 
16,722,598
933,902
(90,548)
(706,091)
593
(400,000)
398,759
(15,803)
44,077
0
16,887,487
(25,229) 
16,862,258
980,338
(19,688)
(718,698)
295
0
0
(14,766)
0
300,000
17,389,739 
Other Paid Up CapitalEquityKRW million KRW million
 
 
 
Increase (Decrease) due to changes in 
accounting policies
January 1, 2017(Basic Capital)
Total  
income 
Dividends paid
Stock compensation expense
Repayments of hybrid bonds
Issuance of hybrid bonds 
Interest on hybrid bond
Business combination under common control
Disposal of treasury stocks
December 31, 2017 (End of term capital)
Increase (Decrease) due to changes in 
accounting policies
January 1, 2018 (Basic Capital)
Total  
income 
Dividends paid
Stock compensation expense
Repayments of hybrid bonds
Issuance of hybrid bonds 
Interest on hybrid bond
Business combination under common control
Disposal of treasury stocks
December 31, 2018 (End of term capital)
Increase (Decrease) due to changes in 
accounting policies
January 1, 2019 (Basic Capital)
Total  
income 
Dividends paid
Stock compensation expense
Repayments of hybrid bonds
Issuance of hybrid bonds 
Interest on hybrid bond
Business combination under common control
Disposal of treasury stocks
December 31, 2019 (End of term capital)	
	
	
	
Annual profit (loss)
Other comprehensive income (loss)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual profit (loss)
Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual profit (loss)
Other comprehensive income (loss)209 208
SK TELECOM ANNUAL REPORT 2019
About This Report
Integrated Reporting According to International 
Guidelines
This Report was prepared in accordance with the guiding 
principles and report content as suggested in the <IR> Frame -
work. The International Integrated Reporting Council provides 
the International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework, a 
standard framework for the Integrated Reporting of both fi -
nancial and nonfinancial performances. This Report was also 
prepared in accordance with the comprehensive option of the 
‘GRI Standards,’ the first global standard for sustainability 
reporting provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). SK 
Telecom joined  the UN Global Compact (UNGC), world largest 
corporate citizenship initiative for corporate social responsi -
bility and sustainability in 2007 and has been supporting to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs), such as 
human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption, etc. 
Scope and Boundary of the Report
In this Report, the terms, both “SK Telecom” and “the com -
pany,” refer to SK Telecom, excluding its subsidiaries that are 
subject to consolidated financial statements in accordance 
with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards 
(K-IFRS). The financial data is based on consolidated finan -
cials. Due to a change in accounting standards in 2018, the 
K-IFRS 15 standard was applied to data from 2018 unless oth -
erwise indicated. The nonfinancial data on the environmental 
performance and fulfillment of the corporate social respon -
sibility is based on a non-consolidated basis. The data pre -
sented in this Report exclude those of SK Telecom’s overseas 
branches, subsidiaries and invested companies unless oth -
erwise indicated in the general descriptions and information 
section. Such data, however, were included on a separate 
basis in cases in which they are likely to have a significant 
impact on the stakeholders ’ decisions, in consideration of  
SK Telecom’s financial and operational control and the actual 
influence and effects of its business. As for the geographical 
boundaries, this Report covers data for the company’s major 
places of business where over 99% of revenue is generated, 
which is in the Republic of Korea, while the temporal scope is 
between January 1 and December 31, 2019. This Report, how -
ever, may disclose a portion of the qualitative data generated 
until May 2020. In case of any changes in the previously re -ported data requiring attention, such data were re-calculated 
based on the 2019 data. The reporting period of this Report 
is one fiscal year, and the preceding report was the <SK Tele -
com Annual Report 2018> issued in June 2019.
Third Party Assurance and Disclaimer
Financial data in this Report have been audited by an inde -
pendent audit corporation, and non-financial data have been 
assured independently by a third-party entity to secure the 
credibility of the Report. Greenhouse gas data have been 
separately assured as well. This Report contains predic -
tive statements regarding SK Telecom’s and subsidiaries’ 
financial conditions, operating and sales performances, and 
plans and goals of management. Despite external assuranc -
es, there might be gaps between the future performance 
specified or inferred through predictive statements and the 
company’s actual performance due to political, economic, 
and circumstantial uncertainties in business management.
Global Initiatives and Partnerships
In 2007, SK Telecom became a member of the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC), which was initiated by the cooperation 
between UN organizations and global businesses to improve 
social ethics and the international environment. Further -
more, SK Telecom complies with the management system 
standard for social responsibility, ISO 26000, and partici -
pates in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as wel as the 
business network program of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC). In recognition of its efforts to 
achieve excellence in sustainability management, SK Tele -
com has been listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 
(DJSI) World Index for 12 consecutive years since 2008.As an Integrated Annual Report, this report has been prepared for investors and stakeholders to provide 
an overview of SK Telecom’s annual performance. This Report comprises not only the financial performance 
records of SK Telecom, but also comprehensive information on value creation including non-financial 
performance, future prospects and efforts to improve company value (Value Creation Story). The Board of 
Directors granted its final approval for this Report in June of 2020. You can download this Report as a PDF file from the official website of
SK Telecom (www.sktelecom.com/index_en.html)
To contribute to resource recycling and environmental protection, SK Telecom used 
FSCⓇ (Forest Stewardship CouncilⓇ ) -certified paper, bearing the logo carried only 
by products made using material from responsibly managed forests and other con -
trolled sources. The report was printed at an FSC-certified print shop using soy oil 
ink which drastically reduces the emissions of air pollutants. 
The company also participates in the Carbon Neutral Program run by the Korea En -
ergy Management Corporation to offset greenhouse gas emissions generated from 
the pulp and energy used to print reports. Despite the company’s varying efforts 
to reduce environmental impacts, since the process of making and printing in pa -
per generates pollutants, this Report is published both in print and as an PDF file.
SK Telecom plans on reducing resource and energy use through the use of PDF 
Files. The official website of SK Telecom contains a lot more information than in 
the print version due to a lack of space. We encourage our readers to access this 
Report as a PDF file instead of the print edition and visit the official website to 
save resources and protect the environment, while accessing more information 
more conveniently.
Imprint
Publicate Date July 2020
Publishing SK Telecom
Publisher Jung Ho Park
Production ResponsibilityCorporate Center 1 and 2
IR OfficeJack Choi
Uk Jang
Igsoon Im
Contact dustinim@sk.com
Planning & Advisory Korea Productivity Center
Editing & Design IM creative