2008SustainabilityReport BuildingaHappinessNetwork
2008  Sustainability ReportBuilding 
aHappinessNetwork
¥Index Numbers
We mentioned the indicator names with the corresponding GRI index
number. For all others, we used unique numbers starting with tSK.u
¥Additional Information
We included additional information related to the contents of this
report when deemed necessary. Webpage   Related reference s/
reports Relevant pages in the 2008 Sustainability Report
The SK Telecom 2008 Sustainability Report is printed on Eco-plus, an ECF
(element chlorine free) paper. All paper used in this document is acid-free
and FSC-certified. The FSC logo identifies products that contain wood from
well-managed forests and other controlled sources certified in accordance
with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. Printer holds FSC Chain of
Custody [Certificate number SGS-COC-005559].
SKsstwings of happiness usymbolize its commitment to create a
happy world through the pursuit of happiness for stakeholders. Flyingto new heights is possible when both wings achieve balance andharmony. In much the same way, sustainable development willbecome reality when there is mutual happiness between a companyand its customers, a company and its shareholders, management andemployees, and a company and its business partners.
Cert no. SGS-COC-005559
VoiceEye For the benefit of the visually impaired, we converted
text data to voice data and inserted voice icons on the
top right hand corner of each page.
2008SustainabilityReport BuildingaHappinessNetwork
2008  Sustainability ReportBuilding 
aHappinessNetwork
¥Index Numbers
We mentioned the indicator names with the corresponding GRI index
number. For all others, we used unique numbers starting with tSK.u
¥Additional Information
We included additional information related to the contents of this
report when deemed necessary. Webpage   Related reference s/
reports Relevant pages in the 2008 Sustainability Report
The SK Telecom 2008 Sustainability Report is printed on Eco-plus, an ECF
(element chlorine free) paper. All paper used in this document is acid-free
and FSC-certified. The FSC logo identifies products that contain wood from
well-managed forests and other controlled sources certified in accordance
with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. Printer holds FSC Chain of
Custody [Certificate number SGS-COC-005559].
SKsstwings of happiness usymbolize its commitment to create a
happy world through the pursuit of happiness for stakeholders. Flyingto new heights is possible when both wings achieve balance andharmony. In much the same way, sustainable development willbecome reality when there is mutual happiness between a companyand its customers, a company and its shareholders, management andemployees, and a company and its business partners.
Cert no. SGS-COC-005559
VoiceEye For the benefit of the visually impaired, we converted
text data to voice data and inserted voice icons on the
top right hand corner of each page.
Contact Information
CSR Team
SK T-Tower, 11 Euljiro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea
Tel:+82-2-6100-1712
Fax : +82-2-6100-7826
Email: sustainability@sktelecom.comContents
01 About This Report
02 CEO Message
Sustainability at SK Telecom
05 Setting the Context
09 Our Journey towards Sustainability12 Independent but Together
Stakeholder Engagement
19 Stakeholder Communications
21 Together with Our Stakeholders23 Materiality Assessment
Material Issues to Our Business and Society
25 Economic Impact
27 Product and Service Development
29 Service Quality and Reliability30 Affordable Mobile Services31 Customer Privacy Protection32 Sound Telecom Culture33 Responding to Climate Change34 Innovative Corporate Culture35 Compliance36 Gaining Trust in Global Markets37 Investment in Local Communities
Measuring Our Progress
39 Economic Data
41 Environmental Data
45 Social Data
Appendix
53 GRI Content Index
56 UNGC Index
57 Independent Assurance Statement
:Measuring Our Progress:Material Issues to Our Business and Society:Stakeholder Engagement
:Sustainability at SK Telecom
SK Telecom 2008 Sustainability Report
|Published in |May 2009
|Published by |SK Telecom
|Designed by |SAMWOO Communication
|Printed by |Sanghyun Communication
Contact Information
CSR Team
SK T-Tower, 11 Euljiro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea
Tel:+82-2-6100-1712
Fax : +82-2-6100-7826
Email: sustainability@sktelecom.comContents
01 About This Report
02 CEO Message
Sustainability at SK Telecom
05 Setting the Context
09 Our Journey towards Sustainability12 Independent but Together
Stakeholder Engagement
19 Stakeholder Communications
21 Together with Our Stakeholders23 Materiality Assessment
Material Issues to Our Business and Society
25 Economic Impact
27 Product and Service Development
29 Service Quality and Reliability30 Affordable Mobile Services31 Customer Privacy Protection32 Sound Telecom Culture33 Responding to Climate Change34 Innovative Corporate Culture35 Compliance36 Gaining Trust in Global Markets37 Investment in Local Communities
Measuring Our Progress
39 Economic Data
41 Environmental Data
45 Social Data
Appendix
53 GRI Content Index
56 UNGC Index
57 Independent Assurance Statement
:Measuring Our Progress:Material Issues to Our Business and Society:Stakeholder Engagement
:Sustainability at SK Telecom
SK Telecom 2008 Sustainability Report
|Published in |May 2009
|Published by |SK Telecom
|Designed by |SAMWOO Communication
|Printed by |Sanghyun Communication
About This Report
This is SK Telecom ssthird sustainability report and the second COP(Communication on
Progress) published since we joined the UN Global Compact. In preparing this report, weincorporated stakeholders
sfeedback to our previous edition in the materiality assessment
process to enhance responsiveness and inclusivity. This report also covers sustainabilitymanagement activities of our invested companies around the world for added completeness.We received external assurance for greater credibility, as with our previous report, and for thefirst time, we applied the AccountAbility 1000 Assurance Standard(AA1000 AS). Future issues ofSK Telecom
sssustainability report will be issued in May of each year. 
|Reporting Principle   | This report was prepared based on the GRI G3 Guidelines and AA1000
APS. Data was compiled in accordance with GRI Indicator Protocols and other pertinentstandards. Any changes in the calculation method have been stated together with the relevantindicator. We assess our application of the GRI reporting framework to be at level B+.
|Reporting Scope  | This report covers the sustainability management activities and
performance of SK Telecom as well as the major invested companies taking into accountSK Telecom
ssequity stake, book value, and strategic importance. However, quantitative
performance indicators are based on data pertaining only to SK Telecom. The relevant detailsare provided for indicators with a different reporting scope. The reporting scope will be graduallyexpanded to include invested companies in computing quantitative performance indicators andto report on a greater number of invested companies. 
|Reporting Period   |The 2008 Sustainability Report covers the period beginning January 1,
2008, and ending December 31, 2008 (Fiscal Year 2008). With major performanceindicators, however, we included data from the past four to five years. 
:Appendix
|Employee Creative Writing/Picture/Photo Contest |
SK Telecom holds the annual Employee Creative Writing/Picture/Photo Contest as a way of promoting
exchanges between the company and its employees and their families. A total of 355 entries were
submitted in 2008. The winning entries are introduced in the 2008 Sustainability Report.
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
2
SK Telecom represents the living history of ICT in Korea.
We invite you to join us as we embark on anew challenge to create the next CDMA legend.
CEO Message
3CEO 
MessageDear Stakeholders,
We intend to create further value for stakeholders by building on our
progress in sustainability management and fulfill our responsibilities asasignatory to the UN Global Compact.
SK Telecom effectively navigated its way through the fast changing business
environment to generate record high sales in 2008. We also secured a foothold inChina and the US to make further strides in becoming a global convergence leader,and reinforced the basis for sustainability management by creating the CorporateCitizenship Committee under the Board of Directors. Thanks to continued efforts toincrease value for stakeholders based on the SK Group
ssmanagement philosophy
and customer-oriented management system, SK Telecom, along with China Mobile,became the first telecommunications company in Asia to be included in the DowJones Sustainability Index(DJSI).
Fierce competition coupled with slumping demand in the wake of the global
economic crisis presents much uncertainty for 2009. SK Telecom believes thatsustainability management activities are more crucial than ever in difficult times to
deliver happiness to all corners of society. We will continue to introduce innovative
services to secure safe mobile communications access to all people while addressingmajor issues facing the world such as climate change and the aging population. Indoing so, we also hope to contribute to revitalizing the national economy. 
New r esponsibilities and mission
Since launching the world ssfirst commercial CDMA service in 1996, SK Telecom has
contributed to advancing information and communications technology(ICT) and the
Korean economy. Rapid growth of the ICT sector was an important catalyst in Korea ss
emergence from the foreign exchange crisis in the late 1990s. Harnessing our worldleading ICT infrastructure, we will continue to develop new technologies to boostefficiencies of other industries and explore new global markets to promote Korea
ss
ICT industry on the world stage. Above all, we intend to create further value forstakeholders by building on our progress in sustainability management and fulfill ourresponsibilities as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Your trust and support willcontinue to play a vital role as we pursue our goals.
President and CEO Man W on Jung
At SK Telecom, sustainability management is more than a slogan.
It also goes beyond following the latest trend.It represents the only way to ensure our growth and promote sustainable development of society.
A_Family Award in Picture Category - Our Family ssSummer Break - Child of Lee Cheol-hyeong, 
PM Platform Team: Lee Hyeon-jeong
B_Family Award in Photo Category - Unknown World - Kim Soo-ik, Next Internet Business 
C_Family Award in Photo Category - Children on the Beach - Han Sang-yun, PM Platform TeamA.
B.Sustainability at SK Telecom
C.
Setting the Context Sustainability at SK Telecom
5
Setting the
ContextSK Telecom Profile
Asthe nation ssleading mobile communications company, SK Telecom has spearheaded
advances in CDMA service not only in Korea but throughout the world and in the process played
akey role in shaping Korea into a global IT powerhouse through continuous innovation. We
continue to lead the mobile evolution with cutting edge convergence services that break down
the walls between different sectors such as mobile commerce, telematics, satellite DMB and
digital home service.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Total assets 14,020,705 14,521,676 15,803,514 18,132,510 18,617,495
Total liabilities 6,893,613 6,263,796 6,507,626 6,705,564 7,888,488
(Debt-to-equity ratio) (96.7%) (75.9%) (70.0%) (58.7%) (73.5%)
Total shareholders sequity 7,127,091 8,257,881 9,295,889 11,426,946 10,729,007
Operating revenue 9,703,681 10,161,129 10,650,952 11,285,900 11,674,662
Operating income 2,359,581 2,653,570 2,584,370 2,171,543 2,059,896
Net income 1,494,852 1,871,380 1,446,598 1,642,451 1,277,658Full-time employees 4,130 4,188 4,187 4,442 4,411
Key Management FiguresCompany History
Share Ownership
As of December 31, 2008
18,748,452
23.09%2,341,569
2.88%8,707,696
10.73%
51,395,994
63.30%81,193,711
sharesInstitutional investors/
Minority shareholders
SK Group
Treasury stock
POSCO
As a public enterprise
(1984~1993)Since privatization
(1994~present)
	r84.3
Established Korea
Mobile Telecommunications
Services Co., Ltd.
	r84.5
Began car phone
service
	r89.10
Listed on Korea
Stock Exchange
	r92.4
 Paging service
subscribers surpassed 
1millionSK Group became 
major shareholder
Declared tMove 21u
Launched CDMA 
cellular phone service 
Changed CI 
Launched tTTLu
Launched world ss
first commercial 
IMT 2000 service 
Launched commercial
CDMA cellular service in Vietnam	r94.6
 	r04.3
	r95.2
	r96.1
	r97.3
	r99.7
	r02.1
	r03.7
20th anniversary of 
SKTelecom 
Declared tNew Value Management u
Launched the 
integrated wired/wireless
music portal tMelonu
Commercialized 
worldssfirst HSDPA service 
Launched mobile 
communications brand tTu
Signed MOU on 
TDSCDMA cooperation with
the Chinese governmentSet up world ssfirst 
commercial 5.76Mbps 
HSUPA network
Obtained approval to 
acquire Hanaro Telecom Inc. 
Launched open 
market t11th Street u
Opened information 
technology experience 
center tT.umu
Cellular service 
subscribers in Vietnam
surpassed 6 million
(Unit: shares)(Unit: KRW million, persons)CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access)
Atechnology for digital transmission of radio
signals based on spread spectrum techni-
ques developed by Qualcomm of the US. SK
Telecom launched the world ssfirst commer-
cial CDMA cellular service in January 1996.
WCDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access)
Next generation CDMA technology enabling
the sending and receiving of data, static
images and moving images.
HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access)
A3.5G mobile communications technology for
improving the downlink performance ofWCDMA networks. It supports mobile
telephony and high-speed data transmission.
TDSCDMA (Time Division Synchronous Code
Division Multiple Access)
A3G mobile communications technology
developed by China. It is the next generation
mobile communications standard being
pursued by the country.	r04.11
	r06.5
	r06.7
	r06.8
	r07.12
	r08.2
	r08.2
	r08.10
	r08.12
SK T-Tower (headquarters)
Regional headquarters
Switchboard building
Other premisesSK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
6
Domestic Business
Asof the end of 2008, the number of mobile phone subscribers in Korea stood at 45.6 million, for
apenetration rate of 93.8% relative to the total population. In line with our strategy of maintaining
a50.5% market share, we attracted one million new subscribers in 2008 to expand our
subscriber base to 23 million users. We reinforced our mobile commerce business with our entry
into online shopping and the launch of Commerceplanet. We also branched out into movie
distribution. Our wired-wireless convergence business gained pace as we landed orders for the
Pangyo u-City project and the Ministry of National Defense ssBcN (Broadband Convergence Network).
Major Af filiates in Kor ea
Based on the capability of Korea ssleading mobile telecom company, we operate affiliates that have
specialized competencies in various business areas: SNS and messenger (SK Communications 64.8%) ,
commerce (Commerceplanet 100%) ,finance (Paxnet 59.7%) ,game (Ntreev 66.7%) ,music (LOEN Entertainment
63.5%) ,broadcasting contents (iHQ 37.1%) ,satellite DMB (TU Media 44.2%) ,broadband (SK Broadband 43.4%) ,
and international calls and long-distance calls (SK Telink 90.8%) .(Numbers in brackets represent SK Telecom ssequity
stake as of Dec. 31, 2008.)
Domestic Operation
Sales and marketing activities are carried out through the branches, customer centers and CRM
centers under our four regional headquarters and the roughly 2,200 dealers. In carrying out ourbusiness, we work closely with over 4,000 business partners which includes dealers; networkequipment and handset suppliers; companies that build, operate and maintain our network; contentsproviders; and R&D partners.
T, our representative brand, aspires
to go beyond technological leader-ship and appeal to customers
s
senses and forge a new culture. T
represents our resolve to add newvalue to our customers
slives by
offering new and unique products.Major Business and Services
Headquarters and Regional Headquarters
Finance
Internet Portal
LBSTelematics services,
including real-time 
traffic informationKoreassNo.1
ubiquitous social
network service having users to
share contents
Online 
marketplace On and off-line USIM based
payment system
SNS
Commerce
Ubiquitous
Music ServiceMobile Game
Portal
Mobile
Widget Service
cash
map
Setting the Context Sustainability at SK Telecom
7Overseas Business
Drawing on our proprietary technology and innovative convergence services, we are building up a
global presence via expansion into China, Vietnam and the US.
China
We have maintained close cooperation with China Unicom since we began providing technical
consulting under a CDMA cooperation agreement in 2001. Last year, we established the basis for ourconvergence business in China, the world
sslargest market, with the acquisition of companies in the
telematics, music, games, and e-commerce sectors.
Vietnam
We launched our CDMA service in Vietnam in 2003 in conjunction with Saigon Postel, the nation ss
second largest mobile telecom operator, after receiving approval from the local authorities in 2001.We enjoyed robust growth in 2008, with the number of service subscribers surpassing 6.3 millionfollowing the addition of 2.8 million new subscribers during the year. 
USA
In the US, we launched an innovative service under the Helio brand in May 2006. With a view to
capturing new business opportunities in the vast local market, we made the strategic decision tomerge Helio into Virgin Mobile USA, the country
ssleading MVNO(Mobile Virtual Network Operator), in
2008. Separately, we set up a joint venture with Citigroup that offers mobile financial services. The JVprovides an avenue through which we can export our mobile finance knowhow acquired in theKorean market.Major Global Subsidiaries
-China, SKT China Holding Company (100%)
-USA, SKT Americas (100%)
-Vietnam, SKT Vietnam (73.3%)
-Mongolia, Skytel (26.4%)
(as of Dec. 31, 2008)
SK Telecom Global Sites
SK Telecom
SK Telecom Tokyo OfficeSKT Europe
SKT Vietnam 
Ho Chi Minh OfficeSKT China Holding Company
SKT Vietnam
Hanoi Office
SK Telecom 
Jakarta OfficeSKT AmericasAs of December 31, 2008
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
8
External Recognition
In2008, SK Telecom seized the number one position in the three major customer surveys in
Korea. We also received the Award of Excellence in corporate governance from the Korea
Corporate Governance Service for the second consecutive year and the ARC Award for our
Annual Report. Gifticon, our mobile-based gift coupon service unveiled in December 2006, won
the Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific Information and Communications Technology (ICT)Award for Most
Innovative Application/Product of the Year. It also won the award for Best Mobile Internet Service
given by GSM Association.
r09. 3
r08.11
r08.10
r08. 9
r08. 9
r08. 8
r08. 6
r08. 5
r08. 4National Customer Satisfaction Index 
(No. 1 for 12 consecutive years)
Asia Mobile Award, Most Excellent 
Mobile Service
Korea Customer Satisfaction Index 
(No. 1 for 11 consecutive years)
KS-SQI (No. 1 for nine consecutive years)
International Business Award 
(Grand prize of three categories)
ARC Award
Award of Excellence WinnerInnovative Application/Product of the Year
Best Innovation CompanyKorea Productivity Center
GSM Association
Korea Management Association Consulting
Korean Standards Association
The Stevie Awards Organization
MerComm
Korea Corporate Governance ServiceFrost & Sullivan
Asian Wall Street Journal
Major Awards in 2008
Gifticon, Awarded as Most
Innovative Application/Product of the Year
Membership Status
Bridge Mobile Alliance
Business for Social Responsibility
CDMA Development Group  Center for Telecom ManagementEthics and Compliance Officer Association
GSM Association
International Telecommunication UnionKeio Research InstituteKhronos GroupLiMo FoundationNext Generation Mobile NetworkOpen Mobile AllianceOpen Mobile Terminal PlatformTelemanagement ForumUN Global Compact
WiMAX Forum
World Economic ForumInternational
KoreaNext Generation Mobile Communication Forum
Korea Telematics Business Association
Telecommunications Information Sharing 
and Analysis Association
Unification IT ForumKorea Association of Game Industry
Korea Fair Competition Federation
Korea Network Research AssociationKorea Wireless Internet Solution AssociationKorea Association of RFID/USN (Chairman)Korea Radio Promotion Association
Telecommunications Technology Association
Korea Association of Information & 
Communication (Chairman)  
Commerce Net Korea (Chairman)
Korea Contents Industry & Business Association
Korea Telecommunications Operators Association
Korea Home Network Industry Association
Korea e-Sports Association (Chairman)
Sustainability at SK Telecom
9
Foundation of Sustainability Management, SKMS
(SK Management System)
Constant support from customers, the dedication and hard work of employees, and
encouragement from shareholders and business partners played a vital role in poweringSK Telecom
ssgrowth over the years. Increasing value for stakeholders and securing their trust is
at the heart of all corporate activities, in accordance with SKMS, SK ssmanagement philosophy
adopted in 1979 and revised over twelve occasions. Based on SKMS, SK Telecom strives to fulfillits economic, legal and social responsibilities in order to create value for all stakeholders.
SK Telecom website, About SK Telecom > Management Philosophy > SKMS
Sustainability Management Strategy
Sustainability management at SK Telecom involves more than a defensive and reactive approach
to manage risks. The objective is to gain stakeholders strust and through that process, seize
business opportunities derived from environmental and social issues that will drive sustainabledevelopment. To that end, we have derived concrete action plans related to the environment,
win-win partnerships, customer protection, community involvement and ethics. In particular, weare preparing measures in response to growing demand for green IT. In February 2009, wereexamined our action plans related to environmental management during a meeting of theCorporate Citizenship Committee.
2008 SK Telecom Annual Report, Sustainability ManagementOur Journey
towardsSustainabilityOur Journey towards
Sustainability
Strategic Direction for Sustainability Management
Strategic CSR 
through Business Employee
MotivationEmployeeMotivationReinforcing
Conventional
Biz
Regulation
Risk
HedgeNew Biz
OpportunitySustainable
GrowthResponsible
Brand Image
Cost
Efficiency
Hedge regulation risk through CSR
ÜRespond proactively to standards on the 
environment, fair competition, customer protection, human rights, labor, and ethics
ÜMinimize regulation risk through ongoing 
dialogue with stakeholdersDiscover new business opportunities
through CSR
ÜRespond to paradigm change, e.g., green ICT, 
open collaboration
ÜSecure new business model to lead change in 
personal lifestylesReinforce existing business through CSR
ÜLink with customer mind share-focused marketing strategy
ÜBoost market leadership by building a brand image based on integrity and trust
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
10
Sustainability Management Framework
SKTelecom incorporates stakeholders sopinions in carrying out its business activities. Separate
units have been set up for each of the major stakeholder groups identified by SKMS to enhance
communication between the company and stakeholders.
Corporate Citizenship Committee
The Corporate Citizenship Committee was created under the Board of Directors in May 2008.
Composed of three independent directors and two standing directors, the committee overseespolicies, performance and communication related to sustainability management. The committeeconvened for two meetings in 2008, during which the members discussed progress to date andareas for improvement. Based on review of the company
ssactivities and the related risks and
opportunities, the committee initially decided to focus on five areas, namely the environment, win-winpartnerships, customer protection, community involvement and ethics. Going forward, the focusareas will be adjusted based on materiality assessment taking into account future sustainabilitymanagement activities and progress together with stakeholder demands.
The ultimate objective of sustainability management at SK Telecom is to embed the spirit of
CSR
(Corporate Social Responsibility) in all business activities to enable sustainable growth and value
creation. In 2009, we plan to create a sustainability management council comprising heads of thepertinent departments which will support activities of the Corporate Citizenship Committee. We alsointend to designate and track KPIs
(Key Performance Indicators) on sustainability management.
SK Telecom website, Investor Relations > Management Info > Corporate GovernanceCorporate Citizenship Committee
preliminary seminar (Sept. 2008)
Organizational Scheme for Sustainability Management
[Focus areas  ]
The BOD consists of eight directors including three standing directors and five outside directors and the CEO chairs the
Board. SK Telecom has been working to raise the expertise and independence of the BOD through measures such as
appointing outside directors after input from the Independent Director Recommendation Committee while striving to ensureconflicts of interest are avoided. Moreover, Independent Directors Briefings and Independent Directors Preliminary Approval
Meetings are regularly held to boost the role of outside directors. Compensation of directors is approved at the general
shareholders
smeeting in accordance to the articles of incorporation and company performance.Board of Directors
Environment
Corporate Social
Responsibility TeamBusiness 
Relations TeamCustomer Oriented
Management TeamCorporate Social
Responsibility TeamEthics 
Management TeamWin-Win Partnership Customer Protection Community Involvement Ethical ManagementAudit Committee
Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee
Compensation Committee
CapEx Review Committee
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Our Journey towards
SustainabilitySustainability at SK Telecom
11
Dissemination & Education
SK Telecom conducts online training on win-win partnerships, customer protection, community
involvement and ethics in order to raise employee awareness of the importance of increasing value forstakeholders. More in-depth training is provided to personnel in each department designated tooversee win-win partnerships, information security, community involvement, and ethics andcompliance. In 2009, special emphasis will be placed on environmental management, an area thatcalls for greater attention, by introducing an online training course on the environment to be taken byall employees.
Risk Management Process
Stakeholders may file complaints through our Ethical Counseling Center and customer centers.
Based on the filed complaints, we identify processes that have or may cause damage or losses forstakeholders and take corrective action to prevent recurrences. Periodic meetings are held tocontinuously identify complaints or demands from regulatory bodies, government, legislature,business partners and competitors. When a particular issue is identified as substantial risk, a taskforce team is set up to prepare countermeasures before a problem actually occurs. In 2009, we plan
to introduce preemptive measures against risks to stakeholders, including mandatory preliminaryscreening for infringement of customer values related to new product development.
Performance Evaluation and Monitoring
At present, sustainability management performance is evaluated by the departments in charge of the
respective areas. Sustainability management is not explicitly stated in the criteria for assessingperformance of the Board, but the Board is to play an important role in promoting sustainabilitymanagement through the Corporate Citizenship Committee. Sustainability performance and plans willbe reviewed by the committee on a regular basis in 2009. In addition, Sustainability KPIs that apply tothe entire company will be selected to monitor companywide progress in sustainability management.
External Recognition
In September 2008, SK Telecom was named as a component of the Dow Jones Sustainability
Indexes by Dow Jones of the US and Sustainable Asset Management(SAM) based inSwitzerland. We received high marks in customer relationship management, customer privacyprotection, and human resources development. However, our scores were lower in riskmanagement, environmental management, and stakeholder engagement. Subsequently, SKTelecom ranked third in the AccountAbility Rating Korea 2008 announced in January 2009.
SK Telecom CSR Advisory Panel
SK Telecom launched the SK Telecom Community Involvement Advisory Panel comprising experts on
social welfare in 2003 for effective implementation of community involvement activities. The group ssreach
will expand to sustainability management, environment, fair competition and corporate governance in2009, and will start operating under the new name of SK Telecom CSR Advisory Panel. The panel will
support activities of the Corporate Citizenship Committee.
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
12
Sustainability Management at SK Group
Based on SKMS, SK affiliates cooperate to produce synergies in diverse areas including win-win
partnerships, environment, customer privacy protection, community involvement, and ethics. In
addition to the Brand Management, SK Group newly launched the Win-Win Partnership
Committee and the Environmental Management Committee to boost affiliate collaboration in the
two areas in 2008. SK Group also set up a council to address matters related to customer privacy
protection.
Environmental Management
SK is nurturing tlow-carbon, green technology uas a new growth engine by expanding investment in
this field. To facilitate a group-wide approach to addressing the issues of energy and climate change,the SK Environmental Committee was launched in November 2008. SK
ssplans for 2009 involve
building group-wide infrastructure to realize a green culture, processes and products, including theformation of a greenhouse gas inventory. SK Telecom will actively engage in activities led by the SKEnvironmental Committee. We will also pool together green technologies of our affiliates to pursueR&D and commercialization in areas that will provide new opportunities for growth while promoting
green cities through the Green ICT Committee 
(launched in May 2009).
Win-Win Partnership
In September 2008, SK Group announced its commitment to win-win partnership by unveiling its
pact on win-win partnerships and fair competition. Accordingly, SK Telecom launched a review toensure fairness in signing and implementing business contracts, and in selecting and managingsuppliers. The review also looked ways to prevent unfair transactions. Findings from the review will bereflected in internal business processes. SK Telecom will continue to work together with SK affiliatesto enhance win-win partnership under the guidance of the SK Group Win-Win Partnership Committeeset up in February 2009.
Community Involvement
Community involvement at SK goes beyond simple giving or one-time pursuits. It is based on SK ss
philosophy of making social investments to find fundamental solutions to issues facing thecommunities in which SK companies do business. From 2005 to 2008, SK introduced variousinitiatives to provide truly needed services and in the process, created more than 6,000 jobs. Theseinclude a program to instill hope among low-income youths, free IT training for disabled persons,support for childcare facilities for low-income families, a free meal service, and deployment of teachingassistants to support the integration of disabled children into mainstream education. Projects that createjobs while helping the less fortunate are led by the SK Nanum Foundation set up by SK in June 2006.
2008 SK Community Involvement White Paper
SK Nanum Foundation  http://www.happynanum.orgIndependent
but Together
Inaugural Meeting of SK Telecom
Green ICT Committee (May 2009)
SK reveals pact for win-win
partnerships and fair competition (Sep. 2008)
SK declares its commitment to
promoting unity (April 2009)
The management and labor union
leaders of 13 SK Group companiesincluding SK Telecom signed apledge to work for job security andshare the suffering until theeconomy recovers.
Independent but Together Sustainability at SK Telecom
13
Invested Companies
Based on SK ssmanagement philosophy of SKMS, SK Telecom pursues sustainability
management together with its invested companies in Korea and around the world.
SK Broadband
 Enhancing Customer Value  Torestore loss or damage suffered by customers due
toproblems related to privacy protection, SK Broadband carried out various activities for customer
value innovation in 2008. The company enhanced customer management, reinforced services at
customer contact points, and pursued organizational innovation.
 Environmental Protection  In 2008, the IDC (Internet Data Center) introduced an energy
saving system that enables cooling devices to be shut off by taking advantage of cold outside airduring winter. The system has resulted in annual savings of KRW 5 billion in energy costs. It has alsohelped to lengthen the lifespan of equipment and prevented major equipment failures.
 Community Involvement  On September 22, 2008, SK Broadband unveiled its new
corporate identity and launched its volunteer group for community involvement. As its firstundertaking, 45 members of the group including CEO helped to build houses with Habitat forHumanity. Last year, 540 employees donated 2,300 volunteer hours.
SK Broadband will work together with the Korea Food for the Hungry International
(KFHI) to support
childrensseducation in various parts of the world. This is in line with the SK Group sseducational
support programs and scholarships implemented over the past 30 years. SK Broadband will alsotake part in community involvement activities using its IT expertise, such as preventing Internet
addiction and finding missing disabled and elderly persons with Alzheimer
ssdisease. Currently, the
company is conducting a campaign to locate missing children through Broad & IPTV.
Market Presence (Unit: persons, market share in brackets)
[Employees ]Total: 1,744 (Total includes 233 temporary employees, as of Dec. 31, 2008)
[Electricity Usage ] 212,164 MWh (2008 basis).BMF1,485
'FNBMF2592005 2006 2007 2008 2009. 3
High speed Internet 2,773,159 3,612,749 3,658,115 3,543,669 3,641,549
(22.7%) (25.7%) (24.9%) (22.7%) (22.7%)
IPTV - 150,522 807,219 775,407 756,092
Phone 1,521,117 1,745,266 2,030,862 2,055,558 2,192,745
(6.6%) (7.5%) (8.8%) (8.6%) (8.5%)Launch of tPremium Care Service u
Donating funds to KFHI to help
needy children from broken homes
&MFDUSJDJUZ 6TBHF212,164 MWh 
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
14
SK Communications
 Customer Privacy Protection   An important mission at SK Communications is to
deliver services that users can trust. To fulfill this mission, the company has adopted a mid/long-termcustomer privacy protection strategy designed to raise awareness among employees, haveprocesses take root, and upgrade technology. In December 2008, SK Communications receivedISO27001 certification for its customer data management system.
 HR Development  Acompanywide job analysis was conducted in 2008 to set up the
basic infrastructure for strategic HR management. Based on the competency scheme derived fromthe analysis, a review was carried out to identify each employee
ssareas of weakness and draw up
customized training programs. In addition, cross functional education was introduced so thatemployees can gain a deeper understanding of related jobs. In 2008, experts from inside and outsidethe company gave lectures in seven sections over four days. The lectures allowed employees servingin different functions to share knowledge and knowhow.
 Innovative Culture   SK Communications envisions a culture that promotes challenge
and cooperation while enabling continued growth of the company and individual employees. Underthe vision, each individual takes the initiative to identify positive change to enhance life, work andsociety, and to take the necessary action to bring about positive change. FT
(Fantastic Teamplay) is a
program aimed at building a culture of creative challenge and cooperation. It allows anyone tosuggest any topic for group studies. FT has gained widespread popularity with over 200 groups beingformed within three years of its launch. Initiatives related to FT in 2008 included a developers
sidea
contest, a UNICEF campaign to help children, photo exhibition, charity bazaar and volunteeringprograms. A separate employee proposal scheme resulted in a company library, mentoring program,service coloring production and other efforts to change the work environment and culture. Thescheme should gain further ground in 2009 with the creation of a service proposal platform.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Cyworld users 11,804,507 16,618,199 19,702,730 21,861,046 23,236,605
Total users1)18,356,338 21,044,315 22,999,184 24,729,000 26,062,161
1
Collective number of users of Nate.com, empas(Internet portal), NateOn(messenger), and Cyworld(SNS). All figures are as of the end of each year.
Market Presence (Unit: persons)Fantastic Teamplay Activity
[Employees ]Total: 1,183 (Total includes 177 temporary employees, as of Dec. 31, 2008)
[Electricity Usage ] 28,392 MWh (2008 basis).BMF614
'FNBMF569&MFDUSJDJUZ 6TBHF28,392 MWh 
Independent but Together Sustainability at SK Telecom
15
SK Telink
  Economic Contribution   SK Telink shares the fruits of success not only with its
employees, but also with business partners such as customer centers, contractors and dealers. In2008, the company expanded into the corporate e-learning service sector, which created new jobsand expanded its business network.
 Environmental Protection   SK Telink invests in R&D to raise energy efficiency. In
2008, it filed a patent application for a power control technique using the Internet phone. Thetechnology, which combines the previous power control system and Internet phone, allows acompany to reduce electricity and communications expenses.
 Customer Privacy Protection  Every effort is made to protect customer privacy and
adhere to pertinent regulations. In 2007, SK Telink set up an internal data leak prevention system and
acustomer database access control system. The company also works closely with SK affiliates to
protect customers spersonal information. To prevent information leaks through the distribution
channels, periodic checks are conducted targeting dealers and partner firms. In addition, training onprotecting customer privacy is carried out on an ongoing basis. A data protection and safetyinspection takes place once a year, also to ensure safe communications services.
 HR Development   SK Telink is well aware of the importance of corporate culture in
driving sustained growth. In 2006, the company adopted trust, innovation and professionalism as thecore values to be shared by all employees. These values are reflected in hiring practices, employeeevaluation and HR development. A systematic training program is available to all employees so theymay reinforce their skills and competencies.
 Human Rights Protection   SK Telink does not discriminate based on nationality or
gender when recruiting employees, and promotes gender equality in the workplace and respectsdiversity. Its Code of Ethics was formulated in 2008 and all employees signed a pledge to observethe code and contribute to companywide efforts aimed at fulfilling its responsibilities as a goodcorporate citizen.
[Employees ]Total: 214 (Total includes 43 temporary employees, as of Dec. 31, 2008)
[Electricity Usage ] 301 MWh (2008 basis).BMF165
'FNBMF49&MFDUSJDJUZ 6TBHF301 MWh Certified as the No.1 ranking
company in 2009 NCSI
SK Telink ranked first in the NCSI in
the international calls category from
2006 to 2009.
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
16
TU Media
 HR Development  TU Media has drawn up a training scheme according to job function
and rank, and offers programs based on this scheme to boost employees sbasic competencies and
job skills. In 2008, the company made greater use of TU Learning World, an online education systemset up in the previous year, to strengthen job skills. Along with TU Learning World and offlineprograms, employees also took advantage of a remote reading course and opportunities to attendexternal conferences and seminars. Support was extended to hold workshops at the divisional levelwhen necessary as a way of providing education directly related to the job. As a result, employeeparticipation in education programs increased throughout the year, with a 30% rise recorded incredits acquired. TU Media will further refine its HR development strategy, strengthening its link to theHR management.
  Community Involvement   Community involvement and volunteering activities got
underway in 2007. Increased employee participation allowed TU Media to extend greater assistanceto more people in 2008. During the year, employees donated KRW 8.2 million which was delivered tothe Bapsang Community and two other charity groups. They also carried out regular volunteeringactivities at welfare facilities and delivered charcoal briquettes to the needy. TU Media will continue toexpand the scope of community involvement to fulfill its obligations to society.
[Employees ]Total: 164 (Total includes 53 temporary employees, as of Dec. 31, 2008)
[Electricity Usage ] 520 MWh (2008 basis).BMF108
'FNBMF56&MFDUSJDJUZ 6TBHF520 MWh 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009. 4
Satellite DMB Subscribers 372 1,018 1,273 1,852 1,919
Mobile phone 356 981 1,229 1,793 1,858
In-vehicle terminal/Personal device 16 37 44 58 61
Market Presence (Unit: thousand persons)
TU Learning World homepage
Delivering coal briquettes to 
the needy
Independent but Together Sustainability at SK Telecom
17
SKT China Holding Company
  New Investment Activities   SK Telecom China Holding Company continued to
pursue joint business with local telecom service providers and made new investments in 2008. Earlyin the year, the company entered the entertainment contents business by establishing SidusHQ, acomprehensive entertainment company, and investing in TR Music, a music producing andpublishing firm. It also laid the foundation for diverse convergence businesses in China. It branchedout into the GPS sector by investing in Shenzhen E-eye, jointly launched online ticketing services with88PIAO, and invested in the online game company SKMT. At the same time, the holding companycontinued to oversee businesses and shared services through existing invested companies, Viatech,Unisk, and Cyworld.
 HR Development   Training programs for new recruits allow new hires to learn about
the company and cultivate their competencies. The program covers basic company information, HRsystem, financial affairs and corporate culture. To boost localization, a vital component of globaloperations, experts are invited to give lectures on subjects like leadership, innovation, managementand economics. Outstanding employees are given the opportunity to take a mini-MBA programoffered in conjunction with major universities in Korea.
 Promoting SKMS   SKMS education is carried out for employees to promote the SK
management philosophy. Rewards are given to employees with a superior record in practicingSKMS. Regular meetings are held to facilitate two-way communication between the managementand employees on matters such as the company
ssoperations, vision, employee benefits and training.
  Community Involvement   With a strong commitment to CSR, diverse efforts are
made to serve local communities. In the wake of the Sichuan earthquake in 2008, SK Groupemployees based in China raised 1.2 million yuan to support relief work which was donated togetherwith the 10 million yuan donated by the SK Group. Separately, funds, necessities and emergencymedical supplies have been provided to a welfare facility for children with vision problems. SKTelecom China Holding Company also supports Sunny
(SK Telecom sscollegiate volunteer group) which has
been carrying out volunteer activities in China since 2004. SK Telecom China hiking trip 
New company building in Beijing
LOOKING 
FORWARDInformation on sustainability management of invested companies is
centered on activities pursued in 2008 or those in which stakeholdershave a high interest. SK Telecom will gradually expand the reporting
scope to a greater number of invested companies and quantitative
performance indicators.
[Employees ]Total: 134 (as of Dec. 31, 2008).BMF104
'FNBMF30
SK Telecom pursues mutual benefits with stakeholders 
based on its principle of increasing stakeholder value andcommunication activities to identify their expectations and demands.Stakeholder Engagement
A_Family Award in Photo Category - Child and Seagull - Jeong Jae-hyeong, Network Biz Solution Team 
B_Family Award in Photo Category - Hide and Seek - Kim Jong-yoon, Data Network O&M Team 
C_Family Award in Photo Category - Dialogue with Taean Sea - Husband of Kim Mi-kyoung, 
Marketing Process Innovation Team: Koh Weon-sang
A.
B.
C.
Stakeholder Communications Stakeholder Engagement
19
Stakeholder
CommunicationsCommunication Principles
AtSK Telecom, stakeholder communications is based on the company ssphilosophy of
increasing value for diverse stakeholders. The 12th revision of SKMS in 2008 classified
stakeholders for corporate relations into customers, employees, shareholders, government,
business partners, and the general public. The revised SKMS also sets forth principles for
communicating with stakeholders. Based on clearly defined stakeholder segments and
principles, we conduct activities to identify their expectations and demands, and draw up
corresponding strategies with a view to maximizing return for SK Telecom and its stakeholders.
Communication Activities
 Customers  Some 5,000 personnel working at our 12 customer counseling centers and
8CRM centers across Korea handle about 8.5 million cases each month. Most of the cases last year
had to do with call quality, billing and payment, customer inconveniences, additional services, andpayment plans. Employees are informed of frequent complaints raised by customers through the
company intranet, while a dedicated unit works to make necessary corrections and improvements.Going beyond just listening to the customer, SK Telecom pursues customer experience managementunder which we oversee all matters experienced by the customer while applying for and using ourservices.
 Employees  The labor-management council holds four meetings a year during which the
two sides discuss ways for mutual cooperation. Subjects of discussion in 2008 included changes toemployee compensation and benefits and how to improve the work environment. The managementalso informed the labor union of the company
ssoverseas investments, BOD agenda items, and
organizational restructuring. SK Telecom constantly gathers employees sopinions on major company
issues through channels such as the CEO Hotline and internal newsletter.
 Shareholders and Analysts   Meetings and seminars are organized to explain the
company ssmanagement activities to investors and analysts in Korea and abroad. In 2008, we held a
total of 417 IR meetings. Individual investors and shareholders can gain access to companyinformation at their convenience through the company website.
 Business Partners  SK Telecom carries out a wide range of communication activities
to cater to the needs of business partners. We operate an online VoP (Voice of Partners) channel
(partneron.sktelecom.com) ,through which partner firms can convey the difficulties they face and make
suggestions. In August 2008, we opened a website (open2u.sktelecom.com) through which small- and
mid-size venture companies can propose new ideas.
 Government, NGOs and Local Communities   We maintain regular communi-
cation with major regulatory agencies including the Korea Communications Commission and worktogether to address various social issues. We also pursue dialogue with civic groups and localcommunities when pertinent, such as during the course of setting up new base stations. Periodicmeetings are held with NGOs including those who disapprove of our policies or activities in order togain their understanding. We also provide consistent support to NGOs whose causes coincide withour community involvement initiatives.Access to video telephony 
customer center expanded to allWCDMA users (Feb. 2009)
Websites for Stakeholder
Communications
SK Telecom homepage 
http://www.sktelecom.com
Online customer center 
http://www.tworld.co.kr
Corporate blog 
http://www.sktstory.com
SK Telecom labor union 
http://www.skttu.com
VoP channel 
http://partneron.sktelecom.com
Business Partners portal 
http://open2u.sktelecom.com
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
20
Stakeholder Feedback
Satisfaction Surveys
Regular satisfaction surveys are conducted targeting customers, employees, and the participants and
beneficiaries of community involvement programs. These surveys allow us to identify weaknesses andtake corrective action. Using the business partner satisfaction survey tool we developed in 2007, wecarried out the survey twice in 2008. We proceed to enhance win-win partnerships by identifyingmeasures needed to raise satisfaction levels among the different business partner segments throughsuch surveys.
Grievance Mechanism
SK Telecom promotes ethical management to employees, customers and business partners through
the Ethical Counseling Center. The center receives suggestions and provides counseling related toethics through diverse mediums including the website, telephone, face-to-face counseling, andcorrespondence. A separate mechanism is available that offers counseling on ethical issues from thechair of the Audit Committee, an independent director on the board.
My Counselor and Letter to HR
allow employees to seek advice on various dilemmas via the Intranet, while female counselors providecounseling on matters related to sexual harassment. SK Telecom does not reveal information on employeegrievance counseling to outsiders in accordance with our pledge for confidentiality with employees. 
Ethical Counseling Helpline  http://www.sktelecom.com/html/sktelecom/ethics/CounselCenter.html
Feedback on
Sustainability Management
Dialogue on Sustainability Management
We regularly take part in external lectures and conferences to garner stakeholder feedback on our
sustainability management. In 2008, we gave 25 presentations at gatherings such as the New YearCEO Forum hosted by the International Management Institute in January, and the Korea SocialContribution CEO Forum and the Corporate Ethics School organized by the Federation of KoreanIndustries in October. The presentations gave us a chance to interact with some 1,500 stakeholders.
SO 4. Cases Submitted to Ethical Counseling Helpline
Stakeholder Expectations Raised at Korea Sustainability Investing Forum
Category Organization Expectations on SK Telecom
Labor Korea Labor Institute  Substantive activities in the wake of joining UNGC  More detailed information related to labor
Consumer Korea Consumer Agency  Preparation for ISO 26000, continued interest and effort to resolve consumer issues
Investor NH Investment & Securities  Decision-making in the event of a conflict, disclosure of strategy to raise shareholder value 
Environment Ecosian Concrete results from environmental management
 Preparation to address risk related to regulation on total greenhouse gas emission
Government Ministry of Knowledge Economy  Incorporate sustainability management into global expansion activities
SustainabilityBusiness Institute for Sustainable Development  Link stakeholder communication with strategy NBOBHFNFOU
Economic Research Institute for Sustainable Society  Practice social leadership  Active information disclosure via the Internet2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Nov. 2008
31
8.9%
268
76.5%350
DBTFTCustomers
Employees
BP350
343
122202
9651
14.6%Asof December 31, 2008(Unit: cases)
Together with Our Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement
21
Employees
SKTelecom operates training and volunteering programs to raise employees sunderstanding of
sustainability management and to keep them informed of social issues and stakeholder
expectations. ⊅ Issue_11. Investment in Local Communities (p.37)
 CSR Idea Contest   To increase employee awareness of relevant issues, a separate
sustainability report for employees was published and a CSR idea contest was held in 2008. Totally112 ideas were submitted for the contest in four areas, namely customer privacy protection, greenICT, digital inclusion, and community involvement. Some of the ideas are being reviewed for possibleimplementation.
Customers
We encourage customer participation in efforts to resolve social issues through donation
programs and customer volunteer groups.
 Customer Volunteer Group, Sunny  Launched in 2003 as SK Telecom sscustomer
volunteer group, Sunny has grown into Korea sslargest collegiate volunteer group. Currently, it has
60,000 members serving through the group ssten chapters nationwide. With tFun and creative
community service uas their motto, student volunteers use their skills in such programs as Hi
Teacher (1:1 tutoring program at regional children sscenters) and Fly Super Sunny (library remodeling, performances,
summer camp at schools) . Sunny  http://www.besunny.com
 Mobile Giving Platform  SK Telecom offers diverse mobile giving platforms that allow
customers to make donations through their cell phones. In December 2004, we launched the tShare
Your Love ucampaign which allows customers to donate their tRainbow points uortOK Cashback
pointsuto designated projects run by charity groups of their choice. We also have a program through
which the company provides matching grants for fixed monthly donations by customers. In July2008, we introduced a campaign in which text messages of encouragement are sent out withfinancial contributions. Activities to promote the mobile giving platforms, especially in the second halfof last year, boosted the number of customer donations from 28,268 in 2007 to 73,349 
(total donated
amount: KRW 170 million) .
Together 
with OurStakeholders
CSR Idea Contest
Winning entries
Digital Inclusion Sign language avatar player
Environmental protection using mobile base stations/repeaters in public infrastructure
Universal mobile phone batteries 
Dealer shops like tBeautiful Store u
Environment Convert to recycled paper 
Make shopping bags, posters and PR materials with recycled paper and 
degradable materials
Sale and free distribution of eco-friendly mobile phone accessories 
Distribute solar-powered cell phone chargers
Exhibit of 2007 Sustainability Report
(July 2008)
Delivering funds raised via mobile 
red kettle campaign (Dec. 2008)
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
22
Business Partners
SKTelecom explores ways to address social issues jointly with business partners and offers
various support measures to raise awareness of corporate social responsibility among our
partner firms.
 Mobile Technology for Public Benefit  Last year, we organized a contest to
gather ideas for new community involvement programs using mobile communications technology.Around 60 proposals were submitted during a one-month period starting in September. 
 Financial and R&D Infrastructure  Since the opening of the Nate Business Center
in April 2005, we have provided a test bed for wireless Internet contents and solutions for free to morethan 100,000 people. The center also offers business consulting services. As of the end of 2008, SKTelecom has extended total financial assistance of KRW 68.5 billion to business partners throughmeasures such as secured loans under the credit guarantee system and network loans.
 Education for Partner Firm Employees  SK Telecom provides assistance to sharpen
the skills of people employed by business partners as a means of promoting win-win partnerships.
Our Partneron Academy attracts more than 20,000 participants every year. We plan to introduce awin-win internship program in the first half of 2009 under which we hire college interns who aredispatched to work at short-staffed SME partners. 
Partneron Academy  http://partneron.sktelecom.com
  Support for CSR   As part of efforts to promote sustainability management among
business partners, we are expanding education programs on corporate social responsibility forpartner firms. Since we began offering a free sexual harassment prevention course through PartneronAcademy in 2006, a total of 3,804 people have attended the classes. In 2008, we started to conductfree education on ethical management. 
Promoting Sustainability Management
Ashared commitment across the entire corporate sector is vital to fostering an economic and
social environment favorable for sustainable growth of businesses. In May 2007, SK Telecomdeclared its support for the UN Global Compact and cooperated with efforts to launch UN GlobalCompact Network Korea. We were a sponsor of the UNGC Seoul Conference in June 2008. SKTelecom is also a member of numerous Korean and international organizations on sustainabilitymanagement, including the Business for Social Responsibility, Ethics and Compliance OfficersAssociation, Business Institute for Sustainable Development, Korea Business Council forSustainable Development, and BEST Forum
(Business Ethics and Sustainability management for Top
performance) .
Partneron Academy
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
SK14. Partneron Academy participants
5,694 11,019 14,982 21,159 21,092
1
Based on the number of applicants.(Unit: persons)
UNGC Seoul Conference 
(June 2008)
Free test room at Nate 
Business Center 
Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Engagement
23
Materiality
AssessmentAdoption of Materiality Assessment
SKTelecom started conducting materiality assessments in 2008 to more closely monitor and
manage issues in which stakeholders have a keen interest and issues with a potentially large
impact on our business activities. Related to the GRI Guideline Indicators, we endeavor to convey
detailed and accurate information on our performance centered on the core indicators.
Materiality Assessment Procedure
In 2009, we conducted an analysis to decide on the inclusion of new issues and to examine the
level of interest in society and impact on SK Telecom according to the 5 Parts Materiality TestFramework set by AA1000. We upgraded the company homepage to introduce a channel forfeedback on our sustainability report. The feedback was incorporated when deriving the majorissues. In preparing this sustainability report, we conducted face-to-face interviews with sixKorean experts on sustainability management. Their opinions were reflected in the reportpreparation process.
Major Issues Derived from Materiality Assessment
The eleven major issues are covered in the tMateriality Issues to Our Business and Society u
section of the report. Issues deemed to have a relatively lower significance are detailed in the
tMeasuring Our Progress usection and will be reported on our website by the end of 2009.  
Going forward, we will conduct the materiality assessment using information gained fromcorporate-wide communication with stakeholders throughout the year. The information will besubject to review by the Corporate Citizenship Committee and other related bodies so that wecanreinforce our sustainability management activities centered on the major issues.
Materiality Assessment Factors
5Parts Test Framework Assessment Factor Variable Reviewed
Short-term Financial Impact Short-term finances Company newsletter exposure
Policy-based Performance Existence of internal policies New measures drawn up in 2008, employees sopinion
Peer-based Norms Peerssresponse to issues Results of a survey by an outside agency, BSR-GeSI ICT Materiality Project
Stakeholder Concerns and Behavior Interest level of external stakeholders Reader feedback, investors srequests for information, interviews with experts
Societal Norms Current and future regulations Media analysis results
Downloads of the 2007 Sustainability Report
568
11.4%85
1.7%
86
1.7%
4,222
85.1%by 
language
Korean
English 
Chinese
Vietnamese
Customer
Employee
Shareholder
Business partner
Others279
5.6%197
4.0%190
3.8%
4,149
83.6%by 
stakeholder146
2.9%As of December 31, 2008(Unit: cases)
SK Telecom focuses on finding and conveying 
information on issues that matter most to the company and
stakeholders. Our goal is to build a common ground for greater
understanding and progress.Material Issues to
Our Business and Society
A_Family Award in Photo Category - Embracing Innocence - Kim Yong-hwan, Network Value Management Team 
B_Family Award in Picture Category - Hiking - Children of Park Mi-sang, Transmission Network O&M Team 2 
:Park Seong-geum/Park Seong-yeon
C_Family Award in Photo Category - Fun Next to a Camping Car - Husband of Lee Yun-hee, C&I SKMS: Kim Ju-hanB.A.
C.
Issue _ 01Material Issues to Our Business 
and Society
25
Issue _01
EconomicImpactAdvances in Related Industries
AsKoreassleading mobile communications company, SK Telecom has been the driving force
behind advances in the nation ssIT equipment industry including mobile devices and services. We
expect to exert even greater economic impact in the future as we expand into new areas such as
media and contents. In 2009, we are planning to upgrade the existing HSDPA (High Speed Downlink
Packet Access) data network to HSUPA (High Speed Uplink Packet Access) .We also plan to further invest in
digital contents by building an application open marketplace as part of the initiative to boost the
distribution of smart phones.
Improving Industrial Efficiency
Mobile telecommunications has already become an essential component in the transportation
and distribution industries. It is used to transmit data on electricity usage from large buildings andfactories in high-voltage power management. It also plays an important role in water qualitymanagement, street light control, and observation of subterranean water. As the speed of datatransmission and the accuracy of positioning system increases, the various solution-based
services SK Telecom provides have not only enhanced work efficiency for our customers butcontributed to the improvement of overall industrial efficiency. SK Telecom plans to step upinvestment in technologies and services that can enhance the industrial applicability of Korea
ss
outstanding ICT infrastructure.
Creating Jobs
SK Telecom employs 5,000 persons including temporary staff. In addition, over 9,000 people are
employed by our business partners ranging from those who manage our office facilities andmaintain our networks to firms that provide customer services. Our endeavors to create jobsextend to community involvement initiatives that operate 1318 Happy Zones for youth, provideHappy Doshirak Meal Service
(Doshirak is the Korean term for tlunch box u)for low income families, and
deploy teaching assistants to schools to help disabled students. 
⊅ Issue_11. Investment in Local Communities (p.37)
Five Core Growth Technologies
Within ICT industry Between ICT and other industries
Innovative User
Interface TechnologyBusiness Platform
TechnologyNext-generation
Wired and Wireless
Network TechnologySmart Technology
- Natural language 
processing
-Automatic translation
-Voice recognition
- Sensing technology 
- Gesture
- Haptic- Personalization- Security technology
- Contents technology- Mobile Office-Cloud Computing
-Virtualization 
technology
- Open Market Place- Beyond 4G
-4 G- WiBro-HSDPA
-
Seamless transfer 
across multi-networks
- IPTV
-tThree Screens u
strategies- Smart meter
- Smart home- Smart grid-Green IT
-Smart logistics- Zigbee (Energy)
- RFID (Logistics)- NFC (Finance)-
Telematics (Automobile)Convergence
Technology withDifferent Industries
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
26
Contributing to Social Safety Net
SKTelecom strives to extend network coverage to islands, mountainous regions and other areas
ofpoor access to extend the benefits of telecommunication technology to the entire population.
Inaddition, we are contributing towards resolving social issues by providing free services which
can protect citizens from various dangers via the mobile telecommunications infrastructure as
well as enhance the quality of life.  ⊅ Issue_3. Service Quality and Reliability (p.29)
LOOKING 
FORWARDSK Telecom will equally distribute the benefits of mobile communications
technology across all demographics and industries, and thereby spearhead 
the sustainable development of society.
Contribution to Social Safety Net (Unit: persons)tCompanies will be challenged to
use philanthropy to create seeds of
innovation, bringing their resources,
toassist in addressing and
resolving critical and persistent
social issues, and linking it to other
unique corporate assets of people,
technology and business acumen. u
2007 Sustainability Report p.30, 
Bradley Googins, Boston CollegeCenter for Corporate CitizenshipSTAKEHOLDER 
EXPECTATIONS
SK Telecom has contributed towards
resolving social issues using mobile
technology through various mobilecommunity involvement programs.
Going forward, we plan to pursue
greater industrial application of ICTand spread the positive impact of
ICT in society.IN ACTION
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
SK17. People found through
Mobile Search for Missing Persons campaign 7 2 2 4 4
SK18. Users of Mobile Youth Counseling program 14,842 61,743Community Involvement through Mobile Technology
May 2004
Mobile Search for Missing
Children campaignpartnership ceremony
Dec. 2004
Launch of Share Your 
Love campaign
Apr. 2005
Launch of 119 
Emergency Rescue 
ServiceMay 2005
Mobile Search for Missing
Persons - extended to cover
the disabled and elderly with
dementia
May 2005
Launch of Mobile Disaster 
Alert - transmitting emergencydisaster information through
text messages
May 2006
Launch of Mobile Overseas
Safety Support serviceNov. 2006
Launch of Safe Phone service 
-provided service to 25,000
senior citizens living alone in
Gyeonggi-do
Jan. 2007
Mobile Emergency Network 
for Blood Donation partnershipceremony
Mar. 2007
Mobile Youth Counseling
program partnership ceremony
Nov. 2007
Inauguration of Happiness 
Angel campaign2008
Launch of education of North
Korean refugees on usage 
of mobile phones
Nov. 2008
19th Successful Case of 
Mobile Search for MissingPersons campaign
2008 SK Community Involvement White Paper, 2008 Social Contribution Report
Issue _ 02Material Issues to Our Business 
and Society
27
Issue _02
Product andServiceDevelopmentOpening the Future of Telecommunication Technology
SKTelecom launched the world ssfirst commercial services in IS-95A/B, CDMA 2000 1X EV-DO,
and HSDPA. Based on our world-class mobile network, we provide differentiated multimedia and
e-commerce services with the focus on creating value for our customers.
Enhancing Customer Value through Innovative Service
We continue to showcase a diverse range of convenient services around the wireless Internet portal,
Nate; examples include i-Topping, a widget service integrated on the mobile phone ssidle screen,
Tmap, a location-based service; and Tossi, a blogging service specially designed to suit the mobile
communications environment. Gifticon, a service that allows customers to send gifts via the cellphone, and T cash service that combines the existing public transportation card with the ability tomake payment at convenient stores and online shopping malls are drawing a favorable responsefrom users. Going forward, SK Telecom will strive to provide cutting edge convergence services thatreflect evolving customer needs with the aim of delivering fun and convenient services.
Opening of T.um - Information Technology Experience Center
SK Telecom has opened an information technology experience center designed to invite various
stakeholders to share our vision of the future in mobile communication services. T.um takes visitorson an informative and exciting tour of mobile communications
spast, present, and future. It allows the
viewer to experience the convergence services provided by a futuristic mobile phone T-key whichbreaks down the walls between various industrial sectors. In the first 100 days since its opening in
November 2008, T.um drew over 5,000 visitors from 88 countries.
tum.sktelecom.com
Leading T echnology Standar dization
SK Telecom has led the standardization of technology in collaboration with global IT leaders at
major standardization bodies such as GSMA (Global System for Mobile communications Association) ,
OMA (Open Mobile Alliance) ,JCP (Java Community Process) ,3GPP (The 3rd Generation Partnership Project) ,and
ISO(International Organizations for Standardization) .Starting with a role at GSMA CEO Board, we have
taken leadership roles at major standardization bodies such as LiMo and OMA. In 2008, SKTelecom proposed the next-generation SIM
(Subscriber Identification Module) technology and mobile
gateway technology to GSMA and OMA and successfully earned JavaTM‚Technology
Specification for Mobile Telematics technology through the JCP, an association that fosters thedevelopment of Java-based technology specifications. SK Telecom endeavors to present the defacto standard of the worldwide convergence service market based on the height of technologiesachieved and world-class convergence services.
View of T.um
Event for multicultural families 
to mark 100th day of T.um (Feb. 2009)
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
28
Standardization of Smart SIM
AtMobile World Congress 2009, a project to collaborate on Smart SIM specifications was officially
launched. Through activities at GSMA, SK Telecom has stressed the importance of standardization of
Smart SIM technology. Smart SIM is the technology that expands the capacity of USIM (Universal
Subscriber Identity Module) and allows the users to keep their contents and personalized mobile
applications through successive replacements of handsets. Through this technology, we expect that
mobile communications companies will be able to develop new business models without being
restricted to specific handsets, and that handset manufacturers can concentrate on designs and
quality improvement and reduce the overall cost and time used in R&D. SK Telecom plans to lead the
standardization of Smart SIM technology through collaboration with mobile operators, card
developers, and handset makers and ensure that a new market is successfully developed.
Standar dization of Next-generation Mobile Gateway Service
Since 2008, SK Telecom has proposed the need for the standardization of the next-generation
Mobile Gateway Service (Converged Personal Network Service) .Its proposal was approved by OMA, the
worldsslargest standardization body, as an official standardization item in August 2008. The next-
generation Mobile Gateway Service is a technology that enables users of personal navigation deviceor portable multimedia player to access multimedia contents from their mobile phones through themobile communications network. SK Telecom is presently collaborating with Qualcomm, Ericsson,NTT DOCOMO, Toshiba, China Mobile, Samsung and LG to develop optimal internationalspecifications.
Open Innovation
SK Telecom has strived to combine the Web 2.0 spirit of openness, participation and sharing with
win-win cooperation to discover and foster strategic partnership opportunities. Since 2004, we
have sponsored a total of KRW 17.7 billion to support technology development of externalresearch organizations and SME partners, and viable new businesses are being explored invarious areas including satellite broadcasting and anti-piracy systems. In 2008, Open2U waslaunched, and to promote this program, a second Open Idea+Festival was organized where
more than 470 business ideas were submitted.
The 2nd Open Idea+Festival 
awards ceremony
LOOKING 
FORWARDWe will continue in our efforts to develop new products and services to
make life more convenient and promote sustainable development.
Issue _ 03Material Issues to Our Business 
and Society
29
Issue _03
Service Qualityand ReliabilityCall Quality
SKTelecom has received high customer ratings on basic services including call quality, as
indicated by the results of major customer satisfaction surveys such as National Customer
Satisfaction Index, Korean Customer Satisfaction Index and Korea Standards on Service Quality
Index. Since we set up a nationwide WCDMA network in 2007, we have managed to secure the
same level of call quality for WCDMA as for the existing CDMA network through continuous
investments. In 2009, we plan to optimize network structure and enhance customer experience
byoffering a more diverse range of mobile devices and services, enabled by seamless service
continuity technology between networks. Lately, the public has called for greater disclosure of
information regarding call quality by mobile service providers. In response, SK Telecom joined the
Service Quality Assessment Council, consisting of members from the Korea Communications
Commission, the academia, NGOs, and the Korea Telecommunications Operators Association.
Weare currently in the process of building a service quality information website jointly with other
mobile communications operators.
Digital Inclusion
In order to extend network coverage in offshore and coastal regions, SK Telecom has utilized
existing infrastructure such as lighthouses to install repeaters and provide network services. In2008, as part of our quality differentiation campaign, we carried out village-by-village networkquality improvement projects. In 2009, remote regions will be included in this campaign to focuson areas with poor access. Along with other communications common carriers, SK Telecom
contributes to providing universal telecommunication services, such as services for isolatedmountainous regions or islands. The 2007 universal services contribution finalized in March 2009was KRW 93.8 billion out of which 34.5%(KRW 32.3 billion) will be borne by SK Telecom as perthe decision of the Korea Communications Commission.
Effect of Electromagnetic Radiation
Pursuant to Article 65 of the Radio Waves Act of Korea, SK Telecom takes regular measurements
of electromagnetic(EM) radiation originating from base stations whose transmitter device emitsmore than 30 Watts of power within the proximity of residential, commercial, industrial andregulated sites. With additional installation of WCDMA base stations and FAs in 2008, the scopeof monitoring increased, and a total of 1,625 measurements were taken with the results fallingbelow the specified limits. Furthermore, SK Telecom has contributed to a government-ledresearch project on the effects of EM radiation on the human body since 2000. SK Telecom isproviding KRW 150 million a year for the project from 2007 to 2011. Currently, seven tasks areunderway, including one to create a database of base stations and other EM radiation emittingdevices
seffect on the human body.Measuring EM radiation around 
base stations
SK 4. Expanded Coverage in Remote Regions
 (Unit: units)
2005 2006 2007 2008
Remote mountainous regions 9 5 31 57
Hiking trails 2 0 12
Remote islands 65 18 14 13
Total 76 23 46 72
1
Data revised to include remote islands in Incheon which were omitted from coverage during 2005~2007
LOOKING 
FORWARDWewill continue to review and preemptively respond to any potential factors that
could pose a risk to service quality and reliability with the goal of delivering safe
and high quality mobile telecommunication service to more people.
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
30
Lower Rates and Discounts
SKTelecom has taken various steps to respond to demands to ease the cost burden of telecom
services. We have been offering the caller identification (CID) service for free from January 2006.
Wealso introduced a plan under which discounted rates are applied to calls made between SK
Telecom service subscribers in October 2007 and we lowered rates on text messaging in January
2008. In addition, we are receiving positive customer feedback for our efforts to lower household
telecom service costs such as discount plans for families, discounts for long-term users or
between SK Telecom subscribers, and plans that bundle wired and wireless services. We estimate
household telecom expenditures to have fallen by nearly KRW 457.4 billion in 2008 alone.
Customized Fee Plans
SK Telecom provides customized fee plans to subscribers according to their call patterns. When
asubscriber logs onto the online customer service center and enters essential details (including
age, call frequency, and text message frequency) ,he/she will receive a recommendation for two types
of call plans and can switch to a new plan online. Every month, 80,000 subscribers utilize this
service. In addition, we have introduced fee plans suitable for subscribers with regular callpatterns such as students.
Preventing tBilling Shock u
In addition to providing clear billing details to subscribers, SK Telecom has introduced ceilings
and fixed rate plans for data usage. We offer a ceiling program for 060 data usage to preventcustomers from incurring excessive voice data fees for services like fortune-telling and chatting. Apassword-protection program for 060 numbers was introduced in January 2009. Under the
program, users are required to input a password for access to 060 numbers.
Easing the Cost Burden for the Underprivileged
We offer the Silver Plan for senior citizens, the i-Kids Plan for children aged 12 years or under,
and a pricing plan to meet the needs of the disabled to alleviate the burden of customers whocannot easily use the mobile telecom services for economic reasons. In October 2008, weexpanded the application of our fee reduction program for the underprivileged to offer a 50%discount on the basic fee and call charges for minimum wage households with no initialsubscription charges and a 35% discount on the basic fee and call charges with no initialsubscription charges for the next lower income bracket. We also decided to provide recycledhandsets to those in such income brackets. Around 200,000 applications were received beforethe end of 2008 under the extended fee reduction program.Issue _04
AffordableMobileServices
Launch of 50% discount plan for
middle/high school students 
(Aug. 2008)
LOOKING 
FORWARDThrough enhanced management efficiency, SK Telecom will endeavor
to seek ways to boost customers svalue, while continuously lowering the
service rates.
Issue _ 04, 05Material Issues to Our Business 
and Society
31
Issue _05
CustomerPrivacyProtectionCustomer Information Management System
Inresponse to heightened concern over customer privacy, we designated a CPO (Chief Privacy
Officer) incharge of the company sscustomer information protection and a CSO (Chief Security Officer)
heading the company sssecurity matters in 2008. In addition, policies on the entire process of
gathering customer data to destroying it have been firmly established and related activities have
been strengthened. As we entered 2009, we devised a master plan for customer privacy, under
which we will pursue preventive measures based on stronger checks on overall business
activities that deal with customer data and countermeasures to promptly respond to any privacy
orsecurity incidents.
Stricter Customer Information Handling Pr ocess
SK Telecom is continuously working to improve the process of handling customer information.
We have updated the policies and guidelines for customer privacy and introduced the CPO pre-approval process. We regularly conduct education programs and checks on employees andvendors. In April 2007, we established the first Security Operation Center in Korea to centralize
internal and external access points to customer data. The center
ssinformation security
management system has obtained the ISO27001 certification. In 2008, the internal infrastructureto protect customer privacy was further improved with the building of Customer DataTransmission System to prevent potential risks that may arise during the transmission ofcustomer information.
Preventing Customer Data Leak and Misuse in Distribution Channel
In 2008, SK Telecom established guidelines to minimize the risk of customer information leakage
in the retail network and conducted 2,380 inspections and education programs on customer
privacy. We were the first to adopt a system of having retail shops keep a scanned image of anapplication form while handing over the original copy to the customer. The system is intended toprevent customer data leaks during the service application process. Also, SK Telecom isequipped with the Fraud Management System that allows us to monitor and quickly act on thepossibility of duplicated handsets using stolen personal information.
Response to Revised Customer Privacy Protection Laws
Growing awareness on customer privacy and stronger legislative measures demand more stern
measures for customer privacy protection and SK Telecom is operating a companywidecommittee accordingly. We have also introduced a mechanism for identification based on meansother than an individual's identity card number. We plan to further install the necessary systems inview of tighter regulations during 2009.Security Operation Center 
acquires ISO 27001 certification (Jan. 2008)
Launch of company portal on
customer privacy (April 2009)
LOOKING 
FORWARDSK Telecom will implement thorough measures to protect customer
privacy and prevent customer information leakage and misuse.
Youth Protection
SKTelecom voluntarily discontinued service of wireless Internet adult contents in 2006 and have
made strides in youth protection ever since. During 2008, we newly introduced a Harmful
Contents Filtering Service which automatically filters out harmful contents when a UCC site user
tries to upload contents either through a wired or wireless platform. We also continued with the
thappy mobile phone culture ucampaign directed towards teenagers launched in 2007.
Campaign Homepage  http://www.happymobile.or.kr
SMS Spam Prevention
Since 2006, we have put in place a management system targeting companies that send out
spam, and developed a system and service for blocking SMS spam. This resulted in a significantdecline in customer complaints regarding spam SMS. In 2009, we will not only take swift actionto prevent and handle complaints but will also take prevention measures such as tighter controlover spam senders.
Assistance for Telecom Service Utilization
SK Telecom provides education for customers who are not accustomed to mobile telecom
services. In particular, education is conducted in conjunction with members of SK Telecom ss
collegiate volunteer group, Sunny, which is helping to narrow the divide between generations andbetween differing social brackets. Furthermore, we offer sign language and chatting services forcustomers with verbal and hearing disabilities
(##114 + video telephony, weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.) and a
service for foreigners (080-252-5011, 1599-2011, 24-hour service in English, Japanese and Chinese) .
Declaring a Clean Open Market
Although Korea ssopen market is growing at a pace of 20~30% a year, product credibility has
been cited as a major issue. To differentiate itself from open market forerunners, SK Telecom ss
11th Street offers a t110% guarantee for fakes u(if a product sold at 11th Street is found to be a fake, the
customer will receive a 100% refund plus 10% of the product price as loyalty points) andtsafe shopping guarantee u
(if a product is found faulty within 30 days of purchase whether due to a product defect or mishandling by the customer, 11th
Street will pay for the repair cost or exchange it with another product) .Consumer perception on the service
quality of 11th Street has significantly improved as evidenced by the 400% surge in luxury goodspurchase after the launch of the 110% guarantee for fakes.SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
32
Issue _06
Sound Telecom
Culture
Systematic Measures for Youth Protection
]2006]voluntarily discontinued adult contents, blocked wireless Internet access and collect calls, introduced services to 
notify guardians of minors smonthly fees
]2007]service to block 060 spam SMS, ceiling on data usage fees, exclusive contract for teenagers and campaign for 
youths using mobile phones registered under their parents sname to switch to their own names
]2008]introduction of Data Perfect fixed rate program, launch of harmful content filtering system, ceiling for 060 data 
usage fees, registration of youth subscribers (from 2009)
LOOKING 
FORWARDSK Telecom will continue to listen to its customers and improve service
quality so that our customers can use our services with peace of mind.tSK Telecom will face even greater
demands from consumers. The
ability to respond appropriately tosuch demands will enhance SKTelecom's competitiveness.
u
2007 Sustainability Report p .19, 
Duk-Seung Lee, Green Consumer
Network in KoreaSTAKEHOLDER 
EXPECTATIONS
SK Telecom not only acts swiftly to
respond to the voice of customersbut also reflects their suggestions
in the process of developing
products and services. Starting from
2009, we plan to operate a system
to review the possibility of customervalue infringement prior to thelaunch of new products or services.IN ACTION
Issue _ 06, 07Material Issues to Our Business 
and Society
33
Issue _07
Responding to ClimateChangeSK Telecom ssRole for Low Carbon Green Growth
While providing functions that make life more convenient such as real-time information on traffic
conditions and digital home service, SK Telecom is expanding services designed to promote
green and energy conserving lifestyles. As the No. 1 mobile telecom service provider in Korea, we
are sharing our experience to lead the standardization of handset related equipment such as
battery chargers with global peers and negotiating with related parties to reduce packaging
materials for mobile handsets. On top of such efforts, SK Telecom will continue to invest in R&D
onICT such as ZigBee and Smart Grid, which should help save energy and resources, and will
provide the platform to promote green growth in other industries.
Energy Ef ficiency
Higher average temperatures due to climate change, extreme weather conditions and rising
water levels are risk factors that could threaten the operation of mobile telecom networks. Inparticular, the rise in the average temperature increases the need for air conditioning, which inturn will lead to higher costs. SK Telecom is actively working to improve energy efficiency from
network management to customer service.
Management of Networks and Office Buildings
Since June 2008, SK Telecom has been carrying out companywide energy saving campaigns.
Entering 2009, we have sequentially installed energy conserving facilities such as refrigeration systems
in our office buildings. Also, we endeavor to improve energy efficiency through the virtualization ofserver equipment and the use of low power amplifiers. We plan to bring in wireless stations which userenewable energy sources such as solar and wind power, and once the efficiency of these areproven, we expect to widen their application.
Customer Service
To conserve natural resources and energy in the course of customer service, SK Telecom has
introduced an electronic billing system, remote upgrade of handsets, and virtual customer servicesutilizing the website and mobile handsets. In 2008, we replaced around two thousand signboardlighting with environmentally friendly LED following the introduction of a new brand identity. We plan touse LED lighting for signboards of newly opening stores. We also plan to introduce LED for auxiliarysignboards during 2009.
2008 Greenhouse Gas Emission (Unit: CO 2t)
LOOKING 
FORWARDWewill serve as the stepping stone to low carbon green growth via
strategic measures to counter climate change and development of green IT.
117,145
30.08 %51,667
13.27 %8,598
2.21%1,447
0.37%
210,570
54.07 %Electricity-Network
Electricity-Office buildings
Electricity-Other
Natural gas
Oil389,427
CO 2ttICT companies should be the first
toapply the services they market
to achieve sustainability improve-
ments. This requires a change of
attitude that can only be driven by
proper awareness -raising efforts.
To fully exploit ICT benefits,
cooperation and partnerships are
needed with governments and
Non-Governmental Organizations
in particular, to create the conditions
for deployment of technologically
advanced products and services. u
2007 Sustainability Report p.23,
Luis Neves, Global e-Sustainability
InitiativeSTAKEHOLDER 
EXPECTATIONS
SK Telecom has worked closely
with interested parties to help build
environ mentally friendly u-cities in
Songdo, Incheon, and Beijing,
China. We also participated in the
Green Broadcasting and Telecom
Promotion Council organized by
Korea Communi cations Commission
in March 2009 and presented ways
to develop green handsets andexpand eco-friendly solutions suchas remote inspections.IN ACTION
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
34
Building Infrastructure for Innovation
Tofoster a creative and global organizational culture, the wide range of titles representing various
ranks was consolidated into the single title of tmanagerutoward the end of 2006. Adoption of the
manager system resulted in greater delegation of authority and responsibility based on individual
competence regardless of a person ssrank. That, in turn, has helped to build a creative and
enterprising culture and boost employee engagement. In late 2007, we implemented a
CIC(Company-In-Company) system to promote responsible management of each business unit.
Under the system, we are working to streamline business processes and build systems and an
organizational culture attuned to each CIC.
Towards a Global Enterprise
To create a workplace where people of diverse nationalities can work without being hindered by
language barriers, we are expanding our bilingual (English and Korean) organization and raisingawareness of international cultures through a global internship program. English is being adoptedfor our work systems to set up a global work infrastructure. A global lounge manned by bilingual
facilitators provides assistance for international work processes. In 2008, we appointed a foreign national as the executive in charge of HR management tostrengthen our global business capabilities. We plan to increase foreign representation in ourworkforce through global internships that guarantee a position with the company.
Working Cultur eInnovation
For long-term growth of our employees through enhanced work-life balance, SK Telecom carried
out a campaign in 2008 to improve employee engagement during work hours through better
work practices and processes. As a part of the campaign, we identified causes for overtime work
and implemented improvements. We also introduced partial flexible working hours in accordancewith a unit
sscharacteristics and duties. Our plan is to enforce changes that will enable each
individual to improve their time management skills and to enhance how we conduct meetingsand evaluate performance.Issue _08
InnovativeCorporateCulture
SK19. Acquisition of Foreign Talents (Unit: persons)
2006 20051114184153
2004 2007 200820
103040
LOOKING 
FORWARDSK Telecom will build an innovative or ganization culture that empowers
diverse people to maximize their individual potential.tIlook forward to diversity in
recruitment andemployee develop-
ment, and in particular, career
development opportunities enablinghigh-caliber overseas talent to grow
atSK Telecom.
u
2007 Sustainability Report p.22,
Eric Fiedler, Hewitt AssociatesSTAKEHOLDER 
EXPECTATIONS
As of the end of 2008, the number
offoreign employees working at SK
Telecom headquarters totaled 53.
We have also increased hiring of localtalents starting with our overseas
invested firms. In 2009, we plan to
further expand local hiring through
our global internship program and
support their growth and success
within the company through ourglobal work infrastructure.IN ACTION
Issue _ 08, 09Material Issues to Our Business 
and Society
35
Issue _09
ComplianceCompliance Program
In2002, SK Telecom introduced the Compliance Program under the belief that the company
would gain a greater competitive edge through voluntary compliance with the fair competition
law. Accordingly, we distribute CP checklists and hold related education on an annual basis, in
addition to presenting clear action plans to prevent violations. We also set up an internal system
for early detection and handling of such violations. We created a CP portal to facilitate
understanding of relevant fair competition laws. The portal which opened in March 2009 provides
detailed examples of unfair practices that may transpire during the work process.
Promoting Fair Competition for Win-Win Partnership
In line with the declaration of SK Group sswin-win partnership and compliance program in
September 2008, SK Telecom is committed to improving related practices and systems toprevent unfair transaction during the contract signing and execution and supplier selection andmanagement phases. Our goal is to build a culture of fair competition with our business partners.As part of our efforts to promote such a culture, we set up a purchasing review committee in
December 2008. The committee is responsible for guaranteeing appropriateness, fairness andlawfulness during contract signing and pricing.
Complying with Service Regulations
In addition to complying with the Telecommunications Business Act and other related laws, SK
Telecom is working towards reducing any risks that may occur in various processes ofestablishing a business model, contracts, sales and PR activities, such as inflicting damages oncustomers and hindering competition. Thanks to these efforts and changes in the regulatory
environment which lifted a ban on mobile phone subsidies, SK Telecom paid much smaller
penalties of KRW 2.15 billion in 2008. The penalties were levied in connection with fee plans andvalue-added service subscription, temporary mobile phone service, and T-Ring subscription.
LOOKING 
FORWARDWe believe corporate social responsibility starts with taking full legal
responsibility for our actions and will work tirelessly towards that end.
Penalties (Unit: cases, KRW mil.)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
PR9. Penalties levied by Korea 
Communications Commission(KCC)1)6 7 5 4 3
SO7. Penalties levied by Fair Trade Commission(FTC)1)1 0 110
SO8. Amount of penalties paid to KCC & FTC 32,349 36,620 69,812 10,012 2,150 
1
As of the day of resolution by the pertinent commission
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
36
CSR Activities for Our Communities sFuture
SKTelecom is pursuing youth and education-centered community involvement programs
tailored to the needs of respective overseas markets such as China and Vietnam where we have
built up a presence.
 China In August 2007, we opened the Yanbian IT Center offering IT training to teens and
university students in Yanbian, an area where computer and Internet education is underdeveloped.Subsequently in January 2008, the SK Fund was created under an agreement between China
ss
Communist Youth League and SK to support educational programs for college and middle/highschool students. Construction of an elementary school devastated by the 2008 Sichuan earthquakeswill be completed by August 2009. 
 Vietnam  In December 2007, we opened the SKT-SSU IT Training Center in Ho Chi Minh
to foster local IT professionals. In particular, outstanding trainees from the center are given theopportunity to study and work in Korea. Earlier in 2006, we introduced the Thu-Vien SK Telecomproject jointly with Global Civic Sharing to help develop the country
sseducational infrastructure.
Another major initiative of SK Telecom is providing free surgeries for Vietnamese children with facialdeformities carried out in conjunction with the Smile for Children since 1996. A total of 2,676 childrenhave benefitted from the surgeries through 2008. For its active CSR programs in the country whichcontinued even through difficult times, the Vietnamese government awarded SK Telecom with theOrder of Amicable Relations, the highest honor given to foreigners in June 2008.
Economic Contribution of Overseas Business
Leveraging its convergence service experience accumulated in Korea, SK Telecom aims to
contribute to advancing the global wireless communications market as a leading telecomoperator with in-depth knowledge and vast expertise in CDMA, WCDMA, TD-SCDMA and othertelecommunication service standards. By hiring locals under better conditions than our rivals inemerging markets like China and Vietnam, we are playing a major role in fostering the local talentpool of well-trained professionals. As our presence in these markets grows, we believe we canhelp further their social-economic developments as well.Issue _10
Gaining Trustin GlobalMarkets
Signing agreement for the SK Fund
(Jan. 2008)
Free surgery for children with facial
deformities in Ca Mau, Vietnam
LOOKING 
FORWARDWith community involvement programs as an integral part of our global
operations, we will continue our ef forts to gain trust from local communities.tWe hope that SK Telecom can
explore how sustainability priorities canbest be integrated into its core product,
service and technology offerings and
development processes.
u
2007 Sustainability Report p.16, 
Aron Cramer, Business for Social
ResponsibilitySTAKEHOLDER 
EXPECTATIONS
SK Telecom has been exploring
business opportunities in regions
and areas where we can maximize
our strengths. Leveraging ICT, wehope to boost industrial efficiencyand spur other advances in globalmarkets to contribute to creating a
sustainable world.IN ACTION
Issue _ 10, 11Material Issues to Our Business 
and Society
37
Creating Jobs
SKTelecom is sharing the fruits of our growth with the society ssless fortunate through various
philanthropic programs designed to expand welfare infrastructure and create jobs. Our key
initiatives include 1318 Happy Zone for underprivileged teens, Happy Doshirak Meal Service for
low income families and dispatch of teacher aides to help children with disabilities receive better
education. Through the Happy Doshirak Meal Service program, we deliver nutritious lunches to
children and seniors who are at risk of going hungry. Of the 29 provision centers operating across the
country, 18 attained the Labor Ministry sstsocial enterprise ucertification as of March 2009. Reflecting recent
economic conditions, we plan to open additional provisional centers to offer relief to more people in need.
Support for Underprivileged Y outh
The 1318 Happy Zone is the name of our support facilities for underprivileged youth between the
ages of 13 and 18 who slip through the social safety net. Since the opening of the first center inNovember 2006, 29 Happy Zones have been set up nationwide as of the end of 2008. Thefacilities offer academic, cultural, college/crisis counseling programs as well as meal services to
more than 1,000 teenagers. SK Telecom also operates programs that encourage youths whowere unable to further their studies due to financial hardship to pursue their dreams and reachtheir full potential. These include nonprofit quality educational programs like 
tHappy Music
Schoolu,tHappy Musical School uand tHappy Cooking School. u
Volunteering
To fulfill our promise of realizin gtHappy Korea uthrough sharing, SK Telecom established the
Employee Volunteer Group in 2004. The group carries out different community outreach
programs such as monthly-themed volunteer activities, junior handcraft classes and Happiness
Sharing Bazaars. The results of these activities are managed through a volunteer informationmanagement system. The Volunteer Group also evaluates performance of each volunteer teamand awards best achievements every year. This helps maintain consistency of companywidephilanthropic missions while allowing for flexibility to incorporate each team
sscharacteristics and
local community needs. In 2008, our volunteers focused on restoring the coastal area of Taeandevastated by the oil spill in December 2007. On top of more than thousand employees whodonated their time in clean-up efforts, the company purchased local products and encouragedemployees to visit the region to revitalize the local economy. As we mark the fifth anniversary ofthe Volunteer Group, our plan is to focus more on endeavors that use the knowledge andcompetencies of our employees to address community needs.Issue _11
Investment in LocalCommunities
SK12. Volunteer Hours SK13. Enrollment Rate in Volunteer Group (Unit: hours, %)
200440,063
200575,782
200673,756
200786,446
200884,3201)92.087.086.1
75.2
27.9
1
For accurate calculation of volunteer hours,
we made small changes in the 2008 figureswhich resulted in a slight decline from theprevious year. 
2) Enrollment rate = No. of members of
volunteer group / No. of employees as of theend of each year2008 Grand Prize for Best Volunteer
Team, Jung-bu Marketing Head-
quarters, Happy Wings On
The team carried out various
activities in partnership with Sunny,
SK Telecom ssuniversity student
volunteer group, and businesspartners. It also teamed up withlocal governments to help thehomeless in Daejeon get back ontheir feet.
LOOKING 
FORWARDFor self-sufficient and long-term operation of our CSR initiatives, SK
Telecom will support community groups and outreach programs we
sponsor and help them develop into social enterprises.
SK Telecom sssustainability activities and performance over the past year
represent progress in efforts to realize a sustainable world. Sustainabledevelopment remains an important mission at SK Telecom.Measuring Our Progress
A_Family Award in Photo Category - OK SK - Kim Seon-muk, 
Core Network O&M Team 4 
B_Family Award in Picture Category - A United Team - 
Wife of Lee Joong-yun, Application Development: Kang Kum-ju
C_Family Award in Photo Category - Jumpshot at Any Location - 
Wife of Jung Il-young, Corporate Planning Team: Yoo Mi-ho
A.
B.
C.
Economic Data Measuring Our Progress
39
Asaleading wireless telecommunication operator in Korea, we are sharing our financial
gains with employees, shareholders, business partners, the government and localcommunities. We are also building up a strong presence in global markets with thecreation of overseas invested firms.
Economic Performance
Stakeholder Return - Employees
SKTelecom has accumulated a sufficient amount of reserves for severance payments (outside
reserve ratio of 82.4% as of the end of 2008). We have negotiated with the labor union to introduce
the retirement pension where employees will be given the option of choosing between a defined
benefits plan and defined contribution plan. We will continue our efforts to find common ground with
the labor union on the issue, however, the timing of its introduction is still undetermined.
Stakeholder Return - Shareholders and Creditors
Between 2006 and 2008, SK Telecom repurchased company shares each year. Our goal is to find
the optimal balance between maintaining financial health and pursuing investments to drive growthand boost shareholder value.
Stakeholder Return - Government
Return to Employees (Unit: KRW thousand)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Salaries and wages (Operating expenses) 353,380,531 342,761,120 358,225,595 379,537,717 380,732,212
Provision for retirement and
severance benefits (Operating expenses) 49,353,624 37,622,226 37,921,155 30,346,097 33,375,115
Welfare (Operating expenses) 47,494,486 56,514,211 55,734,927 86,343,003 62,749,501
Education and training 
(Operating expenses) 24,128,767 29,430,652 36,273,953 39,994,401 40,879,329
Return to Shareholder and Creditors (Unit: KRW thousand)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Interest expenses (Other expenses) 302,491,456 252,463,623 237,534,542 215,856,126 256,446,176
Dividends (Surplus appropriation) 758,227,249 662,528,664 582,385,8701)682,378,746 681,996,308
1
Stock buyback and retirement amounting to KRW 209.1 billion
Return to Government (Unit: KRW thousand)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Taxes and dues (Operating expenses) 62,393,573 55,687,220 91,902,424 32,557,444 30,813,796
Frequency usage (Operating expenses) 143,046,998 156,097,850 158,958,132 164,071,959 161,619,291
External research and
development costs (Other expenses) 68,549,106 68,525,662 66,055,467 73,724,601 71,941,920
Provision for income taxes 620,926,453 683,233,256 575,045,052 673,660,845 228,417,996Economic 
Data
Issue 1 _ Economic Impact
Issue 2 _ Product and Service Development
Issue 10 _ Gaining Trust in Global Markets
Issue 11 _ Investment in Local Communities
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
40
SK Telecom is participating in a wide range of government sponsored studies aimed at securing
future growth engines. In 2008, we were involved in projects related to telematics, u-City, m-RFID,media and education, among others.
Stakeholder Return - Local Community
Market Position
Major overseas invested firms of SK Telecom do not necessarily give priority to local firms when
making purchasing decisions. However, most of the supplies for the overseas subsidiaries areprocured from local firms and it is our principle to increase the ratio of local hires. Currently, localhires account for 55.4% (or 144 persons) of total employees at our four overseas corporations inkey regions. Especially in Vietnam and China, we offer more competitive wage and benefitpackages than our competitors to all local hires including fresh graduates.
EC4. Government Subsidies, 
Tax Relief/Credits (Unit: KRW million)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Investmen t/Research & development grants 4,069 4,925 7,594 3,837 7,119
Tax relief/Credits 74,633 94,134 90,189 101,800 100,639
Return to Community (Unit: KRW thousand)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Donations (Other expenses) 19,795,691 75,982,647 103,002,014 72,470,536 99,602,0231)
1
Year-end donation to the poor increased due to a surge in donation requests with the economic downturn in late 2008.
Employment Status by Global Subsidiary (Unit: persons)
Global Local Total Local Benefits for 
Subsidiaries Employment Employment Employment Ratio Local Employees
SKT Vietnam (Vietnam) 30 57 52.6%Offer selective welfare benefits, accident
insurance, education/training program, 
rewards for long-term employees
SKT China Holding76 13456.7% Offer selective welfare benefits, 
Company (China) medical check-up
SKT Americas (USA) 37 66 56.1% -
SKT Europe (U.K.) 1 3 33.3% Offer education and meal expense
Total 144 260 55.4%
Environmental Data Measuring Our Progress
41
SK Telecom closely monitors energy and water usage while taking an avid interest in
waste management and bio-diversity. We also consider the environmental impact ofusing company vehicles. As a mobile telecom service provider, our operations do notinvolve manufacturing products that directly use raw materials or processes that requirehazardous substances. We also do not generate ozone depleting substances or other
air pollutants. In 2008, no penalties were levied to the company for violatingenvironmental laws.
Energy and Climate Change
GHG Emissions
In2008, SK Telecom ssGHG emissions from energy use rose 8.7% from the previous year to
389,427 tons. The increase is believed to be due to expansion of our operations such as rise in the
number of employees and sales as well as building of additional base stations for 3G network
expansion. However, our energy saving campaign is paying off and we are seeing decreasing growth
rate in energy consumption from 14.0% in 2006 to 10.8% in 2007 and 8.7% in 2008. Amid growingimportance of GHG emissions control, we plan to overhaul the related measurement system andexpand the scope of energy target management currently applied to office buildings.
⊅ Issue_7. Responding to Climate Change (p.33)
Energy Saving
Energy saving actions such as introducing high-efficient air conditioners in office buildings, adjusting
room temperatures, turning off lights in unused spaces, managing cooling and heating systems afterwork hours and installing natural cooling systems in base stations led to a reduction of CO
2emissions
by 9,506 tons in 2008.
Energy Consumption
Unit 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
EN16. Total greenhouse gas emissions
CO2t 252,200 283,554 323,278 358,097 389,427
EN3. Natural gas consumption Nm34,356,657 5,178,039 4,670,361 4,240,633 3,467,265 
EN3. Oil consumption liter    547,730 598,223 544,755 486,774 515,522 
EN4. Electricity consumption2)MWh 565,708 634,517 731,528 816,547 894,769
Network (Base station/Repeater)3)MWh 346,506 367,843 388,596 449,079 496,626
Office buildings (31 buildings)4)MWh    205,564 238,600 246,069 260,294 276,480
Other5)MWh 13,637 28,074 96,864 107,173 121,663
1) Emission coefficient: Enforcement Regulations of the Framework Act on Energy, Revised IPCC Guidelines 1996, Study for mid- to long-
term policy and strategy for responding to UNFCCC by Korea Energy Economics Institute (2005) (Year 3 of research)
2) Total electricity consumption furnished under SK Telecom (Collected via KEPCO) 
3) Total electricity consumption in networks 
4) Total electricity consumption of 31 office buildings nationwide including switchboard building, Data collected via Facility Management System(FMS) 
5) Differences exist between electricity consumption data compiled by KEPCO and by SKT. The differences are believed to be due to power 
used in base stations/repeaters and distribution network that were omitted from the system 
Energy Saving
Unit 2005 2006 2007 2008
EN5. Electricity savings MWh 8,195 7,102 16,362 22,420
Management of office buildings MWh    8,195 5,058 4,652 2,482
Installment of natural cooling systems1)MWh   - 2,044 11,710 19,938
EN18. GHG reduction CO 2t 3,475 3,0112)6,937 9,506
1
No. of natural cooling systems installed annually * Electricity saving per unit (real measurement) 
2
Revised calculation errors from 2007 report dataEnvironmental
Data
Issue 7 _ Responding to Climate Change
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
42
Water
Water use management centers on office buildings. Despite water conservation drives such as
adjusting water pressure, we saw an increase in facility water usage as water coolant became
airborne due to increased power consumption. We will keep up efforts in saving resources by
incorporating environmental awareness as an integral part of our corporate culture in 2009.
Waste
Waste generated from each office building is recycled and reused as much as possible while
unrecyclable waste is disposed of following the proper procedure. Launching of an eco-office
campaign that included refraining use of disposables in the latter half of 2008 resulted insignificant reduction in waste. Our resource conservation actions will continue in 2009 withmonitoring of printer usage and avoiding use of paper cups.
Bio-diversity
Facilities within Ecosystem Conservation Zones
In order to narrow the digital divide and offer universal services in rural and remote areas, base
stations and repeaters are installed within zones designated for ecosystem conservation.
EN11. Facilities within Eco-Protected Areas
1
The number of base
stations/repeaters installedwithin ecosystem conservation
zones in the Seoul area such 
as Seoul Wetland and Mt.Cheonggye has been added.(Unit: units)
1159
20051265
2006211)1101)
200727140
2008Base stations
Repeaters
EN22. Waste Generation and Treatment
Unit 2005 2006 2007 2008
Waste generation from office buildings 
(commissioned treatment) 1,000 liter    6,037 5,611 5,916 5,413
Waste separated from nationwide office 
buildings for recycling ton - 1,211 471 597
Ecosystem Conservation Zone
These zones are designated by the Ministry
of Environment, the Ministry of Maritime
Affairs & Fisheries, city mayors, and
provincial governors pursuant to the NaturalEnvironment Preservation Act.
Water Consumption (Unit: m3)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
EN8. Water consumption1)547,730 598,223 673,967 685,973 695,279
1
Sum of water consumption of 31 office buildings, Graywater is not used in SK Telecom buildings.
Eco-Friendly Wireless Sites
Weaim to retain the beauty of city skylines and nature by following government guidelines on building
eco-friendly wireless stations. Korea stipulates in its laws to build eco-friendly wireless stations or
share base stations when possible to protect the cityscape and environment. Accordingly, the
number of eco-friendly wireless stations rose by 12,584 in 2008 from the previous year. Over 50% of
new wireless stations to be built in 2009 will be eco-friendly.
Environmental Impact of Our Services
SK Telecom is working to minimize the impact mobile telecommunication service
has on our environment by standardizing peripheral devices, expanding e-billingand promoting used handset recycling.
Expansion of E-billing
In order to reduce the use of paper and other resource as well as mailing expenses, we are moving to
have more subscribers use e-billing services. Our plan is to expand the number to 8 million by takingour e-bills to the next level of convenience.
Product Recycling
Subsidies are being offered to customers who return their old handsets when they switch mobile
phone operators or change to a new handset. The priority is on reusing retrieved handsets, whilehandsets that are not reused are passed on to recycling companies that meet the standards set bythe Ministry of Environment or exported overseas through SK Networks. Offering of extra subsidieson used handsets led to an increase in handset retrievals by more than 1 million units in 2008compared to the previous year. Due to a drop in overseas demand, more handsets were sold todomestic recycling firms. Our goal for 2009 is to increase the number of retrieved handsets to 2.5million units. To this end, we plan to diversify partners for our handset return campaign and establish asystem that will allow customers to return unwanted handsets any time.Environmental Data Measuring Our Progress
43
Electronic Billing (Unit: persons)
2005 2006 2007 2008
Subscribers using email billing (year-end) 2,243,297 2,144,328 2,051,912 2,110,384
Subscribers using mobile billing (year-end) 935,780 623,353 1,805,633 3,455,180
EN26. Subscribers using electronic billing 3,179,077 2,767,681 3,857,545 5,565,564
Collection and Recycling of Handsets (Unit: thousand units)
2005 2006 2007 2008
EN27. New handset sales 7,461 8,450 10,783 11,860
EN27. Old handset collection 2,105 1,264 676 1,828
Disposal of collected handsets-Export 1,567 985 564 961
Disposal of collected handsets-Recycling 457 199 100 823 
Disposal of collected handsets-Reuse 81 79 12 44Eco-Friendly Wireless Site
Wireless sites designed to reduce the visual
impact in surrounding areas. They have
been institutionalized via a notice by the
Korea Communications Commissionpursuant to the enforcement decree of theRadio Waves Act of Korea.
Eco-Friendly Wireless Sites
Unit 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
EN18. Eco-friendly wireless sites sites 3,795 8,850 12,350 17,343 29,927
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
44
Transportation
SKTelecom operates a total of 531 company cars while our business partners have 826 vehicles
for network maintenance and repair work (as of the end of 2008) .To minimize pollution caused by car
exhaust emissions, our policy stipulates that business partners use vehicles that comply with
Euro 4 standards. Accordingly, the ratio of cars that meet the standard among the entire fleet of
diesel engines operated by business partners rose to 34% in 2008. Our green action for 2009
includes switching leased cars that mostly run on gasoline to energy efficient compact cars. We
also plan to improve vehicle management to enable automatic calculation of GHG emissions
according to the travel distance. Meanwhile, we will increase the use of video conferencing systems
set up in 56 domestic and 3 overseas offices in 2008 to replace business trips.
Envir onmental Cost and Investment
In accordance with environmental accounting guidelines set forth by the Ministry of Environment,
SK Telecom tabulated environmental investment and costs for the first time in 2008. Totalenvironmental costs and investment amounted to KRW 24.7 billion and KRW 25.2 billion,
respectively. As a participant of the Green Purchasing Voluntary Agreement between industryand the Ministry of Environment, we have been revamping related systems since 2006. In 2008,we spent KRW 8.2 billion in purchasing a total of 127 green items
(e.g. office equipment and supplies)
bearing the environment mark, good recycling mark or the energy conservation mark.
2008 Environmental Investment (Unit: KRW thousand)
2008 Environmental Costs (Unit: KRW thousand)
Category Total
Costs for follow-up treatment activities Waste treatment outsourcing 207,759 
Environmental education contents development 15,000
Costs for prevention campaign Switching to recycled paper for shopping bag 1,500,000
Retrieving used mobile phones, expanding e-billing, introducing fax system 22,440,294
Costs for stakeholder activities Supporting environmental groups 273,000
Costs related to regulations & restoration Improving building environment 278,231
Total environmental costs 24,714,284
6,373,000
25.3%1,300,000
5.2%
16,300,000
64.8%1,195,600
4.8%LED billboard installment
Fax system for application
Natural cooling systems replacement 
Facility improvements in office buildings25,168,600
KRW thousandEuro 4
Emission standard set by the European
Union for diesel passenger cars.
Social Data Measuring Our Progress
45
For improved customer satisfaction, we are working to curb customer health and safety
risks, comply with regulations on marketing communication and protect customers s
privacy. Due to characteristics of the wireless telecommunication service industry, we
are not subject to labeling regulations related to specific raw materials and components.
Customer Health and Safety
Tominimize impact of electromagnetic radiation, we incorporate relevant standards from the
handset purchasing process. We also measure base station related electromagnetic radiation on
aregular basis. ⊅ Issue_3. Service Quality and Reliability (p.29)
Marketing Communication
Terms of Use
The Terms of Use can be easily accessed via the SK Telecom website which displays the hyperlink at
the bottom of the page. To facilitate the understanding of key features of the agreement from service
subscription to usage and cancellation, the cartoon version of the Terms of Use has been available viathe website from December 2008.
Complying with Advertisement Regulations
All our TV and radio spots undergo Korea Advertising Review Board sspreliminary inspection while
ads in other media outlets including newspapers and Internet are subject to the Fair Trade
Commission ssreview. As such, we stipulate accountability obligations regarding risks that may
transpire during ad production when signing a contract with an ad agency. In addition, we have inplace an internal review procedure to check whether our TV commercials violate any related laws.
tPeople, the ultimate worth uCampaign
Since 2005, SK Telecom sstPeople, the ultimate worth ucampaign has been delivering the message
of connecting people through the use of technology. In September 2007, we opened a websitepromoting the campaign and created TV and print ads from heartwarming stories people posted onthe site about how they stay connected with their loved using mobile communications technology.These touching ads were chosen as the 
tbest ad of the month uby Korea Advertising Review Board
in April 2008. That same year, we launched a commercial promoting mobile donation to stress theimportance of using technology to address community needs. The commercial has drawn a warmresponse from viewers.
Social Data
Product 
Responsibility
Promoting mobile giving
Issue 3 _ Service Quality and Reliability
Issue 4 _ Affordable Mobile Services
Issue 5 _ Customer Privacy Protection
Issue 6 _ Sound Telecom Culture
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
46
Voice of Customers
SKTelecom operates the VOC(Voice of Customers) system to continuously monitor customers s
concerns and grievances and to make improvements as necessary. As a result, the number of
complaints filed against SK Telecom with external organizations such as the Korea
Communications Commission(KCC), Korea Consumer Agency and NGOs has been on a decline
since 2006. In 2008, the complaints lodged with KCC and NGOs dropped 39.3% and 12%,
respectively, year-on-year. 
Webelieve difficult economic times could lead to a rise in customer complaints in 2009.
Accordingly, we will set a specific goal to reduce number of complaints filed with KCC and focus
onindentifying and eliminating root causes of complaints in advance. Follow-up to customer
complaints will be handled by conflict specialists who we plan to nurture to arrange satisfactory
resolution.
Customer Satisfaction
On top of conducting regular customer satisfaction surveys, we use assessments by credible
outside experts to identify areas for improvements and take appropriate measures. As a result,SK Telecom has retained its number one position in the three major customer surveys in Korea -NCSI, KS-SQI and KCSI.
SK7. Customer Complaints Received by External Institutions (Unit: cases)
2006 20054,71610,607
8,872
7,223
5,074
2004 2007 20085,000
2,0008,00011,000
PR5. Major Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (Unit: points)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
NCSI1)71 74 71 71 69
KCSI 65 67 69 68 68
KS-SQI 58 61 58 61 66
1
The figure has been rounded off to one decimal place
Major CSI Surveys
NCSI KCSI KS-SQI
Survey organization Korea Productivity Center Korea Management Korea Standards Association 
Association Consulting
Survey period 1)Jan.~Feb.  Apr.~July May~Aug.
Survey region 5metropolitan areas 5metropolitan areas 6 metropolitan areas
Survey method One-on-one interview One-on-one interview One-on-one interview, 
Internet panel survey
Survey results No. 1 for eleven No. 1 for eleven No. 1 for nine 
consecutive years consecutive years consecutive years
1
The survey period is subject to change according to the polling agency ssannual plans.
Social Data Measuring Our Progress
47
SK Telecom employs a total of 4,411 full-time and 119 temporary employees. At SK
Telecom, labor and management work together in harmony to enhance employeewelfare as the company strives to improve diversity of its workforce and narrow the gapwith global telecom giants.
Employment Status
Wehire full time and temporary employees according to job descriptions and the need to retain
certain skills and competencies. For areas that require special knowledge and skills, we hire
contract employees and use outsourcing for clerical assistance, secretarial work or driving. We
comply fully with laws on protecting temporary and fixed-term employees and reflect industrytrends to offer competitive pay and benefits for contract and dispatched employees.Social Data
Labor Practices
and Decent
Work
LA2. Retirees / Retirees by Age
Employees with Disabilities
As of 2008, SK Telecom employs 43 people with disabilities. Although we are gradually increasing
employment opportunities for disabled persons, we have yet to satisfy the 2% employment quotamandated by the government.Retirees
In 2008, a total of 185 full-time employees retired. People who left the company were mostly in their
30s and 40s. For 23 (12.4%) females who retired in 2008, the average age was 30.9.
Employment of People with Disabilities
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
SK20. Employees with disabilities 18 24 31 38 4316
133
2004Male Female
149
12
73106
17715
15823
162
2005 85
2006283
2007173
2008185
LA1.Employment Status LA13.Employees by Age (Unit: persons)
As of December 31, 2008
(Unit: persons)
As of December 31, 20082004Full time employees
Long-term contract employees
Dispatched employees
4,617
2005 4,651
20064,755
20075,252
20085,154
4,130119368
4,188120343
4,187152416
4,442100710
4,411119624
(Unit: persons)
2,601
59.0%1,302
29.5%460
10.4%48
1.1%20s
30s
40s
50s 
and above
20s
30s
40s
50s 
and above
74
40.0%75
40.5%26
14.1%10
5.4%Issue 8 _ Innovative Corporate Culture
4,411
persons
185
persons
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Diversity and inclusion are essential to our culture and business success. Thus, there is no gender
gap in pay and promotions at SK Telecom. The average age of our female workforce is relatively
lower than that of their male counterparts, which can be attributed to the fact that men got a head
start in joining the workforce in Korea. This may explain why none of our board members are
female, and there are only three women (1.1%) in the 263 top posts. However, the proportion of
female employees is on the rise. Currently, women account for 13.5% of full-timers, 21.8% of the
entire workforce and 22.0% of new recruits, which should lead to an increased number of female
executives in the future. We also offer various support for employees to balance life and work.
These include various leaves including maternity leave and day-off for baby sshospital visits and
prenatal care, and facilities such as nursing room and nursery operations.
Labor-Management Relations
In line with the annual labor-management agreement, SK Telecom strives to ascertain that no
areas of work infringes on freedom of assembly and collective bargaining. Although annual unionmembership remains unchanged at roughly 80%, the proportion of union members in comparisonto overall full-timers are on the decline due to the rise in the ratio of supervisory roles.
Welfare Benefits
SK Telecom employees enjoy industry-leading benefits that include medical expenses, health check-
ups, maternity leaves, sabbatical leaves for long-term employees and self-development programs.Additional benefits such as scholarship for children and mortgage loans are offered as an incentive toinspire long service. In 2003, we set up an outside consultation program called 
tMy Counselor uto
offer professional support on a wide range of issues. The number of counseling cases totaled 461 in2008 on topics like health (295 cases), psychological problems (141) and finances (25).SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
48
My Counselor (Unit: cases)
2005 2006 2007 2008
LA8. Annual Counseling 933 748 697 461
LA13. Female Employees by Age
2006 2005565586
553586596
2004 2007 2008400
300500600Agreement with Ministry of Gender
Equality to promote women-friendly
corporate culture (Feb. 2009)
20s
30s
40s
386
64.8%185
31.0%25
4.2%
596
persons
Labor Union
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Employees qualified for union membership (year-end) 3,531 3,570  3,408 3,309 3,269
Employees who joined the labor union (year-end) 2,888 2,851 2,761 2,673 2,580 
LA4. Union membership rate (actual participation rate among 
employees eligible for membership) 81.8 79.9 81.0 80.8 78.9(Unit: persons, %)As of December 31, 2008(Unit: persons)
Social Data Measuring Our Progress
49
Employee Health
Annual medical check-ups are offered to our full-time and contract employees, and their spouses
who are 35 years or older. Thanks to the company ssefforts to increase health awareness, more
people are taking advantage of the benefit. Those who receive below a certain grade in their check-
ups are subject to reexaminations and other supportive measures to improve their health.
Operation of Industrial Safety and Health Committee
Held four times a year, an equal number of labor and management representatives at the Industrial
Safety and Health Committee discuss issues at hand and their decisions are applied to all employees.The committee sets up workplace accidents prevention plan, surveys workplace accidents anddiscusses employee medical check-ups.
Employee Education
In 2008, the average training hours completed per manager were 107.1, a slight increase from
104.7 hours in 2007. Team leaders and above received training of 73.7 hours per person. Every
year, SK Telecom employees are required to draw up and carry out an tIndividual Development
Planuafter an assessment of individual skills. SK Telecom has established a new job competency
development program to provide employees with continued opportunities to grow and developtheir career through job training tailored to their tasks. Under the plan, we will nurture specialists inline with our long-term corporate strategy.
Career Management 
All employees are required to formulate individual KPI(Key Performance Indicator) before each
periodic evaluation through the tPeople Review and Coaching System. uThe outcome is reflected in
the personnel performance report. For efficient development and management of individual careerswithin the organization, we operate the
tJob-Person Fit System. uIn addition, a sabbatical leave
(Refresh Holiday) is offered to long service employees to help them rejuvenate and develop newcompetencies. For those who are retiring, we have programs to help them map out their post-retirement future and adapt to changes after SK Telecom.
Medical Check-ups and Days of Sick Leaves
Unit 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
LA8. Medical check-ups persons 5,088 5,233 5,315 5,536 6,025
Employees persons    4,012 3,998 3,913 3,974 4,130
Family members persons   1,076 1,235 1,402 1,562 1,895
LA7. Annual days lost due to sick leaves1)days   1,124 1,631 1,605 1,728 2,173 
1
SKTelecom is a workplace with low hazardous risks, thus, the number of sick leaves were used as an index to measure workplace health conditions.
Employee Education (Unit: cases)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
LA10. In-house education courses 187 248 790 883 966
LA11. Sabbatical Leaves
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Employees eligible for Refresh Holiday 821 866 1,330 720 286
Employees who used Refresh Holiday 47 397 666 599 281(Unit: persons)
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
50
SK Telecom strictly abides by regulations on forced and child labor set forth by the Korean
Labor Standard Act. We are committed to building a culture of ethics and integrity whereindividual rights are held in the highest esteem. Going forward, we will strive to extend ourcorporate culture beyond our walls to invested firms and business partners.
Investment and Supply Practice
SK Telecom conducts a comprehensive review of possible human rights violation in connection
with employees when assessing risks associated with investment agreement. Since joining theUN Global Compact in May 2005, we have been seeking ways to request our business partnersto take necessary steps to protect human rights. As a part of this endeavor, we incorporated theUN Global Compact
ssfour major principles as our guiding policy for new supplier registration in
the first half of 2009. Excluding minor contracts that occur at the departmental level, all businesspartners will be evaluated for their policies, processes and training programs on the environment,human rights and labor upon registration.
Human Rights Policy and Education
SK Telecom ssCode of Ethics stipulates employees sright to equal treatment and respect for each
other. All employees participate in regular education to understand and reinforce our ethicsexpectations. In addition, a sexual harassment class is held every year to teach employees aboutpreventing sexual harassment in the workplace. In 2008, the company rule was revised so that allsexual harassment cases are handled by the companywide personnel disciplinary committee.
Protecting Visitors sRights
To create a safe environment for everyone who visits our worksites in addition to our employees,
we conduct safety accident prevention and customer response procedure training for oursecurity personnel on a regular basis. As of the end of 2008, a total of 247 security personnelwere hired throughout our premises nationwide. Social Data
Human Rights
Issue 5 _ Customer Privacy Protection
Issue 8 _ Innovative Corporate Culture
Stipulations on Human Rights in SK Telecom ssCode of Ethics
1. Human-centered Management
-The Company shall respect each Employee ssindividuality and treat them fairly and 
reasonably, in accordance with their capability and performance.
- The Company shall create a SUPEX Quest environment in order to help Employees 
maximize their brain engagement willingly and voluntarily. 
-The Company shall support the self development of the Employees and actively provide the 
Employees with education opportunities necessary for the execution and completion of duties.Responsibility
for Employees
Relationship
with BusinessPartners
Responsibility 
for Community
1
SK Telecom ssCode of Ethics was adopted in 2002. It was revised in 2007 after the company joined the UN Global Compact to incorporate the UN
Global Compact ssten principles.1. Coexistence Management
-The Company shall select appropriate BPs based on fair and reasonable criteria, and notify 
its BPs of the results of the evaluations made under the same standards on their business processes and product quality. 
-The Company shall not take improper advantage of its superior position, but shall rather 
pursue mutual benefit and joint development. 
-The Company shall help its BPs enhance their competitiveness through rendering assistance 
in the areas of training, financial management, and R&D, and shall recognize the BPs as strategic 
partners that seek common value of customer happiness based on mutual trust.
- The Company shall encourage its BPs to fulfill their own social responsibilities, including the 
promotion of workplace safety and respect for employees shuman rights.
2. Respect for Human Rights
-The Company shall not unduly discriminate against its employees, customers and other 
stakeholders based on race, religion, sex or physical and mental impediments in any 
region where it conducts business. 
- The Company shall protect basic human rights in every region where it conducts business 
including protection of minors and customer privacy.
Social Data Measuring Our Progress
51
SK Telecom abides by the Political Fund Act which prohibits companies from providing
political funds. We pay attention to society ssdemands regarding anti-corruption and fair
competition, and engage in public policy efforts to create jobs and to promote genderequality and low-carbon growth. We work closely with local governments, NGOs andlocal residents to earn their support when executing a major project such as installingbase stations. We also work together with local communities in a number of community
involvement initiatives.
Anti-corruption
To achieve our goal of transparency and integrity, we conduct process-oriented audit activities as
well as EIRM (Ethical Issue Raising & Mapping) activities allowing employees to select and manage
ethical risks which may arise in general business activities. In 2008, a total of 64 teams werechosen to take part in EIRM activities. As concrete steps to elevate the importance of managing ethical risks, we offer extensive on- andoff-line training to our employees. Under the belief that the leadership plays a crucial role inmaintaining the highest standards of ethics and responsibility in our operations, the training isespecially focused on team leaders and above. In 2008, 23.6% of the entire staff and 40.0% ofleadership received ethics training. We plan to strengthen training and one-on-one interviews withthe leadership group to emphasize their responsibility of upholding a culture of integrity. We willalso map out education programs tailored to each division and job title in 2009. In the event of an ethics violation, the disciplinary committee is convened to deliberate and handdown an appropriate penalty. In 2008, two people 
(transaction with the company through a third-party such as
family members and acquaintances) received disciplinary action (above censure) ,adramatic fall from the
previous year, which is believed to be the result of strengthened company rules and emphasis onintegrity through continued education.
Observing Laws
SK Telecom sscommitment to full compliance of laws that govern every aspect of our operations
is underscored by an extensive system of policies, processes and training. In 2008, penaltieslevied by the Korea Communications Commission and Fair Trade Commission declined sharplyfrom the previous year to amount to KRW 2.15 billion for a total of three cases.
⊅ Issue_9. Compliance (p.35)
Public Policy Cooperation
SK Telecom is an active supporter of government initiatives for sustainable development. In
February 2009, we signed an agreement with the Ministry of Gender Equality and pledged toexpand programs to help balance work and motherhood. We also plan to team up with the LaborMinistry to offer job opportunities for the underprivileged to become self-sufficient and supportlow-carbon green growth by taking part in the 
tGreen Broadcasting and Telecommunication
Promotion Council usponsored by KCC.
Social Data
Society
Education & Disciplinary Measures (Unit: persons)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
SO3. Anti-corruption education
Employees 3,975 1,139 4,833 1,678 1,217
Leadership 81 230 257 76 104
SO4. People receiving disciplinary action (above censure) 380 1 2 2Issue 9 _ Compliance
A_Family Award in Photo Category - Realizing T Baby - Ji Hong-keun, 
Application Development 
B_Family Award in Picture Category - Family Game of Yut on Chuseok -
Child of Cho Sang-hyun, m-Finance Business : Cho Seung-minAppendix
A.
B.
GRI Content Index Appendix
53GRI Content Index
G3 Disclosure Items Page
1.1
1.2
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.83.9
3.10
3.113.12
3.13
4.1
4.24.34.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
4.9
4.10
4.11
4.12
4.134.14
4.15
4.164.17Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy
Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities
Name of the organization
Primary brands, products, and/or services
Operational structure of the organizationLocation of organization
ssheadquarters
Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability reporting
Nature of ownership and legal form
Markets served
Scale of the reporting organization
Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership
Awards received in the reporting period
Reporting period
Date of previous reportReporting cycle
Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents
Process for defining report content
Boundary of the report
State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report
Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizationsData measurement techniques and the bases of calculations
Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement
Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods
Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report
Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the reportGovernance structure of the organization
Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer
The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members
Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body
Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives
Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided
Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization ssstrategy
on economic, environmental, and social topics
Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance
Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization ssidentification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance
Processes for evaluating the highest governance body ssown performance
Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed
Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses
Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations
List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization
Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage
Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder groupKey topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded3
9
5
6
667
5
6, 7
55
8
1
1
1
Front Cover
23
1
1
11
Provided when relevant
1
53
1, 57
10
10
10
1911
10
10
9
10,11
11
9, 11
22
8
19
1919
20Strategy
and
Analysis
Organi-
zational
Profile
Report
Parame-
ters
Govern-
ance,
Commit-
ments,
and
Engage-
mentProfile
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
54
G3 Indicators PageReporting
Status
EC1
EC2
EC3
EC4
EC5
EC6
EC7
EC8
EC9
EN1
EN2
EN3
EN4
EN5
EN6
EN7
EN8
EN9
EN10
EN11
EN12
EN13
EN14
EN15
EN16
EN17
EN18
EN19
EN20
EN21
EN22
EN23
EN24
EN25Direct economic value generated and distributed
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization ssactivities due to climate change
Coverage of the organization ssdefined benefit plan obligations
Significant financial assistance received from government
Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation
Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation
Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation
Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit
through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement
Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts
Materials used by weight or volume
Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materialsDirect energy consumption by primary energy source
Indirect energy consumption by primary sourceEnergy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements
Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in
energy requirements as a result of these initiatives
Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved
Total water withdrawal by sourceWater sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water
Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused
Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high
biodiversity value outside protected areas
Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and
areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
Habitats protected or restored
Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity
Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by
operations, by level of extinction risk
Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight
Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight
NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight
Total water discharge by quality and destination
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method
Total number and volume of significant spills
Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel
Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally
Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly
affected by the reporting organization
ssdischarges of water and runoff39
33
39
40
40
40
40
26,36-37,40
25
10-11, 33
-
-
41
4141
43
44
41
-
42
42
-
-
42
-
41
-
41
-
-
-
42
-
-
-
Economic
Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach
Disclosure on Management Approach25-26, 39-40
Economic
Perfor-
mance
Market
Presence
Indirect
Economic
Impacts
Materials
Energy
Water
Bio
Diversity
Emissions,
Effluents,
and 
Waste1. Not Material : Detailed data are not collected as they were evaluated as less material
2. On Progress : Detailed data are in the process of being collected and will be available in future reports3. Partly Reported : Indicators that have been reported but have yet to reach the level required by GRI reporting guidelines4. Fully Reported : Indicators that have been reported in line with the level required by GRI reporting guidelines
GRI Content Index Appendix
55
EN26
EN27
EN28
EN29
EN30Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation
Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations
Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the
organization ssoperations, and transporting members of the workforce
Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type43
43
41
44
44Products
and
Services
Compliance
Transport
Overall
Customer
Health 
and Safety
Product
and
Service
Labeling
Marketing
Communi-
cation
Customer
Privacy
Compliance
Employment
Labor/
Management
Relations
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Training 
and
Education
Investment 
and
Procurement
Practices
Non-
Discrimination
Child Labor
Forced and
Compulsory Labor
Security
Practices
Indigenous
RightsFreedom of
Association and
Collective
BargainingDiversity 
and Equal
OpportunityG3 Indicators PageReporting
Status
PR1
PR2
PR3
PR4
PR5
PR6
PR7
PR8
PR9
LA1
LA2
LA3
LA4
LA5
LA6
LA7
LA8
LA9
LA10
LA11
LA12
LA13
LA14
HR1
HR2
HR3
HR4
HR5
HR6
HR7
HR8
HR9
Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 10-11, 29, 31, 32
Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement,
and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and
safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle
Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and
services subject to such information requirements
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling
Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction
Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing
communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship
Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services
Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region
Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations
Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes
Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees
Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region
Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members,
their families, or community members regarding serious diseases
Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions
Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning and assist them in managing career endings
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age
group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity
Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category
Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that
have undergone human rights screening
Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken
Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights
Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken
Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be
at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights
Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor
Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to
contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor
Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization°Øs policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights
Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken29
-
-
-
46
45
35
46
35
47
47
4848
19
49
49
49
49
49
4949
34, 48
48
50
50
50
50
20
48
47, 50
47, 50
50
-Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach
Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach34, 47-49
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
56
UNGC IndexG3 Indicators PageReporting
Status
SO1
SO2
SO3
SO4
SO5
SO6
SO7
SO8Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of
operations on communities
Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption
Percentage of employees trained in organization ssanti-corruption policies and procedures
Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption
Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying
Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country
Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations51
51
51
51
51
51 
3535
Society Disclosure on Management Approach 10-11, 51
Community
Corruption
Public
Policy
Anti-Competitive
Behavior
Compliance
The Global Compact ssTen Principles SK Telecom ssEfforts to Keep the Principles Relevant Sections in the Report
Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support
and respect the protection of internation-
ally proclaimed human rights; and
Principle 2: make sure that they are not
complicit in human rights abuses.Byprotecting the rights of our employees and strengthening measures to protect customers s
personal information, SK Telecom is striving to do our part to protect human rights while providing
telecommunication service. We are also monitoring global trends in human rights reports by takingpart in the working group activities (
r08.11~r09.6) for revising GRI guidelines shuman rights
performance indicator and working to identify stakeholder expectations.Human Rights (p.50)
Customer Privacy Protection (p.31)
Labor Standards
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the
freedom of association and the effectiverecognition of the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of
forced and compulsory labor;
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in
respect of employment and occupation.SKTelecom is striving to create an innovative corporate culture that embraces diversity and equal
opportunity based on cooperative labor-management relations. We are also working to expand our
corporate culture of respecting human rights to our invested firms and business partners through
improvements in supply practices and training. 
We also offer industry leading pay and benefits to local hires in emerging markets and do our
utmost to foster a culture that respects people.Work Conditions and Practices  (p.47-49)
Human Rights (p.50)
Innovative Corporate Culture (p.34)
Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a
precautionary approach to environmentalchallenges;
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote
greater environmental responsibility; and
Principle 9: encourage the development and
diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.To minimize our impact on the environment, we are collecting used handsets, and managing
energy, water and waste use. Going forward, we will continue R&D investment for products and
services that offer smart solutions to environmental challenges and climate change so that we can
contribute to sustainable development of society.Responding to Climate Change (p.33),
Environment (p.41-44)
"OUJ$PSSVQUJPO
Principle 10: Businesses should work against
corruption in all its forms, including extortion
and bribery.SK Telecom is building a culture of ethics and integrity through pledges by employees to comply
with the Code of Ethics, ethics training and strengthened internal regulations. Society (p.51)
Stakeholder Feedback (p.20)
SK Telecom revised its Code of Ethics in line with our participation in the UN
Global Compact in May 2007. Accordingly, we implemented a campaign to
enhance employee awareness on the importance of the four key areas of
human rights, environment, labor standards and anti-corruption. Processimprovements and stakeholder networking activities were carried out in
conjunction. In the future, we plan to make full disclosure of our efforts tocomply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact through UNGC Index.IN ACTION
tIncorporating the ten principles in their core values will enable companies to
enhance their corporate image and brand value while earning full support of
the stakeholders. u
2007 Sustainability Report p.28, Chul-Ki Ju, UN Global Compact Network
KoreaSTAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS
Independent Assurance
StatementAppendix
57
Independent
AssuranceStatement  Scope and objectives  SK Telecom commissioned Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited to
undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2008.The assurance process was conducted in accordance with AA1000AS (2008). We wereengaged to provide Type 2 assurance, which covers:
 evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2008) principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness 
(the Principles) and;
 the reliability of all data and key claims in the report except the financial information from annual report.
We used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Quality of Information Principles as Criteria for evaluating
performance information against tests for Reliability, Clarity, Balance, Comparability, Accuracy and Timeliness.Where GRI protocols were used to compile performance indicators, these were adopted as additional criteria.
 Responsibilities of the directors of SK Telecom and of the assurance providers  
The directors of SK Telecom have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report.  In performing our
assurance work, our responsibility is to the management of SK Telecom, however our statement represents
our independent opinion and is intended to inform all of SK Telecom stakeholders including the management
of SK Telecom.  
We were not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report.  We have no other contract with SK
Telecom and this is the first year that we have provided assurance.  We adopt a balanced approach towards
all SK Telecom stakeholders. 
Our team comprised Jason Perks, lead assuror, MinGu Jun, project leader, Thomas Krick and SangMook
Park.  Further information, including individual competencies relating to the team can be found at:
www.twotomorrows.com.
 Basis of our opinion  Our work was designed to gather evidence with the objective of providing
moderate assurance as defined in AA1000AS (2008). We undertook the following activities:
 Review of previous report and preliminary identification of assurance priorities;
 Review of the current sustainability issues that could affect SK Telecom and are of interest to stakeholders;
 Interviews with selected vice presidents and senior managers responsible for management of sustainability issues 
and review of selected evidence to support issues discussed. We were free to choose areas of focus for interviews;
 Review of SK Telecom approach to stakeholder engagement and recent outputs.
 Review of information provided to us by SK Telecom on its reporting and management processes relating to the Principles ;
 Site visits to head office to review process and systems for preparing sustainability data;
 Review of supporting evidence for key claims in the report;
 Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating data and, for a sample, checking the data consolidation and 
source information. Sampling was focussed on the most material data sets;
 Anindependent assessment of SK Telecom Reporting against the B+ Application Level for the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines.
We have reviewed and assured the Korean and English language versions of the report and have not reviewed
or assured translations of this report into other languages.
 Findings  We reviewed and provided feedback on drafts of the Report and where necessary
changes were made. On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the
Report does not properly describe SK Telecom’s adherence to the Principles or its performance.
In our opinion the report meets the GRI G3 application level B+.
 Observations  Without affecting our assurance opinion we also provide the following observations.
We commend the setting up of the Corporate Citizenship Committee as good practice in governance and
leading-edge practice in Korea. We also noted the involvement of external experts in the first meeting. Tofurther enhance this welcome development in the longer-term we recommend ensuring regular reporting to
the board, ongoing sustainability training and capacity building of the Corporate Citizenship Committeemembers, especially during personnel changes, to ensure the committee continues to build links with and
alignment to the core business strategy. This will also be assisted by ensuring clear areas of responsibility at
board level for CR issues.
SK Telecom Sustainability Report 2008
58
We generally noted that SK Telecom employees were aware of and integrated the overarching principle of the
company into their decision making – it would be helpful to see systematic monitoring of this in future.
Inclusivity concerns the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and
strategic response to sustainability.
 We were pleased to note an intention to set up a high level stakeholder link to the Corporate Citizenship Committee 
and recommend this includes representatives from key stakeholder groups.
 SK Telecom recognises that engagement with NGO’s is at a preliminary stage. We noted an effective approach with 
the mobile social contribution programme. We agree that wider NGO engagement needs strengthening and this will be a challenge for SK Telecom given the limited capacity of many NGOs to engage effectively. We recommend SKT 
makes efforts to understand further who to engage with and why, and helps build capacity within the NGO community.
 The report would benefit from a clearer explanation of the stakeholder engagement approach and how the feedback 
is integrated into company learning and decision making, especially through the SKMS.
 With international growth plans, it will become increasingly important for SK Telecom to understand specific issues in 
each operating country and we recommend further engagement in each country to ensure the company is aware of 
any different issues or priorities.
Material issues are those which are necessary for stakeholders to make informed judgments
concerning SK Telecom and its impacts.
 SKTelecom has developed a well-structured materiality process that is effectively communicated in the report.
 The materiality process would benefit from the inclusion of SKMS outputs from various parts of the organisation 
where applicable — particularly in ensuring greater input from employees.
 We noted that there was executive level risk-based review of material issues that was informally integrated into the 
materiality assessment. We recommend this be linked more systematically to the materiality process in future taking into account both risks and opportunities.
 We recommend the materiality process be reviewed by the Corporate Citizenship Committee to enhance governance 
and ensure alignment between top management understanding of key issues and day to day management.
Responsiveness concerns the extent to which an organisation responds to stakeholder issues
 There is an opportunity for HR to play a bigger role by assessing individual’s capacity and providing further 
sustainability training to ensure common understanding of broad issues and each individuals’ role (especially at higher levels of management) in delivering on SK Telecom’s sustainability strategy.
 We encourage SK Telecom to disclose further its involvement in key external forums and how this is influencing 
progress on key sustainability issues.
 SK Telecom has responded to widespread media coverage of high profile phone duplication. This raises a potential 
underlying question of whether SK Telecom information security is sufficiently robust. We recommend that further 
checking of related internal systems is an appropriate response to stakeholder concerns in this area. 
Performance Information
 We recommend a more systematic information management approach for sustainability performance information, 
which is currently heavily reliant on manual and ad-hoc systems.
 Currently SK Telecom is considering an environmental management system with some operational divisions already 
looking to implement specific systems to manage particular issues for their operations. We commend the recognition that there is a need to strengthen environmental management and recommend that a co-ordinated approach is taken, 
linked to the development of a company wide environmental policy and management system that focuses on the 
most significant environmental issues.
Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited
London
15th May 09
Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited trading as Two Tomorrows was formed from the merger of Csrnetwork and Sd3 in
January 2009, Two Tomorrows is an international consultancy that helps companies to perform better and createvalue by doing business in a sustainable way. www.twotomorrows.com
Jason Perks
DirectorMinGu Jun
Project LeaderThomas Krick
Senior ConsultantSangMook
Associate
Contact Information
CSR Team
SK T-Tower, 11 Euljiro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea
Tel:+82-2-6100-1712
Fax : +82-2-6100-7826
Email: sustainability@sktelecom.comContents
01 About This Report
02 CEO Message
Sustainability at SK Telecom
05 Setting the Context
09 Our Journey towards Sustainability12 Independent but Together
Stakeholder Engagement
19 Stakeholder Communications
21 Together with Our Stakeholders23 Materiality Assessment
Material Issues to Our Business and Society
25 Economic Impact
27 Product and Service Development
29 Service Quality and Reliability30 Affordable Mobile Services31 Customer Privacy Protection32 Sound Telecom Culture33 Responding to Climate Change34 Innovative Corporate Culture35 Compliance36 Gaining Trust in Global Markets37 Investment in Local Communities
Measuring Our Progress
39 Economic Data
41 Environmental Data
45 Social Data
Appendix
53 GRI Content Index
56 UNGC Index
57 Independent Assurance Statement
:Measuring Our Progress:Material Issues to Our Business and Society:Stakeholder Engagement
:Sustainability at SK Telecom
SK Telecom 2008 Sustainability Report
|Published in |May 2009
|Published by |SK Telecom
|Designed by |SAMWOO Communication
|Printed by |Sanghyun Communication
2008SustainabilityReport BuildingaHappinessNetwork
2008  Sustainability ReportBuilding 
aHappinessNetwork
¥Index Numbers
We mentioned the indicator names with the corresponding GRI index
number. For all others, we used unique numbers starting with tSK.u
¥Additional Information
We included additional information related to the contents of this
report when deemed necessary. Webpage   Related reference s/
reports Relevant pages in the 2008 Sustainability Report
The SK Telecom 2008 Sustainability Report is printed on Eco-plus, an ECF
(element chlorine free) paper. All paper used in this document is acid-free
and FSC-certified. The FSC logo identifies products that contain wood from
well-managed forests and other controlled sources certified in accordance
with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. Printer holds FSC Chain of
Custody [Certificate number SGS-COC-005559].
SKsstwings of happiness usymbolize its commitment to create a
happy world through the pursuit of happiness for stakeholders. Flyingto new heights is possible when both wings achieve balance andharmony. In much the same way, sustainable development willbecome reality when there is mutual happiness between a companyand its customers, a company and its shareholders, management andemployees, and a company and its business partners.
Cert no. SGS-COC-005559
VoiceEye For the benefit of the visually impaired, we converted
text data to voice data and inserted voice icons on the
top right hand corner of each page.
