Sustainability Report 2019  |  1
2019 Sustainability Report2  | Sustainability Report 2019Commitment to Sustainability
Letter from the CEO
At Skyworks, we remain as confident as ever in our vision of Connecting Everyone and Everything, 
All the Time . Throughout my nearly twenty years at the company, Skyworks has proven itself a 
market leader through sustained investments in next-generation technology, partnerships with 
the most impactful mobile device innovators and an incredibly talented workforce.
Our customers rely on us to overcome their most challenging problems by resolving complexity 
and delivering unique, customized, systems-based solutions. By positioning these trusted 
partners to win, we continue to grow as a company.
Despite a challenging market environment in 2019, Skyworks delivered tremendous value not only 
to our customers and stockholders, but also to our employees and their communities around the 
globe. We successfully weathered substantial uncertainty during the year by improving factory 
efficiency, managing our operating expenses and maintaining a healthy balance sheet—with no 
debt—demonstrating the resilience and sustainability of our business model.
This report marks the eleventh consecutive year in which Skyworks has voluntarily published 
a report on the company’s sustainability and corporate responsibility initiatives. Our ongoing 
improvement efforts over multiple years, as highlighted in the report, demonstrate our 
commitment to operating a safe, accountable and responsible business.
Throughout 2019 we continued to promote sustainability programs in our global supply chain, 
holding our suppliers accountable to the same standards to which we hold ourselves. We remain 
a leader in sustainable sourcing, in part by contributing to cooperative, industry-wide efforts as a 
full member of the Responsible Business Alliance.
Supporting further transparency, we have incorporated into this year’s report certain elements 
recommended by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). We recognize the 
importance of standardized reporting and intend in future years to continue aligning our 
sustainability disclosures with SASB’s industry-specific standards.
We are proud to share with you some of our many accomplishments. Looking forward, we remain 
committed to creating value for our many stakeholders as we empower the wireless networking 
revolution.
Liam K. Griffin  
President and Chief Executive Officer  
Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
Sustainability Report 2019  |  3Skyworks is empowering the wireless networking revolution, connecting people, places and things around the world. As the demand for ubiquitous, “always-on” connectivity 
increasingly expands, our innovative, high-performance analog semiconductors are enabling breakthrough communication platforms from global industry leaders – changing 
the way we live, work, play and learn. Through our broad technology expertise and one of the most extensive product portfolios in the industry, we are Connecting Everyone and 
Everything, All the Time .
Skyworks is a global company with engineering, marketing, operations, sales and support facilities located throughout Asia, Europe and North America and is a member of the  
S&P 500 ® and Nasdaq-100 ® market indices (Nasdaq: SWKS).Our Company
Major Manufacturing Locations
Woburn, MA
GaAs HBT, pHEMT, GaN FabNewbury Park, CA 
GaAs HBT Fab
Kadoma, Japan  
SAW Filter FabSingapore  
SAW / BAW Filter WL -CSP FabOsaka, Japan  
SAW / BAW Filter FabMexicali, B.C., Mexico
Back End Assembly and Test
4  | Sustainability Report 2019Enabling a Connected World
Our Sustainable Business Practices 
Through our established Sustainability Management Systems and in alignment of these programs with our Sustainability Policy, we consistently leverage existing programs and 
develop new initiatives to drive continuous improvement. Skyworks also engages in an annual systematic review to further enhance the processes, demonstrating  our commitment 
to operate under sustainable business practices.
15,900 Megawatt Hours
Energy savings
52.8 Million Gallons  
Water usage saved19,017 Metric Tons  
CO2 equivalent emissions averted4,519,000 Pounds 
Municipal waste recycledISO 14001 Certification 
Maintained at all manufacturing locations worldwide
8 Years 
Active membership in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)5 Years 
Consecutive reporting DRC Conflict-Free2019 Highlights
Sustainability Report 2019  |  5
2019 Annual Report
Notice of 2020 Annual Meeting 
and Proxy StatementClean Energy
At our factory locations, Skyworks meets or exceeds the ever-increasing state and local 
clean-energy sourcing requirements. In 2018, Skyworks made a three-year purchase 
of U.S.-based Energy Credit totaling more than 93 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of clean 
electricity. This annual offset of 31 million kWh means Skyworks sourced approximately 
51% of the energy for its U.S. manufacturing facilities from clean-energy sources. 
Sustainability Policy
Since becoming ISO 14001 certified in 2002, Skyworks has operated according to 
established policies. In 2012 our Environmental Policy expanded to become what is 
now our global Sustainability Policy. We believe in fostering awareness of the policy 
to promote sustainable business practices in all that we do. In 2019, we continued our 
practice of distributing the Sustainability Policy to all employees globally, in their local 
language, in an ID-badge format. Worn daily, these badges serve as a constant reminder 
that operating sustainably is everyone's responsibility.
Annual Reports
In March 2019, Skyworks for the first time distributed its 2019 Proxy Statement and 2018 
Annual Report to its stockholders utilizing the “notice and access” format, by which the 
majority of stockholders are notified that such materials are available electronically. 
This implementation significantly reduced the environmental impact of our annual 
distribution of proxy materials, eliminating the printing of almost 70,000 printed 
reports—equivalent to more than 31,000 pounds of paper—an 87% overall reduction.
2018 Annual Report
Notice of 2019 Annual Meeting
and Proxy Statement
6  | Sustainability Report 2019
All Skyworks factory locations adhere to a 
standardized process for setting targets and 
internally reporting the corresponding results. 
This process allows sites to regularly report 
their progress during established management 
reviews and consider corrective actions when 
targets are missed. In addition, standardized 
reporting enables Skyworks to evaluate its 
performance globally and at any given factory 
location.  Below is a look at our progress at the 
company level over three years, considering 
both gross values and efficiency rates, where 
applicable. Where possible, our improvement 
targets are set using efficiency rates which we 
believe to be the best measure of our progress.  Water Management
In 2019, Skyworks' factories used a combined 438,358,000 gallons of water (165,934 
thousand cubic meters), 100% of which was sourced from municipal water suppliers. 
Two of our factories reside in extremely high water stress1 areas, accounting for 
approximately 50% of our total water usage worldwide.
While our gross water usage has increased slightly year-over-year, our water use 
efficiency (as measured by the volume of water used per unit of production) has steadily 
improved (decreased). In 2019, we realized an 11% year-over-year improvement. As a 
result, approximately 52.8 million gallons of water usage was averted --that's enough 
water for approximately 480 households for one year3.
Energy Management
Skyworks evaluates its global energy usage as electricity and natural gas consumed. We 
achieved a 4% year-over-year efficiency improvement resulting in approximately 15,900 
megawatt hours in energy savings -- enough to power 1,475 homes' electricity use for 
one year4. Improvements at Our Facilities
Percent of Total Usage by Water Stress1  Category
Factory2 Water Use and Efficiency
Factory2 Energy Use and Efficiency
2017 2018 2019
Gallons / 1k Product Units Gallons  
(in Millions)Extremely High 
>80%Medium-High  
20-40%Low-Medium  
10-20%Low  
<10%2017 2018 2019
kWh / 1k Product Units kWh  
(in Millions)50%402 431 438
18%
20%
12%86
69
6267
54
52306337368Sustainability Report 2019  |  7Waste Management
Hazardous Waste
For this report, hazardous waste is defined as waste which is required to be handled and 
managed as hazardous waste in the region in which it was generated. Accordingly, in 
2019, Skyworks’ factory locations generated a total of approximately 5,197,000 pounds 
(2,357 metric tons). 
Increased factory activity in 2019 led to the generation of higher quantities of hazardous 
waste, in comparison to 2017 and 2018. In 2019, there was a modest 2% year-over-year 
waste generation rate increase. Since 2017, hazardous waste generation is down by 
nearly 9% overall.
Municipal Waste
Skyworks' facilities have continued their implementation of local recycling practices  
to reduce the overall municipal waste going to landfill. While the gross volume of waste 
increased marginally in 2019 to a total of 6,880,000 pounds (3,125 metric tons), the 
percentage of total municipal waste that went to landfill fell to 34% in 2019, down from 
37% in 2017. CO2 Management
Historically, Skyworks reported its Scope 1 direct CO2 emissions from our factory 
locations. For 2019 we are expanding our reporting to include Scope 2 emissions (i.e. 
off-site emissions from electricity consumption). In 2019, we saw a 12% year-over-
year emissions rate reduction resulting in the avoidance of more than 19,000 tons of 
CO2 equivalent emissions. Since 2017, our emissions rate has significantly improved 
(decreased) by approximately 33%.
Notes:
1.  WRI Baseline Water Stress - Aqueduct 2019.
2.  Manufacturing Facilities - Woburn, MA, Newbury Park, CA, Mexicali, MX, Japan (Kadoma and Osaka), 
and Singapore.
3.  Based on U.S. EPA WaterSense average of 300 gal per household per day.
4.  Reference U.S. Energy Information Administration 2016 annual household energy use average of 
10,766 kWh
Factory2 Hazardous Waste Generation and Rate
Factory2 Municipal Waste to Landfill
Factory2 Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 Net Emissions
2017 2018 2019
Pounds per 1k  
production unitsPounds  
(in Millions)2017 2018 2019
% of Municipal 
Waste to LandfillPounds  
(in Millions)2017 2018 20193.75.7139
4.56.61415.2 6.9141
0.80
0.73
0.7237
34360.030
0.0200.023
Net Emissions Rate Tons / 
1k Product UnitsMetric Tons  
(in Thousands)8  | Sustainability Report 2019
Understanding Our Global Supply Chain
As a global organization, Skyworks designs, develops and manufactures products 
around the world and is supported by an extensive supply chain network. Through these 
partnerships, we have a unique opportunity to amplify the reach of our sustainability 
programs and affect hundreds of facilities and thousands of employees. Our tier-one 
supply chain spans 17 countries and multiple regions, with 20 subcontracted product 
assembly facilities and 138 finished-goods materials suppliers. 
Supply Chain
Supplier Responsibility
Skyworks partners with suppliers around the world to manufacture high-quality, low-
cost products that meet our customers’ needs. Foundational to these partnerships 
are supplier commitments to operate according to sustainable business practices. 
Skyworks Supplier Sustainability Specification (found here: www.skyworksinc.com/
SuppliersDownloads ) incorporates the RBA Code of Conduct which requires suppliers to 
develop programs in conformance with these standards.
Key Skyworks suppliers must undergo an onboarding process and periodic evaluation 
during which supplier conformance is verified. That process consists of:
1. Communication 
Sustainability requirements are communicated to our suppliers via the 
Supplier Sustainability Specification. Here, suppliers are informed of the 
obligations that all qualified supply chain partners must meet.
2. Qualification 
Suppliers are closely evaluated and qualified based on a strict set of 
criteria associated with product quality, performance, price, sustainability 
programs and more.
3. Identification
Major suppliers are identified. These suppliers represent 80% of our 
expenditures and include subcontractor assembly facilities and labor 
agencies (i.e. recruiting companies).
4. Risk Assessment 
All major suppliers complete an industry standardized Self-Assessment 
Questionnaire (SAQ) developed and implemented by the RBA. Risk rankings 
are identified based on the SAQ scores.
5. Audit  
Supplier facilities that are ranked as high risk, in addition to any others 
specifically requested by Skyworks, must complete an on-site industry 
standard RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP). VAP is a third-party, risk-
based audit process where suppliers are objectively evaluated and their 
sustainability performance is scored.
6. Continuous Improvement 
Suppliers initiate corrective action plans (CAPs) for any issues identified in 
the VAP. Skyworks collaborates with its suppliers in tracking the CAPs to 
closure and provides further assistance at our supplier locations as needed.
Sustainability Report 2019  |  9
Supply Chain
Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Skyworks continues to operate a responsible minerals sourcing program, developed 
to ensure our conformance to the SEC Conflict Minerals rule, as well as the 
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence 
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains. Reporting year 2019 marks our fifth 
consecutive year of declaring DRC Conflict-Free, a testament to the strength of our 
supply chain outreach and due diligence efforts.
Identified Smelters % RMAP Conformant
Tantalum 37 100%
Tin 44 100%
Tungsten 40 100%
Gold 101 100%
Total 222 100%
Throughout 2019, Skyworks remained an active and participating member of the 
Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). Founded in 2008 by the members of the RBA 
and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative, the RMI helps companies make informed 
decisions on their supply chains. Skyworks utilizes the RMI’s flagship Responsible 
Minerals Assurance Process (which provides independent, third-party smelter / 
refiner audits) and works with our supply chain partners to drive towards a 100% 
RMAP-audited and conformant supply chain.
Five-Step Framework for Risk-Based Due Diligence in the Mineral Supply Chain
Our Policy
Skyworks is committed to the responsible sourcing of minerals. We have established 
programs aligned with the internationally recognized OECD due diligence framework5 to 
regularly evaluate our supply chain and require our suppliers to do the same. Suppliers 
are prohibited from supplying Skyworks with materials known to be derived from the  
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)  or adjoining countries that have not been 
confirmed as “DRC Conflict-Free” via a recognized and credible third-party process 
such as the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Process 
(RMAP), the LBMA Good Delivery List, and/or the Chain of Custody (CoC) program from the 
Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC).
This policy along with current and past Conflict Minerals Reports are available to the 
public on our external website at: www.skyworksinc.com/en/Sustainability .
5.  “OECD due diligence framework” refers to the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and 
Development’s guidance titled “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals 
from Conflict- Affected and High-Risk Areas.”
Establish strong company management systems
Identify and assess risk in the supply chain
Design and implement a strategy to respond to identified 
risks
Carry out independent third-party audit of supply chain due  
diligence at identified points in the supply chain
Report on supply chain due diligence10  | Sustainability Report 2019
The safety of our employees is of utmost importance. Skyworks is committed to 
operating all facilities in a responsible manner and providing safe and healthy working 
conditions. In keeping with this commitment, we maintain an Occupational Health and 
Safety (OH&S) management system to ensure we consistently:
•  Remain in compliance with all applicable safety and health regulatory requirements
• Integrate safety considerations into strategic business decisions, engineering design, 
procurement, facilities' management and production
• Cultivate safety responsibility by employees at all organization levels
• Promote continuous improvement of the OH&S management system and objectives
Skyworks continues to drive key health and safety initiatives globally through a 
management review process. The review process allows Skyworks to evaluate key 
performance indicators of a management system, locally and globally, for their 
continuing effectiveness. Further, it gives Skyworks the ability of ensuring programs 
remain focused and on-track with established objectives and targets. Skyworks will 
continue to leverage this approach to promote improvements across the organization 
and create safe and healthy work environments. Health and Safety
6. All Skyworks locations.
Skyworks is Committed to Cultivating a Safe, Healthy and Productive Work Environment0.9
20172017
0.4
201720170.8
20182018
0.3
201820180.7
20192019
0.3
20192019Total Cases per 200,000 Hours Worked6
Lost Time Days per 200,000 Hours Worked6Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)Sustainability Report 2019  |  11At Skyworks, we strive for perfect quality while abiding by our principles of sustainable business practices. Our management systems manuals and policies are available to the public via 
our website and are certified to internationally recognized standards for quality and environmental management, including ISO 9001 and 14001. Furthermore, our systems are designed 
and operated in accordance with the RBA Code of Conduct. To learn more, the following resources are available online: Sustainability Systems Manual, ISO Certifications, and the RBA 
Code of Conduct.
In 2019, Skyworks continued its active membership in the RBA, which is a nonprofit coalition of electronics manufacturers and other affiliated companies committed to supporting 
the rights and well-being of workers and communities worldwide who are affected by the global electronics supply chain. RBA members commit and are held accountable to a 
common Code of Conduct and utilize a range of RBA training and assessment tools to support continuous improvement in the social, environmental, and ethical responsibilities 
of their supply chains. Skyworks has been an active member of the RBA since 2011. A full list of members can be referenced by 
visiting: www.responsiblebusiness.org/about/members .
Skyworks also maintained its “full member” status within the RBA. "Full" members demonstrate the highest level of 
commitment and accountability to the RBA Code of Conduct.
Skyworks is dedicated to conducting business in compliance with both the 
letter and the spirit of applicable laws, rules and regulations and consistent 
with the highest standards of business ethics. Our sound business 
principles and practices foster our strong commitment to ethical behavior, 
accountability and transparency.
We aim to lead by example—guided by good corporate governance and 
principles as defined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the 
"Code"). The Code outlines broad principles of ethical business conduct 
embraced by Skyworks. In order to establish an effective ethics and 
compliance program and to develop trust, employees must be able to raise 
concerns without fear of retaliation. Our employees have a duty to report 
any known or suspected violation of the Code, or of any rules or regulations 
applicable to the Company. Employees are trained annually on the contents 
of the Code. 
The Code, along with other corporate governance information, is available 
on our website: investors.skyworksinc.com/corporate-governance .Management Systems
Ethics
12  | Sustainability Report 2019
Culture and Diversity
Our greatest and most valuable resource is our people. Skyworks promotes inclusion 
in the workplace and is proud that our employee population represents more than 
70 nationalities worldwide. We make every effort to create a culture where everyone 
feels welcomed, valued and respected —fostering an environment that is free of bias, 
prejudice and harassment. We scrupulously adhere to all laws and regulations that 
are applicable in the countries where we operate, as well as local, state, federal and 
international child labor and safety laws. We do not employ anyone under the age of 
18. In addition, Skyworks employees are provided high-quality benefits, compensation 
packages, training, staffing and general human resources support. Our employment 
programs and policies address the RBA Code elements of:
• Freely Chosen Employment
• Young Workers
• Working Hours
• Wages and BenefitsEmployees
Working Hours
Excessive working hours are associated with risks to employee health, safety and 
work performance. Skyworks has programs to monitor and limit working hours at our 
factories to <60 hours/week in accordance with the RBA standard. Days of rest are also 
monitored so that employees get no less than one day off every seven days. Working-
hour metrics for our factories are regularly reviewed with management. 
In 2019, Skyworks achieved a greater-than 99% compliance rate for both the 
<60-hour workweek standard and the day-of-rest standards for full-time, direct 
employees. Additionally, Skyworks expanded its tracking and reporting of this data 
to include on-site contractors.Talent Management
As part of Skyworks’ long-term strategy to maintain high levels of workforce 
engagement and our ability to attract and retain the best talent, we continue to increase 
opportunities that impact both employee growth and development as well as employee 
recognition and rewards. 
Skyworks continues to strengthen its learning and development programs so that 
employees have the training and tools to enhance performance, develop skills and foster 
rewarding careers. Our global curriculum houses thousands of hours of live training 
focused on professional growth, leadership development and compliance education. Pulse Survey
As a follow up to our 2017 Employee Engagement Survey, we launched a brief company-
wide “Pulse Survey” in April 2019.  The survey covered topics related to overall employee 
engagement and sought feedback to gauge progress to date in relation to Growth and 
Development and Recognition and Rewards, both of which were identified during the 
2017 survey as areas for improvement.  2019 Pulse results indicated Skyworks is on par 
with, or above, the global benchmark for both indices. 
Skyworks Global Benchmark
Growth and Development Index 66.4% 63.7%
Recognition and Reward 61.4% 62.0%
The following questions, which are part of these indices, show a positive trend in 
favorability from 2017 and 2019.
FavorableChange  
since 2017
I am satisfied with the training I receive for my present job 70.2% 3.0%
My Manager supports my skill and career development 74.5% 0.8%
When I do an excellent job, my accomplishments are 
recognized62.0% 0.7%
Additionally, 80.1% of employees recommend Skyworks as a good place to work, putting 
Skyworks in the 80th percentile.
Following the results, leaders across Skyworks updated and created action plans 
detailing their engagement focus. Sixty-four percent of action plans are focused on 
continuing improvement within these two indices.
9,041 16,100 71 >99%
total Skyworks  
employeesrewards given to 
employees via  
recognition programnationalities compliance rate  
to the ≤ 60 hour 
 workweek standard
Skyworks is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Employment decisions are made without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, age, physical or mental disability, genetic factors, military/veteran status or other characteristics protected by law.• Humane Treatment
• Non-Discrimination
• Freedom of AssociationSustainability Report 2019  |  13
STEM Workforce Diversity Top 50 Employers
In 2019, Skyworks was named a Top 50 Employer by publication Workforce Diversity for Engineering & IT Professionals  in their 18th 
annual ranking of U.S. firms. Based on the magazine's reader survey, the list recognizes the top companies who provide a positive work 
environment for diverse groups and people with disabilities in the science, technology, engineering and math professions.
Frederick County Office Top 50 Workplaces
Skyworks was named one of the Top 50 Workplaces by the Frederick County Office of Economic Development (OED) in Maryland. Skyworks’ 
RF Ceramics business unit is located in Adamstown, Maryland. 
The winners were selected based on anonymous employee testimonials about the workplace experience, as well as the company's ability 
to attract and retain top talent, benefits offered, professional growth opportunities and community involvement.
CSO50 Award
With cybersecurity a top priority at Skyworks, it’s no surprise that the company received the CSO50 Award recognizing the top 50 
organizations (and their respective teams) for demonstrating outstanding business value and thought leadership in cybersecurity. The 
panel of judges included security leaders, industry experts and academics who reviewed various initiatives based on a uniform set of 
criteria to identify security excellence. 
Commercial 5G Solution of the Year
In 2019, our Sky5® platform was named winner of the "Commercial 5G Solution of the Year" by Mobile Breakthrough, a leading independent 
market intelligence organization that recognizes top companies, technologies and products in the global wireless and mobile market. 
Skyworks was chosen from more than 2,500 nominations representing companies from all around the world. Awards were evaluated by an 
autonomous panel of senior-level Mobile professionals.
IoT Breakthrough Awards
Our SKY66430-11 Mobile IoT system-in-package was named “IoT Semiconductor Product of the Year” in 2019 by IoT Breakthrough. IoT 
Breakthrough is an independent organization that recognizes the top companies, technologies and products in the global IoT market.  
Skyworks was selected from more than 3,500 nominations representing companies all over the world and awards were evaluated by an 
autonomous panel of experienced IoT professionals.
Supplier Recognition
Skyworks has received numerous supplier awards from customers over the past decade. In 2019, Skyworks was named “Best Strategic 
Partner” by Xiaomi for supplying advanced front-end solutions. ZTE also awarded Skyworks as a “Global Excellent Partner” in 2019 for 
providing the best technology, service and supply.
Recognition / Awards
2019IoT
Breakthrough  
Awar d
14  | Sustainability Report 2019With employees around the globe, Skyworks calls many countries " home". Our employees support projects relevant to local efforts and are committed to investing their time, expertise 
and resources to help develop and maintain vibrant, sustainable local communities. Skyworks and its employees are proud to be members of the global community, lending a helping 
hand where possible.Stewardship
Skyworks Supports Holiday Toy Drives
Skyworks employees in Mexicali collected a record 
number of donations for their tenth annual Food and 
Toy Drive which helps the less fortunate in surrounding 
areas. In 2019 more than 1,800 food baskets, 1,140 
toys and 690 blankets were collected, benefiting 
24 communities and 12 institutions. More than 200 
employees and family members volunteered to pack, 
transport and deliver the goods to the areas of the 
city where they were most needed, including several 
shelters, foster homes and nursing care facilities.
CASA Toy Drive in Irvine, CA
Employees donated toys and gift cards for children 
in need at Court Appointed Special Advocates, a non-
profit organization committed to improving the lives 
of children in the foster care system in Orange County 
through quality mentoring and advocacy services. The 
children were presented these gifts at their holiday 
party where more than 250 children took photos with 
Santa, danced, played games, mingled with friends, 
and enjoyed great food.
Employees Support Toy Drive for Jamie’s Joy
Skyworks employees from Andover and Woburn joined 
efforts to participate in Jamie's Joy -- a local charity 
which helps Woburn families in need. With a generous 
spirit, employees donated toys, clothing and books -- 
fulfilling 150 childrens' holiday wishes.
Skyworks Donates to Cedar Rapids' Non-Profit
Sleep in Heavenly Peace is a U.S. non-profit 
organization that strives to help children in need 
sleep better. With contributions from individuals, 
businesses and organizations, a group of dedicated 
volunteers with the Cedar Rapids' chapter of the 
organization helped to build, assemble and deliver 
bunk beds to low-income children and families. 
Cedar Rapids Participates in Bowling Charity
A team of employees participated in the Big Brothers 
Big Sisters “Bowl for Kids' Sake” event. The annual 
fundraiser benefits at-risk youth and helps them reach 
their potential through a mentoring program where 
they are paired with a caring Big Brother or Big Sister.Skyworks Donates to Breast Cancer Research
Skyworks donated funds to The Angela Andrade 
Foundation, a non-profit organization that aims 
to improve the quality of life of metastatic breast 
cancer patients and support their caregivers 
and families. The foundation has given grants to 
35 women since 2015. Grants have contributed 
to medical bills, mortgage payments, and 
dependent tuition, providing financial aid during 
difficult times. 
 
Mexicali Holds Fourth Annual Run and Bike Ride Event
Skyworks’ Mexicali facility hosted its fourth annual run 
and bike event to promote health and wellness among 
employees and their families. The event embodies the 
“Vive Bien” (or “Live Healthy”) theme, which in addition 
to the races, consisted of exhibits with information about 
fitness and nutrition, staying healthy and bicycle safety. 
Approximately 500 employees plus their family members 
participated in the 2K and 5K run, as well as 2K bike ride. Sustainability Report 2019  |  15Adamstown Supports "Stuff the Bus" Campaign
Employees participated in the "Stuff the Bus" 
campaign organized by United Way of Frederick 
County. The annual school-supplies donation 
drive helps K-12 students experiencing hardship 
or homelessness by providing them with basic 
classroom necessities. Now in its tenth year, the 
community-wide effort supports more than 7,500 
students across the county. These contributions not 
only enable a positive start to a school year, but also 
promote learning, build self-esteem and help ensure 
that our youth stay in school.
 
Skyworks Sponsors Bike Race Benefiting MS Research
Employees from Skyworks’ Woburn and Andover 
offices along with their families participated in a cycling 
fundraiser to benefit the National MS Society — a non-
profit organization that funds research and advocates 
for individuals with multiple sclerosis. Skyworks’ team 
of riders participated in either a one-day 75-mile or 
two-day 150-mile ride.
Skyworks' National Intern Day Luncheon Appreciation
As part of National Intern Day, luncheon events were 
held to recognize our interns, who are recognized 
as valuable contributors to the Skyworks team. Our 
interns work alongside our talented teams and gain 
real-world experience while simultaneously completing 
their university studies. In 2019, Skyworks had more 
than 85 students participate in our University Relations 
program. The interns worked across ten business units 
and 11 sites.
Skyworks Sponsors Engineering Summer Camps and 
Mentoring Programs 
The University of Massachusetts Lowell holds two 
summer camps,  Engineering a Connected World  and a 
womens' Engineering for Sustainability  camp, for juniors 
and seniors in high school. The camps provide a fully 
immersive, week-long experience that includes guest 
lectures and visits to local companies to observe real-
world engineering projects in progress.
Skyworks also sponsored the university's Research, 
Academics and Mentoring Pathways (RAMP), a 
jumpstart program which supports incoming female 
students who have been accepted into the College 
of Engineering. The program is designed to engage 
students and provide them with a strong foundation 
prior to beginning their first semester in college. 
The program focuses on building skills including 
programming, technical writing, and critical thinking 
to help bridge the gap for key STEM skills. In addition 
to receiving lab and classroom training, students meet 
with advisors and mentors and have the opportunity to 
consider research programs as an undergraduate.
Japan Participates in Earth Day Events
Employees in Osaka, Japan participated in a cleanup 
effort organized by the city. Skyworks' volunteers 
filled several bags with trash and debris collected 
in the areas surrounding Skyworks' facility and 
neighboring streets. This effort marks the 44th 
environmental-cleanup activity our Osaka facility 
employees have contributed to in the last five years.Skyworks Sponsors Astounding Inventions Fair   
Now in its 32nd year, the Astounding Inventions 
Fair sparks creativity and interest in children in 
the fields of science, technology, engineering 
and math. The event featured 350 inventions 
created by kindergarten through eighth-grade age 
students from Orange County, CA school districts 
who competed for prizes and an opportunity to 
patent their innovations. 
One of Skyworks' engineers served as a judge at 
the competition where inventions ranged from a 
highway wind farm, to a pollution catcher, smart 
watering system, double-drink thermos and more!
Skyworks Supports Skills Gap Initiative  
Skyworks contributed to the University of California 
Irvine Foundation in support of the School of 
Engineering's "Closing the Skills Gap" initiative.
The program supports students with their future career 
opportunities and professional advancement by sharing 
development plans and conducting on-site workforce-
readiness training. Students are offered career plans 
based on their interests, guidance on building their 
professional networks, information on how to secure 
internships and to seek out potential job prospects, 
as well as soft-skills training in time management, 
effective workplace communication, and managing 
one's social media presence.  SingaporeShenzhen
Hong KongTaipeiShanghaiBeijingSeoul Gyeonggi-do  
Tokyo
OsakaGreensboroBishop’s StortfordHelsinki
Paris Cedar 
RapidsOttawa
Andover
Woburn
MexicaliIrvine
Newbury ParkSan JoseHillsboroMilpitas
Sales Offices
Design Centers
ManufacturingAdamstownCork
USA: 949-231-3000 • Asia: 886-2-2735 0399 • Europe: 33 (0)1 43548540 • BRO398-19A   
Skyworks Solutions, Inc. • Nasdaq: SWKS  • www.skyworksinc.com • sales@skyworksinc.com