Enabling Environmental and Social Responsibility
Sustainability Report 2020
2  | Sustainability Report 2020Commitment to Sustainability
Letter from the CEO
The challenges presented by the global COVID-19 pandemic 
made 2020 a year like no other for Skyworks and for all of our 
stakeholders. Yet our resilient workforce endured the disruptions 
and headwinds with incredible tenacity, demonstrating our 
leadership in critical connectivity technologies that have only 
increased in importance. As a team, we have forged on with our 
mission of Connecting Everyone and Everything, All the Time , in 
service of our employees, customers and partners, communities, 
consumers and the planet as a whole. 
Last March, in the face of considerable uncertainty, we took 
swift actions to protect the health and safety of our employees, 
establishing a COVID-19 playbook with detailed safety protocols for 
each of our facilities worldwide. Through careful implementation 
of preventative measures, our sites were able to effectively 
maintain business operations to ensure continued supply of 
critical products to our customers. 
The events of the past year have caused many essential daily 
interactions to move online—including remote work, virtual 
education and touchless commerce—fueling extraordinary 
demand for the greater speed, reliability, capacity, and security 
that our next-generation technologies uniquely provide. 
Technology-enabled collaboration has been instrumental not only 
to our individual activities but also to humanity’s collective efforts 
to confront and overcome the pandemic. 
This 2020 Sustainability Report marks the twelfth consecutive 
year in which Skyworks has voluntarily published a report on the 
company’s sustainability and corporate responsibility initiatives. 
Consistent with our long-maintained sustainability policy, 
Skyworks continues to operate in accordance with sustainable 
business practices that meet today’s needs without compromising 
the ability of future generations to meet their own. Though not 
featured in this report, our connectivity solutions have also been 
front and center in the sustainability efforts of businesses and 
governments worldwide, which increasingly rely on constant 
measurement, analysis and optimization.These pages contain disclosure beyond what has been provided 
in prior years, in several cases in response to requests from our 
stockholders. In accordance with our commitment in last year’s 
report, we have aligned our disclosure with the standards set forth 
by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for the 
semiconductor industry. We remain committed to continuous 
improvement and increased transparency and accountability to 
stakeholders, and in future reports we expect to provide additional 
detail about Skyworks’ commitment to confront climate change.
At a time when global supply chains remain under enormous 
pressure, Skyworks’ operation of its own critical manufacturing 
facilities remains a strategic competitive advantage. As a result 
of years of continuous investment in capital, technology and 
efficiency improvements, as well as our extraordinary discipline 
during 2020, we exited the calendar year with a healthy balance 
sheet,  record quarterly revenue, and a path to continued 
sustainable growth.
Looking to the future, we are committed to creating value for all 
of our stakeholders while satisfying the insatiable demand for 
wireless connectivity in today’s transformed world.
Liam K. Griffin  
President and Chief Executive Officer  
Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
Sustainability Report 2020  |  3We are also in the process of assessing climate-related risks, and we expect to align fu -
ture sustainability disclosure with the guidelines from the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). As part of that internal assessment, we are evaluating the 
feasibility of setting a target date for net-zero emissions, and we intend to disclose these 
efforts in the future.
Skyworks is empowering wireless networking, connecting 
people, places and things around the world. As wireless 
connectivity continues to explode on a global basis, our high-
performance analog semiconductors enable breakthrough 
communication platforms from industry leaders—dramatically 
altering the world. Our solutions create a market for diverse and 
transformative applications, changing how individuals live, work, 
play and learn. In 2020, we faced unprecedented challenges with 
the global COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, our company´s 
vision - to Connect Everyone and Everything, All the Time  - has 
never been more important.
Skyworks is a global company with engineering, marketing, 
operations, sales and support facilities located throughout 
Asia, Europe and North America and is a member of the S&P 
500® and Nasdaq-100® market indices (Nasdaq: SWKS). 
Responsiveness to stockholders is a critical part of our commitment to good corporate 
governance, responsibility and accountability. We regularly conduct outreach to our 
stockholders to understand their perspectives on environmental, social and governance 
issues. On a regular basis, as part of its oversight of risk management activities, our 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee reviews matters of corporate respon -
sibility and sustainability, including the opinions expressed by our stockholders during 
our engagement efforts. 
In response to feedback from our stockholders, we have further aligned our disclosure in 
this report with the external reporting framework promulgated by the SASB. The SASB 
reporting framework is a voluntary, industry-specific disclosure standard intended to 
facilitate the disclosure of information considered useful to investors. The Appendix 
to this report sets forth a detailed description of how this report aligns with the SASB 
reporting framework, noting omissions and variations where applicable. In general, the 
disclosure in this report refers to all Skyworks business operations. However, where the 
disclosure refers to a subset of our operations (such as factory locations only), we have 
noted this within the report. The data in this report involves reasonable assumptions, 
subject in many cases to a high degree of uncertainty and based on our best estimates at 
the time, and we have no expectation that the data will be up  dated or revised as a result 
of new information.Our Company
Major Manufacturing Locations
Woburn, MA
GaAs HBT, pHEMT, GaN FabNewbury Park, CA  
GaAs HBT Fab
Kadoma, Japan  
SAW Filter FabSingapore  
SAW / BAW Filter WL -CSP FabOsaka, Japan  
SAW / BAW Filter Fab
Mexicali, Mexico
Back End Assembly and Test
Stockholder Engagement and Reporting Framework4  | Sustainability Report 2020
Sustainability Policy
Skyworks is committed to operating under sustainable business practices that meet 
today’s needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own. 
We employ a management system approach to: 
• Comply with applicable laws, regulations and requirements 
• Prevent pollution, conserve resources and minimize waste 
• Cultivate safe, healthy and productive work environments 
• Operate with integrity, honesty and accountability 
• Foster continuous improvement 
• Promote sustainability throughout our supply chain 
Our sustainability policy is regularly communicated to all employees. Each year, our 
employees are required to complete a sustainability general awareness training course 
in which they are provided key information on our sustainability objectives and systems 
in place to drive continuous improvement. In addition, employees are provided with 
policy badges (in their local language) to carry with their identification badges. These 
policy badges act as a regular reminder of the importance of sustainability at Skyworks 
and that each employee has a contributing role. Enabling a Connected World Through Sustainable Business Practices
2020 Highlights 
Through our Sustainability Management Systems, we leveraged existing programs and developed new initiatives to drive continuous improvement. 
>30,000,000 Kilowatt Hours
Renewable energy credits sourcedSASB Alignment
Disclosure according to the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Semiconductors standard 
10 Percent
Growth in global workforce395,000 Pounds  
Hazardous waste generation averted
ISO 14001 Certification 
Maintained at all manufacturing locations worldwide
9 Years 
Active membership in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)6 Years 
Consecutive reporting DRC Conflict-Free
Sustainability Report 2020  |  5
Baseline water stress measures the ratio of total water withdrawals to available 
renewable surface and groundwater supplies. Water stress levels by region were taken 
from the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas found at wri.org/
aqueduct . 
Factory* Water Use by Stress Level  
(WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas Tool)
50%19%
21%
20%
Extremely High 
>80%Medium-High  
20-40%Low-Medium  
10-20%Low  
<10%Environment
In accordance with the ISO 14001 standard to which all our manufacturing locations are certified, Skyworks 
identifies the aspects of our activities, products and services that we can control and those that we can 
influence, along with their associated impacts. We identify environmental improvement objectives for 
those impacts deemed most significant and where there is opportunity for further improvement. We use 
standardized metrics and methods to track our progress.  
As an essential services provider, Skyworks maintained operations in 2020 with strict COVID-19 safety 
protocols in place. While overall operations were successfully maintained, some production inefficiencies 
were created, which had an adverse impact on some of our environmental metrics.  Keeping employee 
health and safety as our top priority, our factories worked to minimize those adverse impacts, even realizing 
gains in some areas.  
Water Management
Across Skyworks’ major manufacturing facilities, water withdrawals (100% from 
municipal water utilities suppliers) totaled 493,385,675 gallons (1,867,667 cubic meters). 
Following our water-use efficiency low of 62 gallons per 1k production units achieved in 
2019, usage efficiency increased in 2020 to 71 gallons per 1k production units. 
Factory* Water Use and Efficiency
402
2017 2018 2019 202086
6971
62
431 438493
Gallons / 1k  
Production UnitsGallons  
(in Millions)
 
*All major manufacturing locations, including N ewbury Park – CA, Woburn – MA, Mexicali - Mexico, Singapore, Osaka – Japan and Kadoma – Japan.6  | Sustainability Report 2020Energy Management 
Semiconductor manufacturing is an energy-intensive activity by its very nature. 
Energy, as presented here, includes electricity usage (as supplied by the energy grid) and 
natural gas usage, which is consumed in large part by critical infrastructure systems 
such as boilers and thermal oxidizers, among other things. In 2020, the total energy 
consumed at our factory* locations was 374,066,000 kWh (1,346,636 gigajoules). Our 
gross energy use increased year-over-year due to the continued expansion of our 
production capacity. In 2019, we saw our lowest (best) energy efficiency rate of 52 kWh 
per 1k production units. In 2020, primarily due to factory inefficiencies resulting from 
COVID-19, we saw a slight increase to 54 kWh per 1k production units.
Factory* Energy Use and Efficiency
306
2017 2018 2019 2020
66
5454 52
337368 374
kWh / 1k  
Production UnitskWh  
(in Millions)
Clean Energy
In 2020, Skyworks continued its clean energy sourcing efforts. Through the purchase of 
>30,000,000 kWh of renewable energy credits (RECs), Skyworks offset an additional 9% of 
its total electricity usage above and beyond applicable regulatory requirements.Waste Management 
In 2020, Skyworks realized year-over-year decreases (improvement) in both gross 
hazardous waste generation and the hazardous waste generation rate. Improvement to 
the generation rate averted approximately 395,000 lb. of waste for the year. Total gross 
hazardous waste generated globally was 4,725,000 lb. (2,143 metric tons). The waste 
generation rate of 0.68 lb. per 1k production units marks our lowest (best) annual rate. 
Hazardous waste generation was slightly less impacted by inefficiencies caused by 
COVID-19 as compared to  the other environmental measurements, because the waste 
generation, and the chemical usage that precedes it, has a more direct correlation to 
production activity.  
Factory* Hazardous Waste Generation and Efficiency
3.7
2017 2018 2019 2020
0.80
0.72
0.680.734.55.2
4.7
Pounds / 1k  
Production UnitsPounds  
(in Millions)
In addition to hazardous waste, Skyworks also tracks, and works to minimize, the 
generation of non-hazardous municipal waste and to improve the overall percentage 
recycled (includes waste for energy recovery). While there was a year-over-year decrease 
from 66% to 64%, the gross quantity of waste generation was decreased by nearly 
230,000 lb.EnvironmentSustainability Report 2020  |  7Waste Management (continued)
Factory* Municipal Waste Generation and Percent (%) Recycled
5.7
2017 2018 2019 2020
63%64% 64% 66%
6.66.96.7
% of Municipal  
Waste RecycledPounds  
(in Millions)
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management
Gross Scope 11 CO2e emissions remained relatively flat year-over-year at 32,844 tons. 
71% of Scope 1 emissions were attributed to process gas usage (gases with established 
global warming potential values). The remaining 29% was the result of natural gas usage 
in factory infrastructure systems such as boilers and thermal oxidizers. The gross Scope 
22 emissions decreased year-over-year to 95,354 tons primarily due to an update in local 
emissions factors from the energy providers reflecting an increased percentage of 
renewable energy supplied to the grid. The total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the year was 
128,189 tons CO2e, down by nearly 22,900 tons. The emissions rate (intensity) also improved 
year-over-year to 0.018 tons CO2e per 1k production units. Environment
Factory* Scope 1 CO2e Emissions By Source
29%
71%
Natural Gas Process Gases
 
Factory* Scope 1 and 2 CO2e Emissions
140
2017 2018 2019 20200.030
0.024
0.0180.021149 151
128
Scope 1+2  
Metric Tons / 1k  
Production UnitsScope 1  Scope 2  
1. Scope 1 emissions include all process-related HFCs and PFCs as well as natural gas.
2.  Scope 2 emissions include off-site emissions resulting from our electricity consumption.Metric Tons (In Thousands)
*All major manufacturing locations, including N ewbury Park – CA, Woburn – MA, Mexicali - Mexico, Singapore, Osaka – Japan and Kadoma – Japan.8  | Sustainability Report 2020Product Lifecycle Management
As a supply chain manufacturer of semiconductor devices used in a multitude of end 
products, Skyworks can impact product life cycle management as it pertains to the 
management of hazardous materials contained within them. We maintain a robust 
process of supplier qualification and certification of materials conformance to the 
industry-recognized International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 62474 Declarable 
Substance List (DSL). As stated by the IEC, “The electrical and electronics industry and 
its supply chain use material declarations to track and declare specific information 
about the material composition of its products. To harmonize requirements across the 
supply chain and to improve economic efficiencies, IEC 62474 provides an International 
Standard for the exchange of material composition data and provide requirements for 
material declarations. This International Standard benefits the electrotechnical industry 
by establishing requirements for reporting of substances and materials, standardizing 
protocols, and facilitating transfer and processing of data.” 
Skyworks makes available on its website certificates of conformance identifying the 
conformance status to applicable regulatory requirements including RoHS, REACH,  and 
IEC 62474 DSL. 
Upon request, all customers may receive a full materials declaration identifying all 
substances contained in a finished good, along with their concentrations. Skyworks 
products are free of IEC 62474 substances above referenced thresholds for their 
referenced uses.
Supply Chain Environment
Supplier Responsibility
Skyworks’ supply chain is a key factor in our ability to innovate and grow, as well 
as to meet the needs of our customers for high-quality, low-cost products. Our 
supplier partnerships are vital to our ongoing efforts towards our sustainability 
policy commitment to “meet today’s needs without compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet their own.” We promote sustainability throughout our worldwide 
supply chain by holding our suppliers accountable to the same standards to which we 
hold ourselves. Our tier-one supply chain spans 17 countries, with 20 subcontracted 
product assembly facilities and 138 finished goods materials suppliers.
Sustainability Report 2020  |  9
Supply Chain
1. Communication 
Sustainability requirements are communicated to our suppliers via the 
Supplier Sustainability Specification. Here, suppliers are informed of the 
obligations that all qualified supply chain partners must meet.
2. Qualification 
Suppliers are closely evaluated and qualified based on a strict set of 
criteria associated with product quality, performance, price, sustainability 
programs and more.
3. Identification
Major suppliers are identified. These suppliers represent 80% of our 
expenditures and include subcontractor assembly facilities and labor 
agencies (i.e. recruiting companies).
4. Risk Assessment 
All major suppliers complete an industry standardized Self-Assessment 
Questionnaire (SAQ) developed and implemented by the RBA. Risk rankings 
are identified based on the SAQ scores.
5. Audit  
Supplier facilities that are ranked as high risk, in addition to any others 
specifically requested by Skyworks, must complete an onsite industry 
standard RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP). VAP is a third-party, risk-
based audit process where suppliers are objectively evaluated and their 
sustainability performance is scored.
6. Continuous Improvement 
Suppliers initiate corrective action plans (CAPs) for any issues identified in 
the VAP. Skyworks collaborates with its suppliers in tracking the CAPs to 
closure and provides further assistance at our supplier locations as needed.Supplier Responsibility
Skyworks publishes, and holds its suppliers accountable to, the standards contained 
in the Supplier Sustainability Specification ( https://www.skyworksinc.com/-/media/
Skyworks/Documents/SupplierDocs/SQ030337.pdf ). Just as with our internal factory 
standards, the Supplier Sustainability Specification is based on the RBA Code of 
Conduct.
Skyworks’ key suppliers must undergo an onboarding process and periodic evaluation 
during which their conformance to the Supplier Sustainability Specification is verified.
Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Materials considered critical to Skyworks' business operations include Tantalum 
(Ta), Tin (Sn), Tungsten (W) and Gold (Au), which are collectively referred to as 3TG. 
Use of these four materials is common throughout the semiconductor industry, 
and the minerals are regulated under the U.S. SEC Conflict Minerals regulation. 
In conformance with this rule, Skyworks has developed a Responsible Minerals 
Sourcing program. The program is aimed at reducing risks associated with the use 
of 3TG through a robust evaluation of supply chain sourcing practices to identify 
and eliminate risks to human rights abuses in the minerals supply chain. As a long-
standing member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) which helps companies 
make informed decisions on their supply chains, Skyworks remained an active  
participant throughout 2020. Skyworks utilizes the RMI’s flagship Responsible 
Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) (which provides independent, third-party smelter 
/ refiner audits) and works with our supply chain partners to drive towards a 100% 
audited and conformant supply chain. 2020 marks the sixth consecutive year in 
which Skyworks has declared “DRC Conflict-Free” (in accordance with the SEC rule), a 
testament to the strength of our supply chain outreach and due diligence efforts.
Identified Smelters % Conformant
Tantalum 37 100%
Tin 48 100%
Tungsten 41 100%
Gold 106 100%
Total 232 100%
10  | Sustainability Report 2020Supply Chain
Responsible Minerals Sourcing (continued)
Five-Step Framework for Risk-Based Due Diligence in the Mineral Supply Chain
Our Policy
Skyworks is committed to the responsible sourcing of minerals. We have established 
programs aligned with the internationally recognized OECD due diligence framework3 to 
regularly evaluate our supply chain and require our suppliers to do the same. Suppliers 
are prohibited from supplying Skyworks with materials known to be derived from the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries that have not been 
confirmed as “DRC Conflict-Free” via a recognized and credible third-party process such 
as RMAP, the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) Good Delivery List, and/or the 
Chain of Custody (CoC) program from the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC).
Our sustainability policy along with current and past Conflict Minerals Reports are 
available to the public on the Company’s website at:  
 www.skyworksinc.com/en/Sustainability .
3.  “OECD due diligence framework” refers to the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development’s guidance titled “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict- Affected and 
High-Risk Areas.”
4. All Skyworks locations.
Establish strong company management systems
Identify and assess risk in the supply chain
Design and implement a strategy to respond to identified 
risks
Carry out independent third-party audit of supply chain due  
diligence at identified points in the supply chain
Report on supply chain due diligenceSkyworks is Committed to Cultivating a Safe, Healthy 
and Productive Work Environment
Skyworks has prioritized, and always will prioritize, the health and safety of our 
employees in compliance with applicable rules and regulations worldwide. Our approach 
to health and safety is integrated into our business principles and management systems, 
further promoting our commitment to the wellbeing of our employees.
As part of our management systems, Skyworks regularly performs risk assessments 
throughout the organization. We establish objectives and targets for the reduction of 
employee exposure to human health hazards. In addition, industrial hygiene plans are in 
place with surveys performed to measure and monitor employee exposures to chemicals 
used within the workplace. Further, Skyworks is fully committed to robust training, giving 
our employees the tools and knowledge to perform their jobs and work safely. As part 
of our ongoing commitment to health and safety, we conduct internal audits focused 
on compliance and management systems at all our manufacturing locations. Skyworks 
will continue to foster a culture of health and safety across the organization to drive 
improvements.Health and Safety
0.9
201720170.8
201820180.7
201920190.4
202020200.4
201720170.3
201820180.3
201920190.2
20202020
Total Cases per  
200,000 Hours Worked4Lost Time Days per  
200,000 Hours Worked4Lost Time Incident Rate 
(LTIR)Total Recordable Incident Rate  
(TRIR)Sustainability Report 2020  |  11Health and Safety Compliance
Skyworks is subject to, and regularly undergoes, health and safety inspections in accordance with federal, regional and local 
government laws and regulations. We work closely with regulators and take appropriate actions where  necessary and to help us 
improve. In 2020, there were no (zero) monetary losses incurred as a result of legal proceedings associated with employee health and 
safety violations.
COVID-19
In 2020, the vast majority of the countries and other jurisdictions in which Skyworks operates recognized the essential nature 
of our business. In order to safely continue performing our essential work around the world, Skyworks implemented safety 
protocols to help protect our workers and by extension, their families and our communities. This effort included the development 
of a comprehensive COVID-19 Playbook to establish company-wide safety standards concerning employee communication and 
education, modifications to the work environment, cleaning protocols, entry screening procedures for employees and visitors, 
travel restrictions, mask usage, social distancing, investigating and otherwise responding to potential COVID-19 cases, return-to-
work criteria and training. 
Skyworks provided varying amounts of paid time off, depending on circumstance and location, to employees who were awaiting 
test results, had close contact with suspected or confirmed cases, contracted COVID-19 themselves, or were otherwise unable to 
work by virtue of a COVID-19-related government order.Health and Safety
6’
Thank you for practicing social distancing
www.skyworksinc.com/COVID-19
6’
Thank you for practicing social distancing
Social Distancing Best Practices
• Please keep 6 feet apart
• Minimize close contact
• No handshakes
• Wash hands frequently6 Feet
6’
Thank you for practicing social distancing
Temperature Screening
• All persons including employees, contractors, and visitors, 
  must go through the temperature screening process in order 
  to enter a Skyworks facility .
• Anyone with a temperature < 100.4°F will be able enter the facility. 
• Should a person register at or above the CDC threshold of 100.4°F, 
  they will be politely instructed to return home, as they will not be 
  granted access into the facility. Employees will be instructed to 
  call their supervisor/manager from home.   
6’
Thank you for practicing social distancing
Protective Face Coverings
• Wear a face covering at all times while in the Skyworks facility, 
   except when eating or when in an individual work space (o/f_f_i.ligace or cube) 
   at least six feet away from others. 
• Ensure it covers your nose and mouth. 
• Please wash your hands for 20 seconds before putting on and 
   after removing your face covering. 
• Do not to touch your face or the face covering while wearing it. 
• Routinely clean cloth face coverings in a washing machine. 
6’
Thank you for practicing social distancing
Conference Room Safety
• Small conference rooms are limited to single person use only.
• In large conference rooms, capacity is reduced by half.
• Do not sit in any chairs that are taped with an ‘x’. 
• Ensure you are seated at arms length apart.
• Consider using MS Teams or the AT&T conference lines
   in lieu of in-person meetings in the conference rooms. Temperature Screenings at Facilities Enhanced Cleaning Measures12  | Sustainability Report 2020At Skyworks, we strive for perfect quality while abiding by our principles of sustainable business practices. Our management systems are certified to internationally recognized 
standards for quality and environmental management, including ISO 9001 and 14001. Furthermore, our systems are designed and operated in accordance with the RBA Code of Conduct. 
To learn more, the following resources are available online: Sustainability Systems Manual , ISO Certifications , and the RBA Code of Conduct .
In 2020, Skyworks continued its active membership in the RBA, which is a nonprofit coalition of electronics manufacturers and 
other affiliated companies committed to supporting the rights and well-being of workers and communities worldwide who are 
affected by the global electronics supply chain. RBA members commit and are held accountable to a common Code of Conduct 
and utilize a range of RBA training and assessment tools to support continuous improvement in the social, environmental, and 
ethical conditions of their supply chains. Skyworks has been an active member of the RBA since 2011. A full list of members can be 
referenced by visiting: www.responsiblebusiness.org/about/members .
In 2020, Skyworks also maintained its “full member” status within the RBA. "Full" members demonstrate the highest level of commitment and accountability to the RBA Code of 
Conduct.
Skyworks is dedicated to conducting business in compliance with both the letter 
and the spirit of applicable laws, rules and regulations and consistent with the 
highest standards of business ethics. Our sound business principles and practices 
foster our strong commitment to ethical behavior, accountability and transparency.
We aim to lead by example—guided by good corporate governance and principles 
as defined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code"). The Code 
outlines broad principles of ethical business conduct embraced by Skyworks. 
In order to establish an effective ethics and compliance program and to develop 
trust, employees must be able to raise concerns without fear of retaliation. Our 
employees have a duty to report any known or suspected violation of the Code, or of 
any rules or regulations applicable to the Company. Employees are trained annually 
on the contents of the Code.
Skyworks maintains an anonymous whistleblower hotline with local language 
support for employees worldwide to report any concerns or ask any questions 
about the company's business practices. In addition, Skyworks maintains a written 
policy prohibiting any form of retaliation against an employee who reports a 
concern in good faith.
The Code, along with other corporate governance information, is available on our 
website: investors.skyworksinc.com/corporate-governance .Management Systems
Ethics
Sustainability Report 2020  |  13
Culture and Diversity
Our workforce consists of approximately 10,000 employees located around the world. 
As of October 2, 2020:
• Our workforce was distributed geographically approximately as follows: 61% in 
Mexico, 21% in the United States, 17% in Asia, 1% in Canada and less than 1% in Europe.
• Our workforce was distributed by function approximately as follows: 51% in individual 
contributor manufacturing roles, 29% in engineering or technician roles, 10% in 
managerial roles and 10% in professional or other administrative roles.
• Approximately 36% of our employees worldwide, and approximately 22% of our 
employees in the United States, were female. In addition, among our employees in the 
United States with managerial responsibility, approximately 13% were female.
• In the United States,* our employees identified with race and ethnicity categories as 
follows: 42% Asian, 40% White, 13% Hispanic or Latino, 3% Black or African American 
and 2% Other (including Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, Native American or Alaska 
Native, or Two or More Races). In addition, among our employees in the United States 
with managerial responsibility, approximately 48% identified with one (or more) race 
and ethnicity categories other than White.
We work to create an inclusive and equitable environment where individuals of all 
backgrounds can collaborate in a positive and productive environment. Consistent 
with our commitment to attracting a skilled workforce that reflects a diverse global 
marketplace for talent, our internal and external recruiters have been trained to expand 
candidate pools, wherever possible, to include individuals from underrepresented 
demographic groups. We enjoy robust collaborative relationships with several leading 
universities around the world, and we leverage these relationships to introduce 
candidates from underrepresented demographic groups to the semiconductor industry 
through our internship and co-op programs, as well as to facilitate the education and 
development of the next generation of skilled engineers necessary for our future 
innovation.
In managing our business, we focus on attracting and retaining employees by providing 
compensation and benefits packages that are competitive within the applicable market, 
taking into account the job position’s location and responsibilities. Nearly all full-time 
employees across the globe are eligible to participate in one of the Company’s incentive Recruiting and Managing a Global and Skilled Workforce
Skyworks is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Employment decisions are made without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, age, physical or mental disability, genetic factors, military/veteran status or other characteristics protected by law.plans, under which payments are tied to pre-established performance goals, as well as 
to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at a discount from the market price 
of the common stock at the time of purchase, pursuant to the Company’s employee stock 
purchase plans.
In addition, we believe that developing our employees’ skillsets and decision-making 
abilities—through challenging project assignments, formal training, mentorship and 
recognition—is key not only to our employees’ job satisfaction and our retention efforts, 
but also to maintaining a strong leadership pipeline. We attempt to maximize the rate at 
which open positions are filled by internal candidates.
The percentage of foreign nationals employed at our various locations worldwide in 2020 
was approximately 6%. The COVID-19 pandemic, along with the resulting restrictions 
on travel and visa issuance by countries in which we have employees, has presented 
challenges to the ability of our foreign national employees to maintain applicable work 
authorization status in their host countries. We attempt to mitigate these challenges 
by requesting expedited processing of immigration paperwork where possible due to 
Skyworks’ status as an essential business. Furthermore, we work to develop local talent 
pools and from time to time pursue strategic acquisitions as a method of expanding our 
highly skilled labor workforce in key geographies.
*The majority of our workforce is employed in countries in which Skyworks does not collect or report its employees’ race and ethnicity data. Employees in Skyworks’ international facilities, including ~6,100 employees in Mexico, ~1,000 employees 
in Singapore and ~450 employees in Japan, are predominantly nationals of the countries in which they are employed.14  | Sustainability Report 2020Appendix
Sustainability Disclosure Topics and Accounting Metrics
Topic Code Accounting Metric Our Response / Comments Reference in Report
Greenhouse Gas Emissions TC-SC-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and (2) amount of 
total emissions from perfluorinated compounds(1) 32,844 metric tons CO2e 
(2) 23,319 metric tons CO2e from process gases 
including perfluorinated compoundsGreenhouse Gas Emissions 
Management ( Page 7 )
TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy 
or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions 
reduction targets and an analysis of performance 
against those targetsWe have not yet made a public commitment 
regarding long-term or short-term Scope 
1 emissions reduction targets. As a result 
of efficiency improvements, our Scope 1 
emissions remained relatively flat year-
over-year even as our manufacturing volume 
expanded significantlyGreenhouse Gas Emissions 
Management ( Page 7 )
Energy Management in 
ManufacturingTC-SC-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid 
electricity, (3) percentage renewable(1) 1,346,636 gigajoules  
(2) 100% grid electricity  
(3) 9% of electricity consumed is sourced from 
renewable sources (via Renewable Energy 
Credits)Energy Management and Clean 
Energy ( Page 6 )
Water Management TC-SC-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, 
percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water Stress(1) 1,867,667 m3  
(2) See Page 5 of reportWater Management ( Page 5 )
Waste Management TC-SC-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing, 
percentage recycled2,143 metric tons; we have omitted disclosure 
of the percentage recycled due to data 
collection processes that are still being 
finalizedWaste Management ( Page 6 )
Employee Health & Safety TC-SC-320a.2 Description of efforts to assess, monitor and reduce 
exposure of employees to human health hazardsSee Page 10 of report Health and Safety (Page 10 )
TC-SC-320a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with employee health and 
safety violations$0 monetary losses incurred in 2020 Health and Safety Compliance 
(Page 11 )
Recruiting & Managing a Global & 
Skilled WorkforceTC-SC-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign nationals 
and (2) located offshore(1) 6% foreign nationals  
(2) 79% located offshore (outside the United 
States)Culture and Diversity ( Page 13 )Sustainability Report 2020  |  15Appendix (continued)
Safe Harbor StatementSustainability Disclosure Topics and Accounting Metrics
Topic Code Accounting Metric Our Response / Comments Reference in Report
Product Lifecycle Management TC-SC-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 
62474 declarable substances0% of products by revenue Product Life Cycle Management 
(Page 8 )
TC-SC-410a.2 Processor energy efficiency at a system-level for: (1) 
servers, (2) desktops and (3) laptopsBecause the products we manufacture 
are constantly being updated and can be 
incorporated by our customers into multiple 
end uses, including the listed product 
categories, we do not track or disclose 
percentages pursuant to this metric.N/A
Materials Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated 
with the use of critical materialsSee Page 9 of report Responsible Minerals Sourcing 
(Page 9 )
Intellectual Property Protection 
& Competitive BehaviorTC-SC-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with anti-competitive 
behavior regulationsInformation on legal proceedings is disclosed 
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our 
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, available on 
the Investor Relations portion of our website.N/A
Any forward-looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. Forward-looking statements include without limitation information relating to future events, results and expectations of Skyworks. Forward-looking statements can often 
be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “believes,” “plans,” “may,” “will” or “continue,” and similar expressions and variations (or negatives) of 
these words. Actual events and/or results may differ materially and adversely from such forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including, but not 
limited to, the effects of the global COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit COVID-19’s spread on our business operations, including actions that may be taken by us, our 
suppliers and partners, or governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate in an effort to contain the COVID-19 pandemic; the risks of doing business internationally, 
including economic, social, military, and geo-political conditions in the countries in which we, our customers, or our suppliers operate; changes in laws, regulations and/or policies 
that could adversely affect our operations and financial results, the economy and our customers’ demand for our products, or the financial markets and our ability to raise capital; 
our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities in our desired 
geographic locations and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; and other risks and uncertainties identified in the “Risk Factors” section 
of Skyworks’ most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K (and/or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of Skyworks’ 
SEC filings can be obtained, free of charge, on Skyworks’ website ( www.skyworksinc.com ) or at the SEC’s website ( www.sec.gov ). Any forward-looking statements contained in this 
report are made only as of the date the report is issued, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise.
Note: Skyworks and the Skyworks symbol are trademarks or registered trademarks of Skyworks Solutions, Inc., or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. Third-party 
brands and names are for identification purposes only and are the property of their respective owners.USA: 949-231-3000 • Asia: 886-2-2735 0399 • Europe: 33 (0)1 43548540 • BRO398-20A   
Skyworks Solutions, Inc. • Nasdaq: SWKS  • www.skyworksinc.com  • sales@skyworksinc.comSkyworks Worldwide Locations
SingaporeIpohShenzhen
Hong KongTaipei
ChupeiShanghaiBeijingSeoul Gyeonggi-do  
Tokyo
OsakaGreensboroBishop’s StortfordHelsinki
Paris Cedar 
RapidsOttawa
Andover
Woburn
MexicaliIrvine
Newbury ParkSan JoseHillsboroMilpitas
Sales Offices
Design Centers
ManufacturingAdamstownCork