Enabling Environmental and Social ResponsibilitySustainability Report 2021skyworksinc.com Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              2  Table of Contents
Commitment to Sustainability  3
       Letter from the CEO 3
Our Company 4
       Products  4
       Leadership  5
       Governance and Oversight  6
       Engagement with Stakeholders  7
Enabling a Connected World  8
       2021 Highlights 8
       Sustainability Policy  8
Environment  9
       Energy Management  10
       Renewable Energy  11
       Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management  12
       Long-Term CO2e Emissions Reduction Target 12
       Water Management  13
       Waste Management   14
Cybersecurity  15
Product Lifecycle Management 16
Supply Chain 16
       Responsible Minerals Sourcing   16
       Supplier Responsibility  17
       Supplier Qualification Process  17Health and Safety 18
       Safe, Healthy and Productive Work Environment 18
       Health and Safety Compliance 18
Human Rights  19
       Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention 19
Management Systems  19
Ethics  20
       Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 20
       Communication and Training  20
       Whistleblower System  20
Managing a Global and Skilled Workforce 21
       Culture and Diversity 21
       Recruitment and Retention 21
       Training and Development  22
       Employee Engagement  22
In the Community 23
       Diversity in the Community 24
Appendix  25
       TCFD Index 25
       SASB Index 26 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              3  Our Commitment to Sustainability
Letter from the CEO
Connectivity is fundamentally altering nearly all aspects of daily life, underscoring 
Skyworks’ critical mission of Connecting Everyone and Everything, All the Time.  
With more and more activities being conducted online every day, our reliance on 
technology-enabled interaction continues to fuel demand for seamless and ultra-
fast wireless connections across a widening array of use cases.
At Skyworks, our vision of enabling universal connectivity is aligned with global 
efforts to mitigate the challenges associated with climate change, human rights 
abuses, supply chain disruptions, geopolitical tensions and the global COVID-19 
pandemic. We are proud to provide state-of-the-art technologies supporting 
essential activities that reduce environmental impact, drive efficiencies and 
facilitate information sharing across a wide range of industries and institutions. 
While in the initial stage of a multi-year wireless transition, we already see 
the incredible power and potential of 5G and other advanced connectivity 
technologies, which are being harnessed to drive sustainability efforts of 
companies and communities around the world. The expanding Internet of Things 
(IoT) provides the backbone to Artificial Intelligence (AI)–powered ecosystems  
that seamlessly combine measurement and analysis with optimization and 
notification. Skyworks' cutting-edge wireless technologies are integral components 
of environmental-improvement applications in farms, factories, vehicles, electrical 
grids and a growing number of other domains.
With recent events such as wildfires, droughts, flooding and more frequent 
extreme weather patterns, as well as growing international conflict and social 
unrest, sustainability and adaptability have never been more important. Although 
unexpected disruptions have affected Skyworks, our customers and partners 
throughout our value chain, Skyworks has effectively navigated this complex 
environment as a result of years of strategic investments in intellectual property,  
in-house manufacturing and human capital. Our dedicated Skyworks team 
executed exceptionally well in 2021, making our company more resilient and 
better positioned for the future while delivering enhanced value for our many 
stakeholders. Against that backdrop, we are pleased to share these efforts in this 
13th edition of our annual Sustainability Report.
This year’s report includes more information than previous reports on many 
topics, including human capital management, workforce diversity, environmental 
responsibility, cybersecurity, supply chain management and direct board and 
committee oversight of corporate responsibility and sustainability. We received helpful feedback through our engagement efforts in 2021 with our stockholders, 
customers and other third-party partners, community leaders, employees and 
other stakeholder groups. During these interactions, we were encouraged to share 
the progress we’ve made in the many areas included in this report. In line with the 
disclosure frameworks and guidelines set forth by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) and the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), we are pleased to share—for the first time—our goals for 
improvement on a variety of environmental metrics. 
Building upon our long-standing sustainability policies, commitments and 
supporting management systems, we continue to drive further efficiencies and 
make significant improvements across key metrics. Despite the increase in factory 
production associated with our fiscal 2021 revenue, which was up more than 50% 
year over year, our aggregate factory greenhouse gas emissions and water use 
remained relatively consistent with those of prior years. These impressive results 
were driven by our world-class operations team, which completed significant water 
reclamation projects and targeted efforts to improve energy efficiency in our 
manufacturing processes.
Skyworks’ accomplishments in 2021, combined with the deep engagement of our 
board of directors and management team, position us well for further sustainable 
growth through delivering innovative solutions that meet today’s needs without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own.
We look forward to continuing the journey!
Liam K. Griffin   
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              4  Connecting Everyone and Everything, All the Time.
Headquartered in Irvine, California, Skyworks (Nasdaq: SWKS) 
is a global company with engineering, marketing, operations, 
sales and support facilities located throughout Asia, Europe and 
North America. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors 
are connecting people, places and things spanning a number 
of new and previously unimagined applications within the 
aerospace, automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, 
connected home, entertainment and gaming, industrial, 
medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.  
The power of 5G is increasingly being harnessed by organizations to 
drive sustainability efforts across industries worldwide, providing a 
wireless backbone to AI-powered ecosystems through a combination of 
measurement, analysis and optimization. Using smart connected controls, 
Skyworks' Thread, BLE connectivity and RF switches provide enhanced 
smart home features on such devices as the Google Nest Hub 2nd 
Generation and the Google Nest Audio Home Mini 3. Our RTF platform 
also enables leading efficiencies in home automation and security at Tier 1 
OEMs, providing long battery-life operations.
Additionally, our machine-to-machine IoT devices provide power-efficient, 
wide-area cellular connectivity solutions for smart meters and asset 
trackers, and our isolated amplifiers and digital isolators are being used 
in home energy storage management systems. 5G’s ability to handle 
increasing bandwidths will support the increase in sensors and data, allowing 
us to make better and more efficient decisions about the use of resources 
across smart cities, factories, agriculture and more.
Major Manufacturing Locations
Woburn, MA
GaAs HBT, pHEMT, GaN FabNewbury Park, CA  
GaAs HBT Fab
Kadoma, Japan  
SAW Filter FabBedok, Singapore  
SAW / BAW Filter WL -CSP FabOsaka, Japan  
SAW / BAW Filter Fab
Mexicali, Mexico
Back End Assembly and Test
Our Products Support SustainabilityOur Company Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              5  
Our Leadership
Kari Durham
Senior Vice President,  
Human ResourcesCarlos S. Bori
Senior Vice President,  
Sales and Marketing
Reza Kasnavi
Senior Vice President, 
Technology and ManufacturingYusuf Jamal
Senior Vice President  
and General Manager,  
Diversified Analog SolutionsLiam K. Griffin
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer  
and President
Joel R. King
Senior Vice President  
and General Manager,  
Mobile SolutionsMark Thompson
Senior Vice President  
and General Manager,  
Mixed Signal SolutionsRobert J. Terry
Senior Vice President,  
General Counsel  
and SecretaryKris Sennesael
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              6  Governance and Oversight
Our board of directors oversees our general corporate responsibility and 
sustainability both directly and through its committees. The Nominating 
and Corporate Governance Committee (NCGC) of our board of directors 
has been given specific oversight of matters of corporate responsibility and 
sustainability, including potential impacts to our business of environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues. In 2021, Skyworks’ management team 
provided ESG-related updates at each of the NCGC’s three meetings, as 
well as one ESG update to the full board of directors. Topics covered in these 
ESG updates included climate risk, short-term and long-term environmental 
goals, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, water use and efficiency, 
human rights within our supply chain, human capital management, workforce 
diversity, board refreshment and stakeholder engagement, as well as public 
disclosure related to these topics. In addition, the audit committee of our 
board of directors oversees risk management activities related to legal and 
compliance risks and consults regularly with our management team regarding 
our whistleblower reporting system and our compliance with applicable laws, 
rules and regulations.
We have established organization-wide goals and a strategic vision for our 
sustainability programs. Members of our Sustainability Council, a cross-
functional team of employees from throughout the Skyworks organization, 
are responsible for our day-to-day sustainability initiatives, including the 
establishment and management of facility-specific goals, systems and 
improvement projects, as well as compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct 
(RBA Code) and risk management activities related thereto. Progress toward 
various ESG-related business objectives is monitored monthly at the business 
level using detailed performance scorecards, is reviewed quarterly with the 
senior vice president of technology and manufacturing and other senior 
executives, and is reported to the NCGC or board of directors on a periodic 
basis.
With regard to climate change specifically, our Sustainability Council leverages 
expertise from professionals across our operations, environment, health and 
safety, legal, human resources, sourcing and supply chain organizations to 
identify risks, establish improvement targets for carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) emissions, water recycling and other sustainability measures, coordinate renewable energy sourcing efforts, track our progress and drive 
improvements. In line with the RBA Code’s requirement that suppliers 
maintain programs around energy consumption and greenhouse gas 
emissions, manufacturing locations operate ISO 14001 certified environmental 
management systems to control and reduce environmental impacts from our 
manufacturing operations. We utilize management review forums to keep 
local and executive level management aware of our progress and take actions 
where targets are being missed. Environmental improvement activities focus on 
efficiency gains to minimize CO2e emissions intensity and maximize energy use 
efficiency.
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              7  Engagement with Stakeholders
Responsiveness to key constituencies throughout our value chain is a critical 
part of our commitment to good corporate governance, responsibility and 
accountability. As described in greater detail in our 2022 proxy statement, 
we regularly conduct outreach to our stockholders to understand their 
perspectives on ESG-related issues. We likewise solicit feedback and review 
publicly available statements from other groups including customers, suppliers, 
employees, credit ratings agencies, nongovernmental organizations (NGO), 
community organizations, industry groups and regulators. As noted in the 
Governance and Oversight  section  of this report, we provide regular updates to 
our NCGC and board of directors regarding matters of corporate responsibility 
and sustainability, including the opinions expressed by our various stakeholders.
We regularly engage in business reviews with our customers, covering many 
topics, including sustainability, and we take steps to respond to our customers' 
suggestions and requests. For example, in 2021 we made revisions to our Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics in response to customer feedback.
During our engagement meetings with institutional stockholders in 2021, the 
vast majority expressed approval of the additional disclosure contained in 
our 2020 Sustainability Report, which included our first-time alignment with 
the external reporting framework promulgated by SASB. Some stockholders 
encouraged us to add disclosure in future reports on various topics, including 
oversight by the board of directors of ESG issues, specific environmental 
targets (such as CO2e emissions reduction) and our efforts to combat human 
rights abuses in our supply chain. As part of our commitment to stakeholder 
engagement, we have included responsive disclosures in this report. 
In response to feedback from various stakeholders in both 2020 and 2021, 
we aligned our disclosure in this report with the SASB disclosure framework 
as well as the guidelines from the TCFD. By reporting in line with established 
frameworks and guidelines, we believe our stakeholders will be better able 
to understand our ESG programs. The Appendix to this report sets forth 
a detailed description of how this report aligns with the SASB reporting 
framework and TCFD guidelines, noting omissions and variations where 
applicable. In general, the disclosure in this report refers to all Skyworks 
business operations. However, where the disclosure refers to a subset of our 
operations (such as factory locations only), we have noted this within the report. The data in this report is based on reasonable assumptions and our best 
estimates at the time of the report. We have no expectation that this report will 
be updated or revised as a result of new information.
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              8  
Sustainability Policy
Skyworks is committed to operating under sustainable business practices that 
meet today's needs without compromising the ability of future generations to 
meet their own. We employ a management system approach to:
• Comply with applicable laws, regulations and requirements
• Prevent pollution, conserve resources and minimize waste
• Cultivate safe, healthy and productive work environments
• Operate with integrity, honesty and accountability
• Foster continuous improvement
• Promote sustainability throughout our supply chainEnabling a Connected World Through Sustainable Business Practices
2021 Highlights 
168 million  gallons 
of water usage averted
 30 million kWh renewable 
energy credits sourced
550,000  lbs of 
hazardous waste avoided
ISO 14001  certifications maintained 
across all manufacturing locations102 million  kWh  saved through 
energy efficient improvements
Began TCFD  alignment10%  growth in global 
workforce
10th year of membership in the 
Responsible Business Alliance
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              9  Environment
Utilizing a well-established process for environmental improvement as 
outlined within our ISO 14001 certified management systems, our company 
routinely establishes targets intended to drive improvements in the key impact 
categories of energy, water, hazardous waste, municipal waste and CO2e 
emissions. Factory locations are tasked with identifying improvement projects 
in support of those category targets. Progress toward performance metrics 
is monitored and reported frequently. Regular management reviews ensure 
awareness and ongoing support throughout the organization to drive our 
improvement projects to completion and to meet or exceed our established 
targets. Within the following pages, you will find details of our performance 
in each major environmental impact category as well as our forward-looking 
targets.
As part of our ongoing process improvement efforts and in response to 
feedback from various stakeholders, we are working to obtain third-party 
verification of our CO2e emissions and water use data for future reports.
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              10  Factory* Energy Use
2021 2018 2017 2019 2020412
4354 54 52337
66306368 374
kWh / 1k  
Production UnitskWh  
(in Millions)
Energy Use Efficiency Improvement 2021†
Energy Use Efficiency Improvement 2022†2021† Goal
2021† Actual
2022† Goal20% 5%
7%Energy Management
Skyworks measures energy consumption as the sum total of electricity usage 
(as supplied by the energy grid) and natural gas usage. In 2021, the total 
energy consumed at our factory* locations was 412,497,290 kWh (1,484,990 
gigajoules). The gross energy use increased in large part due to the further 
expansion of our production capacity. 
Even with the increase in gross energy consumption, in 2021, we achieved a 20% 
year-over-year improvement in energy use efficiency, surpassing our target 
of 5%. The Singapore and Mexicali facilities contributed significantly to the 
efficiency improvements through the refinement of temperature and pressure 
set points on their clean/dry air (CDA) systems, greatly reducing the energy 
required for CDA generation.Environment
† Year over year *Major manufacturing locations including Newbury Park, CA; Woburn, MA; Mexicali, Mexico; Kadoma, Japan; Osaka, Japan; Bedok, Singapore. Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              11  Renewable Energy
In 2021, Skyworks continued its renewable energy sourcing efforts. More than 
30,000,000 kWh of our electricity consumption was from renewable sources 
(via renewable energy credits) above and beyond purchases made for local 
regulatory requirements and the percentage of renewable energy received 
from the grid.
While renewable energy opportunities are readily available in the United 
States, the same is not true for many of the jurisdictions in which we maintain 
facilities. In particular, we face obstacles in sourcing renewable energy in 
Mexico, Singapore and Japan, countries where renewable energy infrastructure 
is underdeveloped. In Japan, we have joined a consortium working with local 
energy providers to encourage the creation and implementation of renewable 
energy supply. The consortium consists primarily of U.S. multinational 
companies that represent a wide range of industries and energy use profiles.Environment
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              12  Environment
Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions are closely monitored and minimized through 
Skyworks' improvement projects implemented worldwide. Natural gas (used 
primarily for facility infrastructure systems) and perfluorocarbon (PFC) and 
hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) gases (integral to semiconductor manufacturing) are 
the primary sources of scope 1 CO2e emissions. Our electricity consumption 
results in indirect scope 2 CO2e emissions at our electricity providers’ 
generation facilities. Local grids continue to make improvements increasing the 
overall percentage of power provided from renewable sources, which result in 
lower CO2e emissions per kWh supplied. Additionally, Skyworks is aggressively 
pursuing renewable energy sources, as discussed on page 11 of this report.Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management
Scope 1 and 2 CO2e Emissions Rate Reduction 2021†
Scope 1 and 2 CO2e Emissions Rate Reduction 2022†2021† Goal
2021† Actual
2022† Goal17%10%
5%Scope 1+2  
Metric Tons / 1k  
Production UnitsScope 1
Thousand
Metric TonsScope 2  
Thousand
Metric Tons
Factory* Scope 1 and 2 CO2e Emissions
144
2021 2018 2019 20200.0150.024
0.0180.021147148
126
20170.030138
Note: Scope 1 CO2e emissions include all process-related PFC and HFC gases as 
well as natural gas. Scope 2 CO2e emissions include off-site emissions resulting 
from our electricity consumption.
† Year over yearOur company remains committed to reducing CO2e emissions and pursuing 
renewable energy sourcing opportunities, where available, in the countries in 
which we operate. As part of this commitment, we have established a long-
term target of reducing absolute scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions from factory* 
operations by 30% by 2030 (from a baseline year of 2018), which is in line with 
the Paris Climate Accord objective of limiting global warming to well below 2° C. Long-Term CO2e Emissions Reduction Target
*Major manufacturing locations including Newbury Park, CA; Woburn, MA; Mexicali, Mexico; Kadoma, Japan; Osaka, Japan; Bedok, Singapore. Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              13  Environment
Factory* Water Use
Water Use Efficiency Improvement 2021†
Water Use Efficiency Improvement 2022†2021† Goal25% 10%
8%2021† Actual
2022† GoalGallons / 1k  
Production UnitsGallons  
(in Millions)
2021 2018 2019 2020511
431
2017402438493
5369 71
6286Across Skyworks’ major manufacturing facilities in 2021, water withdrawals 
(100% from municipal water utilities suppliers) totaled 510,657,491 gallons 
(1,933,049 cubic meters). In that same time frame, we achieved a new best 
in water use efficiency, decreasing our water usage rate to 53.1 gallon/1k 
production units, surpassing our annual improvement goal of 10% with a 25% 
year-over-year efficiency improvement.
The most notable efficiency gains were at our Singapore and Mexicali facilities 
where we completed, or are in the process of completing, significant water 
reclamation projects, decreasing overall water demand as a result of increased 
water reuse.Water Management
Factory* Water Use by Stress Level  (WRI Water Risk Atlas Tool )
49%19%
21%
11%
†Year over year *Major manufacturing locations including Newbury Park, CA; Woburn, MA; Mexicali, Mexico; Kadoma, Japan; Osaka, Japan; Bedok, Singapore.Extremely High  
(Newbury Park, 
Mexicali)  Medium High  
(Woburn)Low-Medium  
(Osaka, Kadoma)Low  
(Bedok) Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              14  Waste Management
Pounds / 1k  
Production Units
Pounds  
(in Millions)
Factory* Hazardous Waste Generation Rate 
Reduction 2022†Factory* Hazardous Waste Generation 
Rate Reduction 2021†
2021† Goal 2021† Actual 2022† Goal8%
6%5%5.9
2021 2018 2019 20204.5
20173.75.2
4.7
0.72
0.68
0.620.730.80Factory* Hazardous Waste GenerationAs a high-volume manufacturer, waste minimization is an important 
measure of our materials use efficiency as well as our waste management 
capabilities. Our sites deploy waste strategies to minimize waste through 
source reduction, chemical substitution, use efficiency and recycling. 
Skyworks' waste management programs deliver reliable compliance to 
applicable regulations and work to minimize environmental impacts from 
waste materials. Our Osaka, Japan location implemented a solvent recycle 
and resale program that dramatically reduces its hazardous waste generation, 
and our U.S. factories leveraged chemical substitutions minimizing use and 
associated waste generated by a key solvent used in production. Environment
† Year over year*Major manufacturing locations including Newbury Park, CA; Woburn, MA; Mexicali, Mexico; Kadoma, Japan; Osaka, Japan; Bedok, Singapore.
Factory* Municipal Waste Recycle Rate Improvement 2021†‡
Factory* Municipal Waste Recycle Rate Improvement 2022†‡2021†‡ Goal
2021†‡ Actual
2022†‡ Goal7%2%
1%% Recycled†
Pounds (in Millions)
Factory* Municipal Waste
7.2
2021 2018 2019 202068%64% 64% 66%6.6
201763%5.76.96.7
‡Recycling by municipal waste service provider including for energy recovery Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              15  Cybersecurity
Skyworks is committed to maintaining a secure environment for all our 
information resources and assets that supports our business objectives and 
customer needs. Skyworks’ cybersecurity and information security programs 
were developed with the following goals in mind:
• To minimize the risk of business disruptions, harm to our customers  
and stakeholders, loss of reputation and potential for regulatory fines
• To protect Skyworks’ network, systems and applications from   
cyberattacks
• To comply with government and industry regulations and to meet  
our customer needs
• To educate our directors and management team on our security  
risks and associated posture 
• To continuously monitor the evolving threat landscape so that  
proper safeguards can be implemented to ensure cyber resilience
We structure our cybersecurity program based on industry best practices, 
regulatory requirements and customer obligations. We apply a unified 
controls framework that encompasses various National Institute of Standards 
and Technology (NIST) frameworks and ISO 27001 standards. Skyworks 
has developed and adopted a comprehensive Information Security Policy 
that incorporates risk management, acceptable use, access controls, 
asset management, cryptography, physical security, human resources 
security, operations security, communication security, software acquisition, 
development and maintenance, and vendor management. There are also 
detailed procedures and guidelines built on best practices covering topics such 
as incident management, system hardening, and disaster recovery. The policies, 
procedures and guidelines are reviewed throughout the year and updated as 
needed when there are changes in the business, regulatory or IT environment.
Skyworks cultivates a security-minded organization through employee 
education, training and cybersecurity bulletins. We rely on a culture of 
ownership and accountability for all aspects of cybersecurity whereby users are 
encouraged to report unauthorized activities, anomalous events and suspected 
phishing emails. Security awareness training is required for all personnel and 
targeted training, such as privacy and insider threats, is assigned based on the 
user’s function. Users must acknowledge our Acceptable Use Policies during onboarding and annually thereafter. Cybersecurity is ingrained in Skyworks’ 
infrastructure and business operations and is a critical component of the 
Skyworks digital ecosystem.
A Cybersecurity Council has been established to govern and ensure alignment 
of cybersecurity initiatives with business objectives. This council includes 
executives and managers from various departments and convenes quarterly 
where it receives updates from our chief information security officer (CISO) 
on industry trends, key cybersecurity initiatives, upcoming security changes, 
areas of potential risk, and our current security risk posture. Management 
also provides quarterly updates to either the audit committee or full board of 
directors on similar topics and key cybersecurity metrics.
Our cybersecurity program is reviewed for effectiveness by independent third-
party firms and internal auditors; customers and business partners also review 
and audit our program.
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              16  
Supply Chain Product Lifecycle Management 
As a supply chain manufacturer of semiconductor devices used in a multitude 
of end products, Skyworks can impact product lifecycle management as it 
pertains to the management of hazardous materials contained within them. We 
maintain a robust process of supplier qualification and certification of materials 
conformance to the industry-recognized International Electrotechnical 
Commission (IEC) 62474 Declarable Substance List (DSL). As stated by the 
IEC: “The electrical and electronics industry and its supply chain use material 
declarations to track and declare specific information about the material 
composition of its products. To harmonize requirements across the supply chain 
and to improve economic efficiencies, IEC 62474 provides an International 
Standard for the exchange of material composition data and provide 
requirements for material declarations. This international standard benefits 
the electrotechnical industry by establishing requirements for reporting of 
substances and materials, standardizing protocols, and facilitating transfer and 
processing of data.”
Available on our website are certificates of conformance  identifying the 
conformance status to applicable regulatory requirements including RoHS, 
REACH and IEC 62474 DSL. Upon request, all customers can receive a full 
materials declaration identifying all substances contained in a finished good, 
along with their concentrations and conformance status to IEC 62474.
Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Materials considered critical to our business operations include Tantalum (Ta), 
Tin (Sn), Tungsten (W) and Gold (Au), which are collectively referred to as 
3TG. Use of these four materials is common throughout the semiconductor 
industry, and they are regulated under the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) conflict minerals regulation. In conformance with this rule, 
we have developed a responsible minerals sourcing program. The program is 
aimed at reducing risks associated with the use of 3TG through an evaluation of  
sourcing practices to identify and eliminate risks to human rights abuses in the 
minerals supply chain. As a longstanding member of the Responsible Minerals 
Initiative (RMI) , which helps companies make informed decisions on their supply 
chains, we utilize the RMI’s flagship Responsible 
Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP)  which 
provides independent, third-party smelter/
refiner audits, and we work with our supply chain 
partners to drive toward a 100% audited and 
conformant supply chain. Our Conflict Minerals 
Policy along with current and past Conflict 
Minerals Report s are available to the public on 
the Company's website.
Identified Smelters/Refiners % Conformant*
Tantalum 35 100%
Tin 50 100%
Tungsten 35 100%
Gold 59 100%
Total 179 100%
*Responsible Minerals Assurance Program (RMAP), LBMA Good Deliver List, Responsible 
Jewellery Council Chain of Custody Certification
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              17  Supply Chain
Supplier Qualification Process 
1. Communication 
Sustainability requirements are communicated to our suppliers via the 
Supplier Sustainability Specification. Suppliers are informed of the 
obligations that all qualified supply chain partners must meet.
2. Qualification 
Suppliers are closely evaluated and qualified based on a strict set 
of criteria associated with product quality, performance, price, 
sustainability programs and more.
3. Identification
Major suppliers are identified. These suppliers represent the vast 
majority of our expenditures and include subcontractor assembly 
facilities and labor agencies (i.e. recruiting companies).
4. Risk Assessment 
All major suppliers complete an industry standardized SAQ developed 
and implemented by the RBA. Risk rankings are identified based on the 
SAQ scores.
5. Audit 
Supplier facilities that are ranked as high risk, in addition to any others 
specifically requested by Skyworks, must complete an on-site industry 
standard RBA VAP. VAP is a third-party, risk-based audit process where 
suppliers are objectively evaluated and their sustainability performance 
is scored.
6. Continuous Improvement 
Suppliers initiate corrective action plans (CAPs) for any issues identified 
in the VAP. Skyworks collaborates with its suppliers in tracking the CAPs 
to closure and provides further assistance at our supplier locations as 
needed.Supplier Responsibility
Our global supply chain is critical to our flexibility and our ability to innovate in 
response to the needs of our customers. It gives us the unique opportunity to 
expand the reach of the very same sustainable business standards we deploy at 
our own factories. Sustainability standards are contained in, and communicated 
to our suppliers through, our Supplier Sustainability Specification . The 
specification leverages the RBA Code and establishes standards by which our 
supply chain partners are required to operate.
We develop a “major supplier” list each year consisting of, at a minimum, the 
suppliers from whom we acquire a critical volume of products or materials, as 
well as key vendors providing on-site services and third-party employment 
agencies. In 2021, we classified 48 suppliers as major suppliers. We require 
the annual evaluation of major suppliers, including the assessment of their 
sustainability programs and performance against the standards set forth in the 
Supplier Sustainability Specification and the RBA Code. A primary tool for this 
supplier risk assessment process is the Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ)  
developed by the RBA. 
In 2021, we achieved an 89% response and SAQ completion rate among our 
major suppliers. According to Skyworks' policy, SAQs scoring as “high risk” 
trigger additional follow-up and corrective action plans. If open issues are 
not resolved in a timely manner, high-risk suppliers are subject to audit or 
disqualification. Suppliers are also subject to audit at the request of Skyworks 
based on other risk factors. In total, 17 supplier facilities were confirmed audited 
in 2021 or possessed a Validated Audit Process (VAP)  audit report. VAP is the 
RBA’s standardized audit process, and VAP audit reports remain valid for two 
years. Two priority findings were issued to a supplier in 2021, and the supplier 
has initiated the RBA’s corrective action process and is engaged in review of the 
findings for closure. Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              18  Commitment to a Safe, Healthy and Productive 
Work Environment 
The health and safety of our employees remains a top priority. Our approach 
to health and safety is integrated into our business principles and management 
systems worldwide. Aggressive improvement metrics are established and 
reported in regular management review forums, where further improvement 
actions are also identified.
Complementing our “safety first” mentality, we routinely complete risk 
assessments and job hazard analyses to identify and control workplace hazards. 
In addition, our industrial hygiene processes establish the means to anticipate, 
recognize, evaluate and control hazards to reduce workplace exposures to 
chemical and physical stressors in the workplace. Overall, our health and safety 
programs and practices are audited across all factory locations as part of 
our internal audit program. Further, we use root cause analysis to determine 
corrective actions to minimize identified risks. 
Driven by these programs, we are pleased to report that in 2021, we maintained 
our previous year’s all-time low total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and all-
time low lost time incident rate (LTIR).Health and Safety Compliance
Skyworks is subject to, and regularly undergoes, health and safety inspections 
in accordance with federal, regional and local government laws and regulations. 
We work closely with regulators and take appropriate actions where necessary 
and to help us improve and keep our workplace safe. In 2021, there were no 
(zero) monetary losses incurred as a result of legal proceedings associated with 
employee health and safety violations.
COVID-19
Throughout 2021, Skyworks continued to safely perform our work as an 
essential business around the world. We executed on our COVID-19 playbook 
to protect our workforce, their families and our communities. We completed 
ongoing assessments and adjusted our efforts to ensure consistent and up-to-
date practices in employee communication and education, work environment  
modifications, cleaning best practices, entry screening procedures, travel 
restrictions, mask usage, social distancing and responding to potential 
COVID-19 cases.
Skyworks provided varying amounts of paid time off, depending on 
circumstance and location, to employees who were awaiting test results, 
had close contact with suspected or confirmed cases, contracted COVID-19 
themselves, or were otherwise unable to work for a COVID-19 related reason.Health and Safety
0.8
201820180.9
201720170.7
201920190.4
202020200.4
202120210.3
201820180.3
201920190.4
201720170.2
202020200.2
20212021
Total cases per  
200,000 hoursTotal Recordable Incident Rate*  
(TRIR)
Lost time incidents  
per 200,000 hoursLost Time Incident Rate*  
(LTIR)
*All manufacturing locations and U.S. Design Centers Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              19  
Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention
Skyworks is committed to ensuring that slavery and human trafficking have no 
place in our business or in our supply chain. In addition to our work as a member 
of the RBA, we have internal policies and practices that are based on the RBA 
Code and international labor and human rights standards. We regularly evaluate 
the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking at our own factories and within 
our supply chain by utilizing the RBA’s SAQ risk assessment tool. Additionally, 
we participate in regular RBA teleconferences, webinars and other meetings 
in order to understand and monitor risk associated with labor recruitment 
practices. We also require certain employees, including key individuals in 
our sourcing organization, to complete periodic training for awareness of 
established sustainability programs and requirements, including the RBA Code.
We partner with our supply chain to create an environment where workers have 
the rights to (a) freely choose employment, (b) associate freely, (c) voluntarily 
join or not join labor unions and worker councils, and (d) bargain collectively. 
In support of this policy, we require suppliers’ compliance with all labor and 
ethics laws as applicable to the country where work is being performed. Direct 
suppliers of materials incorporated into our finished products certify that those 
materials comply with the laws regarding slavery and human trafficking of the 
country or countries in which the supplier is doing business. 
For more information, see our Statement on Combatting Modern Slavery and 
Human Trafficking in Supply Chains  which is reviewed and approved annually by 
our board of directors.Human Rights
Our quality and sustainability policies capture and communicate our 
commitment to strive for perfect quality while operating under sustainable 
business practices, and our management systems are certified to 
internationally recognized standards for quality and environmental 
management, including ISO 9001 and 14001. Certifications are available 
here . Furthermore, our systems are designed and operated in accordance 
with the RBA  Code. Throughout 2021, we remained an active member of the 
RBA, maintaining our status as a full member , the highest membership status 
available. In support of our commitment and efforts to promote sustainable 
business practices, we make publicly available our top-level policy document, 
the Sustainable Systems Manual . This manual incorporates the RBA Code 
and details how it and other requirements are integrated into our business 
operations.
Consistent with quality system standards, we deploy a target-setting process 
with associated performance metrics. Performance is then regularly reviewed 
in management review forums that engage both local management and 
organization-level leadership, thus helping ensure the necessary actions and 
resources are applied to support our commitments.
Moreover, we maintain an internal audit process and entertain regular audits 
from our largest customers at their request. In 2021, we successfully completed 
RBA VAP audits at our Kadoma and Osaka facilities in Japan. For all audits 
(both internal and external), root cause analysis and corrective actions are 
completed for identified areas of non-conformance. Looking forward to 2022, 
we are planning additional VAP audits. Audit results and associated corrective 
actions are made available to our customers, on request, via the RBA-Online 
platform.Management Systems
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              20  Skyworks is dedicated to conducting business in compliance with both the 
letter and the spirit of applicable laws, rules and regulations and consistent with 
the highest standards of business ethics. Our sound business principles and 
practices foster our strong commitment to ethical behavior, accountability and 
transparency. 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
We aim to lead by example—guided by good corporate governance and 
principles as defined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) . 
The Code outlines broad principles of ethical business conduct that we require 
all our employees to follow. The Code describes and references many of the key 
policies that guide us. For example, the Code describes our conflicts of interest, 
anti-bribery and confidential information policies, and references policies 
addressing matters such as insider trading, harassment and discrimination. 
Communication and Training
We make the Code available to all our employees in the local languages of 
our major sites. The Code, along with other policies such as our U.S. Public 
Policy Advocacy Statement , is publicly available on our website. Employees 
are required to review and acknowledge the contents of the Code on an 
annual basis. In addition, we provide targeted trainings based on risk and 
requests. For example, in 2021, we provided training to specific groups of 
employees on topics such as conflicts of interest, anti-bribery and corruption, 
antitrust considerations, confidential information and trade compliance. 
Upon assessment of our 2021 training courses, 99.9% of the target audience 
completed the Code review and acknowledgment and 97% of the target 
audience completed a specific anti-bribery and corruption training.
Whistleblower System
Our employees have a duty to report any known or suspected violation of 
the Code or of any rules or regulations applicable to the company. In order 
to establish an effective ethics and compliance program, and to develop 
trust between employees and the company, employees must be able to raise 
concerns without fear of retaliation. Our Code prohibits any form of retaliation 
against an employee who reports a concern in good faith.Employees can raise questions or issues through a variety of channels, 
including our anonymous whistleblower hotline for employees worldwide 
to report any concerns or ask any questions about the company's business 
practices. Through the system, employees (as well as contractors and other 
third-party partners) can anonymously submit an issue or a question via an 
internet form that supports 48 languages and dialects, or via a telephone 
call center that supports 344 languages and dialects, covering the principal 
languages in all our operating locations. When an employee submits an issue, 
the system immediately notifies members of Skyworks’ compliance function, 
as well as the chairman of the audit committee in certain instances, who assess 
the issue or question and task appropriate individuals to investigate the matter. 
The whistleblower system allows the employee to communicate anonymously 
with members of the compliance function. Once the investigation is complete, 
the employee who submitted the issue or question is notified through the 
anonymous communication thread.Ethics
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              21  Managing a Global and Skilled Workforce
Culture and Diversity
Our workforce consists of approximately 11,000 employees located around the 
world.
As of Oct. 1, 2021:
• Our workforce was distributed geographically approximately as follows:  
57% in Mexico, 23% in the United States, 18% in Asia, 1% in Canada and 
less than 1% in Europe. 
• Our workforce was distributed by function approximately as follows:  
48% in individual contributor manufacturing roles, 31% in engineering or 
technician roles, 11% in managerial roles and 10% in professional or other 
administrative roles. 
• Approximately 35% of our employees worldwide, and approximately 
22% of our employees in the United States, were female, percentages 
that are substantially similar to those from the prior year. In addition, 
among our employees in the United States with managerial responsibility, 
approximately 18% were female, up from 13% in the prior year. 
• In the United States,* our employees identified with race and ethnicity 
categories as follows: 40% Asian, 40% White, 13% Hispanic or Latino, 3% 
Black or African American and 4% Other (including Native Hawaiian or 
Pacific Islander, Native American or Alaska Native, or Two or More Races). 
In addition, among our employees in the United States with managerial 
responsibility, approximately 48% identified with one (or more) race 
and ethnicity categories other than White. These percentages are 
substantially similar to those from the prior year.
The percentage of foreign nationals employed at our various locations 
worldwide in 2021 was approximately 9%. The COVID-19 pandemic, along with 
the resulting restrictions on travel and visa issuance by countries in which we 
have employees, has presented challenges to the ability of our foreign national 
employees to maintain applicable work authorization status in their host 
countries. We attempt to mitigate these challenges by requesting expedited 
processing of immigration paperwork where possible due to Skyworks’ status 
as an essential business. Recruitment and Retention
We work to create an inclusive and equitable workplace where people of 
all backgrounds can collaborate in a positive and productive environment. 
Consistent with our commitment to attracting a skilled workforce that reflects 
a diverse global marketplace for talent, our internal and external recruiters 
have been trained to expand candidate pools, wherever possible, to include 
people from underrepresented demographic groups. Additionally, we post job 
openings on veterans- and disability-focused websites and job boards in areas 
where we have a physical location. We enjoy robust collaborative relationships 
with several leading universities around the world, and we leverage these 
relationships to introduce candidates from all demographic groups to the 
semiconductor industry through our internship and co-op programs, as well as 
to facilitate the education and development of our next generation of skilled 
engineers. 
We attempt to maximize the rate at which open positions are filled by internal 
candidates. During 2021, nearly a third of the open salaried positions were filled 
by internal candidates. Furthermore, we work to develop local talent pools and 
from time to time pursue strategic acquisitions as a method of expanding our 
highly skilled labor workforce in key geographies. By encouraging strong female 
participation in our “transition to leadership” program, our formal engineering 
job rotation program and our employee resource group, we continue to enable a 
pathway for women to broaden their skill sets and receive promotions.
We focus on attracting and retaining employees by providing compensation 
and benefits packages that are competitive within the applicable market for 
each position. Nearly all full-time employees across the globe are eligible to 
participat e in one of the company’s incentive plans, under which payments are 
tied to pre-established performance goals, as well as to purchase shares of the 
company’s common stock at a discount from its market price pursuant to the 
company’s employee stock purchase plans.
Our aggregate global employee turnover rate was 22% in 2021, up from 21% in 
the prior year, while our employee turnover rate in the United States remained 
at 11% in 2021. 
* With respect to our workforce in the United States, we have posted on our website the Employment Information Report (EEO-1) filings we made with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for 2019  and 2020 , which report certain 
demographic data, including a breakdown by race/ethnicity, sex and EEOC-established job categories. The majority of our workforce is employed in countries in which Skyworks does not collect or report its employees’ race and ethnicity data. 
Employees in Skyworks’ international facilities, including ~6,400 employees in Mexico, ~1,100 employees in Singapore and ~550 employees in Japan, are predominantly nationals of the countries in which they are employed. Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              22  Training and Development
We believe that developing our employees’ skill sets and decision-making 
abilities—through challenging project assignments, formal training, mentorship 
and recognition—is key not only to our employees’ job satisfaction and our 
retention efforts, but also to maintaining a strong leadership pipeline. New 
hires are routinely paired with an experienced onboarding mentor who 
helps support them in adapting to their role and the company’s policies, 
procedures and culture. In addition to maintaining a robust library of on-
demand content available to all employees covering topics on business and 
technical proficiencies, we provide multiple live, interactive training courses. 
Our core leadership programs are designed for first-time managers as well 
as mid- to senior-level leaders with a desire to enhance their understanding 
and application of key leadership concepts such as coaching, strategic 
thinking, innovation and mentorship. Our Leadership Readiness Accelerator 
is an immersive, collaborative program designed to develop high-potential 
leaders by strengthening the key skills needed to achieve long-term business 
objectives. During the 15-month program, small working groups analyze actual 
company business challenges and present recommended solutions to the 
executive leadership team.
Employee Engagement
Skyworks conducted an employee engagement survey in 2021, achieving an 
87% response rate. According to Perceptyx, an organization that studies levels 
of employee engagement and hosted the Skyworks survey, organizations with 
high levels of engagement routinely outperform organizations with lower levels 
of engagement on a number of important metrics such as higher profits, lower 
employee turnover and greater customer satisfaction. Skyworks’ Engagement 
Index, a measure of employees' attachment to the organization, was 88%. Of all 
respondents, 78% indicated they are highly engaged (compared to Perceptyx’s 
benchmark of 64%), 94% indicated they were aware of the Skyworks mission 
and have a clear understanding of the company’s goals and objectives, 
and lastly, 93% believed we are committed to exceeding our customers' 
expectations. 
Skyworks has remained focused on creating an environment where employees 
are engaged. The 2021 survey yielded a statistically significant increase from the previous full engagement survey in areas where specific efforts had been 
made, including employee-manager relationships, performance management, 
employee empowerment, pride in the company, recognition and rewards, and 
growth and development. Skyworks will continue to focus on the key drivers 
of engagement following the 2021 survey results, which include inclusion, 
accomplishment, growth and development, recognition and rewards, and 
alignment with company vision. 
Skyworks is an equal opportunity employer. Employment decisions are made without regard to 
race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, physical 
or mental disability, genetic factors, military/veteran status or other characteristics protected 
by law. Skyworks has implemented robust policies against harassment, discrimination and 
retaliation that prohibit a broader range of conduct than what the law prohibits. Skyworks also 
provides its employees with regular training concerning these topics to help ensure we maintain 
an equal opportunity workplace.Managing a Global and Skilled Workforce
*Based on data from PerceptyxI am proud to work for this company
I would recommend this company as a 
good place to work
The company is doing what’s necessary to 
compete effectively
My manager treats employees with respect
At the company, diversity is valued
The company is committed to ethical 
business practicesTech Industry Benchmark*88%
87%
87% 
90%
86%
90%83%
80%
65%  
87%
76%
86%2021 Skyworks Engagement Survey Results Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              23  In the Community
With employees around the globe, Skyworks calls many countries home. Our 
employees support projects relevant to local efforts and are committed to 
investing their time, expertise and resources to help develop and maintain 
vibrant, sustainable local communities. Skyworks and its employees are 
proud to be members of the global community, lending a helping hand where 
possible. Our Connected Communities initiative focuses on three core 
connections: 
• STEM Connections: Focused on enriching technology-based initiatives 
including local education collaborations, mentoring, etc. 
• Collaborative Connections: Focused on collaborative caring and 
belonging initiatives in our local communities
• Sustainable Connections: Focused on environmental initiatives
The following are a few examples of the projects completed by our global 
community:
Andover High School Robotics Club 
As the team’s sponsor, we serve as mentors for the Andover High School 
all-girls robotic teams as they compete in the FIRST Tech Challenge: Freight 
Frenzy. To compete, teams and their robots must navigate a complex 
transportation system by traversing barriers and racing against time to load 
and deliver essential items to designated destinations. Caritas of Austin
The mission of Caritas of Austin is to prevent and end homelessness for people 
in Greater Austin. Our team in Austin, Texas, worked with Caritas of Austin to 
put together hygiene and snack care kits for the program’s walk-in clients. 
Mexicali Skyworks Innovative Summer STEM Workshops 
One hundred of our employees' children between the ages of eight and sixteen 
enjoyed the sixth edition of the Skyworks Innovative Summer STEM workshops, 
which for the second time was held virtually. 
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              24  In the Community
Diversity in the CommunityMexicali Cleaning Campaigns 
As part of our commitment to the Mexicali community, employees organized 
cleaning, painting and gardening efforts during the year in parks and public 
areas located near our facilities.
Charitable Contributions 
Throughout 2021, donations were made through global initiatives as well as 
the company's charitable contributions and employee matching gift programs 
in the U.S. and Canada. The Skyworks family is proud to support so many 
worthwhile causes and to make a difference for those in need.In 2021, Skyworks was recognized in the Top 50 Employer list for STEM 
Workforce Diversity and Minority Engineer magazines.
Randomly selected readers of STEM Workforce Diversity magazine select 
the top employers in the country for which they would most prefer to work or 
believe would provide a positive working environment for STEM professionals 
who are members of minority groups, women, and people with disabilities 
through an annual reader survey. Similarly, randomly selected readers of 
Minority Engineer magazine are ask to select the top companies and/or 
government agencies in the country for which they would most prefer to work 
or believe would provide a positive working environment for engineers who are 
members of minority groups and of diverse cultures.
Additionally, in 2021 we partnered with the following organizations in their 
recruiting events: 
• Fort Hood and Fort Gordon Transition Assistance Program Career Fair
• National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) National Convention
        Virtual Career Fair
• Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) National 
Convention Virtual Career Fair
We also sponsor an annual grant through the Research, Academics and 
Mentoring Pathways (RAMP) Program supporting incoming female freshman 
engineering students at the University of Massachusetts Lowell with 
accelerated classes in math and computer programming. The program typically 
achieves retention rates of >90% for enrolled female engineering students. In 
addition to the grant, which offsets need-based student costs, Skyworks also 
provides female technical mentors. Skyworks also has a long relationship with 
Circa (formerly Local Job Network) with whom we partner with to promote 
our positions across the country on diversity, disability and military careers 
sites, and with employment offices in all states where Skyworks has a physical 
presence.
 Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              25  Disclosure Area TCFD Recommended Disclosure Skyworks Disclosure, with References
Governance Disclose the company’s governance around climate-related 
risks and opportunitiesThe board of directors and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee provide oversight, 
receiving regular updates from management.
See the  Governance and Oversight  section of this report.
Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the company’s businesses, strategy 
and financial planning where such information is materialWe believe that the information we have included in response to this topic is not material to our business. 
Based on engagement with our various stakeholders, we have identified water usage and GHG emissions as 
two primary climate-related risks to our business.
Our global supply chain is subject to various climate-related risks, including from droughts, wildfires, rising 
sea levels, hurricanes, tsunamis and other natural disasters or severe weather events that may be caused, 
or exacerbated, by climate change. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have 
alternative manufacturing sources immediately available, and we may therefore experience difficulties, 
delays or additional costs in securing an adequate supply of our products. As detailed in the Supply 
Chain  section of this report, we pass on our sustainability priorities to our suppliers through our Supplier 
Sustainability Specification, requiring suppliers to use a management system approach to risk mitigation and 
to drive CO2e emissions reductions and other environmental improvements.
Our wireless connectivity solutions are increasingly used by end customers to drive sustainability efforts 
across diverse industries worldwide.
Risk Management Disclose how the company identifies, assesses, and manages 
climate-related risksOur annual enterprise risk management project is designed to capture global business risks and provide input 
to the annual strategic planning process.
We regularly engage with customers, suppliers, investors and other stakeholders to understand and manage 
climate-related risks impacting our entire value chain, as described in greater detail in the Stockholder 
Engagemen t section of this report.
We utilize the RBA’s SAQ, which is a detailed risk assessment tool covering all elements of sustainability 
including those related to climate change.
Metrics and Targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such 
information is materialWe believe that the information we have included in response to this topic is not material to our business. 
See the Environment  section of this report for disclosure of 2021 goals and accomplishments, 2022 goals and 
a long-term CO2e emissions reduction target. We also report CO2e reduction targets and progress in the 
annual CDP climate disclosure.
While we currently do not track, or set goals with respect to, Scope 3 CO2e emissions, we expect to do so in 
the future.TCFD Index
In this report, for the first time we are disclosing climate-related information based on the recommendations of the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). The following is a summary of our progress to date.Appendix Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              26  Appendix
Topic Code Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Our Response / Comments Report Reference
Greenhouse Gas Emissions TC-SC-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and 
(2) amount of total emissions from 
perfluorinated compoundsMetric tons (t) 
CO2e(1) 36,792 t  
(2) 27,134 tGreenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
Management
TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term 
strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 
emissions, emissions reduction targets, and 
an analysis of performance against those 
targets Refer to Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management 
sectionGreenhouse 
Gas Emissions 
Management
Energy Management in 
ManufacturingTC-SC-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage 
grid electricity, (3) percentage renewableGigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)(1) 1,484,990 GJ (electricity + natural gas)  
(2) 100% grid electricity  
(3) 8% of energy consumed is considered sourced 
from renewable sources (via purchase of Renewable 
Energy Credits applied as offsets above and beyond 
regulatory obligations)Energy Management
Water Management TC-SC-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water 
consumed, percentage of each in regions 
with high or extremely high baseline water 
stressThousand cubic 
meters (m3), 
Percentage (%)(1) 1,933,049 m3 
(2) Water use by stress level (WRI Water Risk Atlas 
Tool): Low: 19%, Low-medium: 21%, Medium-high: 11%, 
High: 0%, Extremely high: 49%Water Management
Waste Management TC-SC-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste from 
manufacturing, percentage recycledMetric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)2,701 t  
% recycled not availableWaste Management
Employee Health and Safety TC-SC-320a.1 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, 
and reduce exposure of employees to 
human health hazardsRefer to Health and Safety section for description Health and Safety
TC-SC-320a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
employee health and safety violationsReporting 
currencyZero monetary losses incurred in 2021 Health and Safety 
Compliance
Recruiting and Managing a 
Global and Skilled WorkforceTC-SC-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign 
nationals and (2) located offshorePercentage (%) (1) 9% foreign nationals  
(2) 72% located offshore (outside the United States)Culture and Diversity
SASB Index
Our disclosure in this report is again aligned with the standards set forth by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for the semiconductor industry.  
The following is a summary of our progress to date. Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              27  Appendix
Topic Code Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Our Response / Comments Report Reference
Product Lifecycle 
ManagementTC-SC-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that 
contain IEC 62474–declarable substancesPercentage (%) <1% of products by revenue Product Lifecycle 
Management
TC-SC-410a.2 Processor energy efficiency at a system-
level for: (1) servers, (2) desktops, and (3) 
laptopsVarious, by 
product categoryBecause the products we manufacture are constantly 
being updated and can be incorporated by our 
customers into multiple end uses, including the 
listed product categories, we do not track or disclose 
percentages pursuant to this metric.
Materials Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks 
associated with the use of critical materialsRefer to Minerals Sourcing section for description. Responsible Minerals 
Sourcing
Intellectual Property 
Protection and Competitive 
BehaviorTC-SC-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result 
of legal proceedings associated with anti-
competitive behavior regulationsReporting 
currencyInformation on legal proceedings is disclosed in our 
Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q, available on the Investor 
Relations portion of our website.N/A
Safe Harbor Statement
Any forward-looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, information relating to future events, results and expectations of Skyworks. Forward-looking statements can often 
be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “believes,” “plans,” “may,” “will” or “continue,” and similar expressions and variations or negatives 
of these words. Actual events and/or results may differ materially and adversely from such forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including, but 
not limited to, the effects on our business operations of the global COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit COVID-19’s spread, including actions that may be taken 
by us, our suppliers and partners or governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate in an effort to contain the COVID-19 pandemic; the risks of doing business 
internationally, including economic, social, military, and geopolitical conditions in the countries in which we, our customers or our suppliers operate; changes in laws, regulations 
and/or policies that could adversely affect our operations and financial results, the economy and our customers’ demand for our products, or the financial markets and our ability 
to raise capital; our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, 
and at the compensation levels needed to implement our business and product plans; and other risks and uncertainties identified in the “Risk Factors” section of Skyworks’ most 
recent Annual Report on Form 10-K (and/or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) as filed with the SEC. Copies of Skyworks’ SEC filings can be obtained, free of charge, on Skyworks’ 
website skyworksinc.com  or at the SEC’s website  sec.gov . Any forward-looking statements contained in this report are made only as of the date the report is issued, and we 
undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
Skyworks and the Skyworks symbol are trademarks or registered trademarks of Skyworks Solutions, Inc., or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. Third-party 
brands and names are for identification purposes only and are the property of their respective owners. Sustainability Report 2021
Back to Index
skyworksinc.com/sustainability              28  Skyworks Worldwide Locations
Connecting Everyone and Everything, All the Time.
USA: 949-231-3000    |    Asia: 886-2-2735 0399    |    Europe: 33 (0)1 43548540    |   1116 Rev 2Skyworks    |    Nasdaq: SWKS     |    skyworksinc.com     |    sales@skyworksinc.com
Copyright © 2022 Skyworks Solutions, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 