Sallie Mae | 1
Serving Students  
and Families  
Supporting Dreams, Building Prosperous Futures
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
MARCH 2020Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1
Sallie Mae | 3
Sallie Mae  
is committed  
to creating a  
better world.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1Dedicated to multiplying our  
impact and building a better world.
POSITIVE  
OUTCOMES
 • Improved health and  
well-being
 • Better data and  
information
 • A healthier  
environment 
 • Stronger  
institutions
 • A more just and  
equitable society
 • More resilient  
communitiesSTUDENTS  
AND FAMILIES
 • Ethical and  
affordable products
 • Exceptional  
customer servicePROFESSIONALS
 •Teachers
 •Engineers
 •Lawyers
 •Doctors
 •Scientists
 •Business leaders 
 •Innovators •HR
 •Audit
 •Compliance
 •Customer operations
 •The Sallie Mae Fund
 • Office of the customer  
advocate
 • Data privacy  
and security
 •LegalAbout this report
We are pleased to present the first Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Report for SLM Corporation (NASDAQ: SLM), more commonly 
known as Sallie Mae. 
Our organization is proud of the efforts 
and initiatives you will read about in this 
publication, and we are truly committed to 
effecting lasting and meaningful change.  
To us, social responsibility is foundational to 
who we are as a company, and what we care 
about as individuals.
This report focuses on the environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) factors relevant 
to our business and our communities, and 
it highlights our commitment to increased 
transparency. We are pleased to share with 
our customers, investors, employees, and 
our other audiences, the great work our 
employees do to strengthen the fabric of our 
society. Going forward, we plan to issue an 
updated CSR Report annually, further  
detailing how we are improving on our key  
CSR performance indicators and the ways 
in which we continue to help our customers 
empower their financial independence 
through education.
This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the principles and disclosures of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: 
Core Option, and covers topics for all entities 
included in our financial statements.  
The GRI Standards are the most widely used 
framework for sustainability reporting in the 
world. We also considered the recommended 
disclosures in the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Consumer Finance Standard when determining the contents 
of this report. SASB’s mission is to help 
businesses around the world identify, manage 
and report on the sustainability topics that 
matter most to their investors. The SASB and 
GRI disclosures included in our report are 
highlighted in the SASB Index  and  
GRI Content Index . The highlights and  
metrics shared in this report represent 
calendar year 2019, but when possible, we 
provide multi-year trend data. All financial 
information is presented in U.S. dollars.
If you have any feedback on this report  
or our CSR commitments and activities,  
we would love to hear it. Please email  
CSR@SallieMae.com  with comments  
or suggestions. 
For more about who we are and what we  
do, please visit us at  www.salliemae.com .
To view this report online, please visit  
www.salliemae.com/csr .Sallie Mae | 5
©2020 Sallie Mae Bank. All rights reserved. Sallie Mae and the Sallie Mae logo are registered service marks of  
Sallie Mae Bank. All other names and logos used are the trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.Sallie Mae | 7
MESSAGE FROM CEO  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
WHO WE ARE  ................................... 10
WHAT WE DO .................................... 12
AT A GLANCE  ................................... 14
WHY IT MATTERS .............................. 16
OUR APPROACH TO CSR  ................... 18
Identifying emerging CSR topics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Our CSR strategy pillars .................... 19
Sustainable development goals  .............. 20
SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS   .............. 23
Our approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Focus on customer centricity ................ 25
Customer satisfaction ...................... 28
Protecting the best interests of  
our customers ............................ 29
Safeguarding data and customer privacy ....... 33
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE  ............... 37
Our approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Inclusion and respect  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Ongoing growth and development  ........... 43
Promoting health and well-being  ............. 46
Giving and receiving feedback ............... 50
Empowering our employees ................. 51BUILDING STRONGER  
COMMUNITIES   ............................... 53
Our approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Community investment  .................... 55
Strengthening communities ................. 58
Employee volunteerism ..................... 62
Financial literacy tools and resources .......... 63
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT  ...... 67
Our approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Energy and emissions reduction .............. 68
Sustainable offices  ........................ 72
Waste minimization ........................ 73
GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS ............... 75
Corporate governance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Operating with integrity  .................... 77
CSR governance .......................... 81
Engaging with stakeholders  ................. 83
SASB INDEX  .................................... 84
GRI CONTENT INDEX  ....................... 86Table of contents
ABOUT1
CUSTOMERS2
COMMUNITY4EMPLOYEES3
ENVIRONMENT5
GOVERNANCE6
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1ABOUT1Sallie Mae | 9
 
Message from the CEO 
Sallie Mae | 9
While we are pleased by what we’ve been  
able to accomplish thus far, for us, it’s only  
the beginning. 
As our customers have taught us time and 
time again, with a powerful purpose, a clear 
vision, and a little support, you can literally 
change the world. And that is exactly what we 
intend to do. 
In the coming years, I look forward to sharing 
more of our journey with you. 
Raymond J. Quinlan  
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerAs our customers have 
taught us time and time 
again, with a powerful 
purpose, a clear vision, 
and a little support, you 
can literally change 
the world. And that is 
exactly what we intend 
to do.
Raymond J. Quinlan, Chairman  
and Chief Executive OfficerABOUT1
Welcome to the inaugural edition of the Sallie Mae Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) report. My hope is that by reading the 
information contained in this document, you will get a better sense 
of who we are as a company, what we believe in as a community, 
and how deeply we are committed to creating a better, more 
hospitable world.
At Sallie Mae, our mission is clear—to  
build prosperous futures by providing  
access, planning outcomes, and helping 
students and families responsibly fund 
their future. We believe that education is a 
transformative experience. The customers we 
support today are our nation’s future doctors 
and jurists, teachers and business leaders, 
engineers and entrepreneurs, and we have no 
doubt that these women and men will help 
solve society’s most vexing problems.  
We are honored to be a small part of their 
journey and we take that privilege and 
responsibility very seriously. 
This purpose, coupled with our core values, 
have informed and inspired our CSR strategy 
related to our customers, employees, 
communities, the environment, as well as 
governance and ethics. These pillars help 
guide our approach, affirm our commitment 
to transparency and responsible governance, 
and push us to be a better corporate citizen 
in all aspects of our business. We’ve aligned 
our CSR initiatives with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), 
particularly Goal #4: Quality Education, and 
will continue to look for ways to enhance our 
contribution to this and other global initiatives 
so that our work can have the greatest impact. 
As you will read in greater detail in the 
following pages, we’ve recently introduced 
new college planning tools and resources, 
launched nation-wide scholarship programs 
and financial literacy campaigns, and worked 
to improve both our customers’ and our 
employees’ experiences. It’s particularly 
gratifying that 91% of our customers complete 
their program of study, 91% are employed, 
and 98% are successfully repaying their Sallie 
Mae loans. We are also extremely proud 
of the acknowledgement we received in 
2019, including recognition from J.D. Power 
by providing “An Outstanding Customer 
Service Experience,” for phone support, an A+ 
rating from the Better Business Bureau, and 
designation by Forbes as one of America’s 
Best Midsize Employers.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1
Sallie Mae | 11
Who we are
At Sallie Mae we are all united by our purpose, values, 
and customer focus.
Our mission is to build prosperous futures by providing access, 
planning outcomes, and helping students and families responsibly 
fund their future. We believe education in all forms is the foundation 
for success, an equalizer of opportunities, and a proven pathway to 
economic mobility.
Every day we are motivated by the desire to 
help our customers. We help facilitate their 
journey in a responsible manner, and we take 
great pride in empowering our customers 
to achieve financial independence, either 
through utilizing our financial planning 
tools, accessing a scholarship through our 
comprehensive, nationwide database, or 
obtaining one of our loans. 
Their personal stories drive us to do better. 
To be better. To innovate and provide safe and 
trusted products. 
To provide a seamless and engaging  
customer experience. 
To ensure our employees are well equipped 
to understand what our customers need, and 
provide support throughout our customers’ 
journeys, especially when our customers  
face challenges. 
To continue looking for new ways to transform 
lives through education. We recognize that quality education is a 
critical success factor for enabling sustainable 
development. In addition to improving quality 
of life, access to education equips individuals 
with the power of knowledge and the tools 
required to develop innovative solutions to the 
world’s greatest challenges. 
We strive to do our part and be a leading 
corporate citizen in all aspects of our business, 
including how we serve our customers, how 
we develop and empower our employees, 
how we give back to the community, and how 
we care for the environment. 
We are here to make great things happen.
We are one Sallie Mae, 
united by our purpose. 
United by the power  
of education.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1
Sallie Mae | 13ABOUT1
ABOUT1
We are a financial institution with a purpose, serving as a 
leader in private student lending.
At Sallie Mae, we believe education and life-long learning, in 
all forms, helps people fulfill and achieve their aspirations and 
dreams. As a leader in private student lending, we are proud to 
equip aspiring minds with the resources, tools, and funding they 
need to build their prosperous futures and empower their financial 
independence. These people are more than just our customers, 
they are our future.
Our core products include:
 Student Loans  
We offer private student loans with 
competitive rates to help undergraduate  
and graduate students and their families 
bridge the gap between the cost of higher 
education and the amount funded through 
financial aid, federal loans, and student and 
family resources.  
College Planning
We provide a variety of tools, resources, and 
educational content like Scholarship Search 
and College Planning Calculator to help our 
customers responsibly plan, and pay for, their 
college educations.Credit Cards  
Co-created with our customers, we offer 
three unique and differentiated credit cards 
to help build good credit, reward financial 
responsibility, and encourage habits that lead 
to financial independence. 
 Savings  
We offer competitive products to help our 
customers grow their money—whether they’re 
just starting out their careers, or working 
toward their next financial goal.We are here to fuel people’s ambitions and empower them toward financial 
independence. We consider ourselves coaches, trusted advisors, and friends, 
and we are proud of the role we play in our customers’ success.
We take great pride in providing exceptional customer service at all phases 
in the customer journey, investing in training and technologies that help us 
deliver excellent customer service. In fact, in 2019 we were recognized by a 
global leader in consumer insights, advisory services, and data and analytics, 
J.D. Power, by providing “An Outstanding Customer Service Experience” for 
phone support.
You can learn more about our approach to assisting students and  
families borrowing and repaying private education loans, as well as our  
financial performance, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the  
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In September 2019, 
Sallie Mae was recognized by J.D. Power* by 
providing “An Outstanding Customer Service 
Experience” for phone support, highlighting our 
genuine commitment to putting our customers first.What we do
* J.D. Power 2019 Certified Customer Service Program recognition is based on 
successful completion of an evaluation and exceeding a customer satisfaction 
benchmark through a survey of recent servicing interactions. For more information, 
visit www.jdpower.com/ccc  .Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT12005
We created  
Sallie Mae Bank  
to fund and originate  
private education loans.
2014
We spun off and 
separated from  
Navient, the loan 
servicing business, 
to better serve our customers as a 
consumer banking business.
2019
We are constantly 
adapting 
to create innovative, new products  
to support customers in achieving 
their dreams.455,000
students and families 
supported in financing their 
college and graduate studies.$5.6 billion 
authorized in Private  
Education Loans.
$403,000 
granted to students facing hardships through  
scholarships, contests, and sweepstakes.98%Achieved a 98% customer  
loan repayment rate.In 2019 alone, we provided the following value  
for our customers:Our history…
Sallie Mae at a glance
$1.30  
GAAP Diluted Earnings per  
Common Share
$1,035,513
Total charitable contributions
(Includes The Sallie Mae Fund, CRA, All Scholarships, and 
Employee Giving)1,900  
Employees
 6 
Locations
 In 2019, we generated the  
following economic value for  
our employees, shareholders,  
and local communities:
$ 561 million
GAAP Net Income Attributable 
to Common StockSallie Mae | 15Sallie Mae | 17
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1
ABOUT1
Why it matters
Our customers are our 
motivation. They are the reason 
we come to work each day. 
Their personal stories drive us 
to be better.
Being awarded the Bridging 
the Dream Scholarship was 
life-changing. Not only did 
it provide much-needed 
financial relief, it enriched  
my confidence as a 
law student. And most 
importantly, made me 
believe that achievements 
like this are possible. 
 
Noor, Studying Law, current  
Editor in Chief of California Law  
Review at University of California – 
Berkeley School of LawI always knew I wanted to be a doctor.  
At ten years old, I missed two months of 
sixth grade to undergo cancer treatments. 
My oncologist encouraged me to share 
my experience with other kids, and for me 
that translated to a career in medicine. 
Going to college was my opportunity to 
pursue this goal. My pre-med classes were 
not simple, but they challenged me to 
remain motivated toward medical school. 
Having earned my MD and completed 
residency, I am now in fellowship in 
oncology- my dreams realized. Education 
has been a long journey, and what I have 
learned along the way continues to inspire 
me and empowers me to bring the best 
possible care to my patients.Julia, Studied Medicine and completed a 
fellowship in hematology and oncology at the 
Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital
An unknown author penned a famous 
quote which states, ‘A comfort zone is a 
beautiful place, but nothing ever grows 
there.’ My objective in life has always been 
to exceed my personal best. Emigrating 
as a teenager from Nigeria to the United 
States challenged me in so many ways. 
Adjusting to a culture different from my 
own allowed me to start thinking about 
success. Sallie Mae helped make that 
happen by allowing me to be the first 
college graduate in my family and the first 
to pursue a Master’s degree. I am proud of 
my personal and professional successes 
thus far, all of which I owe to Sallie Mae.Cynthia, Completed her MBA at  
Cambridge College, with a focus on health 
care management
It helped teach me responsibility and 
how to take positive control of my life. 
The degree I received allowed me to 
accomplish one of my life long goals of 
becoming an officer in the Army National 
Guard where I am able to give back to 
both my community and the soldiers that 
serve. It also allowed me to continue my 
education in law school. I am able to do 
even more for the soldiers I serve with 
and my community as a whole as a Judge 
Advocate and Civilian Attorney. I know 
that none of the things I have managed to 
accomplish would be possible had I not 
been able to go to college. Haley, Obtained his juris doctorate from 
University of Mississippi School of Law
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Sallie Mae | 19
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1
Our approach to CSR 
Identifying emerging CSR topics
In 2019, we evaluated a full range of CSR topics, including the 
environmental, social, and governance issues that are most critical 
to our business and to the communities in which we live, work, and 
raise our families. To identify CSR topics that are potentially relevant 
and material to our company, we reviewed industry standards, 
gathered feedback from key stakeholders, examined inputs 
from our employees, and utilized competitor and peer reporting. 
We assessed the importance of each CSR topic in two ways: (i) 
whether it impacts our business in terms of growth, cost, risk, or 
trust; and (ii) whether it significantly influences the assessments 
and decisions of our key stakeholders.Our CSR strategy pillars
Prioritizing our CSR topics helped us refine our strategy, 
allocate resources, and communicate more effectively with 
key stakeholders. Our CSR strategy is comprised of five pillars. 
Our commitments and activities in each area are stated below 
and discussed more thoroughly throughout this report. 
We are committed to continuously evaluating and updating our policies and practices, 
recognizing that stakeholder perceptions and expectations are constantly changing, as 
is the business environment in which we operate. Increasingly, the investor community 
is using sustainability performance as a barometer for sound governance and business 
performance. Our current priorities are to track emerging issues and their potential impact 
on our business, enhance overall data collection, and consistently report on our CSR 
performance. We are also committed to identifying opportunities to more closely align our 
actions with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.Customers •Fair and Responsible Lending
 •Data Security and Privacy
Employees •Attracting and Retaining Talent
 • Providing Training and Development 
Opportunities
 •Fostering a Diverse and Inclusive Workplace
 •Ensuring a Safe and Healthy Workplace
Communities •Engagement and Investment
 •Empowering Underserved Populations
Environment  •Energy and Emissions
Governance  
and Ethics •Business Integrity 
 •Regulatory Compliance
 •Risk AssessmentSallie Mae | 21
ABOUT1
Our support of organizations that help strengthen and assist the  
needs of our hometown communities, such as our partnership with the  
Year Up Internship Program , a platform designed to help young adults  
gain the skills and experience necessary to excel in professional and  
technical careers.Sustainable development goals
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs)  
are a globally recognized framework for advancing sustainability 
in the public and private sectors. Many different stakeholders, 
including countries, communities, businesses, and organizations, 
are committed to tackling the economic, environmental, and social 
challenges we face.
After some initial analysis of the UNSDGs, it was clear that United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goal #4 – Quality Education , represented a strong link to the core purpose 
of our business, and should be of critical focus for us. Goal #4 requires collaboration among 
governments, corporations, non-governmental organizations, and academic institutions to 
achieve inclusive and quality education for all, whether for a degree program, continuing 
education, or certificate training.
We recognize that much more can be done to eliminate gender and wealth  
disparities that will enable universal access to a quality higher education. We will  
continue to assess the specific targets under Goal #4, and to identify ways to foster  
stronger alignment and collaboration with key stakeholders. We are also committed to 
conducting a deeper assessment of the other UNSDGs this year to better understand  
their potential relevance for us, and the interrelationships and dependencies with  
education that we could work to strengthen.
Ensure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities  
for all
Sallie Mae initiatives that support United Nations Sustainable  
Development Goal #4 include:
Our private education loans 
for undergraduates, graduate 
students, parents, career  
training, and certificate programs. Our Bridging the Dream  
and Utah scholarships and 
grants programs , for students 
whose financial circumstances 
may not allow them to pursue 
their higher education dreams.
The Sallie Mae Fund , an employee-
directed charitable giving fund 
that supports numerous non-profit 
initiatives, including removing 
barriers to quality education.Our financial literacy tools and 
resources , including the Sallie 
Mae College Planning Calculator 
and the Sallie Mae Scholarship 
Search, to help individuals 
manage their financial resources 
effectively for the long-term.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Sallie Mae | 23
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1
We empower financial 
independence.
Our approach 
As a leader in private student lending, we provide 
tools, resources, and financing to help produce 
the next generation of engineers, nurses, teachers, 
entrepreneurs, thought leaders, and more. Since 
establishing ourselves as a stand-alone consumer 
banking business in 2014, we have helped more than 
1.2 million families pay for postsecondary education—
more than any other private student lender in the U.S.! 
We have always put the success of our customers first, and we are 
continuously honing our customer centric focus. To that end, we work hard 
to understand the unique financial needs of our students and their families, 
and we aim to provide the best individual experience for each customer. We 
are committed to meeting our customers where they are in their personal 
journeys, and we will be flexible, adjusting and growing with them as their 
needs change. 
With this in mind, we focused on the following initiatives in 2019:
 • Developing a more integrated approach to customer centricity that connects 
all our business functions through the implementation of a focused 
Customer Experience strategy; 
 • Continuing to track customer satisfaction and giving a voice to our customers 
to ensure that we are hitting the mark;
 • Protecting the best interests of our customers through fair and responsible 
lending practices; and
 •Safeguarding customer data through enhanced monitoring and technology.
In 2019, we were recognized by the independent and highly-respected 
consumer advocacy group, J.D. Power, by providing “An Outstanding 
Customer Service Experience” for phone support. Becoming a J.D. Power 
Certified Customer Service Program exemplifies our commitment to providing 
excellent customer service and an exceptional customer experience—a 
commitment from our CEO to our front-line employees. This recognition has 
helped, and will continue to help us, shape and reinforce a high-performing,  
customer-first culture.CUSTOMERS2 Serving our customers
Outstanding  
customer service
We are pleased to announce that  
Sallie Mae has been recognized by  
J.D. Power, by providing “An 
Outstanding Customer Service 
Experience” for phone support.
Damian,  
Studying political science  
and philosophy
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Sallie Mae | 25
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020ABOUT1COMMUNITY2
CUSTOMERS2
Sallie Mae loans promote responsible borrowing and 
incentivize customers to make smart choices that help 
them graduate with less debt. We strongly believe this 
underlying philosophy supports our customers’ success, 
but the proof is in the statistics: 
91%of students with Sallie Mae loans 
complete their education.*
98%are successfully repaying 
their student loans.
91%of those who graduate  
are employed.**
88%say their work gives them a feeling 
of personal accomplishment.**
86%feel their college education 
provided opportunities they 
wouldn’t otherwise have.**
* Sallie Mae sponsored research from December 2018 among borrowers under age 35 in repayment who borrowed for an undergraduate program.
** Sallie Mae sponsored research from March 2019 among borrowers under age 35 in repayment who borrowed for an undergraduate program and 
have earned at least a bachelor’s degree.Focus on customer centricity
Customer centricity drives our people, processes, and 
technology to foster an optimal customer experience 
at every stage of the customer’s journey. 
Whether communicating approved loans or credit, answering students’ or 
their families’ questions, or discussing payment arrangements, we value 
every opportunity to connect with our customers. Delivering an exceptional 
customer experience is at the heart of our customer centric focus.
Our customers are at the center of 
everything we do here at Sallie Mae. 
When they are successful, we are 
successful. Our role is to provide 
them with the tools, resources and 
sometimes, even advice, that will 
support them on their journey. We 
are in their corner and 100 percent 
committed to their success.Antoine Oakley, Director,  
Corporate Social Responsibility
It’s an exciting transformation! 
We are committed to creating a 
customer obsessed company. 
Everyone at Sallie Mae is 
challenged to put the customer 
first in an effort to enhance every 
stage of the customer journey.Faizal Chaudhury, Vice President,  
Customer CentricityTechnologyProcessPeople
When I first walked into Sallie 
Mae, I noticed the customers on 
the wall. We always talk about our 
customers’ experience; beyond 
that when our employees are taken 
care of, the customers benefit even 
more. Through my work, I enhance 
the experience for the agent and 
that produces a better end result 
for the customer.Cinitae Savage, Year Up Alumna and 
Continuous Improvement Analyst
What customer centricity means to us
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Supporting our  
customers’ success CUSTOMERS2Sallie Mae | 27
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Our enhanced Customer Experience (CX) strategy complements our Three Horizon 
Business Strategy  and consists of the following key areas: Customer Insights & Experience 
Design, Measurement, and Outreach. Each area has a roadmap and set of activities that help 
us build a relationship with our customers and deliver greater value over time.
Some of our greatest achievements this year include:
Technology
 • Employed WalkMe software , an 
automated guide with interactive 
intelligence that helps our call 
agents address customer concerns 
and needs more effectively and 
efficiently on each call. This 
program allows our customer care 
agents to answer questions faster 
and more accurately, which in turn 
enhances customer satisfaction.
 • Transitioned our infrastructure 
entirely to the cloud, which  
has internal benefits for Sallie  
Mae (e.g., scalability, access to 
robust compliance monitoring 
tools and reporting) as well as 
benefits for our customers (e.g., 
less down time and faster reactions 
to customers when there are 
system glitches).
 • Enhanced the digital experience 
through improvements to  
our app, including new and 
improved product support,  
in-app messaging, and 
improvements to biometric 
authentication. Customers can 
now service their loans on the 
mobile app, including viewing 
balances, making payments, and 
receiving notifications. In addition, 
customers now have secure “text 
messaging” to communicate 
directly to customer care agents. 
Customers can also login through 
advanced and more secure facial 
recognition technology.Process
 • Engaged the entire enterprise  
on CX: formed connections  
with the business development 
team  as they were designing  
a new suite of credit card  
products, and deepened 
collaboration with our Human 
Resources (HR) Department , 
recognizing the links between 
engaged and satisfied employees 
and satisfied customers. 
 • Launched several pilot projects 
to test new CX interfaces and 
channels to engage customers and 
solicit their feedback. In the first 
six months when our new Chatbot 
app went live on our website, 
customers rated their experience 
very highly.People
 • Invested in a comprehensive roll-
out of our refreshed company 
brand, purpose, values, and 
customer centricity initiatives , 
uniting us as an organization and 
supporting our customer focus.
 • Obtained regular feedback from 
employees on how engaged  
and satisfied they are through  
new Voice of Employee 
survey initiative . 
 • Rolled out the employee journey 
mapping exercise and solicited 
feedback from employees on 
their personal journeys at Sallie 
Mae, for example, as a new hire, or 
as a new manager. 
 • Launched Employee  
Engagement Manager  for our 
customer care agents to simplify 
and enhance their ability to  
change their schedules.Our DNA consists of three core components:
84%
of our employees would 
recommend Sallie Mae  
as a great place to work.
 
Our purpose
We equip aspiring minds to create 
the lives they imagine. It’s the work 
we do every day, inspiring us and 
rallying us together.Our values
We aspire to connect, thrive, do right, 
dare to do, and make a di/uniFB00erence in the 
way we interact with our customers, 
colleagues and communities. 
Our customers
We put customers at the center of everything 
we do, working to make their experiences 
e/uniFB00ortless, seamless, and exceptional.
One Sallie Mae
We are all united by our 
purpose, values, and 
customer focus. It’s in our 
DNA as members of the 
Sallie Mae team .Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
CUSTOMERS2Sallie Mae | 29
Customer satisfaction
Knowing that we did a great job supporting a 
customer in his or her personal journey is our 
primary motivation. We have a robust system for 
collecting and managing customer feedback, and 
we diligently track customer satisfaction metrics. 
This helps us manage the changing expectations and growing needs of our 
customers and adjust when we need to. We are proud of the work we’ve 
done, but we know we can always do better. We are committed to continually 
assessing and revamping our current metrics to ensure a more holistic view 
of customer feedback, and will continue to deploy and utilize technology 
enhancements to achieve these goals.
Other awards include:
Protecting the best interests of  
our customers
Fair and responsible lending 
OUR APPROACH
As the leading provider of private student loans, we make fair and responsible 
lending a core tenet of our business practices. We are firmly committed to 
making credit products available to consumers on a fair, consistent, and 
responsible basis. We comply with all relevant fair lending laws and do not 
discriminate against applicants regarding any aspect of a credit transaction 
on a prohibited basis. Our commitment to fair lending is not only a basic 
responsibility for all employees, but also good business. Our Fair Lending 
Program provides supporting guidance and sets expectations on the 
controls, standards, and practices outlined in our Fair Lending Policy.Sallie Mae Bank 
The retail banking arm of Sallie Mae, 
the nation’s saving, planning, and 
paying for college company—was 
named the bank with the Best Savings 
Account from 2016 – 2019 and one of 
the 10 Best Online Banks of 2019,  
four of the last five years, by  
GOBankingRates.com, a leading  
site for personal finance and consumer 
banking information. The Bank was 
also awarded an A+ rating from the 
Better Business Bureau in 2019.
OUR VALUES
We help make great things happen in an ethical and responsible manner. 
Providing loans and credit responsibly also means we do not overburden 
our customers with loans that surpass their ability to repay. While each 
family’s strategy to plan and pay for college is different, we recommend 
families follow a 1-2-3 approach to financing their education: 
1.  Start with money you won’t have to pay back.  
Supplement college savings and income by maximizing scholarships, 
grants, and work study. Our Scholarship Search  database is free and 
home to more than 5 million scholarships collectively worth over  
$25 billion. 
2.  Explore federal student loans.   
Apply by completing the Free Application for Federal Student  
Aid (FAFSA). 
3.  Consider a responsible private student loan.   
Fill the gap between available resources and the cost of college.  
We offer competitively-priced private student loans for 
undergraduates and parents, as well as a full suite of financing  
options for graduate students.
Our responsible lending philosophy also encourages students and their 
families to evaluate all anticipated monthly loan payments, and how much 
the student expects to earn in the future, before considering a private 
student loan.
In addition, we have several options to reduce loan costs, including the 
option to make low in-school payments and discounts for automated 
payments. And we never charge penalties or fees for prepayment.
We adjust the terms of loans for certain borrowers when we believe such 
changes will help our customers manage their student loan obligations, 
achieve better student outcomes, and increase the collectability of the 
loan. These changes generally take the form of a temporary forbearance 
of payments, a temporary interest rate reduction, a temporary interest rate 
reduction with a permanent extension of the loan term, and/or a short-term 
extended repayment alternative. Forbearance is granted prospectively 
for borrowers who are current in their payments and may be granted 
retroactively for certain delinquent borrowers.
CUSTOMERS2Sallie Mae | 31
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
FRAUD PREVENTION
Fraud detection and prevention plays an important role in our responsible 
lending practices. We are committed to safeguarding our customers’ personal 
information and protecting their accounts from fraudulent activity. Our website provides consumers with 
tips on how to avoid online fraud, as 
well as how to spot student loan debt 
relief scams.FINANCIAL LITERACY PROGRAMS
We understand that for many of our 
customers, their relationship with us is 
their first major financial experience. 
And we take that privilege and 
responsibility seriously. That’s why we 
embed tools and product features 
that promote financial literacy into 
their experience, to help guide them 
to financial responsibility, stability, 
and success. Over the course of our 
relationship, we are gratified to see our 
customers develop valuable, lifelong 
financial skills that ultimately help them 
transition to financial independence. 
We know that ensuring better 
foundations at the start of our 
customers’ journey greatly improves 
their chances of future success. 
That’s why we place a high priority on 
providing financial literacy tools to  
help families—even if they aren’t  
our customers—make responsible,  
well informed decisions about how they 
pay for higher education. 
These tools and resources include:
 • Our College Planning Calculator , 
which helps families set college 
savings goals, project the full  
costs of a college degree, and 
estimate future student loan 
payments, as well as the annual 
starting salary level needed to keep 
payments manageable.
 • Scholarship Search , our free online 
scholarship database, is home to more than 5 million scholarships, 
collectively worth over $25 billion.
 • In 2019, we launched a free Paying 
for College Resource  with tutorials, 
frequently asked questions, 
and worksheets for high school 
counselors and families to stream, 
download, and share. States like 
California, North Carolina, and South 
Carolina have found the information 
so helpful that they have made it 
accessible on their websites. 
 • For more than a decade, we have 
created and published leading 
research reports  that provide insight 
into How America Saves for College, 
How America Pays for College, How 
America Pays for Graduate School, 
and How Young Adults Manage Their 
Finances. This research is regularly 
featured in the national media, 
requested by regulators and think 
tanks, and used by higher education 
institutions and policymakers to 
monitor trends and make informed 
decisions for students and families. 
 • Since 2016, we have partnered 
with hip-hop recording artist, 
motivational speaker, and former 
middle-school teacher, Dee-1 , 
to educate high school students 
about planning for college and 
financial literacy. This award-winning, 
nationwide tour has reached more 
than 22,000 high school students 
across the U.S.
For academic year 2018 – 2019, 
more than 20,000 students reported 
receiving at least one scholarship via 
our database, covering more than  
$61 million in college costs.
Dee-1 and Sallie Mae
Together, Dee-1 and Sallie Mae 
have visited high schools and youth 
groups across the country, awarding 
$190,000 in scholarships and student 
loan payments.
Our shared goal is simple: to help high school students understand that college 
is possible, and to give them the tools, resources, and motivation to make college 
happen, and let them know that resources are out there to help—they just need to 
know where to look. 
 
Dee-1, Hip-hop artistPattern recognition  
programs and systemsWeb access security  
features, including  
multi-factor authentication 
Automated customer 
verification and fraud 
detection software
Segregating duties, 
transaction limits, restricted 
access to data systems, 
and dual controlsTraining employees in 
fraud prevention and 
detection practices, and 
ensuring managers of risk 
are independent from the 
functions they monitor
Utilizing several lines of 
defense, including, but not 
limited to, comprehensive 
and independent internal 
audits that evaluate 
compliance with our policiesSome of the tools we use to identify and  
prevent fraud include:Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
CUSTOMERS2Sallie Mae | 33
PROGRAMS THAT SUPPORT DISADVANTAGED, LOW-INCOME,  
AND UNDER-SERVED POPULATIONS
Consistent with our purpose to help aspiring students realize their dreams,  
we are committed to helping those who have experienced financial hardship or 
other challenging circumstances through our scholarship programs. 
 • Our Bridging the Dream Scholarship Program  recognizes students  
who have excelled both inside and outside of the classroom, but whose 
financial circumstances or other obstacles in life may prevent them 
from pursuing a college education. Over the past three years, Sallie Mae 
has awarded nearly $700,000 in Bridging the Dream scholarships to 
undergraduate and graduate students.
 • Through the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) in Utah, Sallie Mae Bank 
has an annual goal of providing $250,000 in scholarships to students 
from low-to-medium income families . In 2019, the Bank met, and exceeded 
its goal, in scholarships and grants to qualified community development 
organizations within its assessment area.
Learn more about these scholarship programs and our other community 
investments in the Community section of our report.Bridging the Dream 
Scholarship Program 
Nine students benefitted from 
$25,000 scholarships through our 
Bridging the Dream Scholarship 
Program in 2019.Safeguarding data and customer privacy 
Our approach 
Sallie Mae takes consumer and customer data privacy and security very seriously. 
We respect their privacy and safeguard their information using industry best 
practices. This commitment is engrained in our culture and enables us to build 
trust with our customers and regulators. 
Our attention to data security and privacy starts with policies and procedures 
governing enterprise-wide information security and privacy controls and 
practices. These policies are approved by the Risk and/or Compliance 
Committees of our Board of Directors. 
In addition, Sallie Mae has a comprehensive suite of privacy disclosures, available 
on Salliemae.com. The disclosures include:
 • The Privacy Notice provided to all customers at time of application and annually 
thereafter. This notice describes Sallie Mae’s privacy principles and practices 
regarding our relationship with our customers and how we collect and share 
their information with our affiliates and outside companies.
 • The Online Privacy Policy describing Sallie Mae’s practices concerning the 
collection and use of information gathered from or about our online visitors and 
registered users.
 • The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) addendum applying to California 
residents and supplements our Online Privacy Policy. This addendum describes 
our privacy principles and practices and provides instructions on how to 
exercise their rights under the CCPA.
Sallie Mae falls under state and federal regulatory oversight and examination 
(generally the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau, and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions). In addition, 
information security and privacy undergo regular audits from our independent 
internal auditors. These examinations and audits ensure our compliance with 
certain standards and legal compliance. We are active in several industry 
associations such as the American Bankers Association, International Association 
of Privacy Professionals, and the Financial Services Information Sharing and 
Analysis Center.
The Privacy Officer oversees the implementation and effectiveness of the 
privacy program throughout all business units and processes. This ensures that 
there is regular testing and monitoring allowing for the early capture of potential 
issues. As laws come into effect or change, the Privacy Officer is closely aligned 
with the legal department to ensure that senior management is informed,  
and the affected business units are engaged to ensure their systems are updated, 
their employees are educated, and their practices are in line with the applicable 
laws. Employees and authorized service providers are granted system and 
personal information access only when necessary to perform their functions. CUSTOMERS2Sallie Mae | 35
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Our third-party management office and risk partner teams ensure that service providers 
security and privacy controls are thoroughly reviewed and monitored prior to and during the 
engagement. Due to our strong privacy culture, we have not experienced any significant or 
material breaches or loss of customer information in 2019.
All policies and procedures are reviewed at least annually to ensure they include appropriate 
legal and regulatory updates. 
Our Chief Security Officer and the Corporate Security Group establish and monitor 
the relevant and necessary standards, protocols, and management processes for 
information and cybersecurity.  We have developed comprehensive data privacy and 
security-related internal policies and procedures which dictate requirements and controls 
that protect customer and company information. These include, but are not limited to, the 
Corporate Information Security Program, Customer Information Safeguarding Program, 
Information Security Policy, and Privacy Policy and Procedures.
Our policies and procedures are examined regularly by internal and external auditors, bank 
regulators, and third-party consultants. In addition, our vendors, contractors, and consultants 
are subject to security and privacy policies and contract provisions as appropriate for the 
services or products being provided. 
Our comprehensive privacy policy is publicly available on our website. It sets forth the data 
privacy practices related to the collection, use, and sharing of customer information across 
Sallie Mae products and business lines.  Employee training
We regularly train and continually assess our workforce on the importance 
of data privacy and security, including regular training to help mitigate the 
threats posed by phishing emails and other forms of social engineering, and 
how to report data privacy events or other suspicious activity. We enhance this 
security awareness employee training annually to ensure it covers current and 
evolving threats, and applies best practices to keep our customer, employee, and 
company data safe.  
Incident response program
Our comprehensive Cybersecurity Incident Response Program is constantly 
evolving and sets forth detailed enterprise-wide policies and procedures for 
responding to a cybersecurity event. The Program procedures are tested  
through semi-annual cybersecurity incident response exercises , led by 
independent third-party experts. These exercises are designed to resemble 
real life situations. They challenge us to both test and rehearse our response 
and decision-making protocols, and participation by key executives and senior 
management is mandated.Sallie Mae | 37
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
EMPLOYEES3
Our approach 
Our employees are the backbone of our business.
We are committed to creating a culture where 
they feel appreciated, engaged, and inspired to 
make a difference. Just as we are here to help our 
customers build their own prosperous futures, we 
strive to help our employees do the same. 
We know that engaged employees seek out a strong, purpose-driven  
work culture, and we have adopted our strategies to keep pace with  
these expectations and support the development of our teammates.  
Our employees spend a good part of their day at work, and our goal is  
to make their time at Sallie Mae as meaningful, enjoyable, and rewarding  
as possible. We are focused on continually improving our approach, 
including developing policies, practices, and metrics that help us measure 
progress and enhance employee engagement. We are working hard to 
create a culture that is inclusive and respectful; fosters ongoing growth  
and development; promotes health and well-being; values giving and 
receiving feedback; and empowers individuals.Investing in our people
Daniel Matera, Sr. Manager, Credit  
Bureau Disputes and Reporting Analytics
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020My education gave me a broader perspective 
and opened up my thinking into different 
areas of business, more specifically, how 
individuals and departments can more 
fluidly interact to better serve the customer. 
I often ask myself: if I was in that customer’s 
position, what would I want to happen? And 
then I work with my colleagues to get it done!EMPLOYEES3Sallie Mae | 39
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
United by our purpose, values, and customer focus
In 2019, we undertook a robust and inclusive employee engagement exercise to refresh our 
core values. It is important to us that our values align with, and support, our purpose. Through 
this refresh exercise, it became apparent that Sallie Mae employees are united by a common 
set of principles and values.
OUR CORE VALUES Throughout this process, we also learned that many of our employees have 
personal stories about how education helped them achieve professional 
success  and discover what they were passionate about in life. Hearing these 
stories helps to connect us with the reason we do what we do and helps bring 
our purpose to life.
Connect.We believe a diverse and inclusive team that 
unites through shared goals drives the greatest 
outcome. We connect by listening, being kind, 
caring, and accepting in all our relationships.
Thrive.We believe in personal and professional  
growth and fulfillment. We thrive when we 
balance our physical, emotional, professional, 
and financial well-being. When we thrive, so do 
those around us.
Do right.We believe that the time is always right to do the 
right thing. We are empowered to do right by 
being bold, acting selflessly, and making tough 
decisions. Courage required.
Dare to do.We believe that making great things happen 
requires thinking and doing differently. We dare to 
do by being curious, embracing diverse thought, 
challenging assumptions, doing cool stuff, and 
growing from our experiences.
Make a 
difference.We believe that every moment is an opportunity 
to make a difference—one person or experience 
at a time. We amaze, surprise, and delight our 
teams, our customers, and our community.An MBA degree always felt out of 
my reach until I started seeing these 
words on our office wall. The picture 
ignited a desire and helped me 
persevere through several months of 
strenuous study. I ultimately scored in 
the 96th percentile on the GMAT and 
got admitted with scholarship into the 
#1 business school in Indiana.
I never thought a picture in the office 
hallway could change my life.
Vijay Srinivasan, Sr. Architect,  
Technical Capability and Architecture
Our annual employee engagement survey
89%of our employees  
believe our company has 
a clear strategy with a 
common mission.84%of our employees would recommend 
Sallie Mae as a great place to work.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
EMPLOYEES3Sallie Mae | 41
Total workforce
Gender
AgeGeographic  
DistributionEthnicity
65 Virginia
498 Indiana 
1,076 Delaware
78 Massachusetts
50 Utah
134 Remote O/f_f.shortice 416 in Christiana and
660 in Newark 05001,0001,5002,000
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191,0011,1501,2881,5111,7761,901
54% Women
46% MenVPs and Up
31% Women
69% Men
Managers
51% Women
49% Men
Hourly Employees
68% Women
32% MenSenior Level
39% Women
61% Men59% Non-minority
41% Minority
VPs and Up
84% Non-minority
16% Minority
Managers
66% Non-minority
34% Minority
Hourly Employees
37% Non-minority
63% MinoritySenior Level
84% Non-minority
16% Minority
48% Millennials
36% Generation X
13% Baby Boomers
3% Generation Z
For the 2nd consecutive year, Forbes awarded 
Sallie Mae the designation of one of America’s 
Best Midsize Employers in 2019, and ranked us in 
the top 10 for banking and financial services. 05001,0001,5002,000
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191,0011,1501,2881,5111,7761,901
54% Women
46% MenVPs and Up
31% Women
69% Men
Managers
51% Women
49% Men
Hourly Employees
68% Women
32% MenSenior Level
39% Women
61% Men
Our workforce
This snapshot shows how we have grown since 2014 in total  
number of employees, and provides a breakdown of the make up of  
our workforce in 2019.Sallie Mae | 43
EMPLOYEES3
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020A culture of inclusion and respect
We are committed to creating an inclusive, diverse working 
environment by embracing different skills, backgrounds, 
and perspectives. We recognize that to build a strong, 
successful Sallie Mae, we need to attract, engage, and 
include the best talent regardless of ethnicity, gender 
identity, or background. Our  foundational value of 
Connecting  can best be realized through uniting diverse 
and inclusive teams, teams that are representative of the 
customers we serve.
Our commitment to a culture of inclusion and respect translates in multiple ways and 
with varied communities. But, we can always do more. We are proud, for example, 
to have reinforced our commitment to support those who identify as LGBTQ+ by 
participating in the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index. By doing so, 
we hope to encourage those in our midst and beyond to treat this community, among 
others, with the respect, value, and dignity they deserve. 
We provide equal employment opportunity for all employees and job applicants, 
regardless of their race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, national 
origin, marital status, citizenship status, protected veteran status, genetic information, 
gender identity, or any other basis protected by applicable law. Our work focuses on 
ensuring all in our midst are treated with fairness, equality, and value.A culture of ongoing growth  
and development
We believe that our ongoing success at fueling our 
customers’ ambitions directly relates to our ability to 
help our employees realize fulfilling and rewarding 
careers at Sallie Mae. We place a high priority 
on providing access to growth opportunities for 
everyone, regardless of their title, and on developing 
and promoting emerging leaders from within. We do 
this by empowering employees to take control of their 
careers, and set out clear plans for achieving their 
personal and employment goals.
Individual development planning for all
Beginning in 2019, our employees worked closely with their managers to 
develop a personal career map , essentially a personal pathway toward 
achieving their long-term professional goals. This development process is 
based on a core competency model we rolled out in 2018 that aligns with, 
and supports, our core values. The core values have been translated into a 
set of attributes and behaviors that are closely linked to successful growth at 
Sallie Mae. This core competency model acts as our guide for developing our 
people and finding and attracting new talent, and focuses on the values most 
important to our organization, such as accountability, leadership, collaboration, 
innovation, and courage.
Internal mobility
In 2019, we provided several new avenues for our employees to explore career 
opportunities at Sallie Mae. First, as a result of an idea generated through our 
Leadership Development Cohort, we launched a Task Force Program. This 
program creates opportunities for employees to develop skills and broaden 
their experience by working in other areas of the business during periods 
where those areas require short-term resources for special projects, leaves of 
absence or other critical business initiatives. To date, 18 task force positions 
have been created and we received over 100 internal applicants across 
the company for these positions.
Second, we engaged cross-functional leaders in the creation of an internal 
career fair. This gave employees access to senior leaders to learn about 
opportunities across the company, better understand what additional skills 
or experience is needed for different positions, and learn more about our 
e-Learning platform, Sallie Mae YOUniversity.50%
internal hire rate in 2019.
We make an effort to fill positions 
internally, where possible.EMPLOYEES3Sallie Mae | 45
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
e-Learning platform
Sallie Mae YOUniversity was launched in 2018. Through this platform, 
employees complete a self-assessment against our competency 
model, develop an outline for their personal development journey, and 
are encouraged to take courses that foster personal growth in their 
developmental need areas. This platform offers over 3,000 courses on both 
technical and soft skills for our employees.
Cultivating emerging leaders
Through the performance review and development planning process, 
emerging leaders have been identified and invited to participate in  
targeted leadership training.  Our MAPS Program (Manage, Apply, 
Practice, and Succeed) is designed to identify, and cultivate, our 
future leaders  from existing employees of Sallie Mae. Now in its third 
year and seventh cohort, the MAPS Program brings together mid and 
senior-level managers to enhance their leadership skills and build their 
project management capabilities through group projects and collaborative 
exercises. Our Leadership Development Program: Inspirational 
Leadership  is designed to build on our leadership competencies and 
provide an opportunity to bring about new solutions through our business 
challenge. This program is offered to mid to senior-level leaders that have 
the potential to assume broader roles in the future.
Building our talent pipeline
In a competitive job market, it is critical that we not only develop our 
existing employees, but are strategic and intentional about building our 
talent pipeline. In addition to ongoing recruiting efforts at local colleges and 
universities, we have targeted internship programs that ensure we attract 
the very best and brightest to our team.
YEAR UP INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
We are a proud supporter and corporate partner of Year Up Wilmington, 
a national program designed to help young adults gain the skills and 
experience necessary to excel in professional and technical careers. In 2019, 
we donated $150,000 to the organization, and in the past two years, we’ve 
provided six-month internships for five individuals in our technology, human 
resources, and customer service teams. At the close of the 2018 – 2019 
internship session, we were pleased to offer three outstanding interns  
full-time positions. Our own Bonnie Rumbold receives 2019 Corporate Champion Award 
for Year Up Wilmington.  
In recognition of her commitment to Year Up, Bonnie Rumbold,  
our Chief Human Resources Officer, was honored with their Corporate 
Champion Award on July 30th, 2019. The annual award recognizes  
individuals and organizations dedicated to ensuring more motivated young 
adults in Wilmington and beyond gain the requisite skills, education, and 
experience to launch successful careers. 
I was honored and humbled by the recognition 
from Year Up Wilmington, and I am in awe of  
the difference they make in the lives of young 
adults. We are so fortunate to have these  
talented students as members of the Sallie Mae 
community and workforce. 
Bonnie Rumbold,  
Chief Human Resources OfficerMary Kate Mieczkowski,  
Employee Experience & Engagement ManagerEmployee journey mapping is crucial in 
identifying and understanding key pain 
points and areas of opportunity that need 
improvement. My team is striving to improve 
every touch point of the employee’s experience. 
As we move towards a more customer centric 
environment, we also need to ensure our 
processes and technology support the success 
of our own people. Employee journey mapping 
helps us make this happen.
EMPLOYEES3
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Sallie Mae | 47
A culture that promotes health and well-being
We believe there is a strong connection between 
employee health and well-being and our ability to do 
great work. We provide a comprehensive suite of health 
and wellness benefits to help our employees lead 
healthier and happier lives, which is aligned with our 
core value of Thriving .
Progressive wellness benefits
We recognize that employees sometimes struggle to find balance between 
their physical, emotional, professional, and financial well-being. Through our 
competitive health benefits program, we offer multiple insurance plans with 
dental, vision, disability, life, and accident insurance, paid bereavement leave,  
and disability coverage to both full and part time employees. But we want to  
go further and provide additional support for employees when they need it. 
In 2019, we made several changes to our benefits package to make it  
even stronger.
 • We improved our 401(k)-matching program by increasing the company 
match to be dollar for dollar up to 5 percent of employee contributions  
and instituted auto enrollment in 2019, resulting in a 10 percent increase  
in participation; 
 • We increased parental leave to 12 weeks of paid leave for primary  
caregivers  and four weeks paid leave for secondary caregivers at 100 
percent of pay rate ;
 • We rolled out a relationship with Care.com to connect employees with care 
givers, pet sitters, and more during times of need;
 • We doubled our adoption reimbursement to $10,000 and were recognized 
as one of the 100 Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces by the Dave Thomas 
Foundation for Adoption; and 
 • We significantly increased the classes offered at the two fitness and health 
centers located at our Delaware offices, including guided meditation as a 
way to help our employees find balance.
We also encourage employees to get involved in the communities where they 
live and work by providing 48 hours of annual paid leave to volunteer for charities 
and non-profits of their choosing. In 2019, our employees donated 2,746 
hours through our community engagement programs . Learn more about our 
investments in local communities in the Community section of this report.81%
of our employees  
believe our benefits 
programs meet their 
respective needs.
We were proud to make the  
100 Best Adoption-Friendly 
Workplaces list in 2019, a diverse 
group of organizations which are 
striving to make adoption a supported 
option for every working parent.Healthy lifestyles
We love to see our employees thrive through active lifestyles and a broad 
range of athletic pursuits, and we strive to support them by providing lifestyle 
coaching, biometric screening, access to athletic facilities at our offices, 
online tools, digital trackers, and company-sponsored wellness events such 
as the Sallie Mae 5K run/walk races. In addition to our traditional healthcare 
benefits, our  “Get Up & Go” wellness program for employees is designed 
to support the integration and long-term adoption of healthy habits and 
behaviors. Employees earn healthcare premium credits for participation in 
various activities throughout the year, including annual health assessments 
and biometric screenings, wellness Lunch n’ Learns, daily healthy challenges, 
quarterly challenges, and financial wellness activities. 
Employees also have the option of working with a lifestyle management coach 
who can help them set and achieve healthy goals related to exercise, diet, and 
stress, or simply support an overall healthier lifestyle. We provide free Fitbit® activity trackers 
to our employees to help them achieve 
their wellness goals.
Sallie Mae | 47EMPLOYEES3Sallie Mae | 49
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Employee volunteer snapshot:  
Yolanda Ward-Jones
Yolanda Ward-Jones  won the Volunteer of the Year Award from 
 Women & Hi Tech! The organization focuses on supporting, recognizing, 
and advancing outstanding women and girls pursuing STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields in Indiana. Women & 
Hi Tech provides educational, professional development, recognition, 
mentoring, and networking programs for collegiate and career women, 
along with STEM exposure opportunities for girls in kindergarten through 
12th grade.
Yolanda, a Scrum Master in our IT division, was recognized for all of 
her efforts with the organization over the past year. She volunteered to 
assist with multiple Women & Hi Tech events, including the Ignite Your 
Superpower exhibition, the Executive Women’s Forum, and OperationALL, 
an annual professional development seminar focused on providing tools 
for increased gender inclusion in the workplace. 
Embracing the “dare to do” motto, Yolanda is also involved in a Women in 
Agile group in Indianapolis which launched in May 2019, and is an investor in 
SmartGurlz, an action doll product designed to teach children how to code 
while playing.
Supporting transition to and from military duty
We are grateful for the service and sacrifices of the women and men in our armed 
services who bravely and selflessly protect and defend us. For employees on 
active military duty and their families, Sallie Mae serves as a resource and aids 
the transition to and from military duty by continuing salary and benefits beyond 
what is required by law, and by offering flexible work schedules during military 
training.  In 2018, we received the Pro Patria Award from the Delaware State 
Committee of the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve, which recognizes 
a company’s exemplary support to National Guardsmen and Reservists through 
service, community outreach, and personnel policies that make it easier for 
employees to serve.I was activated with the Reserves in April 
2018, and what was supposed to be two 
months was extended and extended 
again, ultimately turning into 20 months. 
As an Aviation Resource Manager at 
Dover Air Force Base, I made sure pilots 
completed their training requirements in 
simulators and in aircraft, etc., before  
they deployed. 
Sallie Mae has been extremely supportive 
throughout my career in the military. 
From day one, my manager asked me to 
let her know if there was anything they 
could do to support me. My transition 
back to civilian life was seamless. On my 
first day back at work after 20 months, my 
supervisor met me at my desk to welcome 
me back, everyone thanked me for my 
service and extended a helping hand. It 
feels great to be supported 100%.Tiffany Fisher, Education Coordinator, 
Customer Operations
My team and the company have been 
very accommodating to me related to my 
Reserve duties, which take me away one 
weekend a month, and two weeks in the 
summer. My supervisor never schedules 
me to work the night before I have to 
drill. I was deployed for a year and came 
back and still had the same position. In 
fact, three weeks after I got back, I was 
promoted. That’s amazing!
Roberto Parra, Collections SpecialistSupporting our servicemember employees
Tiffany  recently returned to work from 20 months of activation with the Air Force Reserves 
where she serves as an Aviation Resource Manager.
Robert  joined the military out of high school, was on active duty in the Marine Corps in 
Hawaii and at Camp Pendleton in San Diego, and has been in the Reserves for the National 
Guard for four years. Robert is currently studying at Temple to become a physical therapist, 
nurse, or physician’s assistant. His dream is to work for the Veterans Administration helping 
people in the military deal with ailments.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
EMPLOYEES3Sallie Mae | 51
A culture of giving and receiving feedback
We believe that feedback helps our team members 
grow and stretch beyond their comfort zones. All 
employees receive a formal performance review during 
which managers measure their progress against their 
individual career maps, and provide valuable feedback on 
performance and areas of potential growth. Managers are 
also encouraged to provide feedback on an ongoing basis 
throughout the year, and employees are encouraged to 
strengthen and increase their skill sets through ongoing 
trainings and educational opportunities.
We have several mechanisms that allow 
employees to let us know when we are 
doing well and where we might have 
opportunities to improve. They are: 
 • An open-door policy with our managers; 
 • Quarterly townhalls with our CEO where 
all employees can submit questions 
ahead of time for him to speak to during 
the meeting; and
 • Regular employee engagement surveys.
We are in the process of shifting from 
an annual employee survey to shorter, 
quarterly feedback surveys, which will 
help us react and adapt more quickly to 
employee feedback.
Recognizing excellence
When employees feel valued and 
appreciated, their overall job satisfaction 
increases, and as a result, they are 
happier and more productive at work. 
We’ve put several initiatives in place to 
foster a culture that recognizes important 
contributions from employees. They are: • Employee Appreciation Month  
  Each year in September, we celebrate 
our employees through a series of 
events, activities, and giveaways; 
 •  Thanks to you! Peer to Peer 
Recognition Program  
  In 2019, employees sent 3,186 creative 
eCards through our peer recognition 
program to show appreciation for 
their peers in real-time, an increase of 
approximately 18 percent over 2018;
 •  Quarterly Awards of  
Excellence Program  
 Every quarter, we hold luncheons where 
our CEO and other members of the 
leadership team recognize employees 
who make outstanding contributions 
and demonstrate our core values 
through their daily work; and
 •  Milestone Anniversary  
Awards Program   
 Employees who reach significant 
milestone work anniversaries are 
recognized with gift cards and  
a personalized yearbook from  
their manager.  Employee appreciation month
In September 2019, we celebrated Employee Appreciation Month across all our sites.  
Both remote and office-based employees received Sallie Mae gifts as tokens of our  
appreciation for all of their work and efforts throughout the year. We also hosted 
weekly activities, including onsite employee appreciation parties, food trucks, chair 
massages, pet therapy dogs, and snack carts. It was a great month to recognize Sallie 
Mae employees and give special thanks to all our teams.
Members of the Finance team  
(L to R: Disiree Woodruff, Lisa Lesage, and 
Emilia Besosa) spend time connecting at the 
Employee Appreciation Party.Sallie Mae colleagues (L to R: Angela Arnold, 
Kevin Ognibene, and Joellen McCauley) 
welcome employees at the front door to kick 
off Employee Appreciation Month.
A culture of empowerment
We want our employees to feel empowered. That 
means they should be comfortable sharing their ideas, 
asking difficult questions, and making tough decisions. 
Implementing the Agile process helps us build that culture 
of engaged and empowered employees. 
Agile work environment 
To help us react and adapt more quickly to changing customer needs and an ever-
evolving digital environment, we’ve adopted the Agile process, whereby a team of 
employees can manage a project by breaking it up into several stages and constantly 
collaborate with its stakeholders. During quarterly Program Increment Planning Events 
(PIPE), teams from our IT and branding/creative departments gather together in 
person and set priorities about where to invest time and resources in the next quarter. 
This translates into clear and focused workplans that employees design themselves. 
Since launching Agile in 2017, employees tell us they feel more empowered as 
decision-makers, and have greater ownership and pride in their work. Sallie Mae | 53
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
COMMUNITY4
March 2020 Corporate Social ResponsibilityOur approach 
Giving back to the communities where we live  
and work is more than the right thing to do,  
it’s a part of who we are. Positively effecting  
change is a common thread that connects and 
inspires us and is reflected in our core value of 
Making a Difference—one person at a time .  
As a company committed to building prosperous 
futures through access to education, United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goal #4: Quality 
Education  is our primary investment focus, one 
where we believe we can make the greatest impact. 
We are committed to reducing barriers to higher 
education by investing in planning tools, resources, 
and financial literacy programs.
Our philanthropic giving is channeled through the Sallie Mae Fund and  
our CRA commitments through Sallie Mae Bank. Both channels have 
comprehensive strategies guiding our grants and robust application and 
review processes to help us select and fund charitable causes that align with 
our vision and values. In the communities where we have a local presence, we 
work closely with strategic partners to identify the greatest needs so that our 
contributions have a meaningful and substantial impact.Building stronger communities
In 2018 and 2019, The Sallie Mae Fund, including through the Employee 
Matching Gift Program, awarded $345,000 and $487,000, respectively, to 
community partners and causes important to our employees. This was due 
in part to the generosity of our employees, who significantly increased their 
personal contributions in 2019.Our employees value making a difference 
with customers, with colleagues, and with 
our hometown communities. As a bank 
with a purpose, it is inherent upon us to be 
an engaged community partner.
Martha Holler, Senior Vice President, 
Communications and Community
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020COMMUNITY4Sallie Mae | 55
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Our social impact Community investment
Scholarships and grants for higher education
Providing scholarships and grants to those in need brings our mission  
to life. Not only are we helping families make college happen and building  
a better future, we are also engaging our employees directly through the 
money they raise to support the programs, along with our corporate  
matching commitment. 
BRIDGING THE DREAM SCHOLARSHIPS
Our Bridging the Dream Scholarship recognizes high school juniors and 
seniors who excel in academics, athletics, community service, or school 
activities, but whose financial circumstances may not allow them to pursue 
their college dreams. With $25,000 available for their postsecondary 
education, many scholarship recipients have overcome incredible adversity 
outside of the classroom to accomplish extraordinary achievements. 
In 2018, we expanded our Bridging the Dream Scholarship Program to also 
include graduate students. Over the past two years, eight aspiring graduate 
students were each awarded $20,000 to support the costs associated with 
pursuing their medical, law, business, and doctorate degrees. 
Employees often tell us that they love this initiative because it supports our 
core purpose. While Sallie Mae sets aside money for the scholarships, our 
employees also raise money throughout the year to enhance the scholarships, 
and we match the employee donations. Over the past four years since 
the program’s launch in 2016, employees have raised approximately 
$192,000, and Sallie Mae has awarded nearly $800,000 in Bridging the  
Dream scholarships. 
$1,035,513** 
Total charitable contributions in 2019  
(Includes Sallie Mae Fund, CRA, All Scholarships,  
and Employee Giving)
Bridging the Dream  
Scholarship contributions… 
Since the beginning of 2017,
We have provided 29 students with 
$685,000   
in scholarships through our Bridging  
the Dream Scholarship Program.Total charitable contributions 2017 – 2019 
2017
2018
2019
Sallie Mae Fund Employee Matching 
Gift ProgramCRA Scholarships and Contests*
2017 2018 2019050K100K150K200K250K300K350K
0 200K 400K 600K 800K 1M 1.2M1200331K 249K 260K30K315K 250K 391K53K252K 403K 434K
125K255K305K* Includes Utah Based Scholarships and Bridging the Dream  
Scholarships in Utah.
** Our Utah scholarships fall under both Scholarships and 
Contests, and CRA contributions, and are included in the 
sums for both in this chart. We have not double counted 
those contributions in the Total Contributions number  
for 2019.2017
2018
2019
Sallie Mae Fund Employee Matching 
Gift ProgramCRA Scholarships and Contests*
2017 2018 2019050K100K150K200K250K300K350K
0 200K 400K 600K 800K 1M 1.2M1200331K 249K 260K30K315K 250K 391K53K252K 403K 434K
125K255K305K2017
2018
2019
Sallie Mae Fund Employee Matching 
Gift ProgramCRA Scholarships and Contests*
2017 2018 2019050K100K150K200K250K300K350K
0 200K 400K 600K 800K 1M 1.2M1200331K 249K 260K30K315K 250K 391K53K252K 403K 434K
125K255K305KCOMMUNITY4Sallie Mae | 57
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Bridging the Dream undergraduate recipient story 
Ardavia Lee, New Castle, DE
Ardavia’s mom, a firefighter from Delaware, was her best friend and rock. 
When she passed away after battling a house fire, Ardavia’s world was forever 
changed. A resilient young woman, Ardavia stayed focused on extracurriculars 
and academics—completing challenging courses and earning a 3.94 GPA.
Just as her mother was dedicated to serving their community, so too is 
Ardavia. She has completed over 100 hours of community service in the last 
three years and become an example of leadership and kindness. Her talents 
extend to the court as well, where she thrives in volleyball and basketball, and 
loves motivating her teammates. Her goal is to continue to help people as she 
follows her dream of going to law school.
Ardavia was one of our deserving Bridging the Dream Scholarship  
recipients in 2019 and she continues to inspire us with her courage  
and determination.
Felipe Hernandez, a first-generation college student and Fulbright Scholar, 
is completing his law degree at Harvard University, and aspires to assist 
and advocate for low-income communities and minorities. 
As a first-generation student, I didn’t assume 
college, let alone graduate school, was a 
possibility for me. But I was determined to  
make it happen.
Receiving the Bridging the Dream Scholarship 
only further encourages me to continue fighting 
for the rights of others, so that they, too, may be 
able to overcome barriers to success. I am grateful 
for Sallie Mae’s support and generosity.Bridging the Dream graduate school recipient story 
Felipe Hernandez, Los Angeles, CA
Our mission at Sallie Mae is grounded in helping 
aspiring minds achieve the lives they imagine 
and that starts with making the dream of a higher 
education a reality. I am extremely proud of 
the investments we are making in tomorrow’s 
leaders and if the Bridging the Dream Scholarship 
recipients are any indication of what’s to come—the 
future looks bright.
Raymond J. Quinlan,  
Chairman and CEO
EDUCATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS IN UTAH
Sallie Mae Bank, located in Salt Lake City, sponsors a second scholarship 
program that helps us meet our commitments under the Community 
Reinvestment Act. We provide financial assistance to qualifying students in 
communities in Utah whose courses of study will lead them to careers in some 
of the state’s most in-demand professions, including engineering, nursing, 
teaching, and respiratory therapy. We’ve also partnered with local and state 
universities to award scholarship money to first generation college students 
and low-income residents of Utah.
In 2019, we awarded $82,500 in scholarships to students in Utah. 
Since 2007, we have awarded more than $1 million to 300 Utah students to 
support them in achieving their dreams.COMMUNITY4Sallie Mae | 59
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Strengthening our communities
The Sallie Mae Fund 
Since April 2014, the Sallie Mae Fund has contributed more than $2.3 million to 
address key barriers to college access and build more resilient communities. The Sallie 
Mae Fund supports programs and initiatives that help open doors to higher education, 
encourage academic and personal achievement through the arts, and address food 
scarcity challenges, including:
Kids2College®   
This program increases awareness 
and encourages a college-attending 
culture in communities across the 
country by exposing middle school 
students to potential opportunities 
and the value of higher education. 
Built in consultation with the 
National Council for Community 
and Education Partnerships, the 
six-session program combines 
hands-on activities with information 
on careers, college life,  
and academic preparation.
Year Up Wilmington  
$150,000 grant to Year Up 
Wilmington to support skills training 
and workforce development 
programs for local young adults.The Music School of Delaware  
A grant of $25,000 was bestowed in 
2019 to provide financial  
assistance to underserved students.
 The University of Delaware 
Center for Economic Education & 
Entrepreneurship   
A grant of $25,000 was awarded in 
2019 to support its “Keys to Financial 
Success” Program, which provides 
high school teachers with training, 
support, and materials needed to 
teach personal finance to students. 
YWCA  
We support YWCA Utah’s Teen 
Program, which provides a safe 
environment for homeless teens 
living with their mothers in YWCA’s 
domestic violence shelter and 
transitional housing. Since November 
2018, our grants have helped to 
provide evidence-based education 
programming for 18 YWCA teens; 332 
hours of individualized educational 
counseling; art instruction; and skill-
based teamwork building exercises.Food Bank of Delaware  
Sallie Mae has long supported 
the Delaware Food Bank through 
charitable giving and volunteerism. 
In 2019, we unveiled the  
Sallie Mae Culinary Classroom, 
with the mission of empowering 
unemployed, underemployed, 
disabled, and disadvantaged 
individuals to achieve self-
sufficiency through job training, 
personal development,  
and employment in the food  
service industry. 
Sallie Mae employees volunteering at the  
Food Bank of Delaware.
In 2020, we are planning to undertake a strategic review of The Sallie Mae  
Fund designed to look for opportunities to more closely align our charitable giving 
with our core purpose. We believe we have an opportunity to scale our positive impact 
on United Nations Sustainable Development Goal #4 – Quality Education , and 
potentially others. We look forward to sharing more in our next report as we embrace 
this goal with more intention.Big Brothers Big Sisters of Delaware  
$100,000 grant to support school-based mentoring initiatives to connect 
at-risk youth with positive adult role models.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
COMMUNITY4Sallie Mae | 61
Community Reinvestment Act
Under the CRA, federally insured depository institutions like Sallie Mae Bank have an 
obligation to support the credit needs of low- and moderate-income neighborhoods 
in the communities where they are located. Sallie Mae Bank has elected to focus 
on underserved communities in five Utah counties by providing access to finance 
through consumer and community development lending, qualified investments, 
grants to community development organizations, and education scholarships for low- 
and moderate-income persons. 
We work with local organizations across our assessment area, led by our Senior 
Compliance Manager and CRA Officer, to determine how we can be most impactful. 
We’ve identified affordable housing, educational finance, childhood development, 
and consumer financial literacy as the greatest needs in the communities in our 
assessment area and have prioritized our investments accordingly.
Sallie Mae Bank develops three-year CRA Strategic Plans to guide its investment 
strategy in the underserved areas of Utah, and submits these plans to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for evaluation. During our most recent FDIC 
Performance Evaluation, we received an assessment of “Outstanding,” the highest 
possible rating a financial institution can get.
Community investment highlights from Sallie Mae Bank 
Our investments primarily focus on scholarships and grants that provide opportunities for students to achieve 
their dreams of college education, and ultimately, fulfilling careers. In 2019 we:
Exceeded our funding goal 
for scholarships and grants 
by providing more than 
$250,000  
to deserving individuals and 
organizations in our assessment 
area in Utah.Exceeded our outstanding 
employee service goal by 
spending more than  
608 hours  
( an average of 12 hours per Sallie
Mae employee based in Utah).
Volunteering time at: 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020The Sallie Mae Fund commemorated Veterans Day  
with a $50,000 Contribution to Folds of Honor 
The Sallie Mae Fund reinforced its commitment to military servicemembers in 2019 
through a $50,000 grant to Folds of Honor. The contribution, presented during a 
Veterans Day event at Sallie Mae’s headquarters in Newark, Delaware, will help provide 
scholarships for children and spouses of disabled and fallen military servicemembers. 
Since 2014, The Sallie Mae Fund has contributed $275,000 to Folds of Honor.
 “ Our motto is ‘Honor Their Sacrifice and Educate Their Legacy,’ and through partners,  
like Sallie Mae, we put those words into action,” said Alan Wronowski, Director at Folds  
of Honor.
 “ Sallie Mae’s support provides a pathway to higher education for the families of  
service members and helps them build the kind of futures their loved ones fought so 
hard to protect.”
 
Our support of Folds of Honor is a natural extension of 
our mission to help people build prosperous futures, as 
we continue to strengthen our commitment to military 
servicemembers and their families. 
Raymond J. Quinlan,  
Chairman and CEO
COMMUNITY4Sallie Mae | 63
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Making financial literacy tools and resources 
available to all
Financial literacy 
Long-term financial success starts with educating students so they can make effective 
and informed decisions. We provide free and accessible programs, including our 
College Planning Calculator and Scholarship Search,  to help individuals manage 
their financial resources effectively for the long-term. In the last academic year, we are 
incredibly proud that nearly 20,000 students—both customers and non-customers 
- received approximately $61 million in scholarship money using the free Sallie Mae 
Scholarship Search on our website. In addition, our own programs, such as our 
Paying for College Resource, support a range of financial literacy initiatives across the 
country. Learn more about our financial literacy programs, tools, and research in the 
Customers Section  of our report. 
Having lived through the challenge of paying for 
college, I know I would have benefited greatly 
from an incredible tool like this one. Scholarship 
Search opens up a world of access to free money 
for college which can help students achieve their 
educational goals.
Jake LaTurner,  
Kansas State Treasurer
For most of my students, how to pay for college 
is one of the first major financial decisions 
they’ll make. The Sallie Mae Paying for College 
Resource addresses these topics in a simple and 
straightforward way, and provides free content to 
guide us through the college planning process.  
My colleagues and I are excited to use these 
resources, and we feel equipped to have the 
financial talks students and families rely on us for.
Laura Dew,  
College advisor at Westbury High School in HoustonEmployee volunteerism
Our employees take immense pride in giving back to their  
local communities, and we work hard to foster a culture that 
encourages active volunteerism. Through our Volunteer Paid Time 
Off policy, our employees are paid for up to 48 hours each year for 
time spent volunteering with charitable causes about which they 
are passionate.
In 2019, Salle Mae employees volunteered a total of
2,746 hours
to organizations in our community.
Sallie Mae’s Annual 5K run to 
support the Bridging the Dream 
Scholarship Program
Volunteering with  
Ronald McDonald HouseCollecting books for children
Preparing food at the Food 
Bank of Delaware
COMMUNITY4Sallie Mae | 65
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
For many students, paying back student 
loans is their first experience with managing 
and building a credit profile so it’s extremely 
important to be prepared and start off on the 
right track. Developing a realistic budget and 
overall plan to pay back loans, including paying 
a little extra each month when possible, can 
pave the way to financial success.
Winnie Sun, Founding Partner and Managing Director,  
Sun Group Wealth Partners
WISEBREAD 
Sallie Mae and WiseBread joined forces in 2019 to develop Twitter chats 
that resonated with an audience of more than 70,000 money-conscious 
individuals and families . This year’s chat topics included insights from our 
industry leading reports, Majoring in Money and How America Pays for  
College, as well as important topics such as the Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid. 
WINNIE SUN 
For the past two years, we’ve partnered with financial advisor and 
entrepreneur, Winnie Sun, to help educate students, their families, and recent 
graduates on the importance of financial responsibility. Winnie’s name 
recognition as a regular contributor on CNBC, Fox Business, and Cheddar, 
provides a powerful platform for us to reach thousands of engaged followers 
and fans and share helpful tools and resources. In 2019, we partnered with 
Winnie to develop a Facebook Live series geared towards tackling topics 
such as credit cards, internships, and paying off student loans.Strategic partnerships
Getting our financial literacy message out to students and their families is 
not always easy. To broaden our reach and help us educate as many people 
as possible, we partner with individuals and organizations who are both well-
respected and deeply connected to this audience. 
AMERICA SAVES 
Sallie Mae partners with America Saves, a campaign managed by the  
Consumer Federation of America, which encourages, motivates, and supports 
low to moderate income households to save money, reduce debt, and build 
wealth. Together, we facilitate Twitter Chats that reach more than  
400,000 individuals  and share our collective message underscoring the 
importance of making responsible financial choices as families prepare for  
their college journeys. 
 
College is expensive, and that doesn’t seem to be 
changing any time soon. By preparing for it ahead of 
time, it will save you a lot of stress (and debt!) down 
the road.
America Saves,  
during Sallie Mae’s National College Savings Month Twitter chat.
ROAD2COLLEGE
We collaborate with Road2College , an organization dedicated to helping 
families become better educated consumers and make more informed decisions 
related to their finances. Road2College established and maintains one of the 
most engaged Facebook groups, “Paying for College 101,” a social learning 
group that has more than 67,000 active members. Through our partnership, we 
support the development of content for the site and provide expert advice to 
thousands of students and families embarking on their college journeys. 
Parents are interested to know how they can help 
their students build their credit. They know it will 
be important going forward in their financial life, 
and I am excited to talk about that topic tonight.
Debbie Schwartz, Founder and CEO of Road2College, on Sallie Mae 
Facebook Live event on Credit Tips for StudentsSallie Mae | 67
ENVIRONMENT5
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
ENVIRONMENT5
Our approach 
We recognize that the natural environment is under 
increasing strain—ecosystems are being threatened 
and climate change is causing growing uncertainty 
for societies and economies across the globe. 
These issues are real and relevant to our customers, 
our communities, and our employees. We have a 
responsibility to do our part, and we are committed to 
minimizing our environmental footprint. 
Our Facilities team actively manages our environmental impact across our six 
locations. We are constantly looking for opportunities to reduce our energy 
use and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, procure more 
sustainable materials, and minimize the amount of waste generated in  
our offices. 
In addition, we are proud to support the development of the next 
generation of environmental professionals  through Sallie Mae student 
loans and scholarships. Our loans support students studying environmental 
engineering, environmental science, and other related degrees that equip 
them with the knowledge and skills they need to preserve environmental 
ecosystems, to protect human health, and enhance quality of life. Protecting the environment
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020By getting the graduate 
degree in engineering that 
I always dreamed of, I was 
able to launch a cleantech 
startup… I come to work 
excited every day, forever 
thankful for the student 
loans that enabled me to 
pursue my passion.
Nicholas,  
CA, CustomerENVIRONMENT5
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Sallie Mae | 69
At Sallie Mae, we do not make solar panels, electric 
cars, or drinking water purification systems, but we 
help shape the people who do. When our customers 
graduate, they go on to pursue their dreams of  
careers in:
 •Sustainable Agriculture  
 •Renewable Energy  
 • Sustainable Product and  
Packaging Design
 •Watershed Management 
 •Green Building  
 •Sustainable Forestry  
 • Clean Tech Innovation  
and Development
 •Sustainable Chemistry • Sustainable Transportation Systems 
and Logistics  
 •Environmental Education  
 •Marine Biology 
 •Water Conservation
 •Ecology and Research  
 •Sustainable Materials Management
 •Environmental Law
 •Sustainability Consulting 
Energy and emissions reduction
Energy reduction initiatives
While we lease five of our office spaces in buildings owned by others, there 
are still some ways we can be environmentally conscious and proactive. With 
approximately 1,900 employees, we recognize the important role we play 
in increasing overall awareness of conservation issues, whether that means 
encouraging our team members to bring a sweater to work and turn off their 
space heaters, asking them to shut off lights when they leave rooms, or using 
the recommended power management settings that place electronics into 
hibernate mode when they are not in use. 
Clearly, we have more control over how we consume energy in the building we 
own, and we make every effort to use more efficient lighting, IT equipment, and 
appliances. We are proud of the reductions we’ve been able to make at  
our headquarters in Newark, Delaware, where nearly one third of employees  
are based. Energy reduction project highlights at HQ in Newark, Delaware 
We’ve installed room sensors in our buildings in areas  
such as kitchens, washrooms, and other spaces that have 
intermittent use. The sensors help to reduce our energy use  
as they automatically turn lights on as people come into  
rooms, then automatically turn them off after people leave  
when no motion is detected.Completed installation of LED exterior lighting  
for our parking lot, achieving savings of
90.8 MWh
close to 2% of our total annual electrical  
usage at the facility.
April100 kWh200 kWh300 kWh400 kWh500 kWh600 kWh
0
May June July Sept Oct April100 kWh200 kWh300 kWh400 kWh500 kWh
0
May June July Sept OctIN THOUSANDS
IN THOUSANDSHQ electricity usage Cooling degree days
13%*Replaced existing chillers with 
high-efficiency chillers  
that reduced the building’s 
total energy use byApril100 kWh200 kWh300 kWh400 kWh500 kWh600 kWh
0
May June July Sept Oct April100 kWh200 kWh300 kWh400 kWh500 kWh
0
May June July Sept OctIN THOUSANDS
IN THOUSANDS
*Cooling season (April to October)
I went to law school because  
I wanted to help people.  
Now I represent survivors  
and first responders of 9/11  
in seeking compensation for  
their injuries. I am also  
litigating on behalf of the 
residents of Flint, MI over  
the ongoing water crisis.
Omar,  
NY, CustomerENVIRONMENT5
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Sallie Mae | 71
Energy audits
To help us uncover more opportunities to reduce our energy consumption, we 
partnered with a commercial real estate services firm in 2019 to conduct extensive 
energy audits at our two largest office locations in Newark and New Castle, Delaware. 
Together these two sites house almost 1,100 of our 1,900 employees. 
Based on the results of the audit, we mapped out a five-year plan to guide our  
future activities and investments. The audit identified potential energy and cost 
savings for each project, which helps us prioritize where to invest first based on 
feasibility and return on investment. While we’ve already significantly reduced onsite 
energy use at these two facilities, noteworthy improvement opportunities from  
the audit findings included:
 • Implementing a setback schedule for the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning 
(HVAC) systems that allows the buildings to save HVAC energy when not occupied; 
 • Reducing chilled water pump speed to slightly increase efficiency of chilled water 
flow to the roof top units; 
 • Installing submeters to better track energy use of leased sites;
 • Replacing uninterruptable power source or battery backup units with newer, smaller 
capacity units with greater efficiency; and
 • Replacing all interior lamps with LED bulbs that are energy efficient T-5 lighting.
Our external partner also helped us develop an initial baseline of our total energy use, 
and associated GHG emissions, across our entire operation, using a combination of 
data from utility bills and estimations based on square footage of our facilities. 2019 Total energy use
2019 MtCO2e
2019 Scope 1 and  
2 GHG emissions05001,0001,5002,000
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191,0011,1501,2881,5111,7761,901
6% Scope 1
94% Scope 205001,0001,5002,000
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191,0011,1501,2881,5111,7761,901
6% Scope 1
94% Scope 201,0002,0003,0004,0005,000
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,000
Electricity Usage (kWh/year) Gas Usage (scf/year)Delaware HQ New Castle Newton Indianapolis Salt Lake City SterlingDelaware HQ New Castle Newton Indianapolis Salt Lake City SterlingIN THOUSANDS IN THOUSANDS6% Scope 1
94% Scope 201,0002,0003,0004,0005,000
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,000
Electricity Usage (kWh/year) Gas Usage (scf/year)Delaware HQ New Castle Newton Indianapolis Salt Lake City SterlingDelaware HQ New Castle Newton Indianapolis Salt Lake City SterlingIN THOUSANDS IN THOUSANDSEnergy use and GHG EmissionsSallie Mae | 73
ENVIRONMENT5
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Sustainable offices
Part of our commitment to being good environmental 
stewards is being thoughtful about the materials we 
use when designing and furnishing our office spaces. 
In 2018 and 2019, our Facilities Team developed a set 
of environmentally preferable standards to guide our 
selection of materials and equipment, as well as inform our 
demolition practices. 
These formal specifications help us design and execute projects in an environmentally 
conscious manner and with the health and well-being of our employees in mind. 
Where applicable, the specifications are aligned with the U.S. Green Building Council’s 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) qualifications and credits. 
New builds or retrofits 
The current environmentally preferable 
standards we use when designing or 
retrofitting new offices include:
 • Carpet:  Our carpets are certified 
and assessed for human health and 
environmental impact, Greenguard 
Certified®, PVC free, and qualify for 
Green LEED credits.
 • Paint:  We use low volatile organic 
compound (VOC) paints.
 • Ceramic tile:  We procure tile  
that is composed of pre-consumer 
recycled materials.
 • Plumbing:  We install low-flow toilets 
and faucets for water conservation, 
and auto-flush and touchless 
faucets for both human health and 
environmental impact. 
 • Electrical distribution for general 
office areas: We incorporate  
time-of-day switched outlets for  
non-critical circuits. • Ceiling tile: We use tiles that are 
Greenguard Gold Certified®, have low 
VOC emissions, and are comprised of 
more than 73% recycled material.
 • Lighting: We utilize energy efficient 
LED lighting for all lighting retrofits and 
exit signage. 
 • Lighting controls: We install lighting 
controls that take advantage of 
daylight; we install occupancy and 
vacancy sensors; we incorporate 
the use of manual dimming controls 
resulting in energy gains of 50%.
 • HVAC:  We install automation system 
controls for HVAC systems and 
zoned temperature controls with 
centrally controlled variable air volume 
controllers. Demolition
Our demolition specification calls for maximum salvaging for reuse or sorting 
to recycle to minimize contribution to landfills. Our carpets are all subject 
to the cradle to cradle specification, which means carpet is returned to the 
manufacturer for recycling to downcycling.
These new standards were applied to the renovations at our New Castle office 
in Delaware and our Sterling office in Virginia, and will apply to all new builds 
and renovations moving forward, including the New Castle office expansion 
scheduled for 2020.
Waste minimization
We make concerted efforts to reduce the amount 
and type of waste we generate at our offices. We are 
working with our waste removal company at both 
Delaware locations to enhance our recycling programs 
for greater reductions in overall waste. Wherever 
possible, all our offices have separate receptacles to 
facilitate proper sorting and recycling. 
We are also taking steps to transition towards paperless offices. We’ve moved 
away from individual desktop printers to multi-function devices (MFDs), which 
are shared by multiple users and discourage unnecessary printing. MFD 
defaults are set to double-sided, black-and-white printing to further reduce our 
environmental impact. Additionally, our secure paper shredding service recycles 
all office paper that goes into recycling bins. 
Sallie Mae | 75
GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS6
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
When an inquiry comes into the Office of 
the Customer Advocate, we try to take a 
step back and think, “how would we feel 
if we were in this customer’s position?”  
This helps us to approach the dilemma 
with a concern for the customer while 
also challenging the status quo.  We show 
Sallie Mae cares by listening to, acting on, 
and learning from customer experiences, 
to improve and enhance our business.
Sheri Jenkins, Director, Office of the 
Customer Advocate
Corporate governance
We set high standards and expectations for the 
ethical conduct of our leadership, employees,  
and business partners, and we believe that 
maintaining such standards of accountability and 
transparency are fundamental for the long-term 
success of our business.
Since the formation of the company, we have attracted and built a strong, 
qualified Board of Directors whose members have expertise relevant to 
our business, are diverse in background, and who are deeply committed 
to operating ethically and with integrity. Eleven of our twelve Directors 
(or approximately 92% of the members of our Board of Directors) are 
independent directors, with the exception of Raymond Quinlan, our Chief 
Executive Officer. We recruit Board members with vast experience in the 
student loan and financial services industries to help us with emerging 
and regulatory issues, navigate changing market needs, and guide our 
advancements in the technology and customer experience space. 
Key corporate governance policies and practices are available in the 
Governance  section of our website.
Our Nominations, Governance, and Compensation Committee recognizes 
the great value in diversity of experience and perspective. Currently, we 
have four female board members comprising 33 percent of the Board. 
Our Board is committed to providing oversight of the company’s strategy 
and performance in an effective and constructive manner, with the goal of 
representing the best interests of our shareholders and balancing those 
with the interests of our other stakeholders—our customers, employees, 
and regulators. Governance and ethics
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Members of Sallie Mae’s  
Compliance TeamGOVERNANCE AND ETHICS6Sallie Mae | 77GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS6
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020Our board Operating with integrity
For many of our customers, their relationship with us is their 
first major financial experience. We take that privilege and 
responsibility seriously. 
We understand that the Sallie Mae brand and reputation begins and ends with our 
individual and collective commitment to integrity. Our adherence to high ethical 
standards while providing industry-leading services to promote access to higher 
education for students and families has served us well. It is critical that our employees 
understand our expectations and approach, which are clearly outlined in our Code of 
Business Conduct (Code). We train each of our employees on the Code every year, 
provide numerous avenues for support when they have questions, and put several 
checks and balances in place to ensure we do right by all of our stakeholders.As of December 31, 2019
12  
Board Size
NO  
Independent 
Chair
92%Board  
Independence
11 of 12
33%Women  
Representation
4 of 12
96%Say on Pay  (executive compensation)   
for vote at 2019 Annual Shareholder Meeting
Tenure of members of 
the Board of Directors
8.5% 11 to 15 Years
8.5% 16 to 20 Years33% 0 to 5 Years
50% 6 to 10 YearsOur Code of Business  
Conduct  outlines clear principles  
and expectations.Annual Employee Training on 
Code of Conduct and Code 
of Conduct Hotline provide 
employees with the knowledge 
and support they need on our high 
ethical standards.Our Enterprise Risk Management 
System  identifies key risks and 
mitigation strategies which are regularly 
monitored and reviewed by the Risk  
Committee of our Board  
of Directors.
Our Comprehensive Compliance 
Management System  helps us 
identify, aggregate, monitor,  
and manage potential regulatory  
risks, led by our Chief Compliance  
Officer and supported by a  
team of approximately 50 
employees dedicated to 
compliance risk management.Our Robust Data Security & 
Privacy Program starts with 
policies governing enterprise-
wide controls and practices 
that are approved by the Risk 
Committee of our Board  
of Directors. Our Chief Security 
Officer and Corporate Security 
Group of approximately 40 
employees hold us accountable 
to the commitments we make.
Office of the Customer Advocate  
with an independent team of 
approximately 20 employees that 
reports directly to the Sallie Mae  
Bank President, is committed  
to researching and resolving 
complaints received through various 
channels and improving the overall 
customer experience.Our Legal Department advises 
and reviews all of our policies 
and practices, and provides 
counsel that adds rigor to all 
compliance activities.Compliance Tracking and Root 
Cause Analysis is a collaborative 
approach by the company to identify, 
research, remediate, report, and 
escalate issues, including customer 
complaints. In 2018, complaint volume 
decreased 11%, while our number of 
unique customers increased by 12%.Our Board of Directors has been 
recognized for the past five years 
as a 2020 Women on Boards 
Winning “W” company.
Doing right by all our  
key stakeholders
 •Shareholders
 •Customers
 •Employees
 • Industry Peers 
and Trade 
Groups • Community and 
NGO Partners
 • Academic 
Institutions
 • Government 
and Regulators
 •Suppliers
Sallie Mae | 79
GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS6
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Code of business conduct
Our Code of Business Conduct is the foundation of our ethics program. It provides 
a clear set of principles and expectations for Sallie Mae employees, officers and 
directors, and consultants, and is supplemented by policies and procedures that 
offer more detailed guidance on specific compliance requirements. All employees 
are responsible for abiding by, and enforcing, the Code, including reporting any 
questionable activities using the resources provided in the Code.
Employees are trained regularly on the Code regarding a range of key issues and 
business practices, including anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, travel 
and entertainment expenses, identifying and preventing money laundering, 
conducting business with foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy. 
Business units also maintain policies relevant to their specific function. Adherence 
to the Code is a condition of employment, and violations can result in termination. 
Each employee must review the Code and sign a Code of Conduct Certification 
upon joining Sallie Mae and confirm continuing compliance every year thereafter. 
Our Board of Directors is also subject to Code of Business Conduct training 
focusing each director on (i) appropriate conduct, (ii) conflicts of interest and 
other ethical concerns, (iii) mechanisms to report potential conflicts or unethical 
conduct, and (iv) helping foster a culture of openness and accountability.
The procedures of the Code are established, reviewed, and amended as needed, 
by the Sallie Mae Management Compliance Committee.
Reporting concerns
The Sallie Mae Code of Conduct Hotline provides employees, contractors, 
vendors, and suppliers with a resource to report actual or potential breaches of the 
Code, without fear of retaliation. 
The anonymous hotline is operated by an independent third party and is 
accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week. When received, investigations 
are handled timely and confidentially. Complaints of a sensitive nature may be 
handled by the General Counsel as well as appropriate committees of the Board 
of Directors. Incidents of fraud and theft will be referred for criminal prosecution 
when appropriate. Sallie Mae does not retaliate against any employee who, in good 
faith, reports a questionable activity or asks a question related to the Code. Office of the Customer Advocate 
received the Better Business Bureau 
Torch Award for Marketplace Ethics  
in 2018.
85%
of our Employees felt our 
company has values they 
care about and that the 
company lives up to.Compliance management system
Our emphasis on compliance risk management and governance structure is 
how we keep our promise of security, integrity, and trust to our customers and 
other stakeholders at Sallie Mae Bank. Our Compliance Management System 
(CMS), helps us identify, aggregate, monitor, and manage consumer regulatory 
risks. The program also defines our compliance risk, governance, culture, and 
capabilities. Our Chief Compliance Officer leads implementation and execution 
of the CMS program, and compliance management is overseen by Sallie Mae 
Bank’s Board of Directors through the Compliance Committee. 
Proactive approach 
We seek to identify and respond to issues that could impact our business, our 
partners, and our communities. Identifying risks, engaging with experts, and 
implementing policies are a few of the ways we operate to proactively manage 
risks. Sallie Mae Bank’s Annual Compliance Plan is a twelve-month, risk-based 
description of the action items Sallie Mae Bank is undertaking either directly or 
in partnership with business areas to develop and maintain a sound, compliance 
management system.
Risk identification and assessment 
Risk assessments are fundamental to effective internal control and compliance 
risk management. Sallie Mae Bank conducts its compliance risk assessments 
through ongoing discussions with the Sallie Mae Bank’s senior management 
team, review of the current risk and control environment, consideration of the 
Bank’s specific compliance issues, and discussions with the Internal Audit and 
Risk Departments. In addition to Sallie Mae’s annual compliance risk assessment, 
the Bank also facilitates the completion of the Bank Secrecy Act, Anti-Money 
Laundering and Office of Foreign Asset Control risk assessment, Privacy risk 
assessment, Red Flags risk assessment, and Fair Lending risk assessment. 
Risk assessments are conducted pursuant to the Enterprise Compliance Risk 
Assessment Methodology and the Management Assessment of Risk and 
Control. In addition, Internal Audit conducts its annual risk assessment. 
Please see our most recent Proxy Statement for additional information regarding 
risk oversight by the Board of Directors.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Sallie Mae | 81GOVERNANCE + ETHICS6Approach to public policy 
Our current policy on political activities, available on our website , outlines the 
principles and guidelines regarding engagement and advocacy on political activities. 
We comply with all federal, state, and local lobbying registration and disclosure 
requirements, and we do not engage in grassroots lobbying efforts. 
Currently, we have one long-term, designated employee engaged in lobbying 
activities exclusively related to matters that directly or indirectly affect the Private 
Education Loan industry and our mission. That employee manages an external, 
bipartisan consulting firm that assists with the same objectives, and we report 
the expenditures made to this firm in our lobbying disclosures. Our involvement 
with industry associations is limited to those associations comprised of financial 
institutions with similar interests.
Quarterly disclosures detailing our lobbying activities and expenditures are posted 
online by the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Secretary of the  
U.S. Senate. 
The Sallie Mae Political Action Committee 
In June 2015, we formed the Sallie Mae Political Action Committee (PAC). Our PAC is 
governed by an Advisory Board composed of six employees, representing different 
divisions within the Sallie Mae organization. The PAC’s Advisory Board reviews and 
approves all PAC and corporate political contributions and evaluates candidates 
based on issues that impact the organization or our employees. It also takes note of 
whether our facilities or employees reside in a candidate’s district or state. Our PAC 
contributions are published on the Federal Elections Commission website .CSR governance 
At the highest level, Sallie Mae’s CEO and executive 
leadership team are held accountable for the 
company’s overall performance, including fulfilling the 
company’s corporate social responsibilities.  
In addition, the company’s Board of Directors provides 
active risk oversight and receives regular periodic 
updates on various facets of the business, including 
CSR topics of relevance.
Various functions at the company take on CSR commitments and initiatives while 
working closely with the appropriate business leaders to ensure appropriate 
and strategic alignment and management of such programs and initiatives. 
Executive team leaders provide guidance, oversight, and accountability for 
strategy and performance outcomes. Some of these departments include: 
Human Resources, Customer Operations, Legal, Marketing, and Information  
and Security.
Managing risk
Our approach to Enterprise Risk Management identifies and manages risks 
related to our strategic, financial, compliance, and operational objectives. Our 
Board of Directors approves the company’s risk appetite framework, including 
our risk appetite tolerances and related risk indicators annually. The Risk 
Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for monitoring risks and 
risk management capabilities within the company. Our key risks and mitigation 
strategies are documented, monitored, and reviewed with the Risk Committee 
of our Board of Directors quarterly. Material exigent risks are escalated to the 
Board or an appropriate committee for their review. The Board of Directors 
or management may require additional reviews as deemed appropriate 
or necessary. Please see our most recent Proxy Statement for additional 
information regarding risk oversight by the Board of Directors. Sallie Mae | 83
GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS6
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
Compliance with new accounting standard –  
current expected credit losses 
Our work regarding the recent implementation of Accounting Standards Update No. 
2016-13, “Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit 
Losses on Financial Instruments” (CECL) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards 
Board (FASB) in June 2016 is a good example of how we identify and manage 
enterprise risk related to key financial matters.  
CECL became effective for us on January 1, 2020 and involved a significant change 
in the way we are required to measure our allowance for credit losses under generally 
accepted accounting principles. The measurement of our allowance for credit 
losses requires us to make very significant estimates and judgments about reported 
amounts. Under CECL, for all loans carried at amortized cost, upon loan origination we 
are now required to measure our allowance for credit losses based on our estimate of 
all current expected credit losses over the remaining contractual term of the assets. 
Updates to that estimate each period will be recorded through provision expense.  
Upon FASB issuing the CECL guidance in 2016, we embarked on a multi-year project 
to implement the new guidance effective January 1, 2020. We established a multi-
disciplined team, including members of our accounting, finance, credit, information 
technology, and internal audit departments, as well as external consultants, to 
implement the new standard.  Throughout the development and implementation 
phases, we provided regular updates and training to senior management throughout 
the company and to our Board of Directors.  In 2019, we began dry runs of our solution 
and regularly reported the results internally and to our Board of Directors.  The models 
used to support the estimate of our allowance for loan losses were validated by third 
parties prior to the adoption date.  On January 1, 2020, we adopted CECL using the 
modified retrospective method and it had a material impact on how we record and 
report our financial condition and results of operations and on regulatory capital.Engaging stakeholders on what matters
What matters to our stakeholders matters to us, and their opinions play a 
vital role in shaping and defining our CSR priorities. How we engage with 
them and respond to their concerns builds trust in our business. We use 
a variety of methods to actively connect with stakeholders on a regular 
basis to ensure that we fully understand their interests and objectives. Our 
ongoing engagement with these stakeholders helps us understand their 
current and future expectations and identify ways to create value for them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shareholders 
Proactively hold discussions with institutional 
investors and financial analysts who are 
increasingly interested in our CSR performance 
as well as financial results.Customers
Use combination of formal customer satisfaction 
surveys and informal channels through the 
customer experience interface to gather feedback.
Employees
Solicit employee perspectives through the 
annual Employee Satisfaction Survey, the 
performance review process, as well as 
quarterly Town Hall meetings with our CEO.Industry Peers and  
Trade Groups 
Engage with industry partners on key business 
issues, such as cybersecurity, data privacy, and fair 
and responsible lending.
Community and  
Non-Government  
Organizations
Engage with NGOs and community partners  
to identify and address the greatest needs 
in the communities where we operate and 
encourage our employees to engage in 
community service.Academic  
Institutions
Collaborate with many academic institutions to 
increase financial literacy awareness as well as 
develop and distribute valuable tools that help 
students and their families navigate and plan for 
higher education.
Government and  
Regulators
Engage in regular interactions with members of 
Congress as well as the representatives of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), 
the Utah Department of Financial Institutions 
(UDFI), and the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau (CFPB). Such interactions involve 
matters of compliance, policy, or operational 
expertise and guidance.Suppliers/Vendors
Execute best practices for third-party oversight 
and management that support development and 
inclusion of diverse suppliers. Our comprehensive 
third-party management program provides the 
framework to ensure integrity and soundness  
of third parties providing products and services  
to Sallie Mae by exercising appropriate due 
diligence prior to entering relationships and 
ongoing monitoring after the relationship has  
been established.Sallie Mae | 85
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
SASB index
Sallie Mae has elected to report to the Sustainable Accounting Standards  
Board (SASB) Framework in our first CSR Disclosure. SASB connects business 
and investors on the financial impacts of sustainability. Unless otherwise noted, 
all data and descriptions apply to our entire company. We do not currently 
disclose all metrics included in the standards for this sector, but we will 
continue to evaluate them in the future. All data for the year ended  
December 31, 2019 unless otherwise noted.
ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY CODERESPONSE/  
LOCATION
Consumer Finance
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
Number of account holders 
whose information is used for 
secondary purposesQuantitative FN-CF-220a.1 The Online Privacy Policy describes our 
practices concerning the collection and use of 
information gathered from or about  
our online visitors and registered users. 
 
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with customer privacyQuantitative FN-CF-220a.2 SLM discloses all material legal and regulatory 
proceedings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K .
DATA SECURITY
(1) Number of data breaches,  
(2) percentage involving 
personally identifiable information 
(PII), (3) number of account 
holders affected.Quantitative FN-CF-230a.1 Due to our strong privacy culture, to our 
knowledge we have not experienced any 
significant or material breaches or loss of 
customer information in 2017, 2018, or 2019. 
 
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Card-related fraud losses from 
(1) card-not present fraud and (2) 
card-present and other fraudQuantitative FN-CF-230a.2 Given that our credit cards were introduced over 
the course of 2019, we do not yet have a full year 
of data to disclose. We will share this information 
in future CSR reports.
Description of approach to 
identifying and addressing data 
security risksDiscussion and 
analysisFN-CF-230a.3 Our approach to CSR  
Safeguarding data and customer privacy  
Form 10-K : Privacy LawsACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY CODERESPONSE/  
LOCATION
Consumer Finance cont.
SELLING PRACTICES TOPIC
Percentage of total remuneration 
for covered employees that is 
variable and linked to the amount 
of products and services soldQuantitative FN-CF-270a.1 This is not applicable as we do not 
have employees who “sell” loans or credit cards.
Approval rate for (1) credit and (2) 
pre-paid products for applicants 
with FICO scores above and 
below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.2 In 2019, the approval rate for applicants with a 
FICO score above 660 was 75%, and approval 
for a FICO score below 660 was 5.5%. 
 
FICO is one attribute we use in credit 
underwriting to assess the risk of default as  
a way to minimize the number of credit  
accounts in our portfolio that will become past 
due or delinquent.
1) Average fees from add-on 
products, (2) average APR, (3) 
average age of accounts, (4) 
average number of trade lines, 
and (5) average annual fees for 
pre-paid products, for customers 
with FICO scores above and 
below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.3 1) We do not have add-on products. 
2)  As stated in our Annual Financial Highlights, 
9.32% is the average yield. 
3)  The weighted average life of each asset is 
public information and disclosed in our Form 
10-Q and Form 10-K filings.
4)  Average number of trade lines is not 
accessible to us because we do not seek, 
track, or maintain this data—it sits with the 
credit reporting agencies. 
5) We do not offer pre-paid products.
(1) Number of complaints filed 
with the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau (CFPB),  
(2) percentage with monetary 
or nonmonetary relief, (3) 
percentage disputed by 
consumer, (4) percentage that 
resulted in investigation by the 
CFPBQuantitative FN-CF-270a.4 1)  From January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019, 
there were 250 complaints filed with the CFPB 
wherein Sallie Mae was a respondent.
2)  Of these 250 complaints, 12.8% resulted in 
monetary or non-monetary relief. 
3) We do not have reliable data to report on this.
4) Of these 250 complaints, 0% resulted in 
investigation by the CFPB.
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with selling and 
servicing of productsQuantitative FN-CF-270a.5 SLM discloses all material legal and regulatory 
proceedings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K .Sallie Mae | 87
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
GRI content index
This table covers the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability 
Reporting Standards and Disclosures found in Sallie Mae’s 2019 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2019 Annual Report and 
company website. This report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core Option.
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
GRI General Disclosures
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
GRI 102-1 Name of the organization SLM Corporation (NASDAQ: SLM)
GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 
and servicesWhat we do
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 300 Continental Drive, Newark, DE 19713
GRI 102-4 Location of operations Our locations: 
 •Newark, DE (HQ)
 •New Castle, DE
 •Newton, MA
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Delaware corporation
See Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2019
GRI 102-6 Markets served See Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2019
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization At a glance
As of December 31, 2019, Sallie Mae had 1,901 
employees and we reported GAAP Net Income 
Attributable to Common Stock of $561 Million in 2019.
GRI 102-8 Information on employees 
and other workersAt a glance
Our workforce
As of December 31, 2019, Sallie Mae had 1,901 
employees across its six locations.GRI 102-9 Supply chain Our suppliers are critical to the services and value  
we deliver to our clients and consumers each and  
every day. They enable us to progress and help us to 
reach our strategic goals, purchase responsibly and 
manage our expenses. The management of our  
spend is the responsibility of Strategic Procurement, 
which is responsible for negotiating and contracting 
with either new suppliers, or new statements of  
work, as well as management of the supplier’s post-
contract performance.
GRI 102-10 Significant changes to  
the organization and its 
supply chainIn 2019, Sallie Mae made no significant changes to  
the organization’s size, structure, ownership, and  
supply chain.
GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 
approachOur precautionary approach is reflected in our 
Enterprise Risk Management approach.
GRI 102-12 External initiatives Global Reporting Initiative, UN Sustainable Development 
Goals, U.S. Green Building Council and LEED
GRI 102-13 Membership of  
associations • Consumer Bankers  
Association
 • American Bankers  
Association
 • Student Loan Servicing  
Alliance
 • Structured Finance  
Industry Group
STRATEGY
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior 
decision-makerMessage from the CEO
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
GRI 102-16 Values, principles, 
standards, and norms of 
behaviorGovernance and ethics  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines our 
policy, which applies to the company’s employees, 
officers, and nonemployee directors, including the 
company’s CEO, CFO, and principal accounting officer 
or controller. 
Learn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here:  Corporate governance .
GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsSLM Proxy Statement 
Operating with integrity 
Our Code of Business Conduct outlines the internal 
and external mechanisms for employees to seek advice 
about ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational 
integrity, and to report concerns about unethical or 
unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity.
GRI 102-18 Governance structure SLM Proxy Statement 
Governance and ethicsGRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE cont.
 •Indianapolis, IN
 •Salt Lake City, UT
 •Sterling, VA • Delaware Bankers  
Association
 • Utah Bankers Association
 • National Association of  
Industrial Bankers
 • National Council of Higher  
Education ResourcesSallie Mae | 89
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
REPORTING PRACTICE cont. GOVERNANCE
GRI 102-18 Governance structure Governance and ethics
Learn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here . 
GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing 
ESG topicsOur approach to CSR
GRI 102-30 Oversight of risk  
management processCompliance management system 
CSR Governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engaging with stakeholders
Our key stakeholder groups include but aren’t limited to: 
current and former Sallie Mae Employees; Customers; 
Shareholders; Community and Non-Government 
Organizations; Academic Institutions; Industry Peers and 
Trade Organizations; Suppliers/Vendors; Government 
and Regulators.
GRI 102-41 Collective  
bargaining agreementsNone of our employees are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.
GRI 102-42 Identifying and  
selecting stakeholdersEngaging with stakeholders
GRI 102-43 Approach to  
stakeholder engagementEngaging with stakeholders
GRI 102-44 Key topics and  
concerns raisedEngaging with stakeholders 
Strengthening our communities
Community Reinvestment Act
REPORTING PRACTICE
GRI 102-45 Entities included in  
the consolidated  
financial statementsSee Annual Report  on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2019
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and 
topic BoundariesOur approach to CSR
In support of the 2019 materiality assessment, we 
engaged Anthesis Group who worked with us to review 
industry standards, feedback from key stakeholders, 
inputs from the business, and our competitor and peer 
reporting. We then assessed the importance of each 
CSR topic in two ways: (i) if such topic impacts our 
business in terms of growth, cost, risk, or trust, and (ii) if 
such topic significantly influences the assessments and 
decisions of our key stakeholders.GRI 102-47 List of material topics Our approach to CSR
Sallie Mae’s priority CSR topics include:
 • Community Engagement  
and Investment
 •Business integrity 
 •Data Security and Privacy
 • Empowering Underserved  
Populations
 •Energy and Emissions
 • Fair and Responsible  
Lending
GRI 102-48 Restatements  
of informationSince this is our first CSR Report, this is our first 
disclosure of baseline CSR data and information.
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable since this is our first CSR Report.
GRI 102-50 Reporting period The highlights and metrics shared in this report cover 
calendar year 2019, and we provide multi-year trend 
data where feasible.
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report This is our first CSR Report.
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Sallie Mae plans to release an annual update to the  
CSR Report.
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportSallie Mae’s contact point for questions regarding the 
report is CSR@salliemae.com .
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the 
principles and disclosures of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option and covers topics 
for all entities included in our financial statements.
GRI 102-55 GRI content index This GRI Content Index Table.
GRI 102-56 External assurance We do not currently have a policy regarding  
external assurance for our CSR reporting, and as  
such, the data and information in our report are not 
externally assured.
Specific Standard Disclosures – Economic
TOPIC: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topicsGRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
 
 
 • Attracting and  
Retaining Talent
 • Providing Training 
and Development 
Opportunities
 • Fostering a Diverse and 
Inclusive Workplace
 • Ensuring a Safe and 
Healthy Workplace
 •Regulatory Compliance
 •Risk AssessmentSallie Mae | 91
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
TOPIC: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE cont.
GRI 201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributedAt a glance
Our workforce
Supporting our customers’ success
Community investment
TOPIC: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
GRI 203-2 Significant indirect  
economic impactsOur workforce
Serving our customers
SEC Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2019
TOPIC: ANTI-CORRUPTION
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Operating with integrity
GRI 205-2 Communication and 
training about  
anti-corruption policies  
and proceduresOperating with integrity 
Employees are trained regularly on the Code regarding 
a range of key issues and business practices, including 
anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, travel, and 
entertainment expenses, identifying and preventing 
money laundering, conducting business with foreign 
governments, and protecting customer privacy.
GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents 
of corruption and  
actions takenIf allegations of corruption are brought to our  
attention, we work to investigate and resolve them 
appropriately and disclose material, substantiated 
incidents as appropriate.
Specific Standard Disclosures – Environment
TOPIC: EMISSIONS
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Energy and emissions reduction
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within 
the organizationEnergy use and GHG emissions
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumptionEnergy and emissions reductionTOPIC: EMISSIONS cont.
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Energy and emissions reduction
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissionsEnergy use and GHG emissions
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 
GHG emissionsEnergy use and GHG emissions
Specific Standard Disclosures - Social
TOPIC: EMPLOYMENT
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Investing in our people
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-
time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or 
part-time employees401(k) matching
TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Investing in our people
Promoting health and well-being
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health Promoting health and well-being
TOPIC: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Investing in our people
Ongoing growth and development
GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and 
transition assistance 
programsOngoing growth and development
Note that we report on the type and scope of programs 
Sallie Mae provides to help employees upgrade their 
skills. We do not currently offer any programs to facilitate 
continued employability of employees who leave either 
through retirement or termination.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
| 
 Sallie Mae | 93
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
TOPIC: ANTI-CORRUPTION
GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular 
performance and career 
development reviews100% of all available and eligible employees at Sallie Mae 
received performance reviews in 2019.
TOPIC: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Investing in our people
Inclusion and respect
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employeesOur workforce
Our board
TOPIC: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Building stronger communities
GRI 413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programsBuilding stronger communities 
Financial literacy tools and resources
Community Reinvestment Act
All our operations have community engagement and 
investment programs in place.
TOPIC: PUBLIC POLICY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Approach to public policy
GRI 415-1 Political Contributions Approach to public policy 
Political Activity Policy
PAC contributions can be found here
TOPIC: MARKETING AND LABELING
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Protecting the best interests of our customers
Operating with integrity
GRI 417-1 Product and service 
information and labelingProtecting the best interests of our customers
GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
product and service 
information and labelingWe have not identified any non-compliance with 
regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product 
and service information and labeling.
GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsWe have not identified any non-compliance with 
regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning 
marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion, and sponsorship.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
TOPIC: CUSTOMER PRIVACY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Operating with integrity 
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses 
of customer dataWe have had no substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy, and no identified leaks, 
thefts, or losses of customer data in 2019.
TOPIC: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryIdentifying emerging CSR topics
Code of Business Conduct
GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaOperating with integrity 
We have not identified any non-compliance  
with laws and/or regulations in the social and  
economic area.Forward looking statement
This Corporate Social Responsibility Report contains “forward-looking statements” and 
information based on management’s current expectations as of the date of this report. 
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs, opinions or 
expectations and statements that assume or are dependent upon future events, are forward-
looking statements. This includes, but is not limited to, our expectation and ability to pay a 
quarterly cash dividend on our common stock in the future, subject to the determination 
by our Board of Directors, and based on an evaluation of our earnings, financial condition 
and requirements, business conditions, capital allocation determinations, and other factors, 
risks and uncertainties, our 2020 guidance; our three-year horizon outlook; our expectation 
and ability to execute loan sales and share repurchases; our projections for originations 
and earnings growth and balance sheet position; and any estimates related to pending 
accounting standard changes. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, 
assumptions and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from 
those reflected in such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, 
the risks and uncertainties set forth in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in our 2019 Form 
10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC; increases in financing costs; limits on liquidity; 
increases in costs associated with compliance with laws and regulations; failure to comply 
with consumer protection, banking and other laws; changes in accounting standards and the 
impact of related changes in significant accounting estimates, including any regarding the 
measurement of our allowance for loan losses and the related provision expense; any adverse 
outcomes in any significant litigation to which we are a party; credit risk associated with our 
exposure to third-parties, including counterparties to our derivative transactions; and changes 
in the terms of education loans and the educational credit marketplace (including changes 
resulting from new laws and the implementation of existing laws). We could also be affected 
by, among other things: changes in our funding costs and availability; reductions to our credit 
ratings; cybersecurity incidents, cyberattacks, and other failures or breaches of our operating 
systems or infrastructure, including those of third-party vendors; damage to our reputation; 
risks associated with restructuring initiatives, including failures to successfully implement 
cost-cutting programs and the adverse effects of such initiatives on our business; changes 
in the demand for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational 
institutions, students and their families; changes in law and regulations with respect to the 
student lending business and financial institutions generally; changes in banking rules and 
regulations, including increased capital requirements; increased competition from banks 
and other consumer lenders; the creditworthiness of our customers; changes in the general 
interest rate environment, including the rate relationships among relevant money-market 
instruments and those of our earning assets versus our funding arrangements; rates of 
prepayment on the loans that we own; changes in general economic conditions and our ability 
to successfully effectuate any acquisitions; and other strategic initiatives. The preparation of 
our consolidated financial statements also requires management to make certain estimates 
and assumptions, including estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates 
or assumptions may prove to be incorrect. All forward-looking statements contained in this 
report are qualified by these cautionary statements and are made only as of the date of 
this report. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking 
statements to conform such statements to actual results or changes in our expectations.
Sallie Mae | 97
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  MARCH 2020
We are here to make great 
things happen for our 
customers, our communities… 
our world. We are committed  
to creating a more sustainable 
and prosperous future, and 
we’ve only just begun. 
 
www.salliemae.com
300 Continental Drive  
Newark, DE 19713To view this report online, please visit www.salliemae.com/csr
 