CORPORATE SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY REPORTAPRIL 2022Powering  
Confidence
Increasing Access and Opportunity  
through Higher EducationStart smart. Learn big.SMABOUTSallie Mae | 3
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021To power 
confidence as 
students begin 
their unique 
journey.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
if this is going 
to be cover will 
need to fine more 
artwork to fill this 
spot
Sallie Mae | 5
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
About this report
Sallie Mae (SLM Corporation, Nasdaq SLM) is committed to 
powering confidence for students along their unique journey 
through higher education.
While our responsible private student loan 
products help students bridge the financing 
gap in paying for college, we are deeply 
committed to providing families with the 
other necessary resources they need to plan 
and pay for higher education, which may not 
include a loan at all. We provide free access to 
tools for customers and non-customers alike, 
including financial planning resources such 
as our FAFSA application support, college 
cost and planning calculators, and free online 
scholarship search tools. 
More about these efforts are detailed in our 
2021 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Report, specifically designed to share: the 
environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) factors relevant to our business and 
our communities; our progress on key CSR 
performance indicators; and how we increase 
higher education access and completion for 
students across the country.This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the principles and disclosures of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: 
Core Option and covers topics for all entities 
included in our financial statements. The 
GRI Standards are the most widely used 
framework for sustainability reporting in 
the world. The recommended disclosures 
in the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) Consumer Finance Standard 
were also considered when determining 
the contents of this report. The highlights 
and metrics shared represent calendar year 
2021, but, when possible, multi-year trend 
data is included. All financial information is 
presented in U.S. dollars.
If you have questions or feedback about this 
report or Sallie Mae’s CSR commitments and 
activities, please contact us at  
CSR@SallieMae.com.
For more information please visit  
www.salliemae.com .About the Cover
At Sallie Mae we continue to take steps to promote diversity, equity, and 
inclusion. That focus is central to who we are as a company, and how we 
treat our customers and each other. 
This year’s cover of our Corporate Social Responsibility report was created 
by Ricardo Bessa, a London-based, Portuguese-born freelance illustrator 
and storyboard artist and illustrates members of the LGBTQ+ community 
supporting one another. The artwork was first featured in Sallie Mae’s 
recognition of Pride Month on social media and pointed to scholarship 
opportunities for members of the LGBTQ+ community. To view more of 
Ricardo Bessa’s artwork follow him @rbessaa a.  
The artists featured on the inside cover are Shanee Benjamin, a U.S. based 
illustrator and Jules Scheele from Scotland which also promotes diversity, 
equity, and inclusion in higher education and were featured on various 
Sallie Mae social media channels throughout the year. You can view more 
of their work at www.shaneebenjamin.com  and www.julesscheele.com.Sallie Mae | 7
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
Table of contents
Sallie Mae | 7
Sallie Mae | 7
Powering  
our customers 
49 Our approach
50 Fair and responsible lending
52 Supporting customers during the pandemic
53 Supporting military families
54 Protecting our customers’ information
55  Safeguarding data and customer privacy
56  Team member training
57  Incident response program
Powering our  
team members
59 Our approach 
60 Our workforce
62  A diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace
66  Thriving amidst a pandemic
67  Ongoing growth and development
68  A culture of feedback
68 Investing in our people
69  Recognizing our people
70  Fostering future talent
71  Tuition reimbursement
71  Family Scholarship Program
72  Promoting health and well-being
74  Healthy lifestyles
75  Supporting team members who serveDoing our part for 
the planet
77 Our approach
78 Business protocols during the pandemic
80 Renewable Energy Procurement
81 Energy and emissions reductions
82  Environmental specifications for new 
builds or retrofits
84 Waste minimization
87  Empowering the next generation of 
environmental change agents
Powering responsible and ethical  
governance
89 Corporate governance
90 Board composition
92 CSR governance
92 Managing Risk
92 Operating with integrity
94 Code of Business Conduct
96 Engaging stakeholders on what matters3448
5876
88
97 SASB index
99 GRI content index
107 Scholarship recipients8 Message from the CEO 
10 Executive summary
14 About Sallie Mae 
16 Sallie Mae at a glance
18 Our approach to CSR
19  Our CSR strategy pillars
20 Our contributions to the UNSDGs26  Helping students and families 
access higher education 
27 Our approach
28 Addressing confidence gaps 
30 Promoting diversity in higher education
Powering stronger, more  
resilient communities 
35 Our approach
35 Investing in our communities
36 Our social impact
40  Team members making a difference
41  Supporting our communities through the 
COVID-19 pandemic 
42  Team member spotlight
46 Powering purposeful partnershipsSallie Mae | 9
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COVID
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 9Sallie Mae | 9
Our acquisition of Nitro College earlier this year 
will allow us to reach and assist more students 
and families and meaningfully position Sallie 
Mae as an education solutions provider to, 
through, and immediately after college.  
In 2021, we also welcomed Lori Aiken as our 
Chief Diversity Officer. Lori has been making 
great strides in advancing our Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) strategy. You’ll see 
that mission-critical work also highlighted in 
this report. 
Looking forward, as we continue to help 
create a healthier, more inclusive, just, and 
equitable world, we’ll focus our attention 
on our carbon footprint, and we’ll find new 
solutions to strengthen and sustain our ESG 
efforts to conserve and restore our planet. 
We’ll also continue to be advocates for all 
students and families and foster a culture that 
drives our mission. I’m proud of our accomplishments this year 
and the progress we’re making at Sallie Mae. 
While there’s more work to be done, I’m 
excited for where we’re headed and the next 
chapter that lies ahead. 
  
Jon Witter  
Chief Executive Officer2021 was an undoubtedly challenging year. Across the globe, we 
faced an abundance of unknowns, obstacles, loss, and disruption to 
everyday routines and freedoms from the ongoing pandemic. Reasons 
for optimism, however, are all around us; a return to a new normal 
is very much underway for our customers, our communities, and 
our team members . And while the pandemic tested our mettle, our 
resiliency and resolve as people and as a company remained constant. 
Our passion continues to be grounded in Sallie 
Mae’s mission: to power confidence as students 
begin their unique journey.  That mission is 
especially personal to me. As the son of an 
immigrant father who achieved his “American 
Dream” through access to higher education, 
I am a living embodiment of the power of 
education. That mindset also burns bright in our 
more than 1,400 team members. They continue 
to deliver for our customers while supporting 
each other and growing and developing as 
individuals, together.
In living our mission, we are committed 
to our shared responsibility of being 
champions for change. We continue 
to challenge the status quo and 
advocate for solutions to advance 
access, equity, and social justice 
in higher education. I’m proud 
to report we assisted nearly 
400,000 students and families 
with their direct financial needs 
in 2021. We also provided tools, 
information, and services to 
millions of additional customers to help them simplify the college planning 
process, improve access, and support the 
completion of higher education. 
Our efforts to advance social justice and 
equality, further integrate sustainability in our 
communities, our environment, and our people, 
is highlighted in this year’s Corporate Social 
Responsibility report.
Specifically, in 2021 we focused on:
 •Supporting our customers and our team 
members during the COVID-19 pandemic;
 •Furthering our environmental, social, and 
corporate governance (ESG) commitments; 
 •Providing 289 scholarships to minority 
students and those from underserved 
communities, collectively worth more than 
$925,000 through our Bridging the Dream 
Scholarship program; and
 •Offering free confidence-inspiring tools and 
resources and products to help students and 
families make informed, responsible decisions 
about planning and financing their education.I’m proud of our accomplishments this year 
and the progress we’re making at Sallie Mae. 
While there’s more work to be done, I’m 
excited for where we’re headed and the next 
chapter that lies ahead.
Jon Witter,  
Chief Executive Officer
 
Message from the CEO ABOUTSallie Mae | 11
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
Executive summary 
The work we do at Sallie Mae is guided by our mission of powering 
confidence as students begin their unique, higher education 
journeys. This mission is also a key driver of our focus on Corporate 
Social Responsibility. It’s core to how we manage and measure 
our own impact and more broadly, how we create opportunities to 
access and complete higher education. Put simply, we are not only 
the leader in private student lending, but also an education solutions 
provider helping students and families on their journeys to, through, 
and immediately after college. 
Helping Students and Families Access Higher Education
We believe education, in all forms, is the foundation for success and a proven pathway to 
economic mobility. Achieving the dream of a higher education can open doors and create 
significant opportunities but at the same time planning and preparing for this significant 
investment can be confusing and stressful. For some, the lack of confidence is driven by 
affordability and access to funds. For others, the confidence gap goes deeper. Many students 
wonder if they are taking the right path to pursuing their dream or life vision. Many parents are 
wondering if they are setting their children up for success. And together, families are dealing with 
an enormous transition as students take their final steps to adulthood and independence.
They are looking for more than a lender; they want a partner that can offer them confidence and 
peace of mind to know they are making the right decisions for themselves and their families.
That is who we are at Sallie Mae. We’re committed to filling confidence gaps and helping  
students and families make informed decisions about college and their future. Whether a 
customer or not, we provide any and all students and families with free, and accessible tools  
and resources including: 
 •CollegeFit Pro  — helps families make the right college selection by displaying information about 
different majors, school locations, typical financial aid packages, and more. 
 •FreeMoney Pro — a one-stop-shop that features our Scholarship Search tool  — home to more 
than 6 million scholarships collectively worth up to $30 billion — and our Graduate School 
Scholarship Search tool — home to nearly 1 million graduate school scholarships worth more 
than $1.25 billion. It also includes tools to help families complete the Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid.  •OnCampus Pro  is an all-in-one resource that helps students make the grade with expert study 
help, and opportunities to explore internship and career opportunities. 
 •YourMoney Pro — a free resource that makes it easy for users to boost their financial confidence 
and create a plan to reach their goals.
 •We also added Nitro College  — a Delaware-based education solutions company — to help 
students and families evaluate how to responsibly plan and pay for college and manage their 
financial responsibilities after graduation.
We also want students and families to make informed, confident choices about paying for college 
and effectively managing debt. We advise them to follow a 1-2-3 approach to paying for college, 
which many times means not borrowing from Sallie Mae at all: 
 1.  Start with money you won’t have to pay back. Supplement college savings and income by 
maximizing scholarships, grants, and work-study.
2.  Explore federal student loans. We encourage students to explore federal student loan options 
by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.
3.  Consider a responsible private student loan.  Fill the gap between available resources and the 
cost of college. Our responsible lending philosophy also encourages students and their families 
to evaluate all anticipated monthly loan payments and how much the student expects to earn in 
the future before considering a private student loan.
Expanding Access and Opportunities to Underserved Communities 
Build a more equitable and just society means increasing and expanding opportunities through 
higher education to students of all backgrounds. Higher education can be a great equalizer, 
but only when all students can access it. Too often, that access is uneven and the students and 
families who need the most support — first generation college students, minority students, and 
those from underserved communities — are left behind or disproportionately borrow more to pay 
for college. 
Removing financial barriers through increased grants and scholarships — as opposed to loans — is 
one way to ease the burden on these students. In fact, one study found that every $1,000  in grants 
provided to students increase their chances of college completion by 1.5% to 2%.
Achieving equity in higher education means also ensuring underserved students have what 
they need to graduate. After all, getting students in the doors of colleges and universities is 
important, but helping them complete is equally critical. With this in mind, The Sallie Mae Fund, 
our charitable arm, launched several initiatives to drive equity in higher education, advancing both 
access and completion of college. In partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund, The Sallie Sallie Mae | 13
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
Mae Fund is providing scholarships to help minority students and those from underserved and 
underrepresented communities. Over the course of the next three years (2021-2023), $3 million 
in scholarships will be awarded to students through The Sallie Mae Fund’s Bridging the Dream 
Scholarship Program. 2021 highlights include:
 •The Bridging the Dream Scholarship for High School Seniors awarded nearly $250,000 in 
scholarships to 28 deserving minority students or those from underserved communities to help 
make the dream of higher education a reality. 
 •The Completing the Dream Scholarship awarded nearly $620,000 in scholarships to 255 
minority students at-risk of not completing due to financial emergencies or unpaid school bills.
We know much more work is needed to close achievement gaps and increase access to higher 
education. Sallie Mae is dedicated to finding, advocating, implementing solutions, continuing to 
offer free tools and resources as we work to improve more lives and uncover new opportunities.
Powering Stronger, More Resilient Communities
Advancing equity and inclusion in higher education also means supporting our communities 
through strategic philanthropic investments. Our philanthropy and volunteerism programs focus 
on providing financial and human resources to improve education and quality of life for students 
and families across the country and in the communities where our team members live, work, and 
serve. In 2021, our team members increased their volunteer time by 31%, delivering more than 
1,100 hours of service. 
Since April 2014, The Sallie Mae Fund has contributed more than $6.3 million in scholarships, 
grants, and matching gifts to support equity and inclusion in higher education and address key 
barriers to access and completion. 2021 highlights include:
 •Awarded $250,000 to nonprofit organizations helping to advance equity and social justice 
through educational programs and scholarships to Hispanic and LGBTQ+ students.
 •Awarded $50,000 in support of college scholarships to children and spouses of disabled and 
fallen military servicemembers.
 •Donated more than $46,000 through the company’s matching gift program to charitable 
organizations across the country.
Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Sallie Mae 
We’re committed to building a workplace where our team members can grow, thrive, and feel 
empowered to bring their full selves to work each day. We believe in appreciating uniqueness and 
putting relationships first to power personal and professional growth. Our focus is to build and 
sustain a culture that fosters that ongoing growth and also prioritizes the health and well-being of 
our team members and powers them to achieve great things. We aspire to be one of the most just 
and inclusive workplaces in America. We’ve onboarded a Chief Diversity Officer, formed a Diversity 
Council, and advanced the following initiatives: 
 •Our vendor management program encourages the use of privately held diverse suppliers that 
are 51% owned by a woman, minority, disabled veteran, LGBTQ+, or other diverse category.
 •Our Relationship Management team works closely with our Historically Black Colleges and Universities  (HBCUs) in activities ranging from national panel conversations to individual 
campus events — supporting financial wellness and planning and paying for college. 
Additionally, in 2021 we supported charitable events for Cheyney University  (our nation’s 
first HBCU) and Delaware State University,  all in support of access to higher education 
for minority students and those from underserved communities. 
 •We onboarded talent solutions experts with a substantial portfolio of diverse talent  
partnerships to expand our diverse sourcing  and hiring efforts.
We also implemented several programs to ensure we provided the safest workplace possible: 
 •Paid more than $344,000 to fully vaccinated team members as part of our vaccination 
incentive program.
 •Implemented a COVID-19 testing program for team members entering any of our Sallie 
Mae facilities.
 •Extended our transition back to the office as necessary and implemented appropriate 
safety measures at all facilities including enhanced cleaning and disinfecting protocols.
 •Provided team members with additional floating holidays to get COVID-19 vaccinations 
and boosters. 
Doing Our Part for the Planet
In 2021, we set a goal to reach zero solid waste at our Delaware sites, and we started 
exploring ways to source clean, renewable energy as part of our commitment to be an 
environmentally responsible business. We also purchased a WindPower Renewable Energy 
Certificate (RECs) from WGL Energy  — a Green-e® Energy certified product that meets the 
environmental and consumer protection standards set forth by the nonprofit Center for 
Resource Solutions (CRS). In addition to sourcing renewable energy, we remain focused on 
reducing our overall energy use including: 
 •Completed a two-year effort to upgrade all our facilities by retrofitting the air handling 
units at all our locations with bipolar ionization systems. These systems help maintain 
standard outside air intake percentages and contributes to better energy efficiency while 
maintaining healthy indoor air quality levels.
 •Installed indoor air quality monitors at our largest facilities to better monitor trends and 
anomalies in emissions in our interior spaces.
 •Continued to replace appliances and office electronics with more efficient models as 
existing equipment comes to end of life.
Conclusion
Sallie Mae plays a critical role in equipping students with the confidence and resources 
needed for lifelong success while addressing broader societal issues. We’re committed to 
using our platform to champion change by helping students access and complete their 
education — ensuring they start smart, learn big, and produce meaningful outcomes along 
the way. $3 million  
in scholarships over the  
next three years to  
minority students.
 $250,000  
Awarded to nonprofit 
organizations helping to 
advance social justice through 
educational programs  
and services designed to  
remove key barriers to  
access and completion  
among Hispanic and  
LGBTQ+ students.Sallie Mae | 15
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
Our products include:
Free planning and paying 
for college resources
Free tools to help students sharpen  
their financial know-how and college  
planning process. 
 Private Student Loans  
Responsible private student loans with 
competitive rates to help undergraduate and 
graduate students bridge the gap between 
the cost of higher education and the amount 
funded through financial aid, federal loans, 
and student and families’ resources. Savings Accounts  
Competitive savings products to help our 
customers grow their money and achieve their 
financial goals.
Credit Cards
Designed to help students and young adults 
build good credit, our credit cards reward 
financial responsibility, and encourage habits 
that lead to financial independence. 
 SLM Corporation, more commonly known as 
Sallie Mae, is the premier financial brand in higher 
education. We believe college should be affordable, 
equitable, and accessible for all students, and  
we’re committed to making that a reality. We are  
on a mission to power confidence as students  
begin their unique journeys—as an education 
solutions provider for students before, during,  
and immediately after college. 
As the leader in private education lending, we provide financing and expertise to support 
college access and completion. We simplify the college planning process by providing 
tools, resources, and information to help students and families make informed decisions 
and to improve access and support college completion through our scholarship 
programs and responsible financing options. Additionally, with our recent acquisition of 
Nitro College — a Delaware-based digital marketing and education solutions company — 
we will expand our reach to current and prospective college students and their parents, 
deliver new and exciting digital solutions, and further advance Sallie Mae as a broader 
education solutions provider for students before, during, and immediately after college. 
Sallie Mae’s approach to loans is shaped by our responsible lending philosophy — that 
students and families should not be overburdened with loans they won’t be able to repay. 
That is why we recommend that private loans should be used to fill the gap between 
resources available to students and the remaining cost of college, and not as a first 
resort. Simply put, students shouldn’t pay more for college than necessary.
In fact, taking out a private loan is the last step of our three-step approach used to guide 
students and their families through their options. The first step is to find money that won’t 
have to be paid back, or ‘free money’, such as scholarships and grants. The second step 
is to explore federal student loans by filling out the Free Application for Federal Student 
Aid (FAFSA®) and gaining access to the $120 billion in federal aid available through the 
government. The third step is to consider a responsible private student loan to fill the 
gap between available resources and the cost of college. When it’s time to finance 
their education, students and families can count on Sallie Mae to provide industry 
leading products designed with responsibility in mind. Before we lend a single dollar, we 
thoroughly evaluate a customer’s ability to repay — because the choices they make today 
will be the foundation for their tomorrow. As a result, 9 in 10 of our loans in repayment are 
being paid back on time and less than 2% defaulted in 2021. Learn more about our approach to increasing higher education access and completion, as well as 
our financial performance, in our Annual Report Form 10-K , filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). 
About Sallie Mae®Sallie Mae | 15
Sallie Mae | 15
ABOUTSallie Mae | 17
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUTSallie Mae | 17
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021January:  Launched new access and 
completion scholarships in partnership 
with Thurgood Marshall College Fund.
February:  Kicked off Sallie Mae’s 12 
“Quiet Days,” which provide team 
members the opportunity to recognize 
and celebrate the moments that are 
uniquely important to them. In 2021, 
Sallie Mae observed “Quiet Days” for 
the Lunar New Year, Holi, Good Friday, 
Easter Monday, Eid al-Fitr, Juneteenth, 
Pride Day, Pioneer Day, Rosh Hashanah, 
Yom Kippur, Diwali, and Hanukkah.
April: Hired Lori Aiken as Chief Diversity 
Officer.
Rolled out new Employee Volunteer 
and Matching Gift Platform: Mae-A-
Difference 365.
June: Implemented a $300 vaccination 
incentive program. As of December 31, 
2021, more than $344,000 had been 
paid to vaccinated employees.
Launched a companywide return to 
campus survey to collect valuable team 
member feedback. 
July:  Reopened Sallie Mae’s campuses 
to all team members on a volunteer 
basis, with enhanced safety protocols.
September:  Implemented a thorough 
COVID-19 testing program for all team 
members not fully vaccinated or who 
opted to not disclose their vaccination 
status. 
November:  Awarded $250,000 in 
Year Two Social Justice Grants to 
Hispanic Association of Colleges and 
Universities and Point Foundation.
Awarded $1,000 spot bonus, totaling 
nearly $1.3 million, to all team members 
up through and including Director level.
December: Offered free COVID-19 
rapid tests to all team members with 
1,016 test kits having been shipped by 
the end of 2021. $5.4 billion  
we authorized in Private  
Student Loans.In 2021, with the support of our 1,430 team 
members in 6 locations:2021 Sallie Mae Timeline
$3.61  
GAAP Diluted Earnings per  
Common Share
$1.8 million
Total charitable contributionsWe generated economic value for 
our team members, shareholders, 
and local communities, including:
$ 1.156 million
GAAP Net Income Attributable 
to Common Stock
Our mission: To power confidence as  
students begin their unique journey.
Our mission is our north star, a reminder to challenge 
higher education system, and challenge ourselves. 
Sallie Mae must be—and strives to be—a champion for 
change, helping students access and complete their 
education, and produce meaningful outcomes along 
the way. We help students start smart and learn big.
$925,869
in scholarships to minority students and 
those from underserved communities
(as part of a three-year $3 million commitment and 
partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund.) 
$250,000
in grants to advance and promote  
social justice. 
Sallie Mae at  
a glanceABOUT
9 in 10  
of our loans in repayment are 
being paid back on time.Less than
2%
of our loans 
defaulted in 2021.397,290
students and families we supported 
in financing their higher education.Sallie Mae | 19
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
Our aim is to increase access and opportunities for all through 
higher education. 
This mission is grounded in a CSR strategy that provides focus and structure for how we manage our own 
operational impact and use our influence to create opportunities for others. Our key stakeholders see us as 
uniquely positioned to create significant positive impacts in the world and we are rising to that challenge.
To make an even greater impact, we are evolving our CSR strategy to a more holistic approach with a focus on 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) opportunities. This approach will allow for increased engagement 
across the organization and help us to continue meeting the expectations of our customers, communities, 
team members, investors and other key stakeholders. This strategy will include our ESG priorities and for each 
priority area, a roadmap that outlines key activities, timelines, and strategic goals to measure our progress. Over 
the next three years, we will formalize and share this forward-looking strategy that will challenge us to further 
integrate sustainability into everything we do.Our approach to CSR
Our current CSR strategy continued to guide our activities  
in 2021 and addresses these five categories:
Disclosures on these priority ESG topics are provided throughout the report, and wherever quantitative  
data is not available, we provide qualitative disclosures in line with the GRI Standards’ reporting requirements.
We also align our strategy with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) relevant to 
our business. This leverages our opportunity for positive impact in support of UN efforts to promote quality 
education, advance equality, promote full and productive employment and decent work for all, and protect  
the planet. Community •Engagement and investment
 •Advancing underserved populations
Customers •Customer satisfaction
 •Helping customers through times of need
 •Fair and responsible lending
 •Data security and privacy
Team 
Members •Developing and nurturing a mission-led culture
 • A diverse and inclusive workforce
 • Providing training and development 
opportunities
Environment •Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace 
 •Renewable energy and emissions
Governance  
and Ethics •Business integrity 
 •Regulatory compliance
 •Risk assessment
 •Board diversitySallie Mae | 21
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
Contributing to the UN Sustainable  
Development Goals
In 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) as part of its 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. These 
SDGs are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and 
improve the lives and prospects of everyone around the globe. We support 
this call to action and see close alignment of many of our activities, as noted 
in the table below.
 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong learning 
opportunities for all
Target 2021 Initiatives Supporting this SDG
4.3:  
By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and 
men to affordable and quality technical, vocational, 
and tertiary education, including university  • About Sallie Mae
 •Partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund
 •Social Justice Grants
4.4:   
By 2030, substantially increase the number of 
youth and adults who have relevant skills, including 
technical and vocational skills, for employment, 
decent jobs, and entrepreneurship •Sallie Mae Family Scholarship Program
 •Free College Planning Tools and Resources
 •Support of Historically Black Colleges and Universities
Achieve gender equality and empower all  
women and girls
Target 2021 Initiatives Supporting this SDG
5.1:  
End all forms of discrimination  
against all women and girls everywhere. •Sallie Mae Code of Business Conduct
 •Sallie Mae Affirmative Action Policy 
 •Sallie Mae Board Diversity Policy
 •Annual Gender Pay Equity Reviews
5.4:   
Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work 
through the provision of public services, infrastructure 
and social protection policies and the promotion of 
shared responsibility within the household and the 
family as nationally appropriate. •Promoting Health and Well-being
 •Supporting Team Members Who Serve
5.5:   
Ensure women’s full and effective participation and 
equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of 
decision-making in political, economic and public life. • Board Composition
 •A diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace
Sallie Mae | 23
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, 
sustainable and modern energy for all
Target 2021 Initiatives Supporting this SDG
7.2:  
By 2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix • Renewable Energy Procurement
 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, full and productive 
employment and decent work for all
Target 2021 Initiatives Supporting this SDG
8.5:  
By 2030, achieve full and productive employment 
and decent work for all women and men, including 
for young people and persons with disabilities, and 
equal pay for work of equal value.  • Tuition Reimbursement
 •Support of military families
 •Folds of Honor
 •Annual Pay Equity Reviews
8.6:  
By 2030, substantially reduce the proportion of 
youth not in employment, education or training. •  Internship Program 
 •Bridging the Dream Scholarship Programs 
 •Sallie Mae Family Scholarship Program
 •Sallie Mae Scholarship Search tool
 •FAFSA Application Tool
Sallie Mae | 25
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ABOUT
 Reduce inequality within and among countries
Target 2021 Initiatives Supporting this SDG
10.2:  
By 2030, empower and promote the social, 
economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective 
of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, 
religion or economic or other status • A diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace
 •Partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund
 •Social Justice Grants
10.3:  
Ensure equal opportunity and reduce 
inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating 
discriminatory laws, policies and practices and 
promoting appropriate legislation, policies and 
action in this regard •Sallie Mae Code of Business Conduct
 •Sallie Mae Affirmative Action Policy 
 •Sallie Mae Board Diversity Policy
 •Sallie Mae Supplier Diversity Policy
 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for 
sustainable development, provide access to 
justice for all and build effective, accountable 
and inclusive institutions at all levels
Target 2021 Initiatives Supporting this SDG
16.5:  
Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all 
their forms • Code of Business Conduct
16.6:  
Develop effective, accountable and transparent 
institutions at all levels •Code of Business Conduct
16.7:  
Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and 
representative decision-making at all levels • 50/50 Women On Boards 
 •A diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace
Sallie Mae | 27
EQUALITY
Helping students and families 
access higher education
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Our approach
At Sallie Mae, we believe education, in all forms, is the foundation 
for success, an equalizer of opportunities, and a proven pathway to 
economic ability. We strive to be more than a lender by supporting every 
learning experience — whether it’s in the classroom or out in the real 
world. Our goal is to consistently provide innovative products, tools, and 
resources to empower more students and families to make informed 
decisions about their education. 
Since establishing ourselves as a stand-alone consumer bank in 2014, we 
have helped more than 1.4 million families finance their education — more 
than any other private student lender in the United States.
Earning a college degree provides a clear pathway to opportunity and 
a brighter future. College graduates receive more economic rewards 
throughout their lifetime, compared to those who leave school with no 
degree. Here’s what we know:
We understand too that planning and preparing for this significant 
investment can be confusing and stressful. Our latest research report, 
“College Confidence: What America Knows About Paying for College,” 
found that eight in 10 college-bound juniors and seniors (81%) view higher 
education as a path to better opportunities, but 42% of college-bound 
families agree they need help planning to pay for college, and 43% 
believe there are too few resources to help pay for higher education.1.  U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics: Education paysUnemployment rate 1
3.5%
college graduates
5.5%
non-completers$899
non-completersWeekly earnings 1
$1,334
college graduatesSallie Mae | 29
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022EQUALITY
Sallie Mae | 29
 
For more than 20 years, I’ve been involved with 
the Pennsylvania Association of Student Financial 
Aid Administrators (PASFAA)—leading college 
planning educational sessions and financial 
literacy panels geared toward college-bound 
families. Organizations like PASFAA allow me 
to empower the next generation of higher 
education students by providing them with the 
tips, tools, and resources they need to succeed.
Keri Neidig, Director, and recipient of the PASFAA Distinguished Service Award
 •An acquisition that harnesses innovative technology to meet the growing needs 
of our current and future customers. We acquired Nitro College  — a Delaware-
based education solutions company — this year to advance our brand as a 
broader education solutions provider and fill the confidence gaps students and 
families face when planning and paying for college.
 •Leading research, including How America Pays for College, How America Saves 
for College, How America Pays for Graduate School, How Young Adults Manage 
Their Finances, How America Plans for Post-secondary Education, College 
Confidence: What America Knows About Paying for College, and How America 
Completes College, provides insight into how American students and families 
approach higher education and finances. This research is regularly featured 
in the national media, referenced by regulators, policymakers and think tanks, 
and used by higher education institutions to monitor trends and make informed 
decisions for students and families.Addressing confidence gaps
We’re committed to filling these confidence gaps by providing students and families with 
free tools and resources, like scholarship finders, FAFSA support, and college-planning 
calculators to help them to, through, and after college.
These confidence-inspiring tools, resources, and information include: 
 • A tool that provides students and families with the resources to search for colleges, 
calculate their expenses, and fuel their career ambitions. CollegeFit Pro  helps families 
make the right college selection by displaying information about different majors, school 
locations, typical financial aid packages, and more. 
 •FreeMoney Pro  — a one-stop-shop that features our Scholarship Search tool  — home to 
more than 6 million scholarships collectively worth up to $30 billion — and our FAFSA tool  
that helps students and families complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid in 
about 8 minutes. This free resource also includes our Graduate School Scholarship Search 
tool — home to nearly 1 million graduate school scholarships worth more than $1.25 billion. 
 •An all-in-one resource that helps students make the grade with expert study help, find 
discounted classes, and earn real-world experience through internship opportunities. 
OnCampus Pro  empowers students with the resources they need to succeed inside and 
outside of the classroom. 
 •YourMoney Pro  — a free resource that makes it easy for users to boost their financial 
confidence and create a plan to reach their goals. After a user takes a money personality 
quiz to better understand their money habits and financial goals, this tool provides users 
with personalized tips and recommendations, and the ability to track their progress, to 
help them get where they want to go. Sallie Mae | 31
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022EQUALITYSallie Mae | 31
Receiving such an incredible recognition of my work has given 
me the opportunity to pursue a college education with lessened 
financial stress and introduced me to a support system of like-
minded students who are similarly interested in inciting positive 
change in their communities. I look forward to my college 
experience knowing that I have this financial support, and I plan 
on to make the most of this incredible opportunity. 
Aran GlynnSince I was a young girl, my dream was to attend Spelman 
college and become a Black woman that inspired younger 
Black girls. My biggest fear was not being able to afford 
to go to Spelman. This scholarship has truly helped take 
financial burdens off my family, and I believe I will reach 
my fullest potential by attending the college of my dreams
Fina Osei-Owusu
 
First-generation, low-income, and minority students face far too many 
obstacles in reaching and completing college, and without 
action, those inequities will persist. Through scholarship 
programs like The Sallie Mae Fund’s Bridging the Dream 
Scholarship, and partnerships with mission-aligned 
organizations like Thurgood Marshall College Fund, we 
can do our part to address these longstanding issues. 
This year’s recipients are a remarkable group of inspiring 
young adults who are well on their way to achieving great 
things — we can’t wait to see all that they accomplish.
Nicolas Jafarieh, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal, Government Affairs,  
and Communications Officer 
Promoting diversity and equity in higher 
education and advancing social justice
At Sallie Mae, we believe all students who desire to achieve 
a higher education deserve the support they need to 
make it happen. Higher education is a great equalizer, but 
only when students from all backgrounds can access it.
The Sallie Mae Fund launched a variety of initiatives to help drive equity in higher 
education, including a partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund to provide 
scholarships to help minority students not only access higher education, but also 
complete it. Over the course of the next three years (2021 — 2023), $3 million in 
scholarships will be awarded to students through The Sallie Mae Fund’s Bridging the 
Dream Scholarship Program.  
 
Specifically in 2021:
 • The Bridging the DreamSM Scholarship for High School Seniors awarded nearly 
$250,000 in scholarships to 28 deserving minority students to help make the 
dream of higher education a reality..
 • The Completing the DreamSM Scholarship awarded nearly $620,000 to 255 
minority students at-risk of not completing due to financial emergencies or unpaid 
school bills.
 • The Bridging the DreamSM Scholarship for Graduate Students awarded 
$60,000 to six students from minority and disadvantaged communities who are 
looking to use their degrees to advance social justice.  
See appendix for a list of scholarship recipients
 By 2023,  nearly 900 deserving students will receive scholarships to help them 
persist and succeed in higher education.
By 2023, nearly 
900  
deserving students  
will receive scholarships  
to help them persist and  
succeed in higher  
education.Sallie Mae | 33
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022EQUALITY
In addition to scholarships, Sallie Mae also continues to honor its $1.5 million 
commitment to help advance social justice by supporting nonprofit partners 
who remove obstacles to higher education for minorities and underserved 
communities. Since 2020, The Sallie Mae Fund has awarded $750,000 to 
deserving organizations.
In 2021, the Fund awarded its second  
round of social justice grants. A total of 
$250,000  
in grants—two $125,000 grants— 
to support of:
Hispanic Association of  
Colleges and Universities , the only 
national association representing 
more than 500 existing and emerging 
Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) in the 
United States, Latin America, and Spain.The Point Foundation , which  
helps LGBTQ+ students access and 
complete college, and offers services 
that counter bullying, promote 
confidence, and build experience 
through internship programs. 
In addition to being outstanding organizations with a combined 43-year 
track record for promoting diversity in higher education through educational 
programs and services that address key barriers to access and completion, 
both organizations align with The Fund’s mission and focus—as well as our 
commitment to help advance social justice through education. Since 2020, 
the combined demonstrated social impact of The Fund’s philanthropic 
investment in these organizations resulted in:
 
535  
internship placements 
221  
student scholarships 
685  
students received career  
and leadership training 
Throughout our 35-year history, we’ve been 
fortunate to create partnerships with individuals 
and organizations who champion our goal of 
advancing Hispanic student success. We look 
forward to our continued partnership with The 
Sallie Mae Fund and helping more Hispanic 
students excel in college, career and in service to 
their communities, across the nation, and abroad.”
Dr. Antonio R. Flores, 
President and CEO, Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities
As a company with a foundation in education, we remain committed to finding 
and implementing solutions that open doors, create opportunities, and leads 
to brighter futures. Much more work is needed to close achievement gaps 
and increase access to, and completion of, higher education. College should 
be affordable and accessible for all students, and Sallie Mae is dedicated to 
playing a part in creating a more just and equal society. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COMMUNITYSallie Mae | 35
Powering stronger,  
more resilient communities
Our approach 
Sallie Mae is committed to unlocking the potential 
of education, service, and partnerships through our 
strategic philanthropic investments.
Giving back to communities where we operate and our team members live, 
work, and serve is a central part of this commitment. Our investment in 
communities is also an important part of our culture and an expression of 
our Core Values.
Investing in our communities
Our philanthropy and volunteerism programs focus 
on providing financial and human resources to 
improve education and quality of life for students 
and families across the country.
Our community initiatives include grants, scholarships, and programs that 
allow team members to give back, such as employee gift matching and 
support of individual and team volunteer activities. 
Our volunteerism and community efforts are channeled through The Sallie 
Mae Fund and Sallie Mae Bank’s Community Reinvestment Act.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COMMUNITY
Our social impact 
$1.8 mill ion
Total charitable contributions in 2021 
(Includes Sallie Mae Fund, CRA*, All Scholarships,  
and Employee Giving)2021 Community Investment HighlightsSallie Mae | 37
*Includes CRA scholarships & grants$46,464  
Employee Matching Gift Program
$1,040,432
Scholarships and Contests$193.33 million
Community Reinvestment Act$ 350,000
The Sallie Mae Fund GrantsThe Sallie Mae Fund 
Since April 2014, The Sallie Mae Fund contributed more than $6.3 million to 
address key barriers to higher education access and completion, and to build 
more resilient communities..
2021 Highlights include:
SCHOLARSHIPS:
 • The Sallie Mae Fund, in partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund, 
awarded 289 scholarships—totaling more than $925,000—to help minority 
and other marginalized students access and complete their postsecondary 
education and help pay for graduate school.
GRANTS:
 • Awarded $250,000 to nonprofit organizations helping to advance social 
justice through educational programs and services designed to remove key 
barriers to access and completion among Hispanic and LGBTQ+ students.
 • Awarded $50,000 in support of college scholarships to children and spouses 
of disabled and fallen military servicemembers.
MATCHING GIFT:
 • Donated $46,464 through the company’s matching gift program to 
charitable organizations across the country.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COMMUNITY
Sallie Mae | 39
Community Reinvestment Act
Under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), federally insured depository 
institutions, like Sallie Mae Bank, support the needs of low- and moderate-income 
neighborhoods in the communities where they are located. Sallie Mae Bank, which 
is chartered in Utah, focuses on underserved communities in five Utah counties, 
providing access to finance through consumer and community development 
lending, qualified investments, grants to community development organizations, 
and education scholarships for low and moderate-income individuals.
Grants provided in the community by Sallie Mae Bank include a focus on 
scholarships and community development, and our investments are guided by our 
CRA Strategic Plan that is approved by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
STRENGTHENING OUR COMMUNITIES
Sallie Mae Bank met its CRA scholarships and grants funding goal of $330,000 
in 2021. Of the $330,000 donated, more than 50 scholarships totaling $220,000 
were awarded to first-generation and underserved students. Additionally, the bank 
contributed $110,000 to community development organizations that help address 
the top needs in the community, including affordable housing, youth services, 
childcare services, and financial literacy education. 
ADVANCING AFFORDABLE HOUSING SOLUTIONS IN UTAH
Additionally, Sallie Mae Bank made nearly $193 million in new investments to support 
low- and -moderate income housing and affordable housing projects in Utah.
PROMOTING TEAM MEMBER VOLUNTEERISM IN UTAH
Team members exceeded our CRA service goal as well, spending nearly 125 hours 
with various community organizations, including but not limited to, the Father and 
Families Coalition of Utah, People Helping People Inc, Utah Food Bank, and Rocky 
Mountain Community Reinvestment Corporation.
Supporting the communities where our team 
members live, work, and serve is integral to our 
culture and mission. As a bank, we look to not only 
meet but also exceed requirements laid out in 
the Community Reinvestment Act. Through our 
continued efforts in Utah, I’m proud to report we 
continue to do just that. Put simply, as a trusted 
corporate citizen and engaged community partner, 
it’s the right thing to do.
Dan Kennedy, Executive Vice President, Chief Operational Officer,  
and President of Sallie Mae BankIn 2021,
$193  
million   
in new investments supporting  
low- and-moderate-income and  
affordable housing projects.
$220,000
in scholarships to low-to- 
moderate -income students
$110,000
in grants to community 
development organizations, 
and received an “Outstanding” 
on CRA Exams—fourth 
consecutive year.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COMMUNITYSallie Mae | 41
Team members making a difference
Our team members demonstrate commitment to our 
communities through participation in volunteer activities 
and charitable giving.
Sallie Mae’s employee giving programs, which provides team members with 48 
hours per year of paid time off specifically for volunteering, and gift matching up 
to $1,000.—seek to amplify our team members’ impact as they contribute to the 
causes they care most about. 
In May of 2021, we introduced our new employee volunteer and matching gift 
platform: Mae-A-Difference 365. Mae-A-Difference 365 is powered by YourCause: 
CSRconnect and provides a simplified and intuitive experience for team members 
to log volunteer hours and request matching gifts.
In response to the exceptional needs in our communities, our team members 
increased their volunteer time this year by 31%, delivering more than 1,100 hours of 
service. Team members also maximized their charitable giving by donating more 
than $46,000 through the company’s matching gift program to deserving nonprofit 
organizations. We view these efforts as extensions of our core mission. Strong 
communities become the launching pads for students’ academic endeavors.Supporting our communities through the 
COVID-19 pandemic
Giving back and making a difference in our communities 
is core to our business and values.
Our team members have continued to go above and beyond to help those 
members in our communities navigate the impact of COVID-19. Specifically, 
team members donated more than $9,800 through the company’s matching 
gift program to local food banks, pantries, and other hunger relief organizations 
across the country, including:In 2021,  
our team members 
contributed to 
MORE THAN
100
charitable  
organizations.
Team members increase  
their volunteer time by 
31%
 1,100
hours of service
$46,464
through the company’s 
matching gift program  
to deserving nonprofit 
organizations
 •Capital Area Food Bank
 •Food Bank of Delaware
 •Second Helping, Inc.
 •Care and Share Food Bank for 
Southern Colorado
 •Central Mission
 •Food Bank of South Jersey
 •Share our Strength
 •Chester County Food Bank
 •Freestore Food Bank
 •Sunday Breakfast Mission •Community Food Bank of New Jersey
 •Gleaners Food Bank of Indiana
 •The Greater Boston Food Bank
 •Connecticut Food Bank
 •Hancock County Food Pantry
 •Utah Food Bank
 •Feeding America
 •Long Island Cares, Inc.
 •Food and Friends
 •Project Bread — The Walk for Hunger
 
When the pandemic began, the impact on our 
community was very personal for me. I’m grateful 
to be in a position now to help others and donated 
as much as I could while also using Sallie Mae’s 
employee matching gift program to increase the 
power of my donation.
Kathy Edwards, 
Senior Director, Vendor Management
Sallie Mae | 43
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COMMUNITY
Team member spotlight:
Christopher Killian, Education Coordinator  
(Delaware)
As the founder of the Delaware Foundation Football League, a co-ed youth flag  
football program, Chris leverages the game of football to instill important life 
lessons that the players carry with them long after they've hung up their cleats. 
Since 2019, Chris and team have taught the values of character, determination, 
and discipline to more than 300 of Delaware’s youth.
Youth sports is arguably the greatest character 
builder for children. When coached properly, 
it teaches responsibility and accountability, 
develops leadership skills, and broadens the 
understanding that there are no shortcuts—
hard work pays off. Football is my passion, and I 
am fortunate to be able to use the game I love to 
help develop children into solid citizens!
Andrea Huggins, Senior Executive Administrative  
Assistant (Utah)
Andrea has been a mentor with Big Brothers Big Sisters for the past three years.  
Monthly, she volunteers her time and talents to be a positive influence and  
example for a local student. She often draws on the breadth of her experience  
and knowledge to help her mentee learn new things, gain new skills, and grow  
as a person.
I am passionate about mentoring and helping  
children build self-confidence during their early  
years and the Big Brother Big Sister mentoring 
program helps serve that purpose. I’ve witnessed 
firsthand what at-risk children go through and 
knowing that I can be there to provide support 
not only through difficult times, but good times as 
well, makes this experience so rewarding.
Minh Ngoc Nguyen, Vice President and Associate  
General Counsel (Delaware)
Since 2018, Minh Ngoc has served as the primary attorney advisor for Howard High School of Technology 
students participating in the Delaware High School Mock Trial Competition. Annually, with the assistance 
of members of Sallie Mae’s Legal Department, Minh Ngoc mentors and provides guidance to students 
as they prepare to simulate a civil or criminal trial by assuming the roles as the attorneys for plaintiff and 
defendant. Additionally, she has continued to share college planning resources, scholarship information, 
and raised money to cover the cost of graduation costs for participating seniors.
It’s been extremely rewarding to help 
coordinate an exercise that helps students 
develop an understanding of, and respect 
for the law. They're also building skills 
that are essential for college interviews, 
class participation, job interviews, 
and other scenarios students are sure 
to encounter. With the support of my 
colleagues, we are truly living our mission 
and supporting the higher education goals 
of these deserving students.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COMMUNITYSallie Mae | 45
Ventrice Shanklin-King, Vice President, Region Head – Sales  
(California)
Serves on advisory councils for OneFuture Coachella Valley and Growing Inland 
Achievement (GIA). Both are college readiness organizations that help students 
and families prepare for college, administer financial literacy and student success 
programs, and provide access to scholarships for minorities and underserved students.
The two most important things I’ve learned from 
volunteering are that we have to collaborate 
if we want to see change in our communities 
and we must be the voice for the voiceless. 
We each have the power to leave a positive 
stamp on this world, while sprinkling kindness 
and joy along the way.
Faizal Chaudhury, Vice President, Internal Audit and Deputy 
Chief Audit Officer (Delaware)
Serves as an Executive Committee member at CAIR-Philadelphia, a civil rights and 
advocacy group promoting justice and empowering American Muslims. In addition 
to his service at CAIR-Philadelphia, Faizal also serves as a member of the Board of 
Directors of the Islamic Society of Delaware and the Delaware National Guard  
Youth Foundation.
As an American Muslim,  
I support CAIR-Philadelphia 
because it connects people 
of all faiths and cultures 
in order to safeguard our 
religious freedom, promote 
mutual understanding and 
combat hate and media bias.
Jennifer Camelio, Vice President, Brand (Massachusetts)
Jennifer has been a volunteer with Girls Scouts of Eastern Massachusetts since 2017.  
As a troop leader, she coordinates programs, activities, and projects that develop a range 
of new skills that build self-confidence and leadership, as well as form and maintain healthy 
relationships. With three daughters enrolled as Girl Scouts, Jennifer sees firsthand the positive 
impact of the organization and its dedicated volunteers.
It’s all about building confidence. 
I’m helping young girls build 
confidence and I'm proud to 
do my small part in developing  
our next generation of strong 
female leaders who can take  
on the world. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022COMMUNITYFinancial Literacy 
 
Teamed up with personal finance influencers to 
discuss the importance of saving and money 
management with minority communities; 
including the Debt Free Guys — David and John 
— for the LGBTQ+ community, Athena Lent from 
MoneySmartLatina for the Latinx community, and, 
Patrice Washington for the black community. 
iGRAD
Partnered with IGrad to offer comprehensive 
customized and interactive information for students, 
including how to build and maintain good credit, 
budgeting and money management tips and tools, 
and student loan/debt management information.
JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT 
Collaboration with several Junior Achievement  
USA networks to provide resources at local Inspire 
events in Florida, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and  
Utah to raise awareness of the importance of  
the FAFSA, scholarships and 123’s of Paying for 
College Resources.
State Partnerships 
 MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
Partnered to offer high school counselor training and 
student/parent sessions supporting awareness for 
finding free money with scholarships and importance 
of completing the FAFSA. 
 KANSAS STATE TREASURER’S OFFICE
Cobranded our scholarship search tool to create 
the Kansas ScholarShop and co-presented with the 
Treasurer promoting the importance of scholarships 
and finding free money for college. MISSOURI STATE TREASURER’S OFFICE
Helped create the “Show Me the Money” site featuring 
our scholarship search tool and supporting virtual 
events promoting scholarships and saving for college.
GEARUP AND TRIO 
We continue to collaborate with State GearUp and 
TRIO offices from Hawaii to Alabama providing 
sessions and resources to help students and families 
access higher education.
Confidence Inspiring tools  
and resources 
FRANK
Partnered with Frank to offer a free, fast, and easy way 
to complete your FAFSA. Frank is a financial platform 
that helps college students manage their financial aid 
and student debt. 
Student Success
CHEGG 
Sallie Mae and Chegg partnered in 2017 to offer Study 
Starter, a unique and exclusive benefit for Sallie Mae 
student loan customers that provides students with 
four months of free Chegg Study with 24/7 access to 
textbooks, writing support, tutoring, and studying help.
HANDSHAKE
Partnered with Handshake to help college students 
and recent grads jump start their professional careers 
by offering online access to internships, career advice, 
student reviews of employers, and virtual job fairs.
Sallie Mae | 47
Powering purposeful partnerships
To reach more students and cultivate their financial know-how, 
we partner with individuals and organizations with the right 
expertise and a history of success. 
Support to students attending Historically Black Colleges  
and Universities 
THURGOOD MARSHALL COLLEGE FUND 
Partnered with Thurgood Marshall College Fund to provide 
minority students scholarships to not only access and begin 
their education journey, but also complete it
DELAWARE STATE UNIVERSITY 
Contributed nearly $20,000 to fund scholarship opportunities for Delaware State 
University students. 
CHEYNEY UNIVERSITY 
Corporate sponsor for inaugural scholarship event to support students at Cheyney 
University, the nation’s oldest HBCU.
Sallie Mae Relationship Management Team 
Works with HBCUs  in activities ranging from national panel conversations to individual  
campus events — supporting financial wellness and planning and paying for college.
There’s an old Chinese proverb that states — Education 
breeds confidence and confidence breeds hope.  
At Sallie Mae, education and awareness are at the core 
of our efforts to promote the importance of financial 
education. Financial literacy empowers communities 
and understanding the basic concepts of budgeting, 
saving, spending, borrowing, and using credit 
promotes financial independence. But where we teach 
financial literacy is just as important as what we teach. 
And that’s why our focus on minority and underbanked 
communities is important. 
Donna Vieira, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Sallie Mae
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022CUSTOMERSSallie Mae | 49
Powering our customers
Our approach 
Our aim is to help students and families access, afford, 
and complete college, and ultimately graduate with less 
debt. Sallie Mae’s private student loans are a responsible 
option to cover college costs that remain unmet after 
scholarships, savings, and federal financial aid.
Over the past few years, we’ve implemented several improvements in our ability 
to interact with our customers, including:
 •An integrated platform that allows customers and servicing agents to 
streamline our processes and provide efficiencies, creating more customer-
centric capabilities for our team members 
 •An online chat function for customer service 
 •A mobile application accessible through smart phones and the Apple watch.
If a customer is experiencing hardship, we work to understand their financial 
circumstances and identify any available alternative arrangements designed 
to reduce monthly payment obligations and help them return to solid financial 
footing. These can include extended repayment schedules, temporary interest 
rate reductions and, if appropriate, short-term hardship forbearance, suited to 
their individual circumstances. 
By meeting our customers where they are, and helping them understand their 
options, we’re not only helping them make smart, thoughtful financial decisions, 
but also, we’re powering them with confidence to achieve their goals. 
Excellent customer care 
means valuing the customer, 
putting their needs first, and 
providing them with helpful 
and timely information and 
resources. Our goal is to 
make our customers feel 
confident and reassured in 
their decisions and exceed 
expectations—every time.
Amy Hrycak, Manager, Office of the 
Customer AdvocateCorporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022CUSTOMERS
Sallie Mae | 51
Fair and responsible lending
Helping students and families unlock the power of 
higher education begins with making it easier for 
families to understand the full range of financing options 
available before they apply for assistance and loans.
While we know each family’s strategy to plan and pay for college is different, we 
recommend families follow a three-step approach to financing their education:
1.  Start with money you won’t have to pay back.  
Loans should never be the first option to pay for college. Students should 
supplement college savings and income by maximizing scholarships, grants, 
and work-study. 
2.  Explore federal student loans.   
We encourage students to explore federal student loan options by 
completing the FAFSA. Too many families skip the FAFSA which means 
they’re potentially missing out on thousands of dollars in financial aid.
3.  Consider a responsible private student loan.   
Sometimes, after accounting for savings, scholarships, grants, and federal 
financial aid, there’s still a gap. That’s where a responsible private student 
loan can make sense. Often secured with a cosigner, these loans go through 
underwriting to ensure customers will be able to manage them successfully. 
Our lending philosophy also encourages students and their families to 
evaluate all anticipated monthly loan payments and how much the student 
expects to earn in the future before considering a private student loan.Sallie Mae is firmly committed to making credit products available to 
consumers on a fair, consistent, and responsible basis. We comply with 
all applicable fair lending laws and do not discriminate against applicants 
regarding any aspect of a credit transaction on a prohibited basis. Fair 
lending is not only a basic responsibility for all team members, but also 
good business. Our Fair Lending Program provides supporting guidance 
and sets expectations on the controls, standards, and practices outlined 
in our Fair Lending Philosophy. The best interests of our customers are 
front-and-center and integral to our responsible lending philosophy, and we 
reward financial responsibility, emphasize building good credit, and provide 
flexible repayment terms to help customers manage and eliminate debt.
9 in 10 
of our loans in repayment are 
being paid back on time.Less than
2%
of our loans 
defaulted in 2021.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022CUSTOMERS
Sallie Mae | 53
Since 2014, The Sallie Mae Fund  
has contributed more than
$375,000  
to Folds of Honor.Supporting military families
We provide veterans and service members with year-
round resources and benefits. We employ a team 
of customer service advisors who are dedicated to 
working with military families to provide unique and 
personal assistance. 
This devoted group can help customers with military-specific benefits, make 
arrangements for their loans while they are deployed, and supports them as they 
transition back to school or into repayment. 
In addition, supporting our team members on active duty is also core to our 
mission and culture. Just like our customers, team members on active duty and 
their families have unique needs. We offer flexible scheduling and time off for 
training and deployment and extend salary and benefits for active duty above 
and beyond what's required by state or federal law. It's another way of saying 
thank you for their service and simply put, it's the right thing to do.
We also support military service members through our philanthropic efforts. Last 
year, The Sallie Mae Fund reinforced its commitment to military service members 
and their families with a $50,000 grant to Folds of Honor. The grant supported 
college scholarships to children and spouses of disabled and fallen military 
servicemembers. Since 2014, The Sallie Mae Fund has contributed more than 
$375,000 to Folds of Honor. 
These consistent efforts have been recognized by the Delaware Employer 
Support of the Guard and Reserve, which presented Sallie Mae with the Pro Patria 
Award, its highest honor, in 2018.Supporting customers amid the COVID-19 pandemic
Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, helping our 
customers navigate these challenging times and complete 
their individual higher education journeys remains paramount. 
To do that, we have continued to assist our customers with 
solutions tailored specifically for them. 
In response to the economic repercussions of the pandemic’s onset in March 2020, Sallie 
Mae proactively deployed multiple forms of assistance and relief to provide customers 
with the tools and resources to manage their private student loans, make or postpone 
payments, and request hardship relief through a specially designed COVID-19 forbearance 
program. To further strengthen our communication during these unprecedented times 
and connect customers with the assistance they needed, we promptly enhanced our 
customer service channels by increasing functionality of our online chat tools, automated 
phone system, mobile app, and website. These measures helped to limit financial stress 
early in the pandemic and helped lead to a faster recovery with customers returning to 
regular payments.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 55
CUSTOMERSSallie Mae | 55
Our website provides consumers with 
tips on how to avoid online fraud, as 
well as how to spot student loan debt 
relief scams.
Utilizing pattern recognition 
programs and systemsMaintaining web access 
security features, including 
multi-factor authentication
Automating customer 
verification and fraud 
detection software
Utilizing several lines  
of defense, including,  
but not limited to, 
comprehensive and 
independent internal audits 
that evaluate compliance 
with our policiesTraining team members 
in fraud prevention and 
detection practices and 
ensuring managers of risk 
are independent from the 
functions they monitor
Implementing tools to  
further enhance customer 
identity processesSome of the tools we use to identify  
and prevent fraud include:
Segregating duties, 
transaction limits and 
restricted access to data 
systems and dual controlsProtecting our customers' information
Protecting our customers’ personal information and 
safeguarding their accounts is a top priority. We’re 
constantly evaluating and improving our systems to 
defend against fraudulent activity.Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Our customers trust when they bank with us, their data 
will remain safe and secure, and our attention to data 
security and privacy is engrained in our culture.
To effectively safeguard data and customer privacy, we start with policies and 
procedures governing enterprise-wide information security and privacy controls 
and practices. These policies are approved by the management level Enterprise 
Risk Committee and applicable Committee(s) of our Board of Directors. All 
policies and procedures are reviewed at least annually to ensure they include 
appropriate legal and regulatory updates.
When unexpected events such as the COVID-19 pandemic occur, we take 
significant precautions to maintain a consistent approach to safeguarding our 
customers’ data. During the pandemic, our teams provided updates to the 
regulatory agencies as needed to keep them aware of the support provided to 
team members and customers and to ensure increased scrutiny is applied to 
our customer privacy practices, we increased data privacy testing controls from 
semi-annual to monthly.
In addition, Sallie Mae has a comprehensive suite of privacy disclosures, 
available on our website . These disclosures include:
 • The Privacy Notice provided to all customers at time of application and 
annually thereafter, which describes Sallie Mae’s privacy principles and 
practices regarding our relationship with our customers and how we collect 
and share their information with our affiliates and outside companies;
 • The Online Privacy Policy describing Sallie Mae’s practices concerning the 
collection and use of information gathered from or about our online visitors 
and registered users; and
 • The California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) addendum applying to 
California residents and supplements our Online Privacy Policy, which 
describes our privacy principles and practices and provides instructions on 
how to exercise their rights under the CCPA.
Sallie Mae falls under state and federal regulatory oversight and examination 
(generally the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau, and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions). In 
addition, Information Security and Privacy undergo regular audits from 
our independent internal auditors. These examinations and audits ensure 
compliance with certain standards and legal compliance. We are active in 
several industry associations such as the American Bankers Association, 
International Association of Privacy Professionals, and the Financial Services 
Information Sharing and Analysis Center.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 57
CUSTOMERS
The Privacy Officer oversees the implementation and effectiveness of the privacy 
program throughout all business units and processes. This ensures that there is 
regular testing and monitoring allowing for the early capture of potential issues. 
As laws come into effect or change, the Privacy Officer is closely aligned with the 
legal department to ensure that senior management is informed, and the affected 
business units are engaged to ensure their systems are updated, their team 
members are educated, and their practices are in line with the applicable laws. 
Team members and authorized service providers are granted system and personal 
information access only when necessary to perform their functions.  
Our third-party management office and risk partner teams ensure that service 
providers’ security and privacy controls are thoroughly reviewed and monitored  
prior to and during the engagement. 
Our Chief Security Officer and Corporate Security establish and monitor  
the relevant and necessary standards, protocols, and management processes for 
cyber security. We have developed comprehensive data privacy and security-related 
internal policies and procedures which dictate requirements and controls that 
protect customer and company information. These include, but are not limited to, 
the Corporate Information Security Program, Customer Information Safeguarding 
Program, Information Security Policy, and Privacy Policy and Procedures.
Our policies and procedures are examined regularly by internal and external auditors, 
bank regulators, and third-party consultants. In addition, our vendors, contractors, 
and consultants are subject to security and privacy policies and contract provisions 
as appropriate for the services or products being provided. 
Our comprehensive privacy policy is publicly available on our website. It sets forth 
the data privacy practices related to the collection, use, and sharing of customer 
information across Sallie Mae products and business lines. 
Team member training
Our team members are our greatest asset, and we provide 
a variety of training and curriculum to advance their 
knowledge surrounding the latest trends affecting data 
privacy and security. 
Our training continually assesses our workforce and educates them on topics 
such as mitigating threats posted by phishing emails, and other forms of social 
engineering, and how to report data privacy events or other suspicious activity.  
In 2021, our team members received more than 23,000 hours of training.
We enhance this security awareness employee training annually to ensure it covers 
current and evolving threats, and applies best practices to keep our customer, 
employee, and company data safe. Sallie Mae | 57
Incident response program
Our comprehensive Cybersecurity Incident Response 
Program is constantly evolving and sets forth detailed 
enterprise-wide policies and procedures for responding 
to a cybersecurity event. 
The procedures are tested through periodic cybersecurity incident response 
exercises, led by independent third-party experts. These exercises are designed 
to resemble real life situations, they challenge us to both test and rehearse our 
response and decision-making protocols, and participation by key executives 
and senior management is mandated.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 59
Powering our team members
Our approach 
Through a culture that drives our mission, we’re committed 
to building a workplace that inspires commitment, rewards 
performance, and where our team members can grow, 
thrive, and feel empowered to bring their full selves to work 
each day. Our focus is to build and sustain a culture that 
fosters ongoing growth, prioritizes health and well-being, 
and powers our team members to achieve great things.
At Sallie Mae we are committed to becoming the 
most just, inclusive, and greatest place to work 
in the country. We are committed to making our 
team members successful as they achieve great 
things for our customers.
William Wolf, Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer
35% FemaleVPs and up
65% Male53% FemaleOverall
47% Male
39% FemaleSenior Level
61% Male
67% FemaleHourly Employees
33% Male53% FemaleProfessionals
47% Male51% FemaleManagers
49% Male
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 61Sallie Mae | 61Sallie Mae | 61
Geographic  
Distribution
66 Virginia
337 Indiana 
804 Delaware
51 Massachusetts
44 Utah
128 Remote O/f_f.shortice 376 in Christiana and
428 in Newark 
75% Non-DiverseVPs and up
25% Diverse62% Non-DiverseOverall
38% Diverse
81% Non-DiverseSenior Level
19% Diverse
42% Non-DiverseHourly Employees
58% Diverse60% Non-DiverseProfessionals
40% Diverse71% Non-DiverseManagers
29% DiverseOur workforce
Gender
Generations
12% Baby Boomers
40% Generation X
45% Millennials
3% Generation ZAge
Racial/Ethnic DiversityTEAMSallie Mae | 63
Q&A with Lori Aiken
Sallie Mae’s Chief Diversity Officer
Q.  What are your broader thoughts and approach  
to DE&I? 
A.  At Sallie Mae, we know that an engaged team member – someone who 
brings their whole heart and mind to their Sallie Mae journey – ensures our 
further success in the marketplace. By delivering on both the moral and 
business imperative of DE&I, we create a space where our team members feel 
empowered to bring their true and most authentic selves to work each day. 
We must be intentional about creating an environment where all our team 
members feel they belong and where they can contribute at the highest levels.A diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace
With a diverse population of team members who all have 
their own unique journeys, our goal is for everyone to feel 
seen, understood, respected, valued, safe, recognized, and 
rewarded. By continuously looking through a diversity, equity, 
and inclusion (DE&I) lens and having DE&I be a staple of our 
mission, culture, and ongoing learning at Sallie Mae, we will 
become the most inclusive and just workplace in America.Q.  How does DE&I tie into the overall culture and  
strategy at Sallie Mae? 
A.  Our power is in our people! A fully integrated DE&I strategy sits at the forefront 
of the success of our strategic imperatives and to achieve that success as a firm 
requires our PEOPLE. It ties us to who we are as a company and is foundational 
to our culture. We know our audiences want to do business with companies who 
share their values, which is why it is critical to ensure our internal and external DE&I 
narratives mirror one another and reflect the premium we place on those efforts. 
This work is not just about a moment in time, but rather a movement. 
Q.  Are there any specific areas of focus that will help advance 
DE&I at Sallie Mae?
A.  In 2021, we did a lot of work to develop a thoughtful and intentional DE&I strategy 
that takes into consideration how we show up in the community, our recruiting and 
hiring, and our ability to grow and develop our talent. Following that approach, we 
developed a DE&I framework consisting of four key areas of focus:  
 •The WORKFORCE  – building and cultivating a diverse pipeline of talent that 
ensures we hire individuals with diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and 
experiences – at all levels;  
 •The WORKPLACE  – fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging where all team 
members have equal access to growth and development; 
 •The MARKETPLACE  – serving the needs of our customers by understanding and 
delivering on the expectations of our diverse consumer base. Providing fair and 
equitable access to our suppliers and vendors, and  
 •The COMMUNITY  – demonstrating corporate citizenship and social responsibility 
through our community leadership, volunteerism, and philanthropic efforts.   
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 63
Chief Diversity Officer, Lori Aiken joined Sallie Mae in April of 
2021. With an impressive background in human resources, talent 
management, and creating and reinforcing cultures focused on 
DE&I, she leads the charge at Sallie Mae to ensure DE&I is woven 
into the fabric of our culture. Since her arrival, she 
has identified key areas of focus serving as the 
strategy to further our DE&I footprint. Here’s 
a closer look at Sallie Mae’s DE&I journey.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 65
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Q. How did Sallie Mae advance DE&I in 2021?
A.  We’re making significant progress and now, we’re just taking it to a whole new 
level, being laser-focused in those four areas and building upon our successes. 
Some examples of the progress we’ve made advancing DE&I in 2021 include:
 • Our vendor management program encourages the use of privately held 
diverse suppliers that are 51% owned by a woman, minority, disabled veteran, 
LGBTQ, or other diverse category.  
 •The Sallie Mae Fund, in partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund 
(TMCF), is awarding $3 million  in scholarships over the next three years. 
The Fund has also contributed $250,000 ($125k each) to the Hispanic 
Association of Colleges and Universities  (HACU) and Point Foundation  –  
the nation’s largest scholarship-granting organization for lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) students-- over the last two years, in support 
of the advancement of social justice, diversity, inclusion, and equality.   
 •Through both our Sallie Mae and SmartyPig brands, we’ve worked 
with content contributors and experts from and in support of the LGBTQ+ 
community. We’ve also worked with partners to support Hispanic and African 
American communities.   
 •Our Relationship Management team works closely with our Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities  (HBCUs) in activities ranging from national 
panel conversations to individual campus events – supporting financial 
wellness and planning and paying for college. Additionally, in 2021 we 
supported charitable events for Cheyney University  (our nation’s first HBCU) 
and Delaware State University,  all in support of access to higher education 
for minority students and those from underserved communities.   
 •We onboarded talent solutions experts with a substantial portfolio of diverse 
talent  partnerships to expand our diverse sourcing  and hiring efforts.  Q.  Looking ahead, what can you share on the horizon for 2022? 
A.  We have a lot of exciting initiatives in the works to continue to engage with our team 
members in 2022 and beyond. We’re launching a firm-wide DE&I learning experience 
designed to foster a common understanding of DE&I as a strategic lever. We’re also using 
data and analytics to determine where we can bolster our DE&I efforts within our people-
related practices such as recruiting, development, talent assessment, and related areas. 
Lastly, we formed the Diversity Council, comprised of professionals from around the 
organization who are charged with providing thought leadership and ambassadorship to 
our DE&I efforts. Through their leadership, we look forward to making even more progress 
in 2022 to further integrate DE&I as a staple within our broader culture and brand.
Q.  What does success look like when it comes to DE&I?
A.  Honestly, the truth is the work and our efforts to successfully sustain DE&I in our culture 
will be ongoing. As we continue to build our DE&I muscle, our efforts will migrate from a 
compliance and programmatic approach to a more leader-led and fully integrated model. 
Continuing down the path we’re on and maintaining our momentum in executing our 
strategy will be a win for our customers, our shareholders, and our team members.
TEAM
As a female and a Latina, having the opportunity 
to advocate for my colleagues of different 
backgrounds and with unique experiences is both 
a privilege, and a gift. This work to create and 
sustain an environment where all team members 
feel they belong, they are supported, and heard is 
monumental, inspiring, and transformational.
Jennifer Ruiz, DE&I Council MemberCorporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 67
TEAM
Thriving amidst a pandemic
In 2021, we continued to navigate the COVID-19 
pandemic in a variety of ways.
As we did in 2020, we have continued to provide our team members with the 
ability to work from home. We also implemented several other programs in 2021 to 
ensure we provide the safest workplace possible. 
 •Provided team members with additional floating holidays to get COVID-19 
vaccinations and boosters.
 • Paid more than $344,000  to fully vaccinated team members as part of our 
incentive program.
 • Partnered with Appian to implement a COVID-19 testing program for team 
members entering any of our Sallie Mae facilities.
 • Implemented mask-wearing and social distancing policies throughout  
our campuses.
Additionally, we extended our transition date back to the office as necessary, 
consistently enhanced our safety protocols, and created and introduced new 
working models to allow for more flexibility. 
From the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, our top 
priority has been the health, safety, and wellbeing of 
our team members. By following and staying true to our 
guiding principles in our decision-making and deferring 
to science, our goal has and will continue to be to 
create the safest possible workplace for everyone.
Michael Colantonio, Director, Business Continuity and Crisis ManagementOngoing growth and development
Ensuring team members can pursue fulfilling and 
rewarding careers at Sallie Mae, through access 
to new opportunities, mentorship, leadership 
development, and management training, is a key part 
of our roadmap to success. In turn, we believe that 
a crucial component of growth and development is 
ongoing communication between team members  
and their managers.  
NEW IN 2021
Redesigned Performance Feedback Process:
Last year, to drive performance-based outcomes and promote ongoing 
growth, we redesigned our goal-setting and performance feedback processes. 
The new process provided leaders and managers with tools to develop 
outcomes-based goals and assess performance against these outcomes. As 
part of the process, we introduced quarterly business check-ins encouraging 
leaders and team members to have frequent, thoughtful, and valuable 
conversations on a quarterly basis. Feedback from our culture survey shows 
that – because of this work across the company – 93% of team members know 
what is expected of them. 
Employer Value Proposition
To highlight Sallie Mae’s culture and all the great benefits and opportunities 
we offer not only to potential candidates, but also our current team members, 
we developed an Employer Value Proposition in 2021. By clearly defining Sallie 
Mae’s Employer Value 
Proposition, we are setting 
consistent expectations for 
our current team members 
to thrive and succeed while 
positioning us to attract 
and retain high performing, 
diverse talent.
Mark Chaump,  
Senior Director, Talent Brand,  
Strategy & Experience
By the end of 2021,  
Sallie Mae issued over
$344K
in vaccine incentives to 
team members with nearly 
1,150  
team members reporting 
that they were fully 
vaccinated for COVID-19.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022TEAMSallie Mae | 69
A culture of feedback
As we continue to advance an inclusive culture 
where our team members feel heard, seen, and most 
importantly valued, we have several other methods that 
allow team members to provide feedback including: 
 •an open-door policy with all managers; 
 • a weekly message from our CEO with a survey embedded and an email inbox 
designed to receive feedback;
 • quarterly town halls with our CEO where all team members can submit 
questions in advance and during the meeting; 
 •regular employee engagement surveys; and
 •quarterly performance check-ins.
Investing in our people
In 2021, Sallie Mae financially invested in our people 
through a variety of ways:
 • Meaningfully increasing the merit pool so we can reward strong performers 
and continue to drive outcomes and performance in 2022. 
 • Adjusting our overall incentive plans, and compensation to reward 
performance and outcomes.
 • Adjusting our base rates of pay and increased our minimum starting pay rate 
for hourly workers to $20 per hour.
 • Providing a $1,000 spot bonus to all team members up through Director level. 
 • Continuing to offer team members participation in Sallie Mae’s Employee 
Stock Purchase PlanRecognizing our people
Delivering our mission requires passion, commitment, 
and creativity that only comes when we care deeply 
about what we are doing.
Our work is critically important to the customers and communities we serve, 
and we can do more to create a strong sense of purpose within the company. 
This requires engaging with team members and connecting our mission to  
our values.
Moments that Matter Recognition Program
Empowering our team members to do great things is also another fundamental 
piece of fostering a sense of inclusion and belonging at Sallie Mae. 
In 2021, we launched our Moments that Matter Recognition Program to provide 
opportunities for team members to recognize others for living our mission. 
 • In 2021, team members sent 1,706 Moments that Matter recognitions to their 
peers living the mission.
 • The outcome of this work and the reinforcement from teams and  
leaders across the company resulted in 88% of team members knowing  
our mission .
Internal mobility
Our Task Force Program creates opportunities for team members to develop 
skills and broaden their experience by working in other areas of the business 
during periods where those areas require short-term resources for special 
projects, leaves of absence, or other critical business initiatives. In 2021,  
11 team members participated in a task force role at Sallie Mae.By immersing myself in the 
Task Force Program, I was 
able to connect and work with 
team members on the Talent 
Acquisition team. As someone 
who was always interested in 
this area of the business, I was 
thrilled for the opportunity 
to learn a whole new job 
function, but even more 
excited for the opportunity to 
join the team full-time.
Kawana Walker,  
Talent Acquisition Coordinator
Sallie Mae provided 
$20 per hour  
for hourly workers 
$1,000 
spot bonus to all team members  
up through Director levelHighlights from our 
team member surveys
88%
of Sallie Mae team 
members know  
the mission.
agree their fellow team  
members are committed 
to doing great work.85%
93%
of Sallie Mae team 
members know what is 
expected of them at work.
agree they have the 
materials and equipment 
to do their work right.85%Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 71
TEAM
Fostering future talent
In a competitive job market, it is critical to not only 
develop existing team members, but also strategically 
and intentionally foster future talent. 
In addition to ongoing recruiting efforts at local colleges and universities, we 
have targeted internship programs that attract the very best and brightest to the 
Sallie Mae team. In the summer of 2021, we hosted a total of 35 interns working in 
departments across the organization. Even working in a remote environment, our 
interns gained real world, firsthand experience aimed at fostering future success.
In the almost eight months I was with Sallie Mae,  
I learned more than I could have ever expected to 
learn in a few years. My internship has taught me 
invaluable skills, pushed me to spare no effort, and 
ultimately left me excited for my career. Thank you, 
Sallie Mae, for making me feel involved, included,  
and welcomed.
Laura Matusheski, University of Delaware Student and Sallie Mae intern
Just as our mission is to power confidence as 
students begin their journeys, Sallie Mae has 
done the same for my daughter through 
the Family Scholarship program. As 
a recipient of the scholarship, my 
daughter has been able to attend 
her preferred college, on a path 
forward to an aspired career and 
to achieving her dreams. Thank 
you, Sallie Mae, for this amazing 
opportunity; we are grateful!
Carmen Harten,  
Daughter is recipient of Sallie Mae’s Family ScholarshipTuition reimbursement
Powering students along their higher education 
journey is our purpose, and sometimes, those 
students are our own team members.
We offer up to $10,000 tuition reimbursement annually for courses or 
degrees related to their job. Covered costs include tuition, fees, books, 
supplies and equipment.
 In 2021, 107 team members used tuition reimbursement to continue 
their pursuit of higher education. Nearly 350 team members  have taken 
advantage of the benefit since inception.
Family Scholarship Program
Each year, our Family Scholarship Program  
offers financial assistance to children of our  
team members who plan to attend college  
or a vocational-technical school. 
The program awards ten deserving young people with a $5,000 scholarship, 
which may be renewed for up to three years or until a degree or certificate 
is earned. Since the inception of this program, we have awarded more than 
$1,055,500 in scholarships to our children of our team members.Sallie Mae is committed to 
providing innovative tools and 
resources to empower more 
students to access and complete 
their higher education — and 
the same applies to our team 
members. Our company’s tuition 
reimbursement program has 
allowed me to advance my 
own education and complete a 
Master of Business Administration 
degree in Liberal Studies with a 
concentration in HR management 
nearly debt-free.
April Andrioli, Total Rewards Operations Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 73
TEAM
Promoting health and wellbeing
We recognize team members are balancing their 
physical, emotional, professional, and financial  
well-being. 
Through a competitive health benefits program, we offer multiple insurance plans 
with dental, vision, disability, life and accident insurance, paid bereavement leave, 
and disability coverage to both full and part time team members.
In 2021, we continued to evolve our benefits coverage to meet 
the needs of team members during the pandemic. 
 • We provided coverage for COVID-19 diagnosis and testing at no cost to 
our team members, and expanded testing and treatment to include diagnostic 
testing for other viruses.
 • We adjusted our health plans to ensure they covered the COVID-19 
vaccinations as a preventive service. 
 • We offered team members the ability to make prospective mid-year elections 
for flexible spending accounts .
We continued to offer a strong foundational benefits  
package, including:
 • our 401(k)-matching program with a company match, dollar for dollar  
up to 5 percent of team member contributions ; 
 • 12 weeks of paid leave for primary caregivers and four weeks paid leave  
for secondary caregivers at 100% of pay rate ;
 • a relationship with Care.com®  to connect team members with care givers,  
pet sitters, and more during times of need; and
 •an adoption reimbursement of $10,000 .
80%of our team 
members believe our 
benefits programs 
meet their  
respective needs.Sallie Mae provided 
12,696 hours  
of primary parental leave 
3,459 hours  
of secondary parental leaveLast year my wife and I welcomed our son 
Eli into our family. Having a child is such 
an amazing, yet scary and hectic time in 
your life. I am very appreciative of Sallie 
Mae’s parental leave policy which 
allowed me to spend time 
with my family without 
having to worry about 
juggling a brand-new 
baby and work.
David Strickland,  
Director, Pull-Through 
Optimization
Sallie Mae  
incurred an 
8.6%  
increase in health  
benefits costs.  
We believe there is a strong connection between 
employee health and well-being and our ability 
to thrive and do great things. That is why we 
provide a comprehensive suite of health and 
wellness benefits to help our team members lead 
healthier and happier lives.
Michael Castello, Vice President of Total Rewards at Sallie Mae
To maintain the health benefit 
costs flat for team members,  
Sallie Mae paid more than 
$1 million  
to cover the increase in cost.In 2021,
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022TEAM
Sallie Mae | 75
Healthy lifestyles
We love to see our team members thrive through active 
lifestyles and we strive to support them by providing lifestyle 
coaching, biometric screening and online tools. 
In addition to traditional healthcare benefits, our “Get Up & Go” wellness program 
supports the integration and long-term adoption of healthy habits and behaviors for 
our team members. Team members earn healthcare premium credits for participation 
in various activities throughout the year, including annual health assessments and 
biometric screenings, wellness Lunch n’ Learns, daily healthy challenges, quarterly 
challenges, and financial wellness activities. Supporting team members who serve
For team members on active military duty and their 
families, Sallie Mae serves as a resource and aids the 
transition to and from military duty by continuing salary 
and benefits beyond what is required by law, and by 
offering flexible work schedules during military training.
In 2018, we received the Pro Patria Award from the Delaware State Committee 
of the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), which recognizes a 
company’s exemplary support to National Guardsmen and Reservists through 
service, community outreach, and personnel policies that make it easier for 
team members to serve.
Knowing Sallie Mae continued to support my family 
and me during my deployment last year, provided 
the peace of mind necessary for me to focus 
on serving our country. Sallie Mae’s support of 
members on active military duty and their families 
goes well beyond that I’ve ever known.
Jannah Williams, Collector at Sallie Mae
Mural at Sallie Mae Christiana Road facility in Delaware painted in 2021 by Jannah Williams.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ENVIRONMENT
Sallie Mae | 77
Doing our part for  
the planet
Our approach 
Our team of facilities experts actively manages our 
environmental impact.
We are constantly searching for opportunities to reduce our energy use and 
associated greenhouse gas emissions, design and retrofit our office spaces 
with more sustainable materials and minimize the amount of waste generated 
in our offices. In 2021, we met with our trash and recycling vendor and set 
ambition to reach zero solid waste at our Delaware sites and we started 
exploring ways to source clean, renewable energy as part of our commitment 
to be an environmentally responsible business. We also continued to safeguard 
the health and safety of employees working in our facilities.
The transition to a clean energy economy has 
its challenges and Sallie Mae is stepping up to 
them. Our first step was purchasing Green-e® 
Energy certified RECS for our operations, but we 
can play a larger role in bringing new renewable 
clean energy into the grid. We will continue to 
explore those options while also taking steps to 
reduce our overall energy consumption.
Larry Zepp, Vice President, Facilities and Operations
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ENVIRONMENTSallie Mae | 79
Seating  
capacityTo assure proper spacing during 
Covid-19 for common areas, 
conference rooms, and  
employee seating$68,000
 
Building 
mechanical 
augmentationsInstalled Dielectric Barrier  
Discharge Bipolar Ionization  
equipment and specialty air  
filters at both DE facilities;  
installed operation controls & CO 2 
sensors at our Delaware and Indiana 
offices. Installations at all locations 
completed by Q3 2021.$812,000
Furniture 
enhancements 
and interior safety 
mechanismsPurchase and installation of cube 
stackers, enclave protective guards, 
floor decals, floor mats, sanitary 
door openers$385,500 
Personal sanitizing 
& safety productsMasks, gloves, hand sanitizer 
dispensers and refills, antibacterial 
wipes, infrared thermometers$45,600 
Cleaning  
productsSanitizing wipes, buckets, specialty 
industrial grade cleaners$4,500
Cleaning  
eventsEnhanced cleaning  
in all sites$80,200
Café  
subsidiesSubsidies paid for both Delaware 
facilities and our facility in Indiana$482,000
 TYPE SUMMARY EXPENSE(S) STATUS
 
 We have taken the following steps to create a safe and healthy workplace:
Completed with 
floor plan seating 
charts available 
for each site
OngoingBusiness protocols during the  
COVID-19  pandemic
We continued t o uphold strict health and safety protocols 
in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in 2021. 
Sallie Mae continued to make significant investments to 
keep our team members and facilities safe.
The following measures were part of our health and  
safety protocols:
 • Established masking and testing 
policies in accordance with national  
and local requirements 
 • Launched workforce safety  
mobile application to safely manage 
facility access  • Instituted an incentive program for team 
members to get vaccinated 
 • Outlined hybrid work models to provide 
team members with the flexibility  
they desire
These measures were in addition to the following previously 
established health and safety protocols:
 • Required hands-free temperature 
checks to gain entry to our buildings.
 • Provided face coverings and hand 
sanitizer available at all locations.
 • Implemented a weekly health 
attestation for anyone coming into  
our offices. • Posted clear and highly visible 
signage in each office identifying the 
requirements to enter, including lack  
of symptoms.
 • Implemented an “At Risk: self-reporting 
survey” to help address concerns for 
team members with pre-existing health 
conditions, those caring for elderly 
family members, or those with  
childcare concerns. Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 81
ENVIRONMENT
Energy and emissions reduction
In addition to sourcing renewable energy, we remain  
focused on reducing our overall energy use. Highlights  
from 2021 include:
 • Completed a two-year effort to upgrade all our facilities by retrofitting the air 
handling units at all of our locations with bipolar ionization systems. These 
systems help maintain standard outside air intake percentages and contribute 
to better energy efficiency while maintaining healthy indoor air quality levels, 
 • Installed indoor air quality monitors at our largest facilities to better monitor 
trends and anomalies in emissions in our interior spaces, and
 • Continued to replace appliances and office electronics with more efficient 
models as existing equipment comes to end of life.
To make progress on GHG emissions reduction, we know we need to calculate 
our comprehensive carbon footprint and are embarking on an effort to generate 
our baseline. Investors and other stakeholders are looking for enhanced 
disclosure on our climate strategy, including a summary of the potential risks 
and opportunities our business faces in the short and medium term from climate 
change. We are committed to building out our future ESG reporting in line 
with the recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD).
Total electricity use includes only purchased electricity and reflects electricity used at our two largest 
locations, our headquarters in Newark and our Christiana Road office. This represents over 60% of our total 
location portfolio electricity use.Renewable energy procurement
We are excited to announce that in 2021, we purchased WindPower Renewable 
Energy Certificate (RECs) from WGL Energy . WindPower from WGL Energy 
is Green-e® Energy certified and is a product that meets the environmental 
and consumer protection standards set forth by the nonprofit Center for 
Resource Solutions (CRS). We have purchased enough wind power to match 
our electricity use at our two largest locations, our headquarters in Newark 
and our Christiana Road office, representing of our Delaware location power 
consumption, and more than 60% of our total location portfolio electricity use.
To further advance our climate strategy, we are exploring longer-term 
opportunities to put more renewable energy into the grid through  
Virtual Purchase Power Agreements (VPPAs) as well as onsite renewable  
energy generation.
2,348.8  MWh  
Total Electricity Use  2021  
in Megawatt-Hour (MWh)Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ENVIRONMENTSallie Mae | 83
Environmental specifications for new builds  
or retrofits 
Being good environmental stewards requires thoughtfulness 
about the materials we use when designing and furnishing 
new and existing office spaces.
Our facilities team has developed a set of environmentally preferable standards to 
inform our design, retrofit, maintenance and demolition practices. Most recently, these 
standards guided the renovation of our executive office area, including the addition of 
a boardroom complete with lighting upgrades and additional use of clear glass walls to 
enhance indoor lighting with the blending of natural and LED light.
The following formal specifications help us design and execute projects in an 
environmentally conscious manner, and with the health and wellbeing of our team 
members in mind. Where applicable, the specifications are aligned with the U.S. Green 
Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) qualifications 
and credits.
 Environmentally Preferable Standards for Office  
Design and Retrofits
 • Carpet: Our carpets are certified 
and assessed for human health and 
environmental impact, are Greenguard 
Certified® and PVC free, and newest 
carpets are subject to the Cradle-to-
Cradle certification from the Products 
Innovation Institute. 
 •Paint: We used low volatile organic 
compound (VOC) paints.
 • Ceramic Tile: We procured tile  
that is composed of pre-consumer  
recycled materials.
 • Plumbing: We install low-flow toilets and 
faucets for water conservation, and auto-
flush and touchless faucets for both 
human health and environmental impact. 
 • Electrical distribution for general 
office areas: We incorporated  
time-of-day switched outlets for  
non-critical circuits.
 • Ceiling Tile: We used tiles that are 
Greenguard Gold Certified, have low 
VOC emissions, and are comprised of 
more than 73% recycled material. • Lighting: We utilized energy efficient 
LED lighting for all lighting retrofits and  
exit signage. 
 • Lighting controls:  We install lighting 
controls that take advantage of daylight; 
we install occupancy and vacancy 
sensors; we incorporate the use of 
manual dimming controls resulting in 
energy gains of 50%.
 • HVAC: We installed automation  
system controls for HVAC systems  
and zoned temperature controls  
with centrally controlled variable  
air volume controllers.
 • Cleaning products and services:   
We require janitorial teams to use green 
certified products, such as those with 
the Green Seal certification, and have 
established key criteria for janitorial 
services to ensure more sustainable 
cleaning methods are followed.Our demolition 
specification outlines 
our objectives to 
maximize the amount 
of material for reuse or 
recycling, to minimize 
contribution to landfills.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022ENVIRONMENT121 metric  
tons of CO 2 
equivalent  
Preventing greenhouse  
gas emissions
209,503  
gallons of  
water
Enough to meet the fresh  
water needs of 2,793  
people for a year
Sallie Mae | 85
Waste Minimization
Early in 2020, we set a corporate objective to send zero 
waste to landfill.
Achieving this will require us to change our mindset and adjust many of our current 
practices but we are already making progress and have several highlights from 
2021. We look for ways to avoid generating waste in the first place and have also 
put a robust recycling program in place at each site. For all non-hazardous waste 
generated at our Delaware sites that cannot be recycled or reused, we are exploring 
options to deliver that waste to a Waste-to-Energy facility in a neighboring state.
2021 Highlights:
 • Recycled nearly 5000 pieces of obsolete IT equipment in an environmentally 
responsible manner, which equated to close to 41,000 pounds of material,
 • Discontinued the use of individual desktop printers at all sites and shifted to multi-
function devices, 
 • Installed carpets in our newest renovation at our Christiana Road office that are 
cradle-to-cradle certified meaning those carpets at end of life will be returned 
directly to the manufacturer for recycling or downcycling, and 
 • Continued to make progress in the transition of our customer correspondence from 
paper billing to electronic statements.These recycling efforts conserved the following resources:* Our Delaware locations represent 60% of our total portfolio of office space by square 
footage and 56% by headcount. 
Land/f.shortilledDiverted
We have 
saved:
109.4 tons34.0  tons
23.7%Cardboard
25 tons20 tons15 tons10 tons5 tons0Paper Glass Aluminum Plastic
22.47.5 2.60.7 0.7
Land/f.shortilledDiverted
We have 
saved:
109.4 tons34.0  tons
23.7%Cardboard
25 tons20 tons15 tons10 tons5 tons0Paper Glass Aluminum Plastic
22.47.5 2.60.7 0.7
449 trees  
Enough to produce 5,562,297  
sheets of newspaper
123 cubic  
yards of  
landfill space
Enough airspace to meet the  
disposal needs of 157 people
54,269 kW-hrs  
of electricity
Enough to power 5 homes for a  
full year2021 Waste and Recycling Summary: Delaware Locations*
Land/f.shortilledDiverted
We have 
saved:
109.4 tons34.0  tons
23.7%Cardboard
25 tons20 tons15 tons10 tons5 tons0Paper Glass Aluminum Plastic
22.47.5 2.60.7 0.7
Land/f.shortilledDiverted
We have 
saved:
109.4 tons34.0  tons
23.7%Cardboard
25 tons20 tons15 tons10 tons5 tons0Paper Glass Aluminum Plastic
22.47.5 2.60.7 0.7
Land/f.shortilledDiverted
We have 
saved:
109.4 tons34.0  tons
23.7%Cardboard
25 tons20 tons15 tons10 tons5 tons0Paper Glass Aluminum Plastic
22.47.5 2.60.7 0.7
Land/f.shortilledDiverted
We have 
saved:
109.4 tons34.0  tons
23.7%Cardboard
25 tons20 tons15 tons10 tons5 tons0Paper Glass Aluminum Plastic
22.47.5 2.60.7 0.7Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022Sallie Mae | 87
ENVIRONMENT
Customers by Statement Delivery TypeEmpowering the next generation of 
environmental change agents
The nature of our business positions us uniquely to  
support the next generation of passionate environmental 
change agents. It’s their work that will ensure we address 
climate change and are able to sustain life as we know it.  
We are proud to play a part in preparing them through 
higher education.
When our customers graduate, they go on to pursue  
their dreams of careers in:
 •Sustainable Agriculture  
 •Renewable Energy  
 • Sustainable Product and  
Packaging Design
 •Watershed Management 
 •Green Building  
 •Sustainable Forestry  
 • Clean Tech Innovation  
and Development
 •Sustainable Chemistry • Sustainable Transportation  
Systems and Logistics  
 •Environmental Education  
 •Marine Biology 
 •Water Conservation
 •Ecology and Research  
 • Sustainable Materials  
Management
 •Environmental Law
 •Sustainability Consultingof customers had opted to 
receive their statements 
electronically.90%
This represents an  
increase in adoption of 
6%
since 2018 when we 
introduced the electronic 
statement.0500 K1M1.5M2M2.5M
Electronic Co-Signer Statements  Paper Statements Electronic Customer Statements2020 2019 2018 2021241,679690,292694,610
212,7271,119,204807,206
251,9181,092,785774,106
265,4431,004,054682,2332,139,137 2,118,809
1,951,730
1,626,581Sallie Mae | 89
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Powering responsible  
and ethical governance
Corporate governance 
Sallie Mae’s corporate governance framework is 
formed by our overarching code of conduct, corporate 
governance policies, Board committee charters, 
certificate of incorporation, and bylaws.
In following our corporate governance framework and fueling a strong 
commitment to diversity, corporate ethics and integrity, and business expertise, 
we have continued to build and maintain a diverse and effective Board of Directors. 
Our Board is composed of 11 independent directors and our Chief Executive 
Officer, Jon Witter. All members of our Board bring expertise relevant to our 
business and an unwavering commitment to operating ethically and with integrity. 
We continue to recruit Board members with vast experience and diversity to help 
us with emerging and regulatory requirements, navigate changing market needs, 
and guide our advancements in the technology and customer experience space. 
In 2021, we welcomed the appointments of Ted Manvitz  and Samuel Ramsey  
to our Board of Directors, while Carter Franke  completed her first full year as our 
Board Chair.  
Maintaining a responsible, ethical, and diverse 
governance function at Sallie Mae is critical to our 
continued success in delivering for our customers. 
I am proud to work alongside my fellow Board 
members in upholding these important values  
that help us to truly achieve our mission.”  
Carter Franke,  
Chair of Sallie Mae’s Board of Directors 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
Key corporate governance policies and practices are available 
in the Governance  section of our website.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCESallie Mae | 91
Board Composition
 
Our Nominations and Governance Committee recognizes 
the great value in diversity of experience, background, and 
perspective.
Currently, we have four female board members, comprising 33% of the Board. Our Board is committed to 
providing oversight of the company’s strategy and performance in an effective and constructive manner, 
with the goal of representing the best interests of our shareholders and balancing those with the interests 
of our customers, team members, and regulators.As of December 31, 2021
89%Say on Pay   
(executive compensation)   
for vote at 2021 Annual 
Shareholder MeetingTenure of members of 
the Board of DirectorsOur Board of Directors is 
comprised of 33% women and 
has been recognized by 50/50 
Women On Boards as a company 
with a 3+ Board rating.
8.3% 11 to 15 Years41.7% 0 to 5 Years
50% 6 to 10 Years
 
BOARD SIZE1292% BOARD INDEPENDENCE (11 OF 12)33%Women  4 OUT OF 12 
BO
ARD DIVERSITY (GENDER – WOMEN REPRESENTATION) 
YES Independent  
Chair
Fostering diversity in the board room opens doors to 
countless new ideas, opportunities, and business 
solutions. As we work to power confidence in 
students from all backgrounds, the different 
perspectives we gain from our diverse Board of 
Directors helps us address business challenges 
we face today, support our team members, and 
empower our customers to do great things.
Ted Manvitz, independent director on Sallie Mae’s Board of Directors Sallie Mae | 91
TOTAL NUMBER OF DIRECTORS 12
PART I:  
GENDER IDENTITY FEMALE MALE NON-BINARYDID NOT 
DISCLOSE
Directors 4 8
PART II:  
DEMOGRAPHIC BACKGROUND
African American 1
Alaskan Native or Native American
Asian
Hispanic or Latinx
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander
White 3 7
Two or More Races or Ethnicities
LGBTQ+ 1
Did Not Disclose Demographic 
Background1
As of December 31, 2021Board Diversity Matrix 
Pursuant to Nasdaq’s Board Diversity Rule, which was approved by the SEC on August 6, 2021, Board diversity 
disclosure is provided in the table below as of December 31, 2021. The Company is in compliance with the 
Nasdaq Board Diversity Rule as at least one director self-identifies as female and at least one additional director 
self-identifies as an underrepresented minority or LGBTQ+.  
Sallie Mae | 93
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CSR Governance
Various functions are committed to CSR  
initiatives, and team members work to ensure  
the appropriate and strategic alignment and management 
of such programs. These teams include Human 
Resources, Customer Operations, Legal, Corporate 
Communications, Marketing, and Information Security. 
Sallie Mae’s leaders provide guidance, oversight, and 
accountability for strategy and performance outcomes. 
Managing Risk
A strong risk management function drives efficiency and innovation in how we 
serve our customers. Effective risk management drives us to simplify processes 
and examine how we work. We strive to not only meet our regulatory requirements, 
but also build next generation risk management capabilities across the Company. 
These capabilities enable us to deliver our promise to our customers as they begin 
their unique journeys.  
There is risk inherent in all of Sallie Mae’s business activities. It is the Company’s 
policy to develop, maintain and allocate appropriate resources to an enterprise-wide 
risk management program that supports the Company’s desired sound risk culture, 
the strategic objectives, and that meets the expectations of our key stakeholders.  
Operating with integrity
How we uphold our promise of integrity. 
Our Code of Business Conduct 
and Employee Training  outline clear 
principles and expectations to help our 
team members do the right thing.   
Code of Conduct Hotline and Website 
provides our team members with an anonymous 
reporting channel to escalate Code concerns. Our Enterprise Risk Management Program 
enables effective risk mitigation through our 
risk management framework.  
Our comprehensive Compliance 
Management System helps us identify, 
manage, and mitigate regulatory risks. Our Robust Data Security and Privacy Program starts with 
policies governing enterprise-wide controls and practices 
that are approved by the Operational and Compliance Risk 
Committee of our Board of Directors.  
Our experienced Chief Security Officer and Corporate Security 
Group leverage best-in-class strategies, tactics, and 
technology to protect customer data.Our Office of the Customer Advocate, a team 
of 10 dedicated employees, is committed to 
researching and resolving concerns received 
through various channels and improving the 
overall customer experience.   
Our Legal Department advises and reviews all of 
our policies and practices and provides counsel 
that adds rigor to all compliance activities
Issue Tracking and Root Cause Analysis is 
a collaborative approach by the Company to 
research, report, and remediate breakdowns. Doing right by all our key stakeholders
 •Communities
 •Customers
 •Team members •Partners
 • Government  
& regulators • NGO & academic 
 •Investors  Building next generation risk management 
capabilities is a foundational component of our 
mission to power confidence as students begin 
their unique journeys. I’m incredibly excited 
to lead this effort at Sallie Mae as we invest in 
industry-leading risk management capabilities 
that meet the needs of our customers, regulators, 
investors, and Board of Directors.
Kerri Palmer, Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer
Our Board of Directors serve in an oversight capacity ensuring that Sallie Mae’s  
risks are managed through effective governance and management structures.  
The Board and the Board-level governance committees provide oversight of the 
Risk Management Framework and play an integral role in ensuring that all elements 
are operating as designed and are effective.  
In addition, the Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring the effective 
implementation of the Company’s strategy and providing oversight and governance 
for the Company’s operations and risk-taking activities. The Executive Committee 
also oversees the strategic risks of the Company. 
The Risk Management organization provides regular and comprehensive reporting 
on the state of risk to the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors.Sallie Mae | 95
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Code of business conduct
Our Code of Business Conduct is the foundation of our ethics program. It outlines 
the principles and expectations for Sallie Mae team members, officers, directors, and 
contractors. Each new team member is expected to review the Code of Business 
Conduct upon joining Sallie Mae and annually thereafter. Adherence to Sallie Mae’s 
Code of Conduct is a condition of employment and violations can result in disciplinary 
action up to and including termination of employment.  
As part of our Code of Business Conduct program, we provide annual training to our 
team members and assistance when they have questions. Team member training 
covers a wide range of topics and business practices including anti-corruption, 
proper use of technology, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, conducting business 
with foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy. Our Board of Directors 
also receive annual training on our Code of Business Conduct. Board training covers 
topics including appropriate conduct, conflicts of interest and other ethical concerns, 
mechanisms to report potential conflicts or unethical conduct, and fostering a culture 
of openness and accountability.  
We continue to strengthen our Code of Business Conduct program to ensure we 
do the right thing and meet the expectations of our customers, regulators, and 
communities we serve.    
REPORTING CONCERNS
The Sallie Mae Code of Conduct hotline and website provides team members, 
contractors, vendors, and suppliers with a resource to report potential breaches of the 
Code without fear of retaliation. The anonymous hotline and website are operated by 
an independent third party and is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week. When 
received, investigations are handled timely and confidentially. Incidents of fraud and 
theft will be referred for criminal prosecution when appropriate. Sallie Mae does not 
retaliate against any employee who reports questionable activity or asks questions 
related to the Code.    APPROACH TO PUBLIC POLICY 
Our current policy on political activities outlines the principles and guidelines 
regarding engagement and advocacy. We comply with all federal, state, and local 
lobbying registration and disclosure requirements.  
Currently, we engage in lobbying activities exclusively related to matters that 
directly or indirectly affect our business. Our senior vice president of Government 
Relations manages external, bipartisan consulting firms that assist with the same 
objectives, and we report the expenditures made to these firms in our lobbying 
disclosures. Our involvement with industry associations is limited to those 
associations comprised of financial institutions with similar interests. 
Quarterly disclosures detailing lobbying activities and expenditures are posted 
online by the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Secretary of 
the U.S. Senate. Disclosures relating to contributions by our Political Action 
Committee are made to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and posted on 
the FEC website.  
THE SALLIE MAE POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE 
In June 2015, we formed the Sallie Mae Political Action Committee (PAC). Our PAC 
is governed by an Advisory Board composed of six team members representing 
different divisions within the Sallie Mae organization. The PAC’s Advisory Board 
reviews and approves all PAC and corporate political contributions and evaluates 
candidates based on issues that impact the organization or our team members. 
Our PAC contributions are published on the FEC website .
Sallie Mae | 95
Sallie Mae | 97
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Engaging stakeholders on what matters
We regularly review stakeholder partnerships across a range of functions, 
including Customer Relations, Corporate Social Responsibility, Government 
Affairs, Investor Relations, Human Resources, and Corporate Governance.
  Shareholders 
Proactively hold discussions with 
institutional investors and financial 
analysts who are increasingly 
interested in our CSR performance, 
commitment to Environment, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) 
topics, as well as financial results.  Customers
Use a combination of formal customer satisfaction surveys and 
channels like our chat, mobile app, social media, and website, to 
gather feedback.
 Team Members
Solicit team member perspectives 
through surveys, performance 
review processes, and quarterly 
Town Hall meetings. Government and Regulators
Engage in regular interactions with members of Congress as 
well as the representatives of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC), the Utah Department of Financial Institutions 
(UDFI), and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
Such interactions involve matters of compliance, policy, or 
operational expertise and guidance.
Community and  
Non-Government  
Organizations
Engage with non-government 
organizations and community 
partners to identify and address the 
greatest needs in the communities 
where we operate and encourage 
our team members to engage in 
community service. Academic Institutions
Collaborate with academic institutions to increase financial 
literacy awareness as well as develop and distribute valuable tools 
that empower students and their families to navigate and plan for 
higher education.
Industry Peers and  
Trade Groups 
Engage with industry partners 
on key business issues, such as 
cybersecurity, data privacy, and fair 
and responsible lending.  Suppliers/Vendors
Execute best practices for third-party oversight and management 
that support development and inclusion of diverse suppliers. 
Utilizing diverse suppliers is beneficial both to the communities 
we serve and our company’s growth. Our comprehensive third-
party management program provides the framework to ensure 
integrity and soundness of third parties providing products and 
services to Sallie Mae by exercising appropriate due diligence 
prior to entering third-party relationships and ongoing monitoring 
after the relationship has been established.SASB index
Sallie Mae has elected to report to the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Framework in our CSR Disclosure. SASB connects business and investors 
on the financial impacts of sustainability. Unless otherwise noted, all data and 
descriptions apply to our entire company. We do not currently disclose all 
metrics included in the standards for this sector, but we will continue to evaluate 
them in the future. All data for the year ended December 31, 2021 unless 
otherwise noted.
ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY CODE RESPONSE/ LOCATION
Consumer Finance
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
Number of account holders 
whose information is used for 
secondary purposesQuantitative FN-CF-220a.1 The Online Privacy Policy describes our 
practices concerning the collection and use of 
information gathered from or about  
our online visitors and registered users. 
 
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with customer privacyQuantitative FN-CF-220a.2 SLM discloses all material legal and regulatory 
proceedings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K.
DATA SECURITY
(1) Number of data breaches,  
(2) percentage involving 
personally identifiable information 
(PII), (3) number of account 
holders affected.Quantitative FN-CF-230a.1 Due to our strong privacy culture, to our 
knowledge we have not experienced any 
significant or material breaches or loss of 
customer information in 2017, 2018, 2019,  
2020, or 2021.  
 
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Card-related fraud losses from  
(1) card-not present fraud and  
(2) card-present and other fraudQuantitative FN-CF-230a.2 Not disclosed  
SASB Disclosure
Description of approach to 
identifying and addressing data 
security risksDiscussion and 
analysisFN-CF-230a.3 Our approach to CSR  
Safeguarding data and customer privacy  
Annual Report on Form 10-K: Privacy LawsSallie Mae | 99
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX
ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY CODE RESPONSE/ LOCATION
Consumer Finance cont.
SELLING PRACTICES TOPIC
Percentage of total remuneration 
for covered employees that is 
variable and linked to the amount 
of products and services soldQuantitative FN-CF-270a.1 This is not applicable as we do not have 
employees who “sell” loans or credit cards.
Approval rate for (1) credit and (2) 
pre-paid products for applicants 
with FICO scores above and 
below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.2 1) Not disclosed
SASB disclosure
2) SLM does not offer pre-paid products
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
FICO is one attribute we use in credit 
underwriting to assess the risk of default as a 
way to minimize the number of credit accounts 
in our portfolio that will become past due or 
delinquent. 
1) Average fees from add-on 
products, (2) average APR, (3) 
average age of accounts, (4) 
average number of trade lines, 
and (5) average annual fees for 
pre-paid products, for customers 
with FICO scores above and 
below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.3 1) We do not have add-on products.  
2)  Annual Report on Form 10-K
3)  The weighted average life of each asset is 
public information and disclosed in our Form 
10-Q and Form 10-K filings.
4)  Average number of trade lines is not 
accessible to us because we do not seek, 
track, or maintain this data—it sits with the 
credit reporting agencies. 
5) We do not offer pre-paid products.
(1) Number of complaints filed 
with the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau (CFPB),  
(2) percentage with monetary 
or nonmonetary relief, (3) 
percentage disputed by 
consumer, (4) percentage that 
resulted in investigation by  
the CFPBQuantitative FN-CF-270a.4 Customer Complaint Database 
Annual Report on Form 10-K
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with selling and 
servicing of productsQuantitative FN-CF-270a.5 SLM discloses all material legal and regulatory 
proceedings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K .
* Certain information is not disclosed herein because that information (i) is not considered material or is privileged or confidential; (ii) could 
cause a competitive disadvantage to our business if publicly disseminated; or (iii) is not currently collected in a manner wholly correlative 
with the related SASB metric.GRI content index
This table covers the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting 
Standards and Disclosures found in Sallie Mae’s 2021 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report, 2021 Annual Report, and our company website. This 
report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. 
We will transition to the 2021 GRI Universal Standards in our 2022 report.
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
GRI General Disclosures [2016]
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
GRI 102-1 Name of the organization SLM Corporation (NASDAQ: SLM)
GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 
and servicesAbout Sallie Mae
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 300 Continental Drive, Newark, DE 19713
GRI 102-4 Location of operations Our locations: 
 •Newark, DE (HQ)
 •New Castle, DE
 •Newton, MA
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Delaware corporation
See Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2021
GRI 102-6 Markets served See Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2021
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Sallie Mae at a glance
As of Dec 31, 2021, Sallie Mae had 1,430 team members 
and we reported GAAP Net Income Attributable to 
Common Stock of $1.156 Million in 2021.
GRI 102-8 Information on employees 
and other workersSallie Mae at a glance
Powering our team members
As of Dec 31, 2021, Sallie Mae had 1,430 team members 
across its six locations •Indianapolis, IN
 •Salt Lake City, UT
 •Sterling, VASallie Mae | 101
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX
GRI 102-9 Supply chain Our suppliers are critical to the services and value we 
deliver to our clients and consumers each and every 
day. They enable us to progress and help us to reach 
our strategic goals, purchase responsibly and manage 
our expenses. The management of our spend is the 
responsibility of Strategic Procurement, responsible for 
negotiating and contracting with either new suppliers or 
new statements of work as well as management of the 
supplier’s post-contract performance.
GRI 102-10 Significant changes to  
the organization and its 
supply chainWe had no significant changes to our supply chain  
in 2021
GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 
approachOur precautionary approach is reflected in our 
Enterprise Risk Management approach.
GRI 102-12 External initiatives Global Reporting Initiative, UN Sustainable Development 
Goals, U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) and LEED
GRI 102-13 Membership of  
associations • Consumer Bankers  
Association
 • American Bankers  
Association
 • Student Loan Servicing  
Alliance
 • Structured Finance  
Industry Group
STRATEGY
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior 
decision-makerMessage from the CEO
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
GRI 102-16 Values, principles, 
standards, and norms of 
behaviorCode of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines our 
policy, which applies to the company’s employees, 
officers, and nonemployee directors, including the 
company’s CEO, CFO, and principal accounting officer 
or controller. 
Learn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .
GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsSLM Proxy Statement 
Our Code of Business Conduct outlines the internal 
and external mechanisms for employees to seek advice 
about ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational 
integrity, and to report concerns about unethical or 
unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity.
GRI 102-18 Governance structure SLM Proxy Statement 
Learn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE cont.
 • Delaware Bankers  
Association
 • Utah Bankers Association
 • National Association of  
Industrial Bankers
 • National Council of Higher  
Education ResourcesGRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
 
 GOVERNANCE
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance body and its 
committeesLearn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .
GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest 
governance bodyLearn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .
GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing 
ESG topicsOur approach to CSR
GRI 102-30 Oversight of risk  
management processCompliance management system 
CSR Governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engaging with stakeholders
Our key stakeholder groups include but aren’t limited 
to: current and former Sallie Mae Team members; 
Customers; Community and Non-Government 
Organizations; Academic Institutions; Industry Peers; 
Trade Organizations; Suppliers/Vendors; Government  
& Regulators
GRI 102-41 Collective  
bargaining agreementsNone of our employees are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements
GRI 102-42 Identifying and  
selecting stakeholdersEngaging with stakeholders
GRI 102-43 Approach to  
stakeholder engagementEngaging with stakeholders
GRI 102-44 Key topics and  
concerns raisedEngaging with stakeholders 
Powering Stronger, More Resilient Communities
Community Reinvestment Act
REPORTING PRACTICE
GRI 102-45 Entities included in  
the consolidated  
financial statementsSee Annual Report  on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2021
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and 
topic BoundariesOur approach to CSRSallie Mae | 103
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
REPORTING PRACTICE cont.
GRI 102-47 List of material topics Our approach to CSR
Sallie Mae’s priority CSR topics include:
 • Community Engagement  
and Investment
 •Business integrity 
 •Data Security and Privacy
 • Empowering Underserved  
Populations
 •Energy and Emissions
 • Fair and Responsible  
Lending
GRI 102-48 Restatements  
of informationNone
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting This 2021 CSR Report includes in-depth information on 
our approach and performance across the broad range 
of environmental, social, and governance issues. The 
standalone Executive Summary provides a high-level 
overview of our efforts and progress this year
GRI 102-50 Reporting period The highlights and metrics shared in this report cover 
calendar year 2021, and we provide multi-year trend data 
where feasible.
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report April 2021
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Sallie Mae plans to release an annual update to the  
CSR Report.
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportSallie Mae’s contact point for questions regarding the 
report is CSR@salliemae.com.
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the 
principles and disclosures of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option and covers topics 
for all entities included in our financial statements.
GRI 102-55 GRI content index This GRI Content Index Table.
GRI 102-56 External assurance While the report’s content has not been reviewed by  
a third party, such content has been reviewed by  
internal audit. • Attracting and  
Retaining Talent
 • Providing Training and 
Development Opportunities
 • Fostering a Diverse and 
Inclusive Workplace
 • Ensuring a Safe and Healthy 
Workplace
 •Regulatory Compliance
 •Risk AssessmentGRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
GRI 201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributedSallie Mae at a Glance
Our Workforce
Powering our Customers
TOPIC: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryExecutive summary
Community reinvestment act
GRI 203-2 Significant indirect  
economic impactsOur workforce
Powering Our Customers
SEC Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2021
TOPIC: ANTI-CORRUPTION [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryOperating with Integrity
GRI 205-2 Communication and 
training about  
anti-corruption policies  
and proceduresOperating with integrity
Team members are trained regularly on the Code 
regarding a range of key issues and business practices, 
including anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, 
travel, and entertainment expenses, identifying and 
preventing money laundering, conducting business with 
foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy.
GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents 
of corruption and  
actions takenIf allegations of corruption are brought to our  
attention, we work to investigate and resolve them 
appropriately and disclose material, substantiated 
incidents as appropriate.
Specific Standard Disclosures – Environment
TOPIC: EMISSIONS [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryEnergy and Emissions Reductions
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within 
the organizationRenewable energy procurementSpecific Standard Disclosures – Economic
TOPIC: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryOur Approach to CSRSallie Mae | 105
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX
Specific Standard Disclosures - Social
TOPIC: EMPLOYMENT [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering our team members
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-
time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or 
part-time employeesInvesting in our people
Promoting health and wellbeing
GRI 401-3 Parental leave Promoting health and wellbeing
TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering our team members
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health Promoting health and well-being
TOPIC: TRAINING AND EDUCATION [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering our Team Members
Ongoing Growth and Development
GRI 404-2 Programs for  
upgrading employee  
skills and transition 
assistance programsOngoing growth and development
Note that we report on the type and scope of programs 
Sallie Mae provides to help team members upgrade their 
skills. We don’t currently offer any programs to facilitate 
continued employability of team members who leave 
either through retirement or termination.
GRI 404-3 Percentage of team 
members receiving regular 
performance and career 
development reviews100% of all available and eligible team members at  
Sallie Mae received performance reviews in 2021.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
 
 TOPIC: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryA diverse and inclusive workplace
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employeesOur workforce
Board composition
TOPIC: LOCAL COMMUNITIES [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering stronger, more resilient communities
GRI 413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programsPowering stronger, more resilient communities
Powering purposeful partnerships
All our operations have community engagement and 
investment programs in place.
TOPIC: PUBLIC POLICY [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryApproach to public policy
GRI 415-1 Political Contributions Approach to public policy 
Political Activity Policy
PAC contributions can be found here .
TOPIC: MARKETING AND LABELING [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering our Customers
Operating with integrity
GRI 417-1 Product and service 
information and labelingAbout Sallie Mae
GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
product and service 
information and labelingWe have not identified any non-compliance with 
regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product 
and service information and labeling.
GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsWe have not identified any non-compliance with 
regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning 
marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion, and sponsorship.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTESSallie Mae | 107
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX Sallie Mae | 106
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
TOPIC: CUSTOMER PRIVACY [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryOperating with integrity
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses 
of customer dataWe have had no substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy, and no identified leaks, 
thefts, or losses of customer data in 2021.
TOPIC: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE [2016]
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryCode of Business Conduct
GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaOperating with Integrity
We have not identified any non-compliance with laws 
and/or regulations in the social and economic area.Scholarship recipients
Powering confidence by investing in students. Providing 
scholarships and grants brings Sallie Mae’s mission to life.
The Bridging the Dream Scholarship Program
Our 2021 recipients of The Sallie Mae Fund's Bridging the  
Dream Scholarship for High School Seniors are:
 Aran Glynn , Bronx, NY; 
Babson College
 Angelica Gonzalez , Long 
Beach, CA;  Carnegie  
Mellon University
 Anthony Montes de Oca , 
Brick, NJ; University of 
Pennsylvania
 Azlynne Myler , West Valley 
City, UT; Southern Utah 
University
 Chloe A Jackson , Inglewood, 
CA; Clark Atlanta University
 Cindy Wang , Virginia Beach, 
VA; Virginia Commonwealth 
University
 Clementina Aboagye ,  
Bronx, NY; Colgate University Cole Kobayashi-Dickson , 
Boca Raton, FL; Elon University
 Danilo Wrightsell , Chicago, 
IL; Howard University
 ESaeLynn Cameron , 
Mansfield, OH; Alabama State 
University
 Feisal Maawiy , Wylie, TX; 
University of Houston
 Fina Osei-Owusu , Alexandria, 
VA; Spelman College
 George Gatling III , 
Greensboro, NC, Morehouse 
College
 Godfrey Abel , 
Fredericksburg, VA; 
Christopher Newport 
University Harmony Hicks , Indianapolis, 
IN; Spelman College
 Isaiah Cox , Stone Mountain, 
GA; Florida A&M University
 Jonathan Contreras , Spring, 
TX; Texas State University
 Julian Thomas , Springdale, 
MD; University of Maryland 
Eastern Shore
 Kady Tosh , Batesville, AR; 
Ouachita Baptist University
 Keyon Williamson ,  
Winter Garden, FL; 
Southeastern University
 Kharis Taylor , Gramercy, LA; 
Southern University and A&M 
College Mikayla Shaw , Bald Knob, AR; 
University of Central Arkansas   
 Moses Bazzi , Miami, FL; 
University of Colorado Boulder
 Sarah James , Taylorsville, 
UT; University of Southern 
California
 Symone Moore , Las Vegas, 
NV; University of Southern 
California
 Teralyn Willis , Houston, TX;  
Prairie View A&M University
 Traleya Eley , Franklin, VA;  
Old Dominion University
 Traveon Colbert , Dermott, 
AR; University of Arkansas 
FayettevilleSallie Mae | 109
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX
The Completing the Dream Scholarship Program
Our 2021 recipients of The Sallie Mae Fund's Completing the Dream Scholarship are:  
Adriona Smith,  Mooresville, 
NC; Winston-Salem State 
University
Airyal Moore,  Oklahoma City, 
OK; Langston University
Aizianette Franklin,  Land O 
Lakes, FL;  Rasmussen University
Aja Paxton,  Rancho 
Cucamonga, CA;  Tuskegee 
University
Akeem Williams,  Chicago, IL;  
Chicago State University
Alayah Rose Bascombe,  
Brooklyn, NY;  Medgar Evers 
College
Aleecia Joof,  Greenbelt, MD;  
University of Maryland Eastern 
Shore
Alexandra Acosta,  Boca 
Raton, FL; Lynn University
Alfred Ortiz,  Newburgh, NY;  
Marist College
Ali Daniel Robinson,  
Douglasville, GA;  University of 
Michigan
Amanda Rebello,  Spring Hill, 
FL; Rasmussen University
Amena Saja Jamila,  Madison, 
MS; Jackson State University
Amjad Mahamane,  Pleasant 
Garden, NC;  North Carolina A&T 
State University
Anabelle Taguba,  Land O 
Lakes,  FL,  Rasmussen 
University
Anastaja Nicole Mayes,  
Gainesville, GA;  North Carolina 
A&T State UniversityAndrea McCoy,  Texarkana, TX; 
University of Arkansas at Pine 
Bluff
Andrew Hibbs, Coatesville, 
PA; The Pennsylvania State 
University
Anna Milton,  Lake City, FL; 
Rasmussen University
Ariah Garland,  Green Bay, 
WI; Central Lakes Community 
College
Ashleigh Barnett,  Los 
Angeles, CA;  The American 
Academy of Dramatic Art
Ashley Brown,  Violet, LA;  
Dillard University
Ayzhah Williams,  Hampton, 
GA; Spellman College
Azada Cook,  Newberry, SC; 
South Carolina State University
Bianca Smith,  Raleigh, 
NC; North Carolina Central 
University
Bilal Shahid,  Columbus, OH;  
Pennsylvania State University
Breanna McNaughton,  Tulsa, 
OK; The University of Tulsa
Brian Paspuel,  State College, 
PA; The Pennsylvania State 
University
Brianna Inez Davis,  Charlotte, 
NC; North Carolina A&T State 
University
Bridget Collier,  Ontario, CA; 
Career Network Institute
Britney Singh,  South Ozone 
Park, NY;  City University of New 
York - Hunter CollegeBrittany Bennett,  Danville, PA;  
Pennsylvania State University
Brittney Pearson,  Somerville, 
MA, Boston College
Brittney Pendergrass,  
Lexington, NC; Winston-Salem 
State University
Bryan Rios,  High Point, NC; 
North Carolina A&T State 
University
Calaysia Jones,  Gainesville, 
FL; Rasmussen University
Carria Smith,  Memphis, 
TN; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Ceria Hollingsworth,  Parkton, 
NC; Fayetteville State University
Chad Chandler,  Tulsa, 
OK; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Chalice Moore,  Durham, 
NC, North Carolina Central 
University
Chamiah Brown,  
Randallstown, MD; Bowie State 
University
Chantel Carden,  Philadelphia, 
PA; Lincoln University of 
Pennsylvania
Chaunell Thomas,  Houston, 
TX; Prairie View A&M University
Chausmon Mills,  Zebulon, NC;  
Winston-Salem State University
Chelsie Fong,  Denver, CO;  
New Mexico State University
Chemary Wingo,  Dallas, TX;  
West Coast University Chinnese Brown,  Greenville, 
MS; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Christicel Okeke,  Durham, 
NC; North Carolina Central 
University
Christian Barnes,  Pine Bluff, 
AR; University of Arkansas at 
Pine Bluff
Christian Clark,  Smithfield, 
NC, North Carolina A&T State 
University
Christina Dixon Stephenson,  
Hyattsville, MD;  Stratford 
University
Christopher Davisson,  
Urbana, IL;  Illinois State 
University
Cloe Fields, Glendale, CA;  Art 
Center College of Design
Colton Lee,  Crete, NE;  
Southeast Community College-
Milford
Corintian Hilton,  
Montgomery, AL;  Alabama State 
University
Craig Mclver,  Raleigh, NC;  
Fayetteville State University
Crystale Mosby,  Montgomery, 
AL; Alabama State University
Cynthia Dickson,  Birmingham, 
AL; Tuskegee University
Dajah Taylor,  Houston, TX;  
Texas Southern University
Dakota Gibson,  Olathe, KS; 
Stephens CollegeCompleting the Dream Scholarships continued:
Dale Elizabeth Merriman,  
Brooklyn, NY;  Wheaton College
Daniel Ryan,  Augusta, GA;  
Tuskegee University
Danielle Stewart,  Bowie, MD; 
Bowie State University
Daphne Camille,  Feasterville, 
PA; Delaware State University
Daren Johnson,  Stone 
Mountain, GA;  Tuskegee 
University
Dasia Heard,  Milford, DE;  
Hampton University
Dasmin Whitted,  Park Forest, 
IL; Southern Illinois University 
Edwardsville
Dayjion Middlebrook,  
Barstow, CA; Langston 
University
Dayshia Washpon,  Petersburg, 
VA; Virginia State University
DeAndre Guyton,  Washington, 
DC; University of North Carolina 
at Charlotte
Debra Davies,  Houston, TX;  
Texas Southern University
Demetrius Hall-King,  Pelham, 
AL; Alabama State University
Demetrius Underwood,  
Chicago, IL;  Morehouse College
Deontae Lewis,  Chicago, IL;  
Harris-Stowe State University
Destiny Johnson,  Hammond, 
IN; Harris-Stowe State University
Diana Medrano,  Montgomery, 
IL; Illinois State University
Dominique Browne,  Elmont, 
NY; Adelphi UniversityDominique Jones,  Raleigh, 
NC; East Carolina University
Dondy Dorlus,  Gretna, LA;  
Southern University and A&M 
College
Doris Pita,  Methuen, MA; 
Lawrence Memorial Regis 
College
Dornella Waterton,  Chester, 
PA; Lincoln University of 
Pennsylvania
Durran Goodwin,  Jr., 
Washington,  DC; Howard 
University
Eboni White,  Port Gibson, MS; 
Jackson State University
Elena Bolanos,  Greenwood, 
MS; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Elijah Johnson,  Birmingham, 
AL; Fisk University
Elizabeth Baez,  Haverhill, 
MA; Lawrence Memorial/Regis 
College 
Erin Dixon,  Owings Mills, MD; 
Delaware State University
Essence Cain,  Akron, OH;  
North Carolina A&T State 
University
Essence Savoy,  Opelousas, 
LA; Southern University and 
A&M College
Esther Nwozo,  Brentwood, 
MD; Howard University
Eunetha Boykin,  Ocean 
Springs, MS;  Alabama State 
University
Faith Ruman,  Plano, IL;  Illinois 
State UniversityFaith Wells,  Memphis, TN;  
Alcorn State University
Faith Wilson,  Lawrenceville, 
GA; North Carolina A&T State 
University
Fernando Sousa,  Stoneham, 
MA; Lawrence Memorial/Regis 
College 
Freya Flores,  Laredo, TX;  Texas 
A&M International University
Geovanny Mendoza,  Idaho 
Falls; ID,  Idaho State University
Gerianee Octavia Ward,  
Goose Creek, SC;  Edward 
Waters College
Gillion Brittnum,  Chicago, 
IL; North Carolina A&T State 
University
Gina Cousin,  Slidell, LA; Dillard 
University
Hailey Rosicky,  La Grange 
Park, IL;  Illinois State University
Hali Smith,  Memphis, TN;  Clark 
Atlanta University
Hanna Haught,  Hagerstown, 
MD; University of Maryland 
Eastern Shore
Hope Miller,  Mobile, AL;  
Alabama State University
Huda Mohammed,  Lincoln, 
NE; University of Nebraska- 
Lincoln
Hyun Woo Yu, State College, 
PA; Pennsylvania State 
University
Ianthe’ Smith,  Tuskegee, AL;  
Tuskegee University
Jada Chandler,  Brooklyn, NY;  
Norfolk State UniversityJaise Rivens,  Salisbury, NC;  
Elizabeth City State University
Jamecion Green,  Baton 
Rouge, LA;  Howard University
Jamil Edwards, Pittsburg, CA;  
Alabama State University
Jamila Coner,  Nashville, TN;  
Meharry Medical College
Janet Camacho,  Broken Arrow, 
OK; Langston University
Janika Williams,  Durham, 
NC; North Carolina Central 
University
Janita Aamir, Pocatello, ID; 
Idaho State University,
Jarius Clayton,  Porterville, 
MS; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Jasiri Evans,  Short Hills, NJ; 
Howard University
Jasmine Rich,  Washington, 
DC; North Carolina Central 
University
Javier Sarmiento,  New York, 
NY; Buena Vista University
Jayva Blount,  Capitol Heights, 
MD; Howard University
Jeanna Hall,  Chicago, IL;  
Xavier University of Louisiana
Jenell Nickens,  Silver Springs, 
MD; Morgan State University
Jeqiyah Hobbs,  Montgomery, 
AL; Alabama State University
Jessica Thomas,  New Orleans, 
LA; Southern University at New 
Orleans
Jigna Patel, Sugar Hill, GA; 
Mercer UniversitySallie Mae | 111
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX
Completing the Dream Scholarships continued:
Jillian Kerr,  State College, PA; 
Pennsylvania State University
Joel Garcia,  Reading, PA;  
Alvernia University
John Orekunrin,  Greensboro, 
NC; North Carolina A&T State 
University
Johntavius Austin,  
Birmingham, AL;  Alabama State 
University
 Jonee Davis,  Washington, DC;  
Howard University
Joseph Jones,  Monticello, FL; 
Florida A&M University
Jourdann Latney,  Greensboro, 
NC; North Carolina A&T State 
University
Justin Minor,  Homewood, IL; 
Chicago State University
Kamaria Bowman,  New 
Britain, CT;  Alabama State 
University
Kameron Mathis,  Mesquite, 
TX; Prairie View A&M University
Kareem Aimes,  Philadelphia, 
PA; Alvernia University
Karena Russell,  Warren, MI;  
Dorsey College
Kayla Mitchell,  Louisville, KY;  
Norfolk State University
Kayla Smith,  Tulsa, OK;  
Langston University
Kayla McIntosh,  Cary, NC;  
North Carolina A&T State 
University
Kayland Jones,  Chicago, IL;  
Spellman College
Kearra Cooper,  Pinson, AL;  
Alabama State UniversityKeisha Gregg,  Philadelphia, 
PA; Alvernia University
Kelly Gutierrez Murillo,  
Dumfries, VA;  Ferrum College
Ke’Moni Champion,  
Henderson, NC;  North Carolina 
A&T State University
Kendadii Williams,  Lexington, 
KY; Kentucky State University
Kendra Walker,  Washington, 
DC; University of the District of 
Columbia
Kennedy Woods,  Frisco, TX;  
Prairie View A&M University
Kenya Davis,  Greenwood, 
MS; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Kenzi Littlefair,  Twin Falls, ID; 
Idaho State University 
Kevin Bracey,  New York, 
NY; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Kevin Luxon,  San Clemente, 
CA; University of Arizona-
Tucson
KiAnna Davis,  Winnsboro, LA;  
Southern University and A&M 
College
King Mason,  Guthrie, OK;  
Langston University
Kobe Cheseman,  Hampton, 
VA; Virginia State University
Kyah Dumas,  Atlanta, GA; 
Tuskegee University
LaCondra Hayes-Phanord,  
Port Saint Lucie, FL; Edward 
Waters College
Layja Grant,  Baton Rouge, LA; 
Xavier University of LouisianaLilema Stewart, Baltimore, 
MD; Coppin State University
Liline Jean-Lalane,  Naples, FL; 
Rasmussen University
 Linda Ovbiojie, Sugar land, 
TX; West Coast University Dallas 
Lisa Snider, Fort Wayne, IN;  
Grand Valley State University
Louna Timothee,  Atlanta, GA; 
Clark Atlanta University
Makala Scott,  Tulsa, OK;  
Jackson State University
Makayla Lockqoos,  Houston, 
TX; Texas Southern University
MaKayla Robinson,  
Grambling, LA;  Grambling State 
University
Marcellus Martin,  Willow 
Grove, PA;  Susquehanna 
University
Mariah Wiggs,  Lakeland, FL;  
Florida A&M University
Mariel Mendoza,  Las Cruces, 
NM; New Mexico State 
University
Marybelle Doe,  Orlando, FL;  
Rollins College
McKenzie Dawkins,  
Washington, DC;  Howard 
University
Megan Morgan,  New 
Cumberland, WV;  UPMC Mercy 
School of Nursing
Melissa Depina,  Holbrook, 
MA; Laboure College
Messiah Stewart,  Pearland, 
TX; Texas Southern University
Michael Cortez,  Atlanta, GA; 
Morehouse CollegeMichelle Eze, Coppell, TX;  
Howard University
Mikayla Chandler,  Starke, FL;  
Rasmussen University
Mike Echevarria,  Houston, TX;  
Texas Southern University
Millicent Murray,  New Castle, 
DE; Lancaster Bible College 
Miracle Dawson,  Yukon, OK;  
Langston University
Monique Smith,  Justice, IL; 
Chicago State University
Morgan Banks,  Decatur, GA; 
Tuskegee University
Morgan Woodard,  Winston 
Salem, NC; North Carolina A&T 
State University
Mya Moore,  Cypress, TX;  Texas 
State University
Nathan Warren,  Katy, TX; 
Prairie View A&M University
Na’Tianna Stocker,  Wichita, 
KS; Langston University
Neima Houssein,  Portland, 
ME; University of Maine at 
Farmington
Nicole Avery,  Ewing, NJ;  
Academy of Art University 
Nigel Harris,  Columbus, OH;  
Morehouse College
Nya-Simone Caldwell,  
Washington, DC;  Howard 
University
Paige Stephens,  Peachtree 
City, GA;  Tuskegee University
Patrick Hamilton,  Washington, 
DC; Howard UniversityPaul Abegya,  Brooklyn, NY;  
Morehouse College
Ranada  Kendrick,  Snellville, 
GA; Harris-Stowe State 
University
Randall Baez Reyes,  San Juan, 
PR; Universidad del Sagrado 
Corazon
Raven Gunn,  Baton Rouge, LA; 
Southern University and A&M 
College
Regine Charlotin,  Hyde Park, 
MA; Lawrence Memorial/Regis 
College 
Renada  White,  Elizabeth 
City, NC;  Elizabeth City State 
University
Renada White,  Elizabeth 
City, NC;  Elizabeth City State 
University
Reymundo Delgado,  New 
York, NY;  Baruch College - 
Zicklin School of Business
Ria Reynolds,  Slidell, LA; 
Dillard University
Rijandra Euson,  Staten Island, 
NY; North Carolina A&T State 
University
Ronni Williams,  Memphis, 
TN; Mississippi Valley State 
University
Rose Danthon,  Raleigh, 
NC; North Carolina Central 
University
Rosellyn Junius,  Richmond, 
CA; Tuskegee University
Ryan Palmer,  West Jordan, UT; 
Nightingale College
Samuel  Thompson,  Saint 
Petersburg, FL; Edward Waters 
CollegeSamyra  Small,  Indianapolis, 
IN; Indiana Wesleyan University
 Sandra  Joseph,  Brooklyn, NY;  
Medgar Evers College
Sara Kolodziejski,  Fairborn, 
OH; Capital University - Bexley 
Campus
Sarah Jones-Smith,  Cypress, 
CA; Howard University
Sarah Estabridis,  Lutz, FL;  
Rasmussen University
Semaj Fielding,  Charleston, 
SC; University of Maryland 
Eastern Shore
Shaista Thompson,  Arverne, 
NY; Medgar Evers College
Shanisha Hopkins,  
Greensboro, NC;  North Carolina 
A&T State University
Sheridan Harley,  Rexburg, ID;  
Brigham Young University Idaho
Sherry Branscomb,  Saint 
Louis, MO;  Harris-Stowe State 
University
Shondee Haralson,  Waukesha, 
WI; Fisk University
Shquana Washington,  Mobile, 
AL; Alabama State University
Sierra Leeper,  Omaha, NE;  
Stephens College
Simon Zinevich,  Baltimore, 
MD; Morgan State University
Sommer Bassam El-Khatib,  
Clemson, SC;  Clemson 
University
Somtochi Edeh,  South 
Holland, IL; Howard University
Sonjay Henry,  Saint Louis, MO; 
Xavier University of LouisianaStacy Arce,  Bronx, NY;  Plaza 
College
Talia Ford,  Washington, DC;  
Dillard University
Tamia Powell,  Washington, 
DC; Howard University
Tamika Green,  Birmingham, 
AL; Alabama State University
Tamunobelema Derefaka,  
Silver Spring, MD;  Howard 
University
Tarvars Denning, Jr., 
Springlake,  NC; Fayetteville 
State University
Taveda Mayes,  Detroit, MI;  
University of Michigan Dearborn
Taylor Clemons,  Stewart, OH; 
Muskingum University 
Theresa Howard,  Clinton, MD; 
Howard University
Thipachan Radanavong,  
Champaign, IL;  Illinois State 
University
Thomas   Coleman,  Silver 
Spring, MD;  Howard University
Tia Jones,  Brooklyn, NY;  
Delaware State University
Tijara Smith,  Washington, DC;  
Spellman College
Timothy Bass,  Dudley, NC;  
North Carolina A&T State 
University
Tony Porter,  Jackson, MS;  
Jackson State University
Torrance Buntyn,  Jr., Jackson,  
TN; Tennessee State University
Traylan Packer,  Mobile, AL;  
Alabama State UniversityTrinity Reed,  Monroe LA; 
Southern University and A&M 
College,
Tytiana Curtain,  Washington, 
DC; Howard University
Vickhele Sona,  Washington, 
DC; University of Maryland 
Eastern Shore
Walter Arimokwu,  San 
Marcos, TX;  Texas State 
University
Westry Thorpe,  Roanoke 
Rapids, NC;  Elizabeth City State 
University
William McClendon,  Okolona, 
MS; University of Mississippi
William White,  New Orleans, 
LA; Southern University at New 
Orleans
Xarria Taylor,  Jacksonville, FL; 
Florida A&M University
Yizuo Zheng, Brooklyn, NY; 
Baruch College
Yolanda Ingram,  Holly 
Springs, NC; North Carolina 
Central University
Yvette Navvarro,  El Paso, TX; 
New Mexico State University
Za’Niya Miles,  Houston, TX; 
Southern University
Zaria Miller,  Homestead, FL; 
Florida A&M University
Zoe Cunningham,  Laurel, 
MD; Lincoln University of 
Pennsylvania
Zoe Mcgowan,  Tulsa, OK; 
Langston UniversityCompleting the Dream Scholarships continued:Sallie Mae | 113
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022INDEX
The Bridging the Dream Scholarship  
for Graduate Students Program
Our 2021 recipients of The Sallie Mae Fund's Bridging the 
Dream Scholarship for Graduate Students are:
Cameron Vilain,  Maynard, MA;  
Salem State University
Cheyenne Hutchinson,  
Watertown, NY; State University of 
New York – Potsdam
Gabrielle Agnew,  Dallas, TX;  
University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical CenterJennifer Louisa Carner,  Decatur, 
GA; Christian Theological Seminary
Nayjuana Stephens,  Wyncote, 
PA; Cairn University
Vanessa Agudelo,  Margate, FL; 
Harvard Law SchoolForward looking statement
This Corporate Social Responsibility Report contains 
“forward-looking” statements and information based 
on management’s current expectations as of the date 
of this report. Statements that are not historical facts, 
including statements about our beliefs, opinions, 
or expectations and statements that assume or are 
dependent upon future events, are forward-looking 
statements. This includes, but is not limited to: 
statements regarding future developments surrounding 
COVID-19 or any other pandemic, including, without 
limitation, statements regarding the potential impact 
of COVID-19 or any other pandemic on the Company’s 
business, results of operations, financial condition, 
and/or cash flows; our expectation and ability to pay a 
quarterly cash dividend on our common stock in the 
future, subject to the determination by our Board of 
Directors, and based on an evaluation of our earnings, 
financial condition and requirements, business 
conditions, capital allocation determinations, and other 
factors, risks, and uncertainties; the Company’s 2022 
guidance; the Company’s three-year horizon outlook; 
the Company’s expectation and ability to execute 
loan sales and share repurchases; the Company’s 
projections regarding originations, net charge-offs, 
non-interest expenses, earnings, balance sheet 
position, and other metrics; any estimates related to 
accounting standard changes; and any estimates 
related to the impact of credit administration practices 
changes, including the results of simulations or other 
behavioral observations. Forward-looking statements 
are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, 
and other factors that may cause actual results to 
be materially different from those reflected in such 
forward-looking statements. These factors include, 
among others, the risks and uncertainties set forth in 
Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”); the 
societal, business, and legislative/ regulatory impact 
of pandemics and other public heath crises; increases 
in financing costs; limits on liquidity; increases in costs 
associated with compliance with laws and regulations; 
failure to comply with consumer protection, banking, 
and other laws; changes in accounting standards 
and the impact of related changes in significant accounting estimates, including any regarding the 
measurement of our allowance for credit losses and 
the related provision expense; any adverse outcomes 
in any significant litigation to which we are a party; 
credit risk associated with our exposure to third-
parties, including counterparties to our derivative 
transactions; and changes in the terms of education 
loans and the educational credit marketplace 
(including changes resulting from new laws and the 
implementation of existing laws). We could also be 
affected by, among other things: changes in our funding 
costs and availability; reductions to our credit ratings; 
cybersecurity incidents, cyberattacks, and other failures 
or breaches of our operating systems or infrastructure, 
including those of third-party vendors; damage to 
our reputation; risks associated with restructuring 
initiatives, including failures to successfully implement 
cost-cutting programs and the adverse effects of such 
initiatives on our business; changes in the demand for 
educational financing or in financing preferences of 
lenders, educational institutions, students, and their 
families; changes in law and regulations with respect to 
the student lending business and financial institutions 
generally; changes in banking rules and regulations, 
including increased capital requirements; increased 
competition from banks and other consumer lenders; 
the creditworthiness of our customers; changes in the 
general interest rate environment, including the rate 
relationships among relevant money-market instruments 
and those of our earning assets versus our funding 
arrangements; rates of prepayment on the loans that 
we own; changes in general economic conditions and 
our ability to successfully effectuate any acquisitions; 
and other strategic initiatives. The preparation of our 
consolidated financial statements also requires us to 
make certain estimates and assumptions, including 
estimates and assumptions about future events. These 
estimates or assumptions may prove to be incorrect. All 
forward looking statements contained in this report are 
qualified by these cautionary statements and are made 
only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake 
any obligation to update or revise these forward looking 
statements to conform such statements to actual results 
or changes in our expectations.ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2022
We are here to power 
confidence as students  
begin their unique journeys, 
and we’re committed to  
doing so responsibly. 
 
We are here to power 
confidence as students  
begin their unique journeys, 
and we’re committed to  
doing so responsibly. 
 Sallie Mae | 115www.salliemae.com
300 Continental Drive  
Newark, DE 19713To view this report online, please visit www.salliemae.com
 © 2022 Sallie Mae Bank. All rights reserved. Sallie Mae, the Sallie Mae logo, and other Sallie Mae names and logos are service marks or registered service marks of Sallie Mae Bank. 
All other names and logos used are the trademarks or service marks of their respective owners. SLM Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Sallie Mae Bank, are not sponsored 
by or agencies of the United States of America