Powering Confidence 
Increasing Access and Opportunity  
Through Higher Education
 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 3
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 3
Powering  
confidence  
for students  
as they begin  
their unique  
journey.Sallie Mae | 3
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 5
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUT
About this report
Sallie Mae (SLM Corporation, Nasdaq SLM) is committed to 
powering confidence for students along their unique journey 
through higher education.
Our responsible private student loan products 
help students bridge the financing gap 
in paying for college. We are also deeply 
committed to providing families with the 
necessary resources they need to plan and 
pay for higher education, which may not 
include a loan at all. We provide free access to 
tools for customers and non-customers alike, 
including FAFSATM application support, college 
cost and planning calculators, and free online 
scholarship search tools. With this approach, 
we’re powering confidence for the next 
generation of leaders. 
More about these efforts are detailed in our 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. 
The report is specifically designed to share 
the environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) factors relevant to our business and 
our communities; our progress on key CSR 
performance indicators; and how we increase 
higher education access and completion for 
students across the country. This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the principles and disclosures of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: 
Core Option and covers topics for all entities 
included in our financial statements. The 
GRI Standards are the most widely used 
framework for sustainability reporting in the 
world. The recommended disclosures in the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Consumer Finance Standard were 
also considered when creating this report. 
The highlights and metrics shared represent 
calendar year 2020, but when possible, 
multi-year trend data is included. All financial 
information is presented in U.S. dollars.
If you have questions or feedback about this 
report or Sallie Mae’s CSR commitments and 
activities, please contact us at  
CSR@SallieMae.com .
For more information please visit  
www.salliemae.com .
Education is a vital tool 
for everyone to have and 
everyone should be able 
to access all that a great 
education has to offer no 
matter who they are or 
where they come from. 
Jannah WilliamsPromoting diversity is a priority at every level 
of Sallie Mae. As protests and demonstrations 
led many local businesses in Delaware to 
board up their storefronts, Sallie Mae team 
member Jannah Williams saw an opportunity 
to bring people together through art. She 
partnered with local artists to turn boarded up 
storefronts into inspirational canvases. 
Jannah’s mural addresses our nation’s history 
of racial injustice and combines a collection 
of newspaper articles covering racism over 
the last two hundred years with images of  
civil rights leaders and the simple message:  
“We just want a kinder world than this.”ABOUT THE COVER  
Jannah Williams Sallie Mae | 5
Sallie Mae | 7
ABOUTSallie Mae | 7
Table of contents
 8 Message from the CEO 
10 Executive summary
14 About Sallie Mae 
16 Sallie Mae at a glance
18 Our approach to CSR
18 Our CSR strategy pillars
19  Sustainability Accounting  
Standards Board (SASB) Index 
20 Sustainable development goals
Managing the effects  
of COVID-19
23 Serving our customers
25  Empowering our  
team members
26 Supporting our communityAdvancing equality through  
higher education 
29 Promoting diversity
30 Advancing social justice          
Powering stronger, more  
resilient communities 
33 Our approach
34 Our social impact
35 Investing in our communities
38  Team member giving  
and volunteering
39 Investing in students’ dreams
43 Strategic partnershipsPowering  
our customers 
47 Our approach
47  Helping customers in times  
of need 
49 Supporting financial literacy
50 Fair & responsible lending
51 Customer success
52 Supporting military families
53 Fraud prevention
54  Safeguarding data and  
customer privacy
         
Powering our  
team members
57 Our approach 
60 Our workforce
62  A diverse and  
inclusive workforce
64  Listening and learning
64  Thriving amidst a pandemic
65  Ongoing growth  
and development
68  Promoting health  
and well-being
71  A culture of feedback
         Powering the  
environmental movement
73 Our approach 
74  Business protocols during  
a pandemic
76  Environmental upgrades  
to facilities
77 Energy and emissions reduction
79 Energy Audits
79 New builds or retrofits
81 Demolition
81 Print/Paper Reduction
81 Waste minimization
         
Powering business ethics  
and corporate governance
83 Corporate governance
84 Board composition
84 Operating with integrity
88 CSR governance
89 Engaging with stakeholders
         90 SASB index 
92 GRI content index2228
3246
5672
82
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUTSallie Mae | 9
Sallie Mae | 9
 
Message from the CEO Sallie Mae | 9
Specifically, we:
 • took critical steps to support our customers 
affected by the COVID-19 pandemic;
 • pioneered new initiatives to advance equality 
and strengthen our communities, putting 
students often overlooked, on track to 
access and complete their education;
 • provided tools and resources to help 
students and families make informed, 
sensible decisions about planning and 
paying for college; and
 • made progress on our environmental, social, 
and corporate governance commitments.
We also appointed Carter Franke as Chair of 
the Board of Directors, the first woman to hold 
the position in our company’s history. Her 
leadership underscores our commitment to 
our customers, knowing their success is the 
origin of Sallie Mae’s success. Her expertise 
ensures Sallie Mae remains focused, aligned, and committed to opening the doors of 
opportunity for students and their families.
Our mission, purpose, and vision are personal 
for me. My father was an immigrant who came 
to the United States from Germany at the 
age of 16, seven years after World War II. He 
achieved his version of the American Dream 
through a scholarship, work study program, 
and gainful summer employment—earning 
both a bachelor’s and master’s degree. The 
belief in the value and promise of education 
has defined my family. We are the living 
embodiment of the multi-generational impact 
that comes with access to higher education. 
 
Jon Witter  
Chief Executive Officer
2020 was a year of extreme adversity. Across the globe, we  
battled a pandemic that threatened lives and livelihoods and 
exposed deep inequities that exist in our communities. In 
many countries including the United States, we engaged in 
uncomfortable but critically important discussions about systemic 
racism and centuries-long inequality. We also witnessed the clear 
results of climate change be it fire, flood, hurricane, drought, or 
other natural disaster. Here at home, our democratic process 
produced a divisive election that tested our resiliency and resolve.  
It is not an overstatement to say that the very fabric of who we are 
as people was tested and challenged. And here we are.  
Still standing. Together.
One lesson that we can take away from 
2020 is the very real importance of owning 
responsibility—responsibility to each other, 
our communities, and our planet. This is true 
of individuals, governments, and certainly the 
companies that have the privilege to operate 
and serve customers and our communities. 
This is a responsibility that we take very 
seriously here at Sallie Mae.
Providing access to higher education is our 
primary business. We know with education 
comes enhanced prosperity, improved health 
outcomes, economic mobility, and true social 
justice. As such, we are proud to have helped 
more than 420,000 students and families pay 
for higher education in 2020. However, our 
impact on education goes beyond the loans we make. Because the stakes are so high, we 
recognize that the journey to, and through 
college, is stressful and uncertain for students 
and their families. As a result, our mission is 
to power confidence as students begin their 
unique journey. We are also proud to have 
provided tools, information, and services to 
millions of additional customers to help them  
simplify the college planning process,  
improve access, and support the completion 
of higher education. 
This year’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report reflects the strides we have made to 
achieve this mission and support our broader 
communities. We seek to deliver a healthier, 
more inclusive, just, and equitable world. I’m encouraged by the progress we 
continue to make at Sallie Mae—
powering confidence and increasing 
access and opportunity through 
higher education—and I’m excited 
about the work that lies ahead.
Jon Witter,  
Chief Executive Officer
Sallie Mae | 11Sallie Mae | 11
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUT
 
Executive summary 
The theme of this year’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report is “powering confidence.”
That two-word phrase is a summation of the work we do at Sallie 
Mae to provide students and families the information, tools, and 
financing they need to access and complete higher education. 
We equip students and families with confidence in the decisions 
they’re making to plan and pay for higher education. In turn, 
their education yields economic mobility and advancement for 
generations to come.Responding to COVID-19
Because of the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
we immediately moved to offer relief to our customers. In March 2020, 
customers were given the option to have their student loan payments 
paused through a simplified, automated process, without requiring proof 
of financial hardship. We waived late fees and enhanced the functionality 
of our customer service channels to help customers quickly manage their 
accounts, make or postpone payments, and request hardship relief. 
Today, we offer customers still affected financially by the pandemic a 
COVID-19 forbearance in one-month increments, which allows us to 
consistently be in contact with customers and ensure we are assisting 
those in need. We also offer loan modification programs for customers 
suffering extreme hardship.
In March 2020, before officials issued stay-at-home orders in our home 
states, we quickly worked with regulators and stakeholders so team 
members across the country could begin working safely and remotely. 
Efforts included a nearly $2.6 million investment to provide our team 
members with at-home capabilities, including required equipment and 
tools to effectively support our customers. We also granted five additional 
days of paid leave so team members could take more time to care for their 
loved ones and themselves.
Because of the exceptional need in our communities, our charitable arm, 
The Sallie Mae Fund, provided $1 million to local food banks in our home 
states. That contribution provided more than 900,000 meals and 2 million 
pounds of food, and personal protective equipment for staff and food  
bank volunteers.
Additionally, our team members volunteered 861 hours and donated  
more than $61,000 through the company’s matching gifts program to 
charitable organizations. We view these efforts as extensions of our core 
mission. Strong communities become the launching pads for students’ 
academic endeavors.861 hours  
total volunteer hours for 2020$2.6 million  
investment to our team
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 13Sallie Mae | 13
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUT
Advancing Equality Through Higher Education
We’re dedicated to helping build a more just society by increasing opportunity 
and advancement through higher education. However, student loans 
should be temporary stepping stones. Notably, our average loan is paid off 
in approximately seven years, ensuring that students are not held back from 
achieving future milestones.
Sallie Mae launched several initiatives this past year to support increased 
access and completion of higher education. 
Highlights include: 
 • In partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund, The Sallie Mae  
Fund committed a total of $3 million in scholarships over the next three 
years to help minority students and students from marginalized communities 
access higher education and complete their post-secondary programs.
 • The Sallie Mae Fund committed to $1.5 million in grants to various 
organizations dedicated to advancing social justice through higher  
education, including the Point Foundation, the Hispanic Association of 
Colleges and Universities, the Entertainment Industry Foundation in support 
of the Know Your Rights Camp founded by Colin Kaepernick, and the  
National Urban League.
We know much more work is needed to close achievement gaps and 
increase access to higher education. Sallie Mae is dedicated to finding and 
implementing solutions, and we will continue to put our expertise to work to 
improve more lives and to unearth new opportunities.
Improving Financial Literacy 
Higher education is one of the most significant investments students and  
their families can make and we believe they should have the tools to make  
that investment with confidence. Our free financial literacy resources, 
available to customers and non-customers alike, help students pay only what 
is necessary for higher education, and understand how today’s decisions will 
affect their future:
 • A Scholarship Search  tool that 
makes it possible for students to 
easily search more than 6 million 
scholarships—worth more than  
$30 billion—and quickly find  
eligible opportunities.
 • A College Planning Calculator  that 
helps families set college savings 
goals, project the total costs of a 
college degree, and estimate future 
student loan payments, as well as the  
annual starting salary level needed to 
keep payments manageable. • A simplified way to apply for federal 
financial aid  that reduces the 
average time it takes to complete the 
FAFSA from 55 minutes to less than 
20 minutes. The FAFSA connects 
students to scholarships, grants, and 
federal loans from the government. 
We encourage students to file the 
FAFSA before considering private 
student loans.We also want students to take on the least amount of debt possible.  
We advise students and families to follow a 1-2-3 approach to lending:
 1.  Start with money you won’t have to pay back. Supplement college 
savings and income by maximizing scholarships, grants, and work-study.
2.  Explore federal student loans. We encourage students to explore federal 
student loan options by completing the Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid.
3.  Consider a responsible private student loan. Fill the gap between 
available resources and the cost of college. Our responsible lending 
philosophy also encourages students and their families to evaluate all 
anticipated monthly loan payments and how much the student expects to 
earn in the future before considering a private student loan.
Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance Update
We know how we do business matters, and we’re committed to running our 
company responsibly and sustainably. This starts with treating our employees 
well. Some of the benefits that helps our team members thrive include 12 weeks 
of paid leave for primary caregivers and four weeks paid leave for secondary 
caregivers, an adoption reimbursement of $10,000, and tuition reimbursement of 
up to $10,000 a year.
We reduced our energy expense by 10%, supporting our efforts to minimize 
energy use and associated greenhouse gas emissions, procure more sustainable 
materials, and reduce the amount of waste generated in our offices. 
In 2020, we began our search for a Diversity and Inclusion Officer, a role that will 
be critical to building a workforce that best serves and represents our increasingly 
diverse nation. 
We’ve long believed a diverse workforce is necessary for success and are excited 
to continue to build on the progress we’ve made so far. That’s why we launched 
Diversity and Inclusion listening tours in 2020, gaining a deeper understanding 
of how our workplace can empower people, regardless of their race, gender, 
identity, religion, age, or background, to bring their best selves to the workplace. 
Hundreds of team members participated in these virtual discussions, which 
sparked conversations with leadership and team members for the remainder of 
the year.
Conclusion
Sallie Mae plays a critical role in equipping students with the confidence and 
resources needed for lifelong success while addressing broader societal issues. 
We’re committed to using our platform and products to help build a more just, 
equitable society, by giving more students access to higher education.Today, our company is 
comprised of:$3 million  
in scholarships over the  
next three years to  
minority students.
54% Women
46% Men
59% Non-minority
41% Minority
45% Millennials
43% Generation X
12% Baby Boomers$1.5 million  
in support of nonprofits helping  
to advance social justice through  
programming or services.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUT
Our responsible products include:
 Private Student Loans  
Responsible private student loans with 
competitive rates to help undergraduate and 
graduate students bridge the gap between 
the cost of higher education and the amount 
funded through financial aid, federal loans, 
and student and families’ resources. 
Free planning and paying 
for college resources
Free tools to help students sharpen  
their financial know-how and college  
planning process. Credit Cards
Designed to help students and young adults 
build good credit, these cards reward financial 
responsibility, and encourage habits that lead 
to financial independence. 
 Savings Accounts  
Competitive savings products to help our 
customers grow their money and achieve their 
financial goals.We believe higher education is the foundation 
for success, an equalizer of opportunities, and 
a proven pathway to economic mobility.
To support students along their journey, we:
 • simplify the college planning 
process by providing tools, 
resources, and information to 
help students and families make 
informed decisions; and • improve access and completion 
of higher education through our 
responsible financing options and 
targeted scholarship programs.
Simply put, we’re here to power confidence as students begin their  
unique journey.
Our customers want more from us than merely loans or financing. They want 
a partner that can offer them confidence and peace of mind to know they 
are making the right decisions for themselves and their families. That’s why 
we start with college planning . We offer a variety of free tools and resources, 
including our Scholarship Search tool, which connected 24,000 students with 
scholarships in 2020 covering more than $67 million in college costs, and 
our Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) application tool which 
simplifies the process for students looking to secure scholarships, grants, work-
study, and other types of federal aid. Resources like this ensure our customers 
are equipped to make informed choices about their future.
When it’s time to finance their education, students and families can count on 
Sallie Mae to provide industry leading products designed with responsibility 
in mind. Before we lend a single dollar, we thoroughly evaluate a customer’s 
ability to repay—because the choices they make today will be the foundation for 
their tomorrow. The result: 97% of loans in repayment are in good standing, and 
fewer than 2% of loans default annually*.
 * Based on Sallie Mae’s 2020 Annual Report Form 10-K.Learn more about our approach to increasing higher education access and completion, as well as 
our financial performance, in our Annual Report Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC).97%
of loans are repaid  
on time.
  
About Sallie MaeSallie Mae | 15
Sallie Mae | 15Sallie Mae | 17
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUT
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
Inaugural Corporate 
Social Responsibility 
Report published.
Jon Witter 
named CEO of Sallie Mae.
Announced a  
three-year commitment 
to provide $4.5 million to 
promote diversity  
in higher education and advance 
social justice.
Appointed Carter Franke 
as Chair of the Board of Directors, 
 the first woman to hold the position in 
our company’s history. 420,000+
students and families supported in 
financing their college and  
graduate studies.$5.3 billion 
authorized in Private  
Student Loans.
97%of loans in repayment are  
being successfully managed.In 2020, with the support of our 1,636 team members  
in 6 locations, we:2020
Sallie Mae at a glance
$2.25  
GAAP Diluted Earnings per  
Common Share
$2.2 million
Total charitable contributions
including $1 million  to local food banks in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.We generated economic value for 
our team members, shareholders, 
and local communities, including:
$ 871 million
GAAP Net Income Attributable 
to Common StockSallie Mae | 17
Powering confidence for students as they 
begin their unique journey.
Our mission is our north star, a reminder to challenge 
how the system works, and challenge ourselves. Sallie 
Mae must be, and will be, a champion for change, 
helping students access education, complete it, and 
produce meaningful outcomes along the way.
$3 million
scholarship program in partnership with  
Thurgood Marshall College Fund, 
which will result in nearly 900 scholarships  to minority students and 
those from underserved communities over the next three years.
$1.5 million
commitment to grants that help advance 
and promote social justice.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUT
Our CSR strategy addresses the five categories:
2020 has proven that in order to successfully operate as a business and a contributing member of  
any community, we must be able to adapt. We continuously evaluate and update policies and practices, 
recognizing that stakeholder perceptions and expectations, along with our business environment,  
are constantly changing. 
We are also committed to a steady alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and  
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Community •Engagement and investment
 •Advancing underserved populations
Customers •Customer satisfaction
 •Helping customers through times of need
 •Fair and responsible lending
 •Data security and privacy
Team 
Members •Developing and nurturing a mission-led culture
 • A diverse and inclusive workforce
 • Providing training and development 
opportunities
Environment •Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace 
 •Energy and emissions
Governance  
and Ethics •Business integrity 
 •Regulatory compliance
 •Risk assessment
 •Board diversitySustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) Index
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
is an independent standards-setting organization 
that supports reporting standards for companies to 
identify, manage, and communicate financially-material 
sustainability information to our investors.
Sallie Mae supports SASB because it provides a framework for comparable 
and reliable information, which is consistent with our commitment to provide 
transparent, useful, and relevant environmental, social and governance data as it 
relates to our business, as well as long-term value for our stakeholders.
While there are other SASB financial services standards that contain information 
that may be relevant to a portion of our operations, Sallie Mae has determined the 
Consumer Finance standard is most applicable for our core business.
Included in the SASB index, starting on page 90 , we report relevant data to 
support our efforts to meet all or a portion of the Consumer Finance disclosure 
within this report or other externally published documents*. Data provided covers 
the year ended December 31, 2020 unless otherwise noted. 
* Certain information is not disclosed herein because that information (i) is not considered 
material or is privileged or confidential; (ii) could cause a competitive disadvantage to our 
business if publicly disseminated; or (iii) is not currently collected in a manner wholly  
correlative with the related SASB metric.Our approach to CSR
Sallie Mae | 19Sallie Mae | 21
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ABOUT
Sustainable development goals
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are  
a globally recognized framework for advancing  
sustainability in the public and private sectors. Many 
stakeholders, including countries, communities, businesses, 
and organizations, are committed to tackling economic, 
environmental, and social challenges.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goal #4 – Quality Education , embodies  
Sallie Mae’s core purpose. Goal #4 requires collaboration among government,  
corporations, non-governmental organizations, and academic institutions to achieve 
inclusive and quality education for all, whether for a degree program, continuing education, 
or certificate training.
Sallie Mae initiatives that support United Nations Sustainable  
Development Goal #4 include:
A suite of responsible 
private loans for students 
and parents.
Scholarships for family members 
scholarships for family members of 
Sallie Mae team members.Scholarship programs that 
promote diversity in higher 
education, including  
The Sallie Mae Fund Bridging  
the Dream and Utah 
scholarships and grants 
programs,  in partnership with 
Thurgood Marshall College Fund.Support of organizations that help strengthen 
and assist the needs of our hometown 
communities including the Year Up Internship 
Program , Big Brothers Big Sisters , and 
Junior Achievement . 
 
Free financial literacy tools and 
resources  that reinforce financial 
education in high school, connect 
students with scholarships, help 
estimate future costs, and show 
students how to apply for financial aid.At Sallie Mae, we are committed to the principles 
of sustainability and understand the long-term 
value of focusing on the environmental, social, and 
governance aspects of our operations can have on 
our business, our customers, and society at large. 
We’re growing as an organization that thinks big, 
celebrates and values diversity, has an unwavering 
commitment to community and making a positive, 
lasting impact in the lives of the students and 
families we serve.
Antoine Oakley, Director, Corporate Social Responsibility
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COVID
While the pandemic has changed much of the world 
around us, students and families remain determined 
to pursue a higher education—and for good reason.
Those with a higher education have experienced lower job loss and 
unemployment levels than those without. The role Sallie Mae plays in our 
community became even clearer during the pandemic: to equip students  
with the means to access higher education and complete their studies, 
unlocking opportunity that can withstand vulnerable economic times for 
generations to come.  
At the early stages of the pandemic in the U.S., consistent with 
recommendations from local, state, and federal health officials and aligned 
with our crisis plan, Sallie Mae took a number of steps including increased 
safety measures and operational changes.
Serving our customers
Sallie Mae proactively deployed multiple forms of 
assistance and relief. 
We made it easier to communicate through enhanced customer service 
channels, including increased functionality of our chat tools, automated phone 
system, mobile app, and website. We also provided customers with tools 
to easily manage their accounts, make or postpone payments, and request 
hardship relief.
We introduced temporary relief in March, including:
 • a pause on repayment:  through a specially designed COVID-19 forbearance, 
customers were given the option to have their student loan payments paused 
through a simplified, automated process, without requiring proof of financial 
hardship; and
 •no fees: late fees and returned check fees were waived during this period.Our response to the  
COVID-19 pandemicCOVID
January : Sallie Mae establishes 
executive management steering 
committee to monitor growing  
health crisis
February : Launched an  
enhanced cleaning program at  
each Sallie Mae facility
March
•  Transitioned workforce to  
secure at-home work environment 
•  Provided team members five additional 
days of wellness leave
•  Offered COVID-19 Forbearance for 
customers affected by the pandemic
•  Donated $1 Million to local food banks
April: Installed custom precautionary 
and instructional COVID-19 signage at  
all six facilities.
May: Initiated an “At Risk: self- reporting 
survey” to help address concerns for 
team members with pre-existing health 
conditions, those caring for elderly 
family members, or those with  
childcare concerns.
June: Installed temperature scanning 
kiosks across all Sallie Mae sites
July: Installed directional floor decals, 
training room partitions, and divider 
screens at all facilities
August: Implemented a weekly health 
attestation, for all facilities, for all team 
members and visitors
November: Installed Bipolar Ionization 
Air Filtration System at Sallie Mae’s 
Newark, Delaware headquarter facility
December: Installed Bipolar Ionization 
Air Filtration System at Sallie Mae’s 
Christiana Road facility in Delaware 2020 Covid-19 TimelineSallie Mae | 23Sallie Mae | 25
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COVID
The measures taken in March helped stabilize customers’ financial wellbeing. 
As the year progressed, more customers returned to making regular 
payments. Now, customers who are experiencing continued hardship due to 
the pandemic can request a COVID-19 forbearance in one-month increments. 
This allows us to consistently be in contact with our customers and ensure 
we are ready to help those who need it most. For customers who experience 
more severe and/or longer-term hardship, we provide loan modification 
programs that allow customers to avoid default and make progress on their 
loans until they return to solid financial footing.
Our team members care deeply and work tirelessly 
on behalf of our customers and during the 
pandemic they continued to go above and beyond. 
Their resilience and resolve were a constant 
inspiration for me, and I know they’ll do whatever it 
takes to support our customers.
Dan Kennedy,  
Chief Operational Officer
Empowering our team members
Our team members consistently demonstrate 
dedication, commitment, and purpose.
In March 2020 we quickly worked with regulators and stakeholders so team 
members could begin working remotely and safely. We invested nearly $2.6 
million to provide our team members with at-home capabilities to effectively 
support our customers and the business.
We granted five additional days of paid leave, known as wellness leave, so team 
members could take more time to care for their loved ones and themselves. We 
also implemented adjustments to our medical plans so team members were 
not responsible for costs associated with COVID-19 testing or in-network and 
contracted telemedicine and virtual medicine visits.
As we evaluate plans to return to our offices, we are committed to incorporating 
feedback from team member surveys and assessing national requirements and 
local conditions. We’ve also set five guiding principles to assess a return-to-the-
office strategy.
1.  Consider the needs of at-risk team members, those with at-risk 
household members, and others identified as needing special attention.
2.  Recognize the strain that the pandemic is putting on families, 
considering factors like school closings, elder care needs, etc.
3.  Consider the advice of local, state, and federal health officials in each 
region and monitor local conditions (e.g. school openings) and follow 
applicable laws and regulations.
4.  Modify our physical workspaces and develop processes to better 
accommodate social-distancing, aggressively react to isolated COVID-19 
incidents, and incorporate other public health best practices.
5.  Prepare for an expeditious return to a remote working environment in the 
event there is a recurrence of COVID-19.
For team members who may need to visit one of our offices, we implemented 
daily, no-contact temperature screenings, stringent cleaning protocols, and 
signage to help maintain best practices and social distancing guidelines.
Sallie Mae | 25
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 27
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COVID
Supporting our community
Providing our communities with the resources needed 
to thrive has always been a tenet of our business. 
That said, we recognized that their needs changed in 
response to the pandemic. 
To help, we donated $1 million through The Sallie Mae Fund, to local food banks in 
states where the majority of our Sallie Mae team members live, work, and serve.
The Food Bank of Delaware, Gleaners Food Bank of Indiana, Inc., The Greater 
Boston Food Bank, Utah Food Bank, and Loudoun Hunger Relief, Inc. in Virginia 
each received $200,000. These grants resulted in the donation of more than 
900,000 meals  and 2 million pounds of food and provided personal protective 
equipment for staff and food bank volunteers.
We are honored to be the recipient of this 
remarkably generous donation from Sallie Mae. 
With so much uncertainty in the future, it will go a 
long way in helping us respond to increased need 
as economic fallout from this crisis continues. On 
behalf of the 511,000 Utahns facing hunger, thank 
you for your support!
Ginette Bott,  
President and CEO, Utah Food Bank
We are very grateful to Sallie Mae for their generous 
Leadership Circle level gift that will help Greater 
Boston Food Bank provide healthy food to the 
increasing number of people who are experiencing 
food insecurity due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It is 
the kindness of companies like Sallie Mae that will 
make a difference in the lives of students, families 
and seniors in Eastern Massachusetts who need 
help during this extraordinary time of need.
Catherine D’Amato,  
Greater Boston Food Bank President and CEOThroughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our team members have gone above and 
beyond to help those in need. A few examples of these efforts include: 
 • our Audit team’s partnership with Food First Delaware to help feed the healthcare 
workers of St. Francis Hospital in Wilmington, Delaware;
 • our Compliance team donated $1,000 and delivery of lunch, snacks, and other gifts 
to a local COVID-19 intensive care unit;
 • our Credit and Collections teams’ donation of more than 2,500 pounds of food 
and a $500 Visa Gift Card to help replenish a local school’s pantry which has been 
providing meals and food to families in need; and
 • our Business Optimization team’s efforts to raise money to feed families at the 
Ronald McDonald House of Delaware.
At the beginning of the pandemic, I kept thinking 
about the people who were putting their lives at 
risk by doing their jobs like nurses, doctors, EMTs, 
and hospital workers, but also people working in 
the grocery store, post office, delis, and as delivery 
drivers. I wanted to acknowledge and thank them; 
try to make sure they felt appreciated, seen. So,  
I made up thank you cards featuring a drawing I did, 
wrote personalized messages on them, and sent 
them to those places and to individuals I know.
Kristin Carlson,  
Creative Director
Sallie Mae | 27Sallie Mae | 29
EQUALITY
Advancing equality  
through higher education
Promoting diversity in higher education
In 2020, long-standing racial injustice took center 
stage in the United States.
The senseless killing of unarmed African Americans, including George 
Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, brought the inequities faced 
by African Americans and all people of color starkly into focus. Those 
inequities experienced by minorities also extend to higher education 
where, too often, people of color and students from underserved 
communities face significant obstacles and fewer resources that not only 
impede attendance, but also stifle completion of their post-secondary 
education program.
To begin to help rectify these historic and systemic issues, we announced 
a three-year commitment to provide $4.5 million in scholarships to 
promote diversity in higher education and advance social justice.
The Sallie Mae Fund, in partnership with Thurgood Marshall College Fund, 
committed a total of $3 million in scholarships  over the next three years 
to help minority students and students from underserved communities 
access higher education and complete their post-secondary program.  
 
The scholarship program includes:
 • The Bridging the DreamSM Scholarship for High School Seniors:   
The Sallie Mae Fund will award (25) $10,000 scholarships to high school 
seniors who plan to enroll in a two- or four-year degree professional 
certificate, or vocational training program.
 • The Completing the DreamSM Scholarship:  The Sallie Mae Fund will 
award (260) gap scholarships worth up to $2,500 to minority students 
and those from underserved communities who are on track to graduate 
but are at-risk of not completing due to financial emergencies or unpaid 
school bills.
 • The Bridging the DreamSM Scholarship for Graduate Students:  
The Sallie Mae Fund will also offer (10) $10,000 scholarship to minority 
students and those from disadvantaged communities who are pursuing 
a graduate degree.
Dr. Harry Williams, President and CEO, 
Thurgood Marshall College FundHigher education transforms lives,  
and we’re committed to removing the 
financial barriers that so often prevent 
students from persisting to degree 
completion. A college degree positions 
students for greater career success and 
spurs the kind of economic mobility that can 
change the life trajectory for a student. That’s 
why we are thrilled to partner with Sallie Mae 
on this scholarship program.Over the next 
three years, nearly 
900 deserving 
minority students 
will receive 
financial support 
needed to help 
them persist and 
succeed in higher 
education.EQUALITY
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
Sallie Mae | 31
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021EQUALITY
Advancing social justice
The Sallie Mae Fund will also contribute a total of $1.5 million 
over the next three years to support educational programs that 
advance social justice, diversity, inclusion, and equality.
In 2020, the first  
$500,000  
of that commitment was awarded  
through $125,000 grants to:
Hispanic Association of  
Colleges and UniversitiesThe Entertainment Industry 
Foundation in support of the  
Know Your Rights Camp  
founded by Colin Kaepernick
The Point Foundation  to support 
the LGBTQ+ communityThe National Urban League
Diversity, equity, and inclusion will be a persistent and ongoing focus for Sallie Mae. In addition 
to the dollars committed to promote diversity in higher education and the advancement of 
social justice, Sallie Mae committed to:
 • implementing best practices in the area of 
diversity and inclusion;
 • establishing a new diversity council to  
make recommendations related to diversity 
and inclusion; • reviewing every corporate policy for 
unintended impact across identity groups;
 • hiring a Chief Diversity and Inclusion  
Officer; and
 •continued reporting of our efforts.As we furthered our plans to address diversity in the community, we took a 
hard look at our approach within the company. Sallie Mae’s CEO Jon Witter led 
a discussion on the importance of diversity and inclusion at work, along with 
what we needed to do to become the most just and inclusive workforce in 
America. More than 80% of our team members joined the conversation. Further 
discussions were fostered through virtual diversity and inclusion listening tours. 
We remain committed in 2021 and beyond to being part of the solution.In 2020, we reviewed our paid holiday 
calendar to honor inclusivity and 
diversity. As a result, we introduced 
two new paid holidays, Indigenous 
People’s Day and Veterans Day, 
along with 13 new ‘quiet’ days, like 
Juneteenth. Beginning in 2021, 
mandatory meetings on these days 
are prohibited, further encouraging 
team members to take time away.  
We also included two floating holidays 
for team members to use for personal 
days of importance.As a company with a foundation in education, we 
see first-hand how education opens doors, creates 
opportunities, and advances us as a people. Those 
doors and opportunities, however, should be open 
and available to all who seek to advance through 
higher learning. We commit to helping make that a 
reality and playing a part in creating a more just and 
equal society.
Jon Witter,  
CEO, Sallie Mae
For more information see 
page 35.Sallie Mae | 33
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COMMUNITY
Our approach 
Giving back to the communities where our team 
members live, work, and serve is essential to 
developing and nurturing a mission-led culture.  
To that end, our approach to supporting the 
community is reflected throughout our core  
values: Connect, Thrive, Do Right, Dare to Do,  
and Make a Difference .
Our community outreach is deeply engrained in the idea of helping  
others, specifically with access to education. We’re committed to reducing 
barriers to higher education by investing in college planning tools and 
resources and developing financial literacy programs. Our volunteerism 
and community efforts are channeled through The Sallie Mae Fund and 
Sallie Mae Bank’s Community Reinvestment Act. Powering stronger,  
more resilient communities
Education is synonymous with opportunity. My parents 
knew that well as schoolteachers in Iran, believing in 
the value of education so much so that my mother sold 
her wedding jewelry to open up a school where more 
children, including young girls, could thrive. So when 
my family came to the United States, and I didn’t look 
or sound like everyone else, I knew to use education as 
not just an equalizer, but a means to achieve. And as a 
former Sallie Mae customer myself, I feel a great sense  
of purpose in what we do.
COMMUNITY
Our values empower us to serve our customers 
and each other; serving as a blueprint for our 
actions and attitudes. The values show us how 
we can challenge ourselves to be our best and 
give our customers the best experience possible.
Dan Sharma, Director, Project Management
Nicolas Jafarieh, Chief Legal, Government  
Affairs, and Communications Officer
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Our social impact 
$2.2 million 
Total charitable contributions in 2020  
(Includes Sallie Mae Fund, CRA, All Scholarships,  
and Employee Giving)Total charitable contributions 2017 – 2020 
500K 1M 1.5M 2M 2.5M
Sallie Mae Fund Employee Matching 
Gift ProgramCRA Scholarships and Contests02017
2018
2019
2020331K 249K 260K
315K 250K 391K30K
252K 403K 434K
1.8M53K
61K
110K201K500K 1M 1.5M 2M 2.5M
Sallie Mae Fund Employee Matching 
Gift ProgramCRA Scholarships and Contests02017
2018
2019
2020331K 249K 260K
315K 250K 391K30K
252K 403K 434K
1.8M53K
61K
110K201KInvesting in our communities
Supporting the communities where our team 
members live, work, and serve is core to who we  
are. Corporate contributions and team member giving 
are funneled through our charitable arm,  
The Sallie Mae Fund.
The Sallie Mae Fund 
Since April 2014, The Sallie Mae Fund contributed more than $4.8 million to 
address key barriers to higher education access and completion, and to build 
more resilient communities.
Highlights include:
 • Point Foundation  – A $125,000 grant was awarded were awarded to the 
Point Foundation, a scholarship fund that provides financial aid for lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer college aspiring individuals in the 
United States.
 • Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities – To promote diversity 
in higher education and support the Hispanic community, a $125,000 grant 
was awarded to this organization to improve access to and the quality of 
post-secondary educational opportunities for Hispanic students.
 • Know Your Rights Camp by Colin Kaepernick – A $125,000 grant 
supported the Know Your Rights Camp’s mission to advance the liberation 
and well-being of Black and Brown communities through education, self-
empowerment, mass-mobilization and the creation of new systems that 
elevate the next generation of change leaders.
 • National Urban League  – Furthering equal access to higher education, a 
$125,000 grant was made to support the nonpartisan historic civil rights 
organization that advocates on behalf of economic and social justice for 
African Americans and against racial discrimination in the United States.
 • Local food banks – A total of $1M was given to local food banks in Delaware, 
Indiana, Utah, Massachusetts, and Virginia, to support families during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
Sallie Mae | 35
COMMUNITYCorporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COMMUNITY
Other grants, championed and requested by  
Sallie Mae team members, included:
Cab Calloway School in Delaware 
A $20,000 grant supported 
scholarship opportunities for 
underserved students to  
participate in Cab Calloway’s 
SMArtSummer to explore paths  
to a higher education.
Christina Cultural Arts Center  
in Delaware 
A $25,000 grant supported 
scholarships that make arts 
education, career pathways, 
live performances, and gallery 
exhibitions accessible to urban youth 
and underserved communities in a 
safe, family-centered environment.
 Girls Scouts of the  
Chesapeake Bay  
A $25,000 grant helped underwrite 
the cost of the Outreach Program 
which provides leadership 
experience, high-impact programs, 
and top-notch outdoor enrichment 
activities for 1,000 at-risk, low-
income girls.Newark Symphony Orchestra  
A $12,000 grant supported arts 
education scholarships and  
low-cost performances for  
low-income families.
 
 
 
 
Wilmington Drama League  
An $11,000 grant to support local artists, 
keep performances free or inexpensive 
and updates to A/V system.
Year Up Wilmington  
A $7,500 grant supported skills  
training and workforce development 
programs for local young adults.
 
YWCA in Utah 
A $15,000 grant helped provide a  
safe environment for homeless  
teens living with their mothers in  
YWCA’s domestic violence shelter  
and transitional housing.
 Folds of Honor   
A $50,000 grant supported college scholarships to children and 
spouses of disabled and fallen military service members.
Big Brothers Big Sisters of 
Delaware  
A $50,000 grant to provide 
academic support and one-on-
one guidance for low-income 
students adapting and adjusting to 
virtual learning due to COVID-19. In 
addition, the grant supported the 
expansion of mentoring programs,  
including those designed for 
LGBTQ+ students.
I volunteered for Big Brothers and Big Sisters 
of Delaware and was matched to an amazing 
young man named Michel. He needed some 
direction and help in life and I was able to 
provide that for him. I met him at 14 and he is 
now 23 and an active and outgoing person in 
our community. Through the years I have been 
able to help him grow into the amazing young 
adult he is today. When he turned 18, he took 
on my name and I’m proud to call him my son.
Andrew Zeltt, Director, Compliance
Sallie Mae | 37Sallie Mae | 39
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COMMUNITY
Team member giving and volunteering
Despite constraints during the pandemic, our team members 
helped build stronger, more resilient communities through their 
volunteer efforts.
Together as a team at our Christiana Road facility, we’ve 
been able to ‘adopt’ 18 children and one family, donating 
more than 1,500 pounds of food to the school’s pantry, 
and purchasing gifts for more than a dozen students’ 
families for the holidays. We help power students every 
day as part of our job, but helping local students outside 
of our work responsibilities is incredibly special, too.
Tracy Varnes, Executive Administrative Assistant
We provide team members with  
6 days/yr of PTO 
specifically for volunteering and we match individual volunteer  
and fundraising efforts up to $1,000.
Sallie Mae team members 
donated more than
$61,000  
through the company’s matching 
gifts program to charitable 
organizations across the country.Sallie Mae team members 
volunteered more than 
860 hours
Team members, 
 •cooked meals for those in need
 • provided school supplies and mentoring at local schools
 •served on boards of nonprofit organizations.Investing in students’ dreams
Providing scholarships and grants to aspiring minds 
brings Sallie Mae’s mission to life.
Helping Students Celebrate Their Accomplishments
Due to the pandemic, students graduating from high school and college didn’t  
have the opportunity to participate in a traditional commencement ceremony.  
To help ensure their accomplishments were still celebrated, Sallie Mae teamed up 
with Her Campus for a nationwide #ImStillGraduating virtual event.
The six-hour livestream event included more than 50 performances and 
commencement addresses from actors, musicians, politicians, fashion-icons, and 
business and nonprofit leaders. As the “Official Partner in Responsibly Funding 
Futures,” Sallie Mae launched the “Funded Futures” contest, providing $100,000 in 
scholarships to four recipients who had plans to help change the world. More than 
1,000 applications were received and candidates were evaluated on academic and 
personal accomplishments, experiences facing adversity, and how they aspire to 
make an impact in the future. The four recipients chosen include a high school, 
college, graduate, and medical student.
 • Julia Seay  plans to be the first African American to own an environmental  
firm and is planning to use her award to continue her environmental studies.  
Julia was a graduate of Westlake High School in Atlanta, Georgia.
 • Isabel DeRamos  plans to use her scholarship to undertake epidemiologic 
research in highly affected communities of color and poverty and improve the 
health of Philadelphia’s disadvantaged populations. Isabel is a grad student at 
Drexel University in pursuit of a master’s degree in epidemiology.
 • Meaghan Murtagh  hopes to serve as an advocate for sexual assault and 
interpersonal violence survivors at higher education institutions. As a graduate  
of Boston University entering a new phase of life post-graduation, she will 
volunteer and explore opportunities in the non-profit sector, focusing on 
education in sexual assault prevention and response. 
 • Chizitam Ibezim  plans to complete his five-year residency and become a  
board-certified Orthopedic Surgeon for patients in underserved communities.  
He is a graduate from University of Missouri – Kansas City School of Medicine.For the past two years, I’ve been working 
on a solution for global warming. Now 
as a Funded Futures recipient, I have the 
opportunity to pay for my provisional patent 
and see my ideas come to life.
Julia Seay, Washington and Lee University 
student, who aspires to be the first African 
American woman to own an environmental firm.
With so much uncertainty living in a 
pandemic, this award has allowed me to 
take a deep breath and remember that 
everything is going to be alright. Sallie Mae’s 
Funded Futures contest has not only lifted my 
financial burden but has lifted spirits, too.
Meaghan Murtagh, scholarship winner
Sallie Mae | 41
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021The Bridging the Dream Scholarship Program
2020 marked the five-year anniversary of Sallie Mae’s Bridging the Dream 
Scholarship Program. More than 35 high school and graduate students received 
nearly $900,000 in scholarships  through the program. Many of them are 
already on their way to shaping the world as future nurses, doctors, lawyers, 
engineers, film makers, activists, scientists, and entrepreneurs. 
2020 recipients of the Bridging the Dream Scholarship for 
Graduate Students:
OLASENI BELLO
Olaseni Bello is a U.S. Army Officer, lawyer, and Nigerian immigrant  
committed to being a voice for those without the resources needed to get by. 
Olaseni plans to use his degree from the University of California Berkeley Haas 
School of Business to help improve access to healthcare and create a better 
future for his daughter’s generation.
 
To whom much is given, much is expected, so I 
plan to pay this forward through initiatives that will 
improve the lives of marginalized communities and 
others on the periphery of society.
Olaseni Bello 
MATTHEW ST. JEAN
Matthew St. Jean is an aspiring emergency medicine physician with experience 
working on the frontlines in Maine’s Emergency Medical Services (EMS). 
Through his degree from the West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine, 
Matthew plans to continue serving the emergency services community that 
became his second family, helping him learn discipline and resilience.
ALEXIS KALLEN
Alexis Kallen is on a mission to increase opportunities for young women. She 
plans to become an advocate for marginalized communities, especially for 
female asylum-seekers with disabilities, with the help of her law degree from 
Yale. Alexis has interned at Human Rights Watch, the U.S. Supreme Court, and 
the Justice Centre in Hong Kong. Alexis was a 2018 Rhodes Scholar, Stanford 
University’s 127th Convocation Speaker, the 2018 Lloyd W. Dinkelspiel Award 
recipient, and a 2017 Harry S. Truman Scholar.
STEPHANIE ROSADO
Stephanie Rosado is a former Puerto Rican women’s national basketball 
team player with a master’s in social work. Growing up, her grandmother 
emphasized, “No te rindas” (Don’t give up). Those words have guided 
Stephanie on her incredible journey from the court to the University of South 
Florida where she is pursuing a PhD to advocate for athletes’ well-being and 
sport social work.
 
This scholarship removes barriers that will let me 
focus on my studies, but it’s more than the financial 
piece. This (scholarship) really put perspective on 
my story, coming from a low socioeconomic area, 
and made me acknowledge the worth of my story. 
The fact I was chosen just validated my motivation.
Stephanie Rosado
New in 2020 
The Sallie Mae Fund partnered with Thurgood Marshall College Fund to evolve 
The Bridging the Dream Scholarship Program to meet the needs of minority 
students and those from marginalized communities, including LGBTQ+, low-
income, and first-generation college students. The program will provide $1 
million a year over the next three years to help students access and complete 
college and help pay for graduate school.
Simone,  
2018 Bridging the Dream  
Scholarship RecipientCOMMUNITYSallie Mae | 43
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COMMUNITY
Community Reinvestment Act
Under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), federally insured  
depository institutions, like Sallie Mae Bank, support the needs of low- and 
moderate-income neighborhoods in the communities where they are 
located. Sallie Mae Bank, which is chartered in Utah, focuses on underserved 
communities in five Utah counties, providing access to finance through 
consumer and community development lending, qualified investments, grants  
to community development organizations, and education scholarships for low- 
and moderate-income persons.
In 2020, we awarded 18 scholarships worth $110,000 to low- to moderate-
income students in Utah. Since 2007, we have awarded more than $1.2 million to 
321 students.
Community investments made by Sallie Mae Bank include a focus on higher 
education scholarships and community development grants in Utah, and our 
investments are guided by our CRA Strategic Plan that is approved by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Sallie Mae Bank exceeded its funding goal for scholarships and grants in 2020, 
providing more than $260,000 to deserving individuals and organizations in 
our assessment area in Utah. Team members exceeded our service goal as well, 
spending nearly 187 hours with various community organizations, including the 
Rocky Mountain Community Reinvestment Corporation, YWCA of Utah, People 
Helping People, NeighborWorks Salt Lake, and Junior Achievement.
 
Supporting low-income and disadvantaged students 
through our Utah Scholarship Program gives me 
a unique opportunity to make a difference. I really 
enjoy hearing the students’ stories and the positive 
impact that Sallie Mae has made in their lives.
Claire Scott,  
Sr. Manager, Compliance and Community Reinvestment Act OfficerBroadening our tools through  
strategic partnerships 
We regularly partner with individuals and organizations  
to reach more students and cultivate their financial 
know-how.
Reach Higher
Sallie Mae partnered with Reach Higher, an organization 
founded by former First Lady Michelle Obama, to present the 
Beating the Odds Virtual Summit, convening students and 
discussing challenges experienced during their first year of 
college, and how best to overcome them.
Embark 
Nearly a third of students didn’t file the FAFSA® last year,  
and a big reason cited was the complexity of the form. To 
raise awareness about the importance of completing the 
FAFSA, and to simplify the process for students looking 
to secure financial aid for higher education, Sallie Mae 
partnered with Embark to provide a free tool that reduces the 
average time it takes to complete the FAFSA from 55 minutes 
to less than 20 minutes. 
EVERFI 
To deliver financial literacy curriculum straight to high  
school classrooms (in-person or virtually), Sallie Mae 
partnered with EVERFI, an international social-impact 
education innovator, to launch Sallie Mae’s Knowledge 
for College® program in California. This financial literacy 
curriculum for high school students includes interactive 
modules to help students develop strategies for responsibly 
financing their post-secondary education, as well as 
managing their finances for life. The curriculum covers 
everything from introductory topics like saving and 
budgeting to advanced topics like financial aid, student 
loans, and repaying loans responsibly.
 
Ensuring students and their 
families fully understand 
not only the process by 
which to apply for student 
financial aid, but also the 
responsibilities it carries, is 
of the utmost importance 
and will help set them up for 
financial success.
Ray Martinez,  
co-founder and president, EVERFI
I graduated from the Kids2College 
Program in 1995 when I was in 6th grade. 
The program inspired me to go onto 
college at UVA where I graduated in 
2005. It definitely changed my personal 
trajectory. I still have the picture taken 
during the program that helped me see 
myself as a future college graduate.
William Chichester III, Senior Manager,  
Microsoft’s Global University RecruitingSallie Mae | 45
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021COMMUNITY
Her Campus
Sallie Mae teamed up with Her Campus for the nationwide 
#ImStillGraduating virtual ceremony, a free, six-hour, live 
streamed event - open to any and all students graduating 
from high school, college, or graduate school. As the “Official 
Partner in Responsibly Funding Futures,” Sallie Mae offered 
four deserving graduates $25,000 each to help them take their 
next step after graduation, whether that be starting a business, 
settling into their first job, or another important milestone.
WiseBread
Sallie Mae and WiseBread partnered to host financial and higher 
education discussions with money-conscious individuals and 
families on Twitter.
Kids2College
We provide free financial literacy curriculum to more than  
860 schools and 361,000 students throughout the country  
via the Kids2College program. The program, increases 
engagement among middle school students, leaving them 
more informed about potential opportunities made possible 
through higher education. Built in consultation with the  
National Council for Community and Education Partnerships, 
the six-session program focuses on careers, college life, and 
academic preparation.
 
 
Financial literacy provides students with a strong 
foundation of knowledge and confidence in making 
informed decisions about the future. That future 
includes planning and paying for higher education, 
which is one of the first major financial decisions  
for many students and families. We want families  
to make these decisions with eyes wide open, and  
that means providing critical education and 
information early in the process through programs  
like Knowledge for College.
Jen O’Donald, 
Senior Vice President, Sallie Mae
Sallie Mae | 45Sallie Mae | 45
Sallie Mae | 47
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Our approach 
Since establishing ourselves as a stand-alone 
consumer bank in 2014, we have helped more than 
1.4 million families finance their education—more than 
any other private student lender in the United States.
And as a leader in private student lending, it’s our responsibility to help our 
cusotmers access and complete higher education. With our  eye on their  future, 
we’ll continue to power confidence for students through out their journey.
Helping customers through times of need
Sallie Mae supports customers who face special 
circumstances or have trouble making loan payments.
In March, we took steps to provide options for customers affected by  
the pandemic, including a forbearance program for those experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
We proactively posted assistance information to our website at  
www.salliemae.com/coronavirus  and then communicated with all Sallie Mae 
customers, including cosigners, to let them know assistance was available. 
Customers facing financial difficulties were able to request and receive a 
three-month suspension of student loan payments, also known as a COVID-19 
forbearance. We quickly trained more customer service representatives and 
enhanced the functionality of our chat, automated phone system, mobile app, 
and website features to help all our customers manage their accounts, make or 
postpone payments, and request hardship relief, all on a self-service basis.Powering our customers
The best kind of customer care is 
respectful, responsive, transparent, and 
focused on delivering experiences that 
exceeds the customer’s expectations. 
Customers want confidence that their 
needs will be met promptly, professionally, 
and with a focus on doing what’s right for 
them. That’s our goal.
JoEllen McCauley, Senior Director,  
Office of the Consumer Advocate
CUSTOMERSCUSTOMERS
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 49
For customers who experience more severe and/or longer-term hardship, we 
provide loan modification programs that allow customers to avoid default and 
make progress on their loans until they return to solid financial footing. 
 
I am and have been very satisfied with the services 
you provide. Thank you for helping me, especially 
during these times of uncertainty. I have never 
known a company such as yours to reach out to 
their clients in such a genuine and sincere manner. 
You were there during my hardship and still (are) 
today. You understood my situation and assured me 
everything would be ok.
Sallie Mae customerSupporting financial literacy
Higher education is one of the most important, and 
often first, big investments students make. A student 
loan is their first major financial commitment. That’s why 
we provide students with the right tools, resources, and 
information to make informed decisions.
These tools include:
 • A free resource to begin an actionable plan to pay for college. Our College 
Planning Calculator , helps families set college savings goals, project the full costs 
of a college degree, estimate future student loan payments, and analyze the 
annual starting salary level needed to keep payments manageable.
 • A simplified way to apply for federal financial aid that reduces the average  
time it takes to complete the FAFSA from 55 minutes to less than 20 minutes.  
The FAFSA connects students to scholarships, grants, and federal loans from  
the government. We encourage students to file the FAFSA before considering  
private student loans.
 • Free resources to help find scholarships. Our Scholarship Search , an online 
scholarship database, is home to more than 6 million scholarships collectively 
worth over $30 billion. Students fill out a brief profile, and in minutes, the tool 
responds with matches that identify relevant scholarships, their award amounts, 
application requirements and deadlines. Sallie Mae also offers Graduate School 
Scholarship Search, home to 950,000 graduate school scholarships worth more 
than $1 billion.
 • Leading research, including How America Pays for College , How America  
Saves for College , How America Pays for Graduate School , How Young Adults 
Manage Their Finances , and How America Plans for Post-secondary Education , 
provides insight into how American students and families approach higher 
education and finances. This research is regularly featured in the national 
media, referenced by regulators, policymakers and think tanks, and used by 
higher education institutions to monitor trends and make informed decisions for 
students and families.  
 
 
 
For academic year 2019 – 2020, more than 24,000 students reported  
receiving at least one scholarship via our database, covering more than 
$67 million in college costs.I have always felt it was important to be 
involved in organizations that help me 
make an impact. Through my work with the 
Indiana Student Financial Aid Association, 
I’ve had the opportunity to speak with high 
school students about life and financial skills, 
including filling out the FAFSA, budgeting, 
and tips to help them get into college.
Donette Cassman, Director, Business 
Development, and recipient of the Indiana 
Student Financial Aid Association Recognition 
of Service AwardCUSTOMERS
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 51
Sallie Mae private student loans are a responsible option 
to cover college costs after scholarships, savings, and 
federal financial aid. Our philosophy is designed to 
help customers make informed choices, and ultimately, 
graduate with less debt.
of loans in repayment are  
being successfully managed.
2%of loans  
default annual.
The average Sallie Mae  
loan is repaid withinSupporting our  
customers’ success Fair & responsible lending
Sallie Mae is firmly committed to making credit 
products available to consumers on a fair, consistent, 
and responsible basis.
We comply with all applicable fair lending laws and do not discriminate against 
applicants regarding any aspect of a credit transaction on a prohibited basis. 
Fair lending is not only a basic responsibility for all team members, but also 
good business. Our Fair Lending Program provides supporting guidance and 
sets expectations on the controls, standards, and practices outlined in our Fair 
Lending Policy.
While each family’s strategy to plan and pay for college is different, we 
recommend families follow a 1-2-3 approach to financing their education:
1.  Start with money you won’t have to pay back.  
Supplement your college savings and income by maximizing scholarships, 
grants, and work-study.
2.  Explore federal student loans.   
We encourage students to explore federal student loan options by 
completing the FAFSA.
3.  Consider a responsible private student loan.   
Fill the gap between your available resources and the cost of college. We 
encourage students to evaluate all anticipated monthly loan payments, 
as well as how much the student expects to earn in the future, before 
considering a private student loan.
7 years
97%Sallie Mae | 51
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021CUSTOMERS
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 53
If the customer is experiencing hardship, we work to understand their financial 
circumstances and identify any available alternative arrangements designed to 
reduce monthly payment obligations. These can include extended repayment 
schedules, temporary interest rate reductions and, if appropriate, short-term 
hardship forbearance, suited to their individual circumstances.
Supporting military families
Sallie Mae demonstrates its commitment to 
veterans and service members year-round  
with resources and benefits, beyond what is 
required by federal or state law, for customers  
and team members. 
The company employs a team of customer service advisors who are 
dedicated to working with military families to provide personal assistance. 
This dedicated group can help customers with military-specific benefits, 
make arrangements for their loans while customers are deployed, and 
support them as they transition back to school or into repayment. 
The Sallie Mae Fund reinforced its commitment to military 
servicemembers and their families with a $50,000 grant to Folds of Honor. 
The grant supported college scholarships to children and spouses of 
disabled and fallen military servicemembers. Since 2014, The Sallie Mae 
Fund has contributed more than $325,000 to Folds of Honor.
Since 2014, The Sallie Mae Fund  
has contributed more than
$325,000  
to Folds of Honor.Fraud prevention
Fraud detection and prevention plays an important role 
in our responsible lending practices. We are committed 
to safeguarding our customers’ personal information 
and protecting their accounts from fraudulent activity. Our website provides consumers with 
tips on how to avoid online fraud, as 
well as how to spot student loan debt 
relief scams.
Utilizing pattern recognition 
programs and systemsMaintaining web access 
security features, including 
multi-factor authentication
Automating customer 
verification and fraud 
detection software
Utilizing several lines  
of defense, including,  
but not limited to, 
comprehensive and 
independent internal audits 
that evaluate compliance 
with our policiesTraining team members 
in fraud prevention and 
detection practices and 
ensuring managers of risk 
are independent from the 
functions they monitor
Implementing tools to  
further enhance customer 
identity processesSome of the tools we use to identify and  
prevent fraud include:
Segregating duties, 
transaction limits and 
restricted access to data 
systems and dual controlsOutstanding  
study tools
Undergrads with a Sallie Mae 
loan have access to four 
months of free access to 
study tools, available 24/7, to 
help power success in school.CUSTOMERS
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 55
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Our customers trust that when they bank with us, their 
data will remain safe and secure, and our attention to 
data security and privacy is engrained in our culture.
We start with policies and procedures governing enterprise-wide information 
security and privacy controls and practices. These policies are approved by  
management committee and/or the Compliance or Risk Committees of our Board 
of Directors. All policies and procedures are reviewed at least annually to ensure 
they include appropriate legal and regulatory updates.
When unexpected events such as the COVID-19 pandemic occur, we take 
significant precautions to maintain a consistent approach to safeguarding our 
customers’ data. During the pandemic, our teams have provided updates to the 
regulatory agencies as needed to keep them aware of the support provided to 
team members and customers. We also increased data privacy testing controls 
from semi-annual to monthly.
In addition, Sallie Mae has a comprehensive suite of privacy disclosures, available 
on our website . These disclosures include:
 • The Privacy Notice provided to all customers at time of application and annually 
thereafter, which describes Sallie Mae’s privacy principles and practices 
regarding our relationship with our customers and how we collect and share their 
information with our affiliates and outside companies;
 • The Online Privacy Policy describing Sallie Mae’s practices concerning the 
collection and use of information gathered from or about our online visitors and 
registered users; and
 • The California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) addendum applying to California 
residents and supplements our Online Privacy Policy, which describes our privacy 
principles and practices and provides instructions on how to exercise their rights 
under the CCPA.
Sallie Mae falls under state and federal regulatory oversight and examination 
(generally the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau, and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions). In  
addition, information security and privacy undergo regular audits from our 
independent internal auditors. These examinations and audits ensure compliance 
with certain standards and legal compliance. We are active in several industry 
associations such as the American Bankers Association, International Association 
of Privacy Professionals, and the Financial Services Information Sharing and 
Analysis Center.
The Privacy Officer oversees the implementation and effectiveness of the privacy 
program throughout all business units and processes. This ensures that there is 
regular testing and monitoring allowing for the early capture of potential issues. 
As laws come into effect or change, the Privacy Officer is closely aligned with the legal department to ensure that senior management is informed, and the 
affected business units are engaged to ensure their systems are updated, their 
team members are educated, and their practices are in line with the applicable 
laws. Team members and authorized service providers are granted system and 
personal information access only when necessary to perform their functions. 
Our third-party management office and risk partner teams ensure that service 
providers’ security and privacy controls are thoroughly reviewed and monitored 
prior to and during the engagement. 
Our Chief Security Officer and Corporate Security establish and monitor  
the relevant and necessary standards, protocols, and management processes  
for cyber security. We have developed comprehensive data privacy and security-
related internal policies and procedures which dictate requirements and  
controls that protect customer and company information. These include, but 
are not limited to, the Corporate Information Security Program, Customer 
Information Safeguarding Program, Information Security Policy, and Privacy 
Policy and Procedures.
Our policies and procedures are examined regularly by internal and external 
auditors, bank regulators, and third-party consultants. In addition, our vendors, 
contractors, and consultants are subject to security and privacy policies and 
contract provisions as appropriate for the services or products being provided. 
Our comprehensive privacy policy is publicly available on our website. It sets 
forth the data privacy practices related to the collection, use, and sharing of 
customer information across Sallie Mae products and business lines.
Employee training
We regularly train and continually assess our workforce on the importance of 
data privacy and security, including training to help mitigate the threats posed 
by phishing emails and other forms of social engineering, and how to report data 
privacy events or other suspicious activity. We enhance this security awareness 
employee training annually to ensure it covers current and evolving threats, and 
applies best practices to keep our customer, employee, and company data safe.
Incident response program
Our comprehensive Cyber security Incident Response Program is constantly 
evolving and sets forth detailed enterprise-wide policies and procedures  
for responding to a cyber security event. The procedures are tested  
through semi-annual cyber security incident response exercises , led by 
independent third-party experts. These exercises are designed to resemble 
real life situations, they challenge us to both test and rehearse our response 
and decision-making protocols, and participation by key executives and senior 
management is mandated.Sallie Mae | 55TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 57
Powering our team members
Our approach 
We’re committed to creating an environment where team 
members feel appreciated, engaged, and inspired to make 
a difference. Just as we are here to help our customers 
build prosperous futures, we strive to help our team 
members do the same. 
We are focused on creating the most just and 
inclusive place to work in the country. We are 
building and reinforcing a culture that fosters 
ongoing growth, prioritizes health and well-being, 
and empowers team members to achieve great 
things for our customers, one another,  
and themselves.
Bonnie Rumbold, 
Chief People Officer
TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 59
TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Connect.We believe a diverse and inclusive team that 
unites through shared goals drives the greatest 
outcome. We connect by listening, being kind, 
caring, and accepting in all our relationships.
Thrive.We believe in personal and professional  
growth and fulfillment. We thrive when we 
balance our physical, emotional, professional, 
and financial well-being. When we thrive, so do 
those around us.
Do right.We believe that the time is always right to do the 
right thing. We are empowered to do right by 
being bold, acting selflessly, and making tough 
decisions. Courage required.
Dare to do.We believe that making great things happen 
requires thinking and doing differently. We dare to 
do by being curious, embracing diverse thought, 
challenging assumptions, doing cool stuff, and 
growing from our experiences.
Make a 
difference.We believe that every moment is an opportunity 
to make a difference—one person or experience 
at a time. We amaze, surprise, and delight our 
teams, our customers, and our community.Highlights from our team member surveys
89%of team members believe Sallie 
Mae has a clear strategy with a 
common mission.85%of team members believe Sallie Mae has, 
and lives up to, values they care about.United by our purposeTEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 61Sallie Mae | 61
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 61
Total workforceGeographic  
Distribution
Ethnicity57 Virginia
446 Indiana 
909 Delaware
58 Massachusetts
46 Utah
120 Remote O/f_f.shortice 399 in Christiana and
510 in Newark Our workforce
54% Women
46% Men
59% Non-minority
41% Minority
45% Millennials
43% Generation X
12% Baby BoomersDuring the summer of 2020, we focused and aligned our organization and talent to strategic 
priorities that drive performance and inspire commitment to a mission-led culture. 
As part of this reorganization, some roles were reevaluated or eliminated. To ensure those team 
members leaving the organization were cared for, we provided 60 days of advance notice, and 
we temporarily enhanced our severance benefits making sure that—in addition to severance 
pay—departing employees received any annual bonuses. In addition, we extended health benefits 
coverage through the end of 2020; and departing team members had the option of extending 
coverage for an additional 18 months while Sallie Mae continued to pay the company portion of their 
health benefits for a period of time, based on their severance benefits. We also created tools and 
provide services to support our departing team members, including outplacement services.20141,001
20151,150
20161,288
20171,511
20181,776
20191,901
1,636
20200500100015002000TEAM
Gender
Age
The opportunity to 
inspire and develop 
team members is 
an honor. To then 
translate healthy team 
member experiences 
into positive customer 
experiences is a bonus.
Kimberly Bressi, Sallie Mae Team 
Member Sallie Mae | 63Sallie Mae | 63
TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 20212020 Most Influential Black Executives in Corporate America 
Donna Vieira, Chief Commercial Officer
Donna Vieira  was named to Savoy Magazine’s list of the “2020 Most Influential 
Black Executives in Corporate America.” Selections are based on executives’ 
record of accomplishments, as well as their commitment to bettering their 
community and inspiring others.
Alongside her responsibilities as Chief Commercial Officer, Donna supports 
individuals and families with disabilities through her work with the Special 
Olympics Delaware. She was also appointed by Delaware Governor John 
Carney to Chair the Office of the Treasurer’s Plans Management Board to 
help families plan and save for post-secondary education. In addition, she is a 
member of the Executive Leadership Council, an organization committed to 
increasing the number of black executives globally.
This is an honor that wouldn’t be possible if not for 
those who came before me. I am surrounded and 
reminded of a community of trailblazers who have 
paved the path forward, and I’m grateful to be in 
a position to help the next generation of leaders 
prepare for their own journey through the power 
of higher education.
A diverse and inclusive workplace
Seeking, protecting, and promoting diversity, both in 
background and perspective, is key to creating the most 
inclusive and just workplace in America.
The message above was issued to all Sallie Mae team members on behalf of Jon Witter,  
Sallie Mae CEO on June 5, 2020. The message is one of an email series from Jon to team  
members, delivered each week.Team,
I want to begin with a thank you. Thank you to the 1,321 team members 
who, by joining yesterday’s virtual Town Hall, began the conversation at 
Sallie Mae about diversity and inclusion. This is a journey for all of us, one 
that will have difficult moments, learning moments, moments of grace, 
and moments of tremendous growth. It is the most important work we 
can do together because it will create the culture that allows our people 
and our business to thrive. I am so eager and so proud to make a better 
company together with you.
Over the last two months, I have had multiple conversations about our 
mission and values. I think of them as a rallying cry for all of us, the entire 
company. Last week, I came across our values on the intranet, and I 
locked in, particularly on the first one. Take a look:
Connect: We believe a diverse and inclusive team that unites through 
shared goals drives the greatest outcome. I connect by listening, and 
being kind, caring and accepting in all my relationships.
I ask you to focus on this particular value in all of your interactions over 
the next week. Talk about it in your team meetings. Share reactions with 
your managers, heck, even share your reactions with me. A diverse and 
inclusive team is a stronger team, and although we have work to do, we 
have begun. Let’s connect and tap into it.
All best,
JonWords from Witter                June 5, 2020
TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 65
Listening and learning
It’s not enough to acknowledge there’s value in 
diversity—we need to actively pursue it.
That’s why we launched Diversity and Inclusion listening tours, gaining a deeper 
understanding of how our team members think our workplace empowers 
people, regardless of their race, gender, identity, religion, age, or background, 
to bring their best selves to the workplace. Hundreds of team members 
participated in these virtual discussions, which sparked conversations with 
leadership and team members for the remainder of the year.
We provide equal employment opportunity for all team members and job 
applicants, regardless of their race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, age, disability, national origin, marital status, citizenship status, 
protected veteran status, genetic information, or any other basis prohibited 
by applicable law. Our work focuses on ensuring all are treated with fairness, 
equality, and value.
Thriving amidst a pandemic 
Ensuring the wellbeing of our team members  
has remained a priority for Sallie Mae during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Beginning in March, we successfully transitioned our workforce to a secure, 
at-home work environment. Knowing that informed team members can make 
better decisions about their responsibilities at home, we continue to maintain 
a weekly line of communication between leadership and team members in 
relation to our work-from-home strategies.My expectation of the listening tours was  
not to solve any problems immediately, but to 
have people listen without judgment and take 
part in the conversations to better understand 
others’ experiences and perspectives. Having 
open conversations about D&I can help us 
understand one another on a deeper level and 
can contribute to the building of more genuine 
interactions and relationships.
Lauren Simmonds, Manager,  
Product Strategy
Ongoing growth and development
We ensure team members are able to pursue 
fulfilling and rewarding careers at Sallie Mae through 
access to new opportunities, mentorship, leadership 
development, and management training. 
Individual development planning
Our team members work closely with their managers to develop a personal 
career roadmap toward achieving their long-term professional goals. This 
development process is based on a core competency model that aligns with 
and supports our core values. The core values have been translated into a set 
of attributes and behaviors that are closely linked to successful growth at  
Sallie Mae. 
This core competency model acts as a guide for developing our people and 
finding and attracting new talent and focuses on the values most important to 
our organization, such as accountability, leadership, collaboration, innovation, 
and courage. 
Internal mobility
Our Task Force Program creates opportunities for team members to develop 
skills and broaden their experience. Team members work in other areas of the 
business during periods where those areas require short-term resources for 
special projects, leaves of absence, or other critical business initiatives.  
In 2020, 11 team members participated in a task force role at Sallie Mae.I knew that my presentation skills could always be 
perfected, and I found the ideal social environment 
to be able to do that it with the help of the Sallie 
Mae team. Team members provided such a relaxed, 
supportive community to be able to do this in, and 
it was a great way to meet new colleagues.
Lisa Talbot,  
Director, Business Development, and Toastmasters participant
TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 67
e-Learning platform
Sallie Mae YOUniversity promotes continuous professional development. Through  
this platform, team members complete a self-assessment against our competency 
model, develop an outline for personal development, and are encouraged to take 
courses that foster personal growth in developmental need areas. Nearly 1,000 team 
members took advantage of the courses, which include both technical and soft skills 
for team members.
Cultivating emerging leaders
Through the performance review and development planning process, emerging 
leaders have been identified and invited to participate in targeted leadership training.
Our MAPS program, (Manage, Apply, Practice, and Succeed), is designed to  
identify, and cultivate current team members into future leaders, by convening mid 
and senior-level managers to enhance their leadership skills and build their project 
management capabilities. 
Our Leadership Development Program (LDP) is designed to build leadership 
competencies and provide an opportunity to bring new solutions through our 
business challenge. This program is offered to mid to senior level leaders that have  
the potential to assume broader roles in the future. 
To date, nearly 200 team members have completed our MAPS and  
LDP programs.
Building the talent pipeline
In a competitive job market, it is critical to not only develop existing team members, 
but also strategically and intentionally build the talent pipeline. In addition to ongoing 
recruiting efforts at local colleges and universities, we have targeted internship 
programs that attract the very best and brightest to the Sallie Mae team.Year Up internship program
Sallie Mae is a proud supporter and corporate partner of Year Up, a national 
program designed to help young adults gain the skills and experience 
necessary to excel in professional and technical careers. Since 2019, The Sallie 
Mae Fund has donated more than $150,000 to Year Up Wilmington. We’ve 
provided six-month internships for 12 individuals, and six have been hired full 
time in the past three years.
A law degree means having the tools to advocate 
for marginalized communities effectively. I believe 
in community development and advocating for a 
more equitable and just society. My experience 
interning at Sallie Mae was very positive, and I 
intend to use my legal training to affect the type of 
positive change I wish to see in my community.
KB,  
Howard Law Student and Sallie Mae intern
The Year Up program helps students become so 
much more confident in finding their voices and 
discussing their experiences. You see amazing 
growth in the students as they develop their skills  
in preparation for a successful career in their field 
of study.
Margot Evans,  
Year Up Corporate Champion and Sallie Mae Talent Acquisition Manager
From the moment I started my Year Up internship 
at Sallie Mae, I started doing things I’d never done 
before and really fell in love with the possibilities 
at the company. When I was offered a full-time 
position, that idea of doing new things continued, 
and now I’m analyzing and identifying ways our 
customer service can be more efficient, helping us 
serve customers in even better ways.
Cinitae Savage,  
Continuous Improvement AnalystI started my journey at Sallie 
Mae as a security guard 
contractor in 2012. It  
wasn’t long until I applied for 
a job as a Sallie Mae team 
member, and since then, I’ve 
served in six different roles. 
Now, I have the pleasure of 
helping other employees 
grow and experience their 
own journeys.
Sharif Evans,  
School Assist Manager
TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 69
Promoting health and wellbeing
We recognize that team members may sometimes 
struggle to find a balance between their physical, 
emotional, and professional wellbeing.
Through a competitive health benefits program, we offer multiple insurance plans 
with dental, vision, disability, life and accident insurance, paid bereavement leave, 
and disability coverage to both full and part time team members.
In 2020, our benefits package evolved to meet the needs of team members 
during the pandemic. 
 • We provided coverage for COVID-19 diagnosis and testing at no cost to 
our team members, and expanded testing and treatment to include diagnostic 
testing for other viruses.
 • We adjusted our health plans to ensure they covered the COVID-19 
vaccinations as a preventive service. 
 • We offered team members the ability to make prospective mid-year elections 
for flexible spending accounts .
We continued to offer a strong foundational benefits package, including:
 • our 401(k)-matching program with a company match, dollar for dollar  
up to 5 percent of team member contributions ; 
 • 12 weeks of paid leave for primary caregivers and four weeks paid leave  
for secondary caregivers at 100% of pay rate ;
 • a relationship with Care.com®  to connect team members with care givers,  
pet sitters, and more during times of need; and
 •an adoption reimbursement of $10,000 .
We also know that part of striking a healthy balance includes giving back to 
our communities. That’s why we encourage team members to get involved by 
providing 48 hours of annual paid leave to volunteer for charities and non-profits 
of their choosing. In 2020, our team members donated 861 hours through our 
community engagement programs.
80%of our team members believe our 
benefits programs meet their  
respective needs.Healthy lifestyles
We love to see our team members thrive through active lifestyles and we strive to 
support them by providing lifestyle coaching, biometric screening, access to athletic 
facilities at our offices, and online tools. In addition to traditional healthcare benefits, 
our “Get Up & Go” wellness program supports the integration and long-term 
adoption of healthy habits and behaviors. Team members earn healthcare premium 
credits for participation in various activities throughout the year, including annual 
health assessments and biometric screenings, wellness Lunch n’ Learns, daily healthy 
challenges, quarterly challenges, and financial wellness activities.Sallie Mae provided more than  
19,000 hours of primary parental 
leave and 3,006 hours of secondary 
parental leave in 2020.Sallie Mae | 69TEAM
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 71
Supporting team members who serve 
For team members on active military duty and their families, Sallie Mae aids 
the transition to and from military duty by continuing salary and benefits 
beyond what is required by law, and by offering flexible work schedules 
during military training. 
In 2018, we received the Pro Patria Award from the Delaware State 
Committee of the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), 
which recognizes a company’s exemplary support to National Guardsmen 
and Reservists through service, community outreach, and personnel 
policies that make it easier for team members to serve.
I started my military career in early 1999 as 
a Combat Medic for the Army Reserves and 
transitioned to the Delaware Army National Guard  
in 2001. Through my 15-year service, I also served  
a Military Police Officer and an Administrative NCO. 
Among many things, the military taught me how 
to follow and lead others, and I have been able to 
transfer this knowledge to this civilian world to  
help me lead meetings and projects. I am called the 
“task master” at my team meetings because  
I like to keep us all on topic and adhere to  
our timing.
January Wright,  
Talent Management Specialist
I learned the importance of duty, honor, and 
courage while serving in the Army. As the Education 
Manager at Sallie Mae, I have the distinct honor to 
help others grow and develop, both personally and 
professionally, which is reflective of my mission as a 
soldier—to put others first and ensure their success.
Duane Hayes,  
Education ManagerA culture of feedback
We believe that feedback helps team members grow and 
stretch beyond their comfort zones.
All team members receive a formal performance review during which managers 
measure their progress against their individual career maps and provide valuable 
feedback and coaching on performance and areas of potential growth. Managers are 
also encouraged to provide feedback on an ongoing basis throughout the year, and 
team members are encouraged to strengthen and increase their skill sets through 
ongoing trainings and educational opportunities.
We have several mechanisms that allow team members to let us know when we are 
doing well and where we might have opportunities to improve including: 
 •an open-door policy with all managers; 
 • a weekly message from our CEO with a survey embedded and an email inbox 
designed to receive feedback;
 • quarterly townhalls with our CEO where all team members can submit questions in 
advance and during the meeting; and
 •regular employee engagement surveys.
RECOGNIZING EXCELLENCE
We’ve put several initiatives in place to foster a culture that recognizes important 
contributions from team members including:
 • Thanks to you! Peer to Peer Recognition Program – Team members sent creative 
eCards through our peer recognition program to show appreciation for their peers in 
real-time.
 • Milestone Anniversary Awards Program  – Team members who reach significant 
milestone work anniversaries are recognized by managers in various ways, including 
personalized yearbooks.
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
Helping students along their higher education journey is our purpose, and sometimes, 
those students are our own team members. We offer up to $10,000 tuition 
reimbursement annually for courses or degrees related to their job. Covered costs 
include tuition, fees, books, supplies and equipment.
Last year, 107 team members used tuition reimbursement to continue their pursuit 
of higher education. Nearly 350 team members have taken advantage of the benefit 
since inception.Sallie Mae plays a significant role in 
bettering our community. For team 
members, the company’s commitment to 
providing flexibility and time off work to 
volunteer, as well as generously matching 
donations through the employee 
matching gift program, supports team 
members and empowers them to give 
back. I’ve had the opportunity to advance 
my own education through Sallie Mae’s 
tuition reimbursement benefits, which 
opened up doors for me to serve on 
the Board of a charity, Pathway Homes, 
Inc., where I assist with fundraising and 
strategic oversight.
Patrick Chaing, Associate General Counsel
ENVIRONMENT
Earning my PhD has 
positioned me as a leader 
in bat conservation 
and equipped me to 
successfully protect our 
natural world.
Dr. Kristen Lear 
Endangered Species Interventions  
Specialist, Bat Conservation International
Recipient, 2019 Sallie Mae Bridging the  
Dream Scholarship for Graduate Students
2020 Doctoral Graduate in Integrative 
Conservation and Forestry and Natural 
Resources from the University of GeorgiaENVIRONMENT
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 73
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Powering the  
environmental movement
Our approach 
Our team of facilities experts actively manage our 
environmental impact.
We are constantly searching for opportunities to reduce our energy use and 
associated greenhouse gas emissions, procure more sustainable materials , 
and minimize the amount of waste generated in our offices. 
The nature of our business allows us to support aspiring environmental 
change agents, too. It’s their work that will ensure we maintain a healthy  
world for all, and we’re proud to play a part in preparing them through  
higher education.
When our customers graduate, they go on to pursue  
their dreams of careers in:
 •Sustainable Agriculture  
 •Renewable Energy  
 • Sustainable Product and  
Packaging Design
 •Watershed Management 
 •Green Building  
 •Sustainable Forestry  
 • Clean Tech Innovation  
and Development
 •Sustainable Chemistry • Sustainable Transportation  
Systems and Logistics  
 •Environmental Education  
 •Marine Biology 
 •Water Conservation
 •Ecology and Research  
 • Sustainable Materials  
Management
 •Environmental Law
 •Sustainability Consulting By getting the graduate 
degree in engineering that 
I always dreamed of, I was 
able to launch a cleantech 
startup… I come to work 
excited every day, forever 
thankful for the student 
loans that enabled me to 
pursue my passion.
Nicholas,  
CA, Customer
I went to law school because  
I wanted to help people.  
Now I represent survivors  
and first responders of 9/11  
in seeking compensation for  
their injuries. I am also  
litigating on behalf of the 
residents of Flint, MI over  
the ongoing water crisis.
Omar,  
NY, Customer
ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 75
Business Protocols During the  
COVID-19 Pandemic
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Sallie Mae 
invested nearly $2.6 million to support team members’ at-
home capabilities, including the required equipment and 
tools to effectively perform their daily functions.
Leveraging information gathered from experts, including the World Health 
Organization, the Center for Disease and Control, Johns Hopkins University, and state 
and local government agencies, Sallie Mae implemented the following measures to 
ensure the safety of our team members, and visitors:
 •Installed hands-free temperature checks to gain entry to our buildings.
 •Made face coverings and hand sanitizer available at all locations.
 •Implemented a weekly health attestation for anyone coming into our offices.
 • Posted clear and highly visible signage in each office identifying the requirements 
to enter, including lack of symptoms.
 • Initiated an “At Risk: self-reporting survey” to help address concerns for team 
members with pre-existing health conditions, those caring for elderly family 
members, or those with childcare concerns.  Seating  
capacityAssured proper spacing  
during Covid-19 for common  
areas, conference rooms, and 
employee seating$66,000
 
Building 
mechanical 
augmentationsInstalled Dielectric Barrier  
Discharge Bipolar Ionization  
equipment and specialty air  
filters at both DE facilities;  
installed operation controls & CO 2 
sensors at our Delaware and Indiana 
offices$772,000
Furniture 
enhancements 
and interior safety 
mechanismsInstalled cube stackers,  
enclave protective guards,  
floor decals, floor mats, sanitary 
door openers$385,000 
Personal sanitizing 
& safety productsProvided masks, gloves, hand 
sanitizer dispensers and refills, 
antibacterial wipes, infrared 
thermometers$40,000 
Cleaning  
productsProvided sanitizing wipes,  
buckets, specialty  
industrial grade cleaners$4,000
Cleaning  
eventsEnhanced cleaning  
in all sites$53,000
Café  
subsidiesProvided subsidies paid for  
both Delaware facilities and our 
facility in Indiana$234,000
 TYPE SUMMARY EXPENSE(S) STATUS
 
 We have taken the following steps to create a safe and healthy workplace:ENVIRONMENT
with floor plan  
seating charts  
available for  
each site
Ongoing
ENVIRONMENTSallie Mae | 77
ENVIRONMENT
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 77
Environmental Upgrades to Facilities
We took steps to reduce energy usage through 
environmental upgrades in our facilities.
This included retrofitting the air handling units at several of our locations with 
bipolar ionization systems, which help maintain standard outside air intake 
percentages, contributing to better energy efficiency while maintaining healthy 
indoor air quality levels.Energy and emissions reduction
We focused on reducing our environmental footprint 
and the source of greenhouse gas emissions in our 
offices and data centers, through business travel, and 
through our correspondence to customers.
Reducing energy in the office
The number of Sallie Mae team members in our facilities has dramatically 
decreased in 2020 as a result of the ongoing pandemic, resulting in a 10% 
reduction in energy expense. 
The following completed projects also contributed to the overall reductions 
achieved at our Delaware headquarter facility:
LED lighting was installed in our Newark, Delaware  
parking lot in 2014, and continues to deliver savings of
90.8 MWh
or 1.7%, total annual electrical usage at the facility .
13.8%Replaced existing chillers with 
high-efficiency chillers  
that reduced the building’s 
total energy use by One dual port electric  
vehicle charging station   
has been installed to power  
four electric vehicles used  
by team members.
The new system has 
approximately 4% of the  
global warming potential  
of its predecessor.Our Newark, DE facility was recognized 
by the American Council of Engineering 
Companies for our landscaping and 
stormwater control pond system . The 
system directs water and landscaping 
runoff into the local watershed in the 
case of excess rain.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 79
ENVIRONMENT
Reducing carbon footprint with the cloud 
Our cloud migration is just one example of how we reduced our carbon footprint 
in 2020. We migrated nearly 2,500 workloads from physical data centers to a cloud 
service provider—resulting in a reduction of nearly 250 physical servers and the 
elimination of four storage arrays.
The migration also helped us serve customers more efficiently. Since moving to 
the cloud, we’ve cut downtime by 25%, empowering our teams to spend more time 
supporting the needs of students and families.
Reducing business travel
Sallie Mae realized an 87% decrease in cost related to business travel in 2020 
compared to 2019, along with an 82% reduction in CO2 emissions.
Customer communications going green
We successfully transitioned more of our customer correspondence to  
electronic statements. At the end of the calendar year, 88% of customers had opted  
for the greener option, helping us ensure a healthier world without sacrificing 
customer service.Energy Audits
We continue to work diligently to increase our  
energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 
and make long-term investments in sustainable and 
safe workplaces.
In 2019, we partnered with a commercial real estate services firm to conduct 
extensive energy audits at our two largest office locations in Newark and New 
Castle, Delaware. We broadened the scope of the audit in 2020 to include all 
facilities, and employee business travel to track and better manage our energy 
and greenhouse gas emissions.
Looking ahead, Sallie Mae will focus on the following sustainability initiatives:
 • Track energy usage: We will continue to track energy usage and establish a 
benchmark to identify the opportunities to further refine our energy use. 
 • Implement green cleaning  or sustainable janitorial management: We will 
require janitorial teams to use green certified products, such as those with 
the Green Seal certification, and establish key criteria for janitorial services to 
ensure all sustainable methods are followed.
 • Track office waste volumes: We will conduct audits to identify opportunities 
for waste reduction and diversion from landfill.
 • Prioritize renewable energy purchasing:  We will evaluate appropriate 
renewable energy goals and consider entering the market for an energy 
supplier with renewable offerings.  
 
New builds or retrofits 
Being good environmental stewards requires 
thoughtfulness about the materials we use when 
designing and furnishing office spaces.
Over the last two years, our facilities team developed a set of environmentally 
preferable standards to guide the selection of materials and equipment and 
inform our demolition practices. These formal specifications help us design 
and execute projects in an environmentally conscious manner, and with the 
health and wellbeing of our team members in mind. Where applicable, the 
specifications are aligned with the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) qualifications and credits.
We remain committed to environmental standards as we grow the business. 88%
of customers had 
opted for the greener 
option of electronic 
statements.Number of Customers by Statement Delivery Type
0500 K1M1.5M2M2.5M
Paper Statements
Electronic Statements
Customer Co-Signer Total Customers
Total
88.2%GHG Emissions by activities (Metric Tons)
2018 2019
Air Rail Car2020 YTD at 11.30.2020
Hotel Total0500100015002000ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 81
ENVIRONMENT
60%
The current environmentally preferable standards we use when designing or retrofitting 
new offices include:
 • Carpet: Our carpets are certified and assessed for human health and environmental 
impact, Greenguard® Certified, PVC free, and qualify for Green LEED credits.
 •Paint: We used low volatile organic compound (VOC) paints.
 • Ceramic Tile: We procured tile that is composed of pre-consumer recycled materials.
 • Plumbing: We installed low-flow toilets and faucets for water conservation, and  
auto-flush and touchless faucets for both human health and environmental impact.   
 • Electrical distribution for general office areas: We incorporated time-of-day switched 
outlets for non-critical circuits.
 • Ceiling Tile: We used tiles that are Greenguard Gold Certified, have low VOC emissions, 
and are comprised of more than 73% recycled material.
 • Lighting: We utilized energy efficient LED lighting for all lighting retrofits and  
exit signage. 
 • Lighting controls:  We installed lighting controls that take advantage of daylight;  
we install occupancy and vacancy sensors; we incorporate the use of manual dimming 
controls resulting in energy gains of 50%.
 • HVAC- We installed automation system controls for HVAC systems and zoned 
temperature controls with centrally controlled variable air volume controllers.Demolition
Our demolition specification calls for maximum 
salvaging for reuse, or sorting to recycle, to minimize 
contribution to landfills. 
Our carpets are all subject to the cradle-to-cradle specification, meaning 
carpet is returned to the manufacturer for recycling or downcycling. These new 
standards were applied to the renovations at our Christiana Road office.
Print/Paper Reduction
Reducing waste and saving resources is top of mind 
when it comes to paper consumption. 
We actively track paper purchases across the company, have discontinued the 
use of individual desktop printers, and utilize multi-function devices (MFDs). 
Some additional tips that we share with our team members included:
 • set jobs to double-sided,  
black-and-white printing;
 • scan and e-mail instead of print  
and copy;
 • keep documents in an electronic file 
instead of file cabinets; • communicate office publications/
communications electronically vs 
printed; and
 • use the secure paper shredding 
recycle bins located throughout each 
site to dispose of paper files.
Waste Minimization
We have a robust recycling program for greater 
reductions in overall waste, including separate 
receptacles to facilitate proper sorting and recycling at 
each site in easy to access areas. 
We began a sustainability program early in 2020 to include a “Zero Waste to 
Landfill” goal. This will ensure all non-hazardous compacted refuse generated 
at our headquarters in Delaware will be delivered to a Waste-to-Energy facility 
located in a neighboring state. reduction in paper usage  
and waste in 2020.
ENVIRONMENTSallie Mae | 83
ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Powering Responsible  
and Ethical Governance
Corporate Governance 
The framework of governance at Sallie Mae is  
formed by our overarching code of conduct, 
corporate governance policies, Board committee 
charters, certificate of incorporation, and bylaws.
We have attracted and maintained a strong, qualified, and diverse Board 
of Directors with expertise relevant to our business, deeply committed to 
operating ethically and with integrity. Our twelve members of the Board are 
independent directors, with the exception of Jonathan Witter, our CEO. In 
2020, Carter Franke became the first woman to chair our Board in the 
company’s history.  
We recruit Board members with vast experience and diversity to help us with 
emerging and regulatory requirements, navigate changing market needs, 
and guide our advancements in the technology and customer experience 
space. Key corporate governance policies and practices are available in the 
Governance  section of our website.
Higher education is an investment that 
empowers students’ future opportunities. 
As the leader in private student lending, our 
role is to help families make that investment 
responsibly. Our Board appreciates that our 
customers’ success yields our company’s 
success. We are focused and aligned on 
providing more value to more customers to 
enable their positive outcomes and bright 
futures.  
Carter Franke,  
Chair of Sallie Mae Board of DirectorsETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 85
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board Composition
 
Our Nominations, Governance, and Compensation 
Committee recognizes the great value in diversity of 
experience, background, and perspective.
Our Board is committed to providing oversight of the company’s strategy and performance in an effective 
and constructive manner, with the goal of representing the best interests of our shareholders and 
balancing those with the interests of our customers, team members, and regulators.As of December 31, 2020
94%Say on Pay   
(executive compensation)   
for vote at 2020 Annual 
Shareholder MeetingTenure of members of 
the Board of DirectorsOur Board of Directors is 
comprised of four women and 
has been recognized for the past 
six years as a 2020 Women on 
Boards Winning “W” company.
Operating with integrity
How we uphold our promise of integrity. 
Our Code of Business Conduct outlines clear 
principles and expectations.
Annual Employee Training on Code of 
Conduct  and Code of Conduct Hotline provide 
employees with the knowledge and support they 
need on our high ethical standards.Our Enterprise Risk Management System  
identifies key risks and mitigation strategies which are 
regularly monitored and reviewed by the Risk  
Committee of our Board of Directors.
Our Comprehensive Compliance Management System  helps 
us identify, aggregate, monitor, and manage potential regulatory 
risks, led by our Chief Compliance Officer and supported by a 
team of approximately 40 employees dedicated to compliance 
risk management.Our Robust Data Security & Privacy Program starts with policies 
governing enterprise-wide controls and practices that are approved by the 
Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Our Chief Security Officer and 
Corporate Security Group of 64 team members hold us.Office of the Customer Advocate a team 
of 11 dedicated employees, is committed to 
researching and resolving complaints received 
through various channels and improving the 
overall customer experience.
Our Legal Department advises and reviews all of our policies 
and practices, and provides counsel that adds rigor to all 
compliance activities.
Compliance Tracking and Root Cause Analysis is a collaborative 
approach by the Company to identify, research, remediate, report and 
escalate issues, including customer complaints.Doing right by all our  
key stakeholders
 •Communities
 •Customers
 •Team members
 •Partners • Government 
and regulators
 • NGO & 
academic 
 •Investors  8.3% 11 to 15 Years
8.3% 16 to 20 Years25% 0 to 5 Years
58.4% 6 to 10 Years 
BOARD SIZE12100% BOARD INDEPENDENCE33%
 WOMEN
67%
 MALE YES  Independent  
Chair
Studies have shown that organizations with strong diversity 
and inclusion initiatives are more innovative, enjoy increased 
customer satisfaction, greater profits, and a stronger brand 
reputation. It makes sense to have more women in the 
boardroom to be more reflective of the world we live in. It’s not 
just about having a seat at the table. It’s about working in an 
inclusive environment where your opinion is respected.
Temeka Easter Rice, Sr. Director, Social Media, and member of the Wilmington, DE  
2020 Women on Boards’ Steering CommitteeETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Sallie Mae | 85Sallie Mae | 87
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Code of business conduct
Our Code of Business Conduct is the foundation of our ethics program. It provides 
a clear set of principles and expectations for Sallie Mae team members, officers 
and directors, and consultants, and is supplemented by policies and procedures 
that offer more detailed guidance on specific compliance requirements. We 
train each of our team members on the Code of Conduct annually, provide 
numerous avenues for support when they have questions, and put several checks 
and balances in place to ensure we do right by all stakeholders, including our 
communities, customers, team members, partners, regulators, and investors. 
Team members are trained regularly on a range of key issues and business 
practices, including anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, travel and 
entertainment expenses, identifying and preventing money laundering, 
conducting business with foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy. 
Team members completed a total of 60,653 courses and 37,058 training hours 
in 2020. Business units also maintain policies relevant to their specific function. 
Adherence to the Code of Conduct is a condition of employment, and violations 
can result in termination. Each team member must review the Code of Conduct 
and sign a Code of Conduct Certification upon joining Sallie Mae and confirm 
continuing compliance every year thereafter. 
Our Board of Directors is also subject to Code of Business Conduct training 
focusing each director on (i) appropriate conduct, (ii) conflicts of interest and 
other ethical concerns, (iii) mechanisms to report potential conflicts or unethical 
conduct, and (iv) helping foster a culture of openness and accountability. In 2020, 
our Board of Directors completed a total of 120 assignments and 75 training hours.
The procedures of the Code of Conduct are established, reviewed, and amended 
as needed, by the Sallie Mae Management Compliance Committee.
PROACTIVE APPROACH 
We seek to identify and respond to issues that could impact our business, our 
partners, and our communities. Identifying risks, engaging with experts, and 
implementing policies are a few of the ways we proactively manage risks. Our 
Annual Compliance Plan is a twelve-month, risk-based description of the action 
items the Bank is undertaking either directly or in partnership with business areas 
to develop and maintain a sound, compliance management system.
REPORTING CONCERNS
The Sallie Mae Code of Conduct Hotline and Internet-Based Reporting provides 
team members, contractors, vendors, and suppliers with a resource to report 
actual or potential breaches of the Code, without fear of retaliation. The 
anonymous hotline and website are operated by an independent third party and 
is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week. When received, investigations 
are handled timely and confidentially. Complaints of a sensitive nature may be 
handled by the General Counsel as well as appropriate committees of the Board 
of Directors. Incidents of fraud and theft will be referred for criminal prosecution 
when appropriate. Sallie Mae does not retaliate against any employee who, in good 
faith, reports a questionable activity or asks a question related to the Code. COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Our emphasis on compliance risk management and governance structure is 
how we keep our promise of security, integrity, and trust to customers and other 
stakeholders. Our Compliance Management System (CMS) helps us identify, 
aggregate, monitor, and manage consumer regulatory risks. The program 
also defines compliance risk, governance, culture, and capabilities. Our Chief 
Compliance Officer leads implementation and execution of the CMS program, 
and compliance management is overseen by the Board of Directors through the 
Compliance Committee.
RISK IDENTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT 
We conduct compliance risk assessments through ongoing discussions with 
senior management team, review of the current risk and control environment, 
consideration of specific compliance issues, and discussions with the 
Internal Audit and Risk Departments. In addition to an annual compliance risk 
assessment, we also facilitate the completion of the Bank Secrecy Act, Anti-
Money Laundering and Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) risk assessment, 
Privacy risk assessment, Red Flags risk assessment, and Fair Lending risk 
assessment. Risk assessments are conducted pursuant to the Enterprise 
Compliance Risk Assessment Methodology and the Management Assessment of 
Risk and Control. In addition, Internal Audit conducts its annual risk assessment. 
Please see our most recent Proxy Statement for additional information regarding 
risk oversight by the Board of Directors.
APPROACH TO PUBLIC POLICY 
Our current policy on political activities , outlines the principles and guidelines 
regarding engagement and advocacy. We comply with all federal, state, and 
local lobbying registration and disclosure requirements, and do not engage in 
grassroots lobbying efforts. 
Currently, we engage in lobbying activities exclusively related to matters 
that directly or indirectly affect our business. Our senior vice president of 
Government Relations manages external, bipartisan consulting firms that assist 
with the same objectives, and we report the expenditures made to these firms in 
our lobbying disclosures. Our involvement with industry associations is limited to 
those associations comprised of financial institutions with similar interests.
Quarterly disclosures detailing lobbying activities and expenditures are posted 
online by the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Secretary of 
the U.S. Senate. Disclosures relating to contributions by our Political Action 
Committee are posted online by the Federal Election Commission (FEC). 
THE SALLIE MAE POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE 
In June 2015, we formed the Sallie Mae Political Action Committee (PAC).  
Our PAC is governed by an Advisory Board composed of representative from 
different divisions within the Sallie Mae organization. The PAC’s Advisory Board 
reviews and approves all PAC and corporate political contributions and  
evaluates candidates based on issues that impact the organization or our 
team members. Our PAC contributions are published on the Federal Elections 
Commission (FEC) website .
Sallie Mae | 87
60,653  
courses and 
37,058  
training hours.In 2020, team members  
completed a total ofSallie Mae | 89
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021ETHICS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CSR Governance 
Various functions are committed to CSR initiatives, and 
team members work to ensure the appropriate and 
strategic alignment and management of such programs. 
These teams include: Human Resources, Customer 
Operations, Legal, Corporate Communications, 
Marketing, and Information Security. Sallie Mae’s 
leadership team provide guidance, oversight, and 
accountability for strategy and performance outcomes. 
Managing Risk
We identify and manage risks related to strategic, financial, compliance, and 
operational objectives. Our Board of Directors approves the Company’s risk 
framework, including risk appetite tolerances and related risk indicators annually. 
The Risk Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for monitoring risks 
and risk management capabilities within the Company. Key risks and mitigation 
strategies are documented, monitored, and reviewed with the Risk Committee of 
the Board of Directors quarterly. Material exigent risks are escalated to the Board or 
an appropriate committee for their review. The Board of Directors or management 
may require additional reviews as deemed appropriate or necessary. See the most 
recent Proxy Statement for additional information regarding risk oversight by the 
Board of Directors.Engaging stakeholders on what matters
We regularly review stakeholder partnerships across a range of functions, 
including Customer Relations, Corporate Social Responsibility, Government 
Affairs, Investor Relations, Human Resources, and Corporate Governance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shareholders 
Proactively hold discussions with institutional 
investors and financial analysts who are 
increasingly interested in our CSR performance 
as well as financial results.Customers
Use combination of formal customer satisfaction 
surveys and channels like our chat, mobile app, 
social media, and website, to gather feedback.
Team Members
Solicit team member perspectives through the 
employee surveys, the performance review 
process, and quarterly Town Hall meetings.Industry Peers and  
Trade Groups 
Engage with industry partners on key business 
issues, such as cybersecurity, data privacy, and fair 
and responsible lending.
Community and  
Non-Government  
Organizations
Engage with non-government organizations 
and community partners to identify and 
address the greatest needs in the communities 
where we operate and encourage our team 
members to engage in community service.Academic  
Institutions
Collaborate with academic institutions to  
increase financial literacy awareness as well as 
develop and distribute valuable tools that empower 
students and their families to navigate and plan  
for higher education.
Government and  
Regulators
Engage in regular interactions with Members 
of Congress and their staff as well as the 
representatives of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Utah 
Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI), 
and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
(CFPB). Such interactions involve matters of 
compliance, policy, or operational expertise 
and guidance.Suppliers/Vendors
Execute best practices for third-party oversight  
and management that support development  
and inclusion of diverse suppliers. Utilizing diverse 
suppliers is beneficial both to the communities  
we serve and our company’s growth.  
Our comprehensive third-party management 
program provides the framework to ensure 
integrity and soundness of third parties providing 
products and services to Sallie Mae by exercising 
appropriate due diligence prior to entering third-
party relationships and ongoing monitoring after 
the relationship has been established.
Our ongoing engagement with these stakeholders helps us understand their current and  
future expectations and identify ways to create value for them.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021INDEX
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 91
SASB index
Sallie Mae has elected to report to the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) Framework in our CSR Disclosure. SASB connects business and 
investors on the financial impacts of sustainability. Unless otherwise noted, 
all data and descriptions apply to our entire company. We do not currently 
disclose all metrics included in the standards for this sector, but we will 
continue to evaluate them in the future. All data for the year ended
December 31, 2020 unless otherwise noted.
ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY CODE RESPONSE/ LOCATION
Consumer Finance
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
Number of account holders 
whose information is used for 
secondary purposesQuantitative FN-CF-220a.1 The Online Privacy Policy describes our 
practices concerning the collection and use of 
information gathered from or about  
our online visitors and registered users. 
 
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with customer privacyQuantitative FN-CF-220a.2 SLM discloses all material legal and regulatory 
proceedings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K .
DATA SECURITY
(1) Number of data breaches,  
(2) percentage involving 
personally identifiable information 
(PII), (3) number of account 
holders affected.Quantitative FN-CF-230a.1 Due to our strong privacy culture, to our 
knowledge we have not experienced any 
significant or material breaches or loss of 
customer information in 2017, 2018, 2019,  
or 2020.  
 
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
Card-related fraud losses from  
(1) card-not present fraud and  
(2) card-present and other fraudQuantitative FN-CF-230a.2 Not disclosed.  
SASB Disclosure
Description of approach to 
identifying and addressing data 
security risksDiscussion and 
analysisFN-CF-230a.3 Our approach to CSR  
Safeguarding data and customer privacy  
 Annual Report on Form 10-K: Privacy LawsACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY CODE RESPONSE/ LOCATION
Consumer Finance cont.
SELLING PRACTICES TOPIC
Percentage of total remuneration 
for covered employees that is 
variable and linked to the amount 
of products and services soldQuantitative FN-CF-270a.1 This is not applicable as we do not have 
employees who “sell” loans or credit cards.
Approval rate for (1) credit and (2) 
pre-paid products for applicants 
with FICO scores above and 
below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.2 1) Not disclosed SASB Disclosure  
2)  SLM does not offer pre-paid products 
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
FICO is one attribute we use in credit 
underwriting to assess the risk of default 
as a way to minimize the number of credit 
accounts in our portfolio that will become 
past due or delinquent. 
1) Average fees from add-on 
products, (2) average APR, (3) 
average age of accounts, (4) 
average number of trade lines, 
and (5) average annual fees for 
pre-paid products, for customers 
with FICO scores above and 
below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.3 1) We do not have add-on products. 
2)  Annual Report on Form 10-K
3)  The weighted average life of each asset is 
public information and disclosed in our Form 
10-Q and Form 10-K filings.
4)  Average number of trade lines is not 
accessible to us because we do not seek, 
track, or maintain this data—it sits with the 
credit reporting agencies. 
5) We do not offer pre-paid products.
(1) Number of complaints filed 
with the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau (CFPB),  
(2) percentage with monetary 
or nonmonetary relief, (3) 
percentage disputed by 
consumer, (4) percentage that 
resulted in investigation by  
the CFPBQuantitative FN-CF-270a.4 Consumer Complaint Database 
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with selling and 
servicing of productsQuantitative FN-CF-270a.5 SLM discloses all material legal and regulatory 
proceedings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K .
* Certain information is not disclosed herein because that information (i) is not considered material or is privileged or confidential; (ii) could 
cause a competitive disadvantage to our business if publicly disseminated; or (iii) is not currently collected in a manner wholly correlative 
with the related SASB metric.INDEX
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 93
GRI content index
This table covers the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability 
Reporting Standards and Disclosures found in Sallie Mae’s 2020 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2020 Annual Report, and our 
company website. This report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core Option.
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
GRI General Disclosures
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
GRI 102-1 Name of the organization SLM Corporation (NASDAQ: SLM)
GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 
and servicesAbout Sallie Mae
GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 300 Continental Drive, Newark, DE 19713
GRI 102-4 Location of operations Our locations: 
 •Newark, DE (HQ)
 •New Castle, DE
 •Newton, MA
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Delaware corporation
See Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2020
GRI 102-6 Markets served See Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2020
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Sallie Mae at a glance
As of Dec 31, 2020, Sallie Mae had 1,636 team members 
and we reported GAAP Net Income Attributable to 
Common Stock of $871 Million in 2020.
GRI 102-8 Information on employees 
and other workersSallie Mae at a glance
Powering our team members
As of Dec 31, 2020, Sallie Mae had 1,636 team members 
across its six locationsGRI 102-9 Supply chain Our suppliers are critical to the services and value we 
deliver to our clients and consumers each and every 
day. They enable us to progress and help us to reach 
our strategic goals, purchase responsibly and manage 
our expenses. The management of our spend is the 
responsibility of Strategic Procurement, responsible for 
negotiating and contracting with either new suppliers or 
new statements of work as well as management of the 
supplier’s post-contract performance.
GRI 102-10 Significant changes to  
the organization and its 
supply chainIn 2020, Sallie Mae hired a new CEO - Jonathan Witter. 
Additionally, the company went through a restructuring 
to streamline the business. The restructuring resulted 
in a 6% reduction of team members. No significant 
changes to ownership or supply chain.
GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 
approachOur precautionary approach is reflected in our 
Enterprise Risk Management approach.
GRI 102-12 External initiatives Global Reporting Initiative, UN Sustainable Development 
Goals, U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) and LEED
GRI 102-13 Membership of  
associations • Consumer Bankers  
Association
 • American Bankers  
Association
 • Student Loan Servicing  
Alliance
 • Structured Finance  
Industry Group
STRATEGY
GRI 102-14 Statement from senior 
decision-makerMessage from the CEO
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
GRI 102-16 Values, principles, 
standards, and norms of 
behaviorCode of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines our 
policy, which applies to the company’s employees, 
officers, and nonemployee directors, including the 
company’s CEO, CFO, and principal accounting officer 
or controller. 
Learn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .
GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsSLM Proxy Statement 
Our Code of Business Conduct outlines the internal 
and external mechanisms for employees to seek advice 
about ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational 
integrity, and to report concerns about unethical or 
unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity.
GRI 102-18 Governance structure SLM Proxy Statement 
Learn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE cont.
 •Indianapolis, IN
 •Salt Lake City, UT
 •Sterling, VA • Delaware Bankers  
Association
 • Utah Bankers Association
 • National Association of  
Industrial Bankers
 • National Council of Higher  
Education ResourcesINDEX
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 95
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
REPORTING PRACTICE cont. GOVERNANCE
GRI 102-18 Governance structure Learn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .
GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest 
governance body and its 
committeesLearn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .
GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest 
governance bodyLearn more about our Corporate Governance 
policies and practices, and our Board of Directors and 
committees here: Corporate Governance .
GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing 
ESG topicsOur approach to CSR
GRI 102-30 Oversight of risk  
management processCompliance management system 
CSR Governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engaging with stakeholders
Our key stakeholder groups include but aren’t limited 
to: current and former Sallie Mae Team members; 
Customers; Community and Non-Government 
Organizations; Academic Institutions; Industry Peers; 
Trade Organizations; Suppliers/Vendors; Government  
& Regulators
GRI 102-41 Collective  
bargaining agreementsNone of our employees are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements
GRI 102-42 Identifying and  
selecting stakeholdersEngaging with stakeholders
GRI 102-43 Approach to  
stakeholder engagementEngaging with stakeholders
GRI 102-44 Key topics and  
concerns raisedEngaging with stakeholders 
Powering Stronger, More Resilient Communities
Community Reinvestment Act
REPORTING PRACTICE
GRI 102-45 Entities included in  
the consolidated  
financial statementsSee Annual Report  on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2020
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and 
topic BoundariesOur approach to CSR
In support of the 2020 materiality assessment, we 
reviewed industry standards, feedback from key 
stakeholders, inputs from the business, and our 
competitor and peer reporting. We then assessed the 
importance of each CSR topic in two ways: (i) if such 
topic impacts our business in terms of growth, cost, risk, 
or trust, and (ii) if such topic significantly influences the 
assessments and decisions of our key stakeholders.GRI 102-47 List of material topics Our approach to CSR
Sallie Mae’s priority CSR topics include:
 • Community Engagement  
and Investment
 •Business integrity 
 •Data Security and Privacy
 • Empowering Underserved  
Populations
 •Energy and Emissions
 • Fair and Responsible  
Lending
GRI 102-48 Restatements  
of informationNo restatements of information in this report.
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting This 2020 CSR Report includes in-depth information on 
our approach and performance across the broad range 
of environmental, social, and governance issues. The 
standalone Executive Summary provides a high-level 
overview of our efforts and progress this year
GRI 102-50 Reporting period The highlights and metrics shared in this report cover 
calendar year 2020, and we provide multi-year trend 
data where feasible.
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2019
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Sallie Mae plans to release an annual update to the  
CSR Report.
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportSallie Mae’s contact point for questions regarding the 
report is CSR@salliemae.com .
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the 
principles and disclosures of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option and covers topics 
for all entities included in our financial statements.
GRI 102-55 GRI content index This GRI Content Index Table.
GRI 102-56 External assurance While the report’s content has not been reviewed by  
a third party, such content has been reviewed by  
internal audit.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
 
 
 • Attracting and  
Retaining Talent
 • Providing Training 
and Development 
Opportunities
 • Fostering a Diverse and 
Inclusive Workplace
 • Ensuring a Safe and 
Healthy Workplace
 •Regulatory Compliance
 •Risk AssessmentINDEX
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 97
GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
GRI 201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributedSallie Mae at a glance
Annual Report on Form 10-K
TOPIC: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundarySallie Mae at a glance
GRI 203-2 Significant indirect  
economic impactsOur workforce
Powering Our Customers
SEC Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2020
TOPIC: ANTI-CORRUPTION
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryOperating with integrity
GRI 205-2 Communication and 
training about  
anti-corruption policies  
and proceduresOperating with integrity 
Team members are trained regularly on the Code 
regarding a range of key issues and business practices, 
including anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, 
travel, and entertainment expenses, identifying and 
preventing money laundering, conducting business with 
foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy.
GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents 
of corruption and  
actions takenIf allegations of corruption are brought to our  
attention, we work to investigate and resolve them 
appropriately and disclose material, substantiated 
incidents as appropriate.
Specific Standard Disclosures – Environment
TOPIC: EMISSIONS
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering the environmental movement
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within 
the organizationPowering the environmental movement
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumptionPowering the environmental movementTOPIC: EMISSIONS cont.
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering the environmental movement
Energy and emissions reduction
GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1)  
GHG emissionsPowering the environmental movement
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 
GHG emissionsPowering the environmental movement
Specific Standard Disclosures - Social
TOPIC: EMPLOYMENT
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering our team members
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-
time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or 
part-time employeesPromoting health and well-being
TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPromoting health and well-being 
Powering our team members
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health Promoting health and well-being
TOPIC: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryCulture of feedback 
Powering our team members 
Ongoing growth and development
GRI 404-2 Programs for  
upgrading employee  
skills and transition 
assistance programsOngoing growth and development
Note that we report on the type and scope of programs 
Sallie Mae provides to help team members upgrade their 
skills. We don’t currently offer any programs to facilitate 
continued employability of team members who leave 
either through retirement or termination.
GRI 404-3 Percentage of team 
members receiving regular 
performance and career 
development reviews100% of all available and eligible team members at  
Sallie Mae received performance reviews in 2020.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
 
 Specific Standard Disclosures – Economic
TOPIC: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundarySallie Mae at a glanceINDEX
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Sallie Mae | 99Sallie Mae | 99
TOPIC: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering our team members
A diverse and inclusive workplace
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employeesOur workforce
Our board
TOPIC: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryPowering stronger, more resilient communities
GRI 413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programsPowering stronger, more resilient communities
Supporting financial literacy
All our operations have community engagement and 
investment programs in place.
TOPIC: PUBLIC POLICY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryApproach to public policy
Fair and responsible lending
GRI 415-1 Political Contributions Approach to public policy 
Political Activity Policy
PAC contributions can be found here .
TOPIC: MARKETING AND LABELING
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryOperating with integrity
Fair and responsible lending
GRI 417-1 Product and service 
information and labelingFair and responsible lending
GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
product and service 
information and labelingWe have not identified any non-compliance with 
regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product 
and service information and labeling.
GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsWe have not identified any non-compliance with 
regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning 
marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion, and sponsorship.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTES
TOPIC: CUSTOMER PRIVACY
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryOperating with integrity
Safeguarding data and customer privacy
GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses 
of customer dataWe have had no substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy, and no identified leaks, 
thefts, or losses of customer data in 2020.
TOPIC: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
GRI 103-1 to 103-3 Explanation of the material 
topic and its BoundaryCode of Business Conduct
GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaOperating with integrity 
We have not identified any non-compliance with laws 
and/or regulations in the social and economic area.GRI DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERGRI DISCLOSURE  
TITLE LOCATION & NOTESSallie Mae | 101
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021Forward looking statement
This Corporate Social Responsibility Report contains “forward-looking statements”  
and information based on management’s current expectations as of the date of this report. 
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs, opinions or 
expectations and statements that assume or are dependent upon future events, are forward-
looking statements. This includes, but is not limited to, our expectation and ability to pay a 
quarterly cash dividend on our common stock in the future, subject to the determination by 
our Board of Directors, and based on an evaluation of our earnings, financial condition and 
requirements, business conditions, capital allocation determinations, and other factors, risks and 
uncertainties, our 2021 guidance; our three-year horizon outlook; our expectation and ability to 
execute loan sales and share repurchases; our projections for originations and earnings growth 
and balance sheet position; and any estimates related to pending accounting standard changes. 
Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors 
that may cause actual results to be materially different from those reflected in such forward-
looking statements. These factors include, among others, the risks and uncertainties set forth 
in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in our 2020 Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); increases in financing costs; limits on liquidity; 
increases in costs associated with compliance with laws and regulations; failure to comply 
with consumer protection, banking and other laws; changes in accounting standards and the 
impact of related changes in significant accounting estimates, including any regarding the 
measurement of our allowance for loan losses and the related provision expense; any adverse 
outcomes in any significant litigation to which we are a party; credit risk associated with our 
exposure to third-parties, including counterparties to our derivative transactions; and changes 
in the terms of education loans and the educational credit marketplace (including changes 
resulting from new laws and the implementation of existing laws). We could also be affected 
by, among other things: changes in our funding costs and availability; reductions to our credit 
ratings; cybersecurity incidents, cyberattacks, and other failures or breaches of our operating 
systems or infrastructure, including those of third-party vendors; damage to our reputation; risks 
associated with restructuring initiatives, including failures to successfully implement cost-cutting 
programs and the adverse effects of such initiatives on our business; changes in the demand 
for educational financing or in financing preferences of lenders, educational institutions, 
students and their families; changes in law and regulations with respect to the student lending 
business and financial institutions generally; changes in banking rules and regulations, including 
increased capital requirements; increased competition from banks and other consumer lenders; 
the creditworthiness of our customers; changes in the general interest rate environment, 
including the rate relationships among relevant money-market instruments and those of our 
earning assets versus our funding arrangements; rates of prepayment on the loans that we 
own; changes in general economic conditions and our ability to successfully effectuate any 
acquisitions; and other strategic initiatives. The preparation of our consolidated financial 
statements also requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions, including 
estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates or assumptions may prove 
to be incorrect. All forward-looking statements contained in this report are qualified by these 
cautionary statements and are made only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake any 
obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to conform such statements to 
actual results or changes in our expectations.Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021
We are here to power 
confidence as students  
begin their unique journeys, 
and we’re committed to  
doing so responsibly. 
 
Sallie Mae | 103
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  APRIL 2021www.salliemae.com
300 Continental Drive  
Newark, DE 19713To view this report online, please visit www.salliemae.com
 