Corporate Responsibility ReportPublished:  
August 2020
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
03 INTRODUCTION  
05 PEOPLE & CORPORATE CULTURE  
 08  SAFETY & RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS 
 11  COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
 14  ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 
 21  DATA, TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION 
 25 GOVERNANCE & ETHICS SM Energy’s Corporate Responsibility Report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning 
of securities laws, including discussion of potential future risks, and the Company’s processes, 
intentions, objectives, plans, goals and expectations in managing the Company’s business and potential future 
risks. These statements involve known and unknown risks, which may cause SM Energy’s actual results to 
differ materially from information expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. All statements, 
other than statements of historical fact, included in the Corporate Responsibility Report that address processes, 
intentions, objectives, plans, goals and expectations of SM Energy are forward-looking statements. Such 
statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that are beyond SM Energy’s control.  Future 
results, plans, goals, objectives, expectations and forecasts may be impacted by the risks discussed in the Risk 
Factors section of SM Energy’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q or other filings with the 
SEC.  The forward-looking statements contained herein speak as of the date of this report.  Although SM Energy 
may from time to time voluntarily update its prior forward-looking statements, it disclaims any commitment to 
do so, except as required by securities laws.
2 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report3 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
INTRODUCTION
STRATEGY
Our long-term vision is to sustainably grow 
value for all of our stakeholders.  
We believe that in order to accomplish this vision, 
we must be a premier operator of top-tier assets. 
Our strategy is to focus on high quality, Lower 48 
oil and natural gas producing assets, with top-tier 
economic drilling, completion, and production 
opportunities. At present, our investment portfolio 
is focused in five counties in the state of Texas, 
specifically the Midland Basin in West Texas and 
the Maverick Basin in South Texas.   
We seek to maximize and expand the value 
of our assets through application of the latest 
technologies and outstanding operational 
execution, with our employees being our most 
valuable asset. We seek to expand through the 
acquisition of top-tier acreage and continued 
delineation of current top-tier assets. Finally, we 
strive to maintain a strong balance sheet through 
financial discipline and to generate high returns 
and profitable growth by efficiently deploying 
capital to develop our assets. 
DENVER 
HEADQUARTERS
MIDLAND
SOUTH TEXASOUR AREAS OF  
OPERATIONSCOLORADO
TEXAS
OVERVIEW
SM Energy’s strategic objective is to 
be a premier operator of top-tier 
assets. Founded in 1908, we are an independent 
exploration and production company with a 
longstanding, principled approach to doing 
business ethically and responsibly.  
 Our company culture drives our behavior and 
we seek to build open, honest, and transparent 
relationships with our stakeholders. Our purpose 
is to make people’s lives better by responsibly 
producing energy supplies, contributing to 
domestic energy security and prosperity, and 
having a positive impact in the communities where 
we live and work.4 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
GENERAL STATEMENT
As a leader in the oil and natural gas industry,  
   we provide resources that make people’s lives better every day. 
From our experienced Board of Directors to  
our highly-skilled team members working hard 
in our operations in Texas and in our corporate 
headquarters in Denver, we understand the 
importance of conducting our business the  
right way.
We have programs and systems in place that serve 
to protect the health and safety of our employees 
and contractors. We are also contributing to our 
employees’ professional development by providing 
a company-wide leadership development program 
and educational assistance. 
We are focused on being a good steward of shared 
resources. We have implemented and continue 
to pursue environmental initiatives designed to 
minimize our air emissions, and hydrocarbon and 
produced water spills from  
our operations.We are dedicated to supporting improvement in 
the quality of life in the communities where we 
live and work. We develop strong partnerships and 
understand community needs so we can make 
a positive difference, particularly in the areas 
of education, civic and community service, and 
health and human services. SM Energy employees 
are passionate about giving back through 
volunteer time and financial contributions, and 
we offer various incentives to encourage personal 
involvement.
Our stakeholders trust us to conduct business 
in a manner that will protect our reputation, our 
employees, contractors, and the land on which we 
operate. We recognize that operating in this industry 
is a privilege and we take that seriously. 
We strive to be top quartile among our industry 
peers in environmental, health, and safety 
(EHS) metrics. Annually, our Board of Directors 
establishes EHS performance goals for the 
Company and drives accountability for our 
results with quarterly and annual reviews. Our 
performance against these goals impacts the 
compensation of every employee.
The following sections describe our efforts regarding 
various elements of corporate responsibility.
5 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
PEOPLE & CORPORATE CULTURE
At SM Energy, we are 
committed to providing a 
rewarding and productive 
work experience for our 
employees. We encourage 
our employees’ personal 
and professional growth 
through a number of 
development programs 
and incentives.Our company vision and culture drive the way we conduct 
business. Our culture promotes:
•  integrity and ethical behavior in the conduct of our 
business;
• environmental, health and safety stewardship;
• prioritizing the success of others and the team;
•  understanding and communicating why we do what we do 
and how every employee contributes to achieving success;
•  being highly collaborative and open to new ideas and 
technologies that serve business improvement; and
•  supporting team members’ professional and personal 
development.
SM Energy operates only in the United States, and therefore 
employs people who live in the United States. We comply 
with all applicable US employment laws that prohibit 
unlawful discrimination, regulate wages  
and compensation, and ensure a  
safe workplace.OUR EMPLOYEES ARE OUR MOST VALUABLE ASSET
OUR 
CULTURE
WE ARE ALL  
LEADERS; PRIORITIZING 
THE SUCCESS OF 
OTHERS AND  
THE TEAM.
WE UNDERSTAND  
AND COMMUNICATE 
WHY WE DO 
WHAT WE DO AND 
HOW EVERYONE 
CONTRIBUTES.
WE ARE HIGHLY 
COLLABORATIVE, AND 
OPEN TO NEW IDEAS AND 
TECHNOLOGIES THAT  
COULD RESULT IN 
BUSINESS  
IMPROVEMENT.
WE SUPPORT 
TEAM MEMBER 
PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT AND 
WANT EVERYONE TO 
THRIVE IN ALL  
ASPECTS OF THEIR 
LIVES.
WE DO EVERYTHING 
WITH INTEGRITY 
AND EXCEPTIONAL 
SAFETY, HEALTH AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP .6 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
 6 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility ReportDIVERSITY
At SM Energy, we believe that diversity in our 
workforce helps to promote our culture and 
to more effectively and responsibly conduct 
our business. We recruit broadly and provide 
competitive welfare and benefit programs such 
as paid parental leave, flexible work hours, 
subsidized continuing education and professional 
development, to help us build and maintain 
a diverse workforce. Our Board of Directors 
reflects our commitment to diversity, bringing 
together experiences that cover various aspects 
of the energy industry, representing diverse 
backgrounds, skill sets and viewpoints, providing a 
blend of historical and new perspectives.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
At SM Energy, career development is employee-
driven, manager-facilitated, and organizationally 
supported. It is an ongoing process in which 
employees and managers partner to map realistic 
paths to achieve career aspirations and develop 
goals in alignment with the organization’s objectives.We see leadership as a set of behaviors rather 
than a position or title. We believe every 
employee is called to lead every day, and we 
encourage leadership behaviors consistent 
with our culture. Leadership at SM Energy is 
demonstrated through behaviors associated with 
five core competencies—Building Collaborative 
Relationships, Living SM Energy Values and Ethics, 
Servant Leadership, Strategic Perspective, and 
Leading Change. 
LEADERSHIP LEARNING JOURNEY
Our core competencies create the foundation  
for our Leadership Learning Journey, a broad-
based leadership development program  
designed, built, and taught by our executive  
team. This highly successful program seeks 
to provide all employees with a common 
understanding of our culture and expectations of 
behavior and leadership, as well as the tools to 
operate effectively and in a manner consistent 
with these core competencies.Building 
Collaborative 
Relationships
Living SM 
Energy Values 
and Ethics
Servant 
Leadership
Strategic 
PerspectiveLEADERSHIP CORE  
  COMPETENCIES
Leading 
Change
PEOPLE & CORPORATE CULTURE (CONT)7 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
PEOPLE & CORPORATE CULTURE (CONT)
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
As part of SM Energy’s commitment to 
its employees’ personal and professional 
development, full-time employees are eligible 
to receive tuition reimbursement for course 
work toward a relevant degree and training that 
contributes to their overall competency.
COMPASS PROGRAM
SM Energy’s Compass Program is a two-year 
development program for college graduates as 
they begin their technical careers with SM Energy. 
We have had great success hiring candidates for 
this program directly from our internship pool each 
year. This allows both SM Energy and early career 
employees to assess the experience and general fit 
before committing to a longer-term relationship. 
This rotation-based program is designed to provide 
engineers, geoscientists, and landmen with broad 
exposure to the various technical disciplines, and 
to help them determine where their technical 
passion may lie. Through the Compass Program, 
young petro professionals begin to learn on the 
job, attend technical classes and conferences, 
and attend workshops to develop professional 
skills. Mentors guide them in their work on 
technical projects and assignments, and provide 
important feedback along the way. Challenging 
work, in addition to complementary classes and 
workshops, and a strong support system, combine 
to ensure the successful launch of a rewarding 
career at SM Energy. SUMMER INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
SM Energy offers a robust and impactful summer 
internship program that provides students with a 
10 to 12-week rewarding work experience, where 
they gain exposure to a core discipline within SM 
Energy and are challenged with meaningful work 
and practical learning.
Internship disciplines include drilling, completions, 
production or reservoir engineering, geology, 
geophysics, and land management. Not only 
do interns work on projects with significant 
value to the Company, they also observe field 
operations and participate in community service 
events to further their professional and personal 
development. All interns entering their graduation 
year conclude their summer experience by 
presenting a report on some aspect of their work 
to senior leadership at our corporate headquarters 
in Denver, Colorado.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
SM Energy believes that engagement and 
transparency with our employees is an important 
part of our culture. Quarterly, our senior 
management hosts a town hall, led by our CEO, 
which includes updates on business performance, 
charitable activities, and safety performance, 
and highlights key achievements and individuals. 
Additionally, throughout the year, officers of the 
Company typically travel to different field offices to 
engage with field employees.
At SM Energy, career 
development is employee-
driven, manager-facilitated, and 
organizationally supported.8 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
SAFETY & RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS
We are proud of our strong safety culture 
at SM Energy. We conduct our business in 
a manner that focuses on safeguarding 
the environment and protecting the 
health and safety of all. We strive to 
achieve performance excellence in EHS 
management, and our Board sets annual 
EHS performance goals that impact the 
compensation of all employees.
We strive to conduct our operations in a  
manner that adheres to high ethical 
standards, the proper stewardship of natural 
resources, compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations, and commitment to operational 
excellence. We have a “Stop Work Authority” 
directive at all of our sites that empowers any 
employee or contractor to stop any work they 
believe is being conducted in an unsafe manner.
Our facilities are regularly inspected by SM 
Energy employees and consultants, and 
periodically by regulatory officials. We 
also routinely conduct safety, health and 
environmental meetings with our 
employees and contractors to 
help ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, regulations, 
and policies.9 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
SAFETY & RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS (CONT)
SAFETY METRICS
We track and record our employee and contractor 
total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and 
benchmark our performance against American 
Exploration and Production Council (AXPC) peer 
companies and the Permian Basin Petroleum 
Association peer companies. We use TRIR as an 
indicator of safety performance and expect our 
contractors to maintain their safety performance 
to the same levels we expect in our EHS program. 
We review these statistics with our employees 
and Board of Directors at least quarterly.
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
We recognize the valuable role our independent 
contractors play in our operations and the 
important contributions they make to the 
success of our company. We strive to work 
with contractors who share our commitment to 
health and safety and the proper stewardship 
of shared natural resources. To help confirm 
that our independent contractors are aligned 
with our culture and EHS focus, we use a 
Contractor Management Program that facilitates 
our selections of vendors with effective EHS 
programs, and allows monitoring of contractor 
performance.Since 2008, SM Energy has utilized ISNetworld 
(ISN) to facilitate the collection, maintenance, and 
verification of contractor information. Contractors 
are required to submit their safety and training 
programs, safety performance data, and proof of 
insurance information to ISN, who independently 
verifies the information. Contractors are graded 
on the strength of their EHS management 
systems and training programs, as well as their 
performance. Contractors are generally selected 
based on their performance against defined 
benchmarks, and the use of each contractor is 
approved by Company representatives involved 
in the work to be performed. We maintain a list 
of qualified contractors and generally only those 
contractors are permitted to work at our operations.
We expect all of our contractors to comply with 
their respective EHS programs, state and federal 
regulations, and to respect our safety culture 
and core values. To help ensure that contractors 
implement their respective safety programs and 
provide proper training, we conduct periodic 
audits of a sampling of our contractors at both the 
corporate and field level. Contractors are selected 
for these reviews based on the risks attendant 
to the work to be performed, activity level, past 
performance, and other factors.
10 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
SAFETY & RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS (CONT)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
We pursue a comprehensive approach to 
emergency management. Our emergency 
management framework consists of Emergency 
Response Action Plans, Corporate Response 
Plans, and Business Continuity Plans. SM Energy’s 
preparedness framework attempts to:
•  secure and protect the environment, our 
employees and contractors, and the public;
•  quickly and effectively identify, respond to, 
manage, and recover from an incident;
•  minimize any potential impacts on people, the 
environment, and our facilities; and
•  maintain business continuity throughout the 
incident.
Our incident response plans are aligned with the 
National Incident Management System (NIMS) 
guidelines and are designed to expand based 
on incident size and complexity. Field and area 
level plans are supported by the SM Energy 
Corporate Response Plan that is intended to guide our response to consider impacts beyond 
the immediate incident. We routinely conduct 
training drills that include tabletop and field-based 
scenarios to test our emergency preparedness. 
These drills are specifically designed for each 
department, including but not limited to drilling, 
completions, and production. Additionally, we often 
include local first responders and law enforcement 
in our drills to improve emergency responsiveness.
“We routinely conduct 
training drills that include 
tabletop and field-based 
scenarios to test our 
emergency preparedness.”11 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
We regularly engage with the 
communities where we live and 
work because we believe that open, 
honest dialogue with all stakeholders 
helps make us a good neighbor. 
By proactively engaging with local 
officials, landowners, and emergency 
responders, we are able to quickly 
identify and address concerns  
related to our operations.As an example, SM Energy field tours have become  
   a part of the annual curriculum for the Chamber 
of Commerce’s Leadership Course in Big Spring, 
Texas. Educating leaders in the community about our 
business gives them a better understanding of our 
industry and the positive contributions SM Energy 
makes to their community.
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
SM Energy is committed to building and maintaining 
partnerships with our stakeholders by investing in 
and connecting with the communities where we 
live and work. Developing effective partnerships 
with organizations and our neighbors helps us to 
better serve these communities. We are proud of the 
employee-led charitable giving programs that help us 
realize this vision. 12 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT (CONT)
Part of our charitable giving program includes 
a monetary match of our employees’ personal 
contributions to qualified organizations. We 
are proud to have so many of our outstanding 
employees investing their time, talents, and 
financial resources in their communities. Our 
approach is to thoughtfully and purposefully  
invest in the following areas:
EDUCATION: 
We support education programs that focus on 
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), 
while encouraging students to pursue higher 
education. Examples of our support include:
•  SM Energy continues to be the headline sponsor 
of Texas Tech University Whitacre College of 
Engineering’s Robotics Program. This partnership 
helps cultivate an interest in STEM studies and 
careers throughout West Texas by serving over 
2,500 students, 65 school districts, 118 school 
campuses, home school organizations, private 
schools, 4-H organizations, and Boys and Girls 
Clubs. It also lays the groundwork for SM Energy 
to provide meaningful support to schools in the 
areas where we live and work.
•  Working closely with the Big Spring Independent 
School District and the Big Spring Economic 
Development Council, we have secured 
robotics programs for all K-12 students in Big 
Spring, Texas, so that these students have the 
opportunity to participate in robotics activities  
on their school campuses.
•  Our Denver office partners with Junior 
Achievement (JA) to teach K-12 students to be 
financially responsible, entrepreneurial and 
career ready by giving them a realistic view of 
the working world. Our employees participate in 
a number of programs, including JA Bowl-A-Thon 
and JA in a Day. JA in a Day allows SM Energy 
employees to help students explore the role that 
financial investment plays in their families and 
communities.
Robotics
Junior Achievement
Historic Spring restored area
In the community of Big Spring, Texas, SM Energy 
supported restoration of the town’s Historic Spring. This 
revitalization project resulted in a beautiful community 
park with a plaza, new trails, parking and refurbishment 
of the historic Comanche Trail Amphitheater.13 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT (CONT)
CIVIC AND COMMUNITY SERVICE: 
We are responsive to the needs of our communities 
and invest in civic and community organizations that 
serve critical social needs and enhance social and 
economic conditions.
•  SM Energy’s partnership with Habitat for Humanity 
of Metro Denver began in 2000. During this 
time, the Company has donated more than $1.0 
million and has sponsored the building of 15 new 
homes that provide affordable housing while 
building stability and self-reliance for the future 
homeowners. Employees have donated countless 
hours assisting with the construction of these 
homes.
•  SM Energy also supports New Genesis in downtown 
Denver. New Genesis helps meet some of the 
critical needs of those experiencing homelessness. 
Through this partnership, SM Energy has donated 
office furniture, funds, and volunteer hours to 
help New Genesis open a new employment center 
to aid individuals seeking support to prepare, 
connect, and succeed in employment opportunities. 
Additionally, SM Energy donated funds to upgrade 
appliances in New Genesis’ existing kitchen, which 
feeds more than 175 people every day.HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES: 
We support organizations and programs that focus 
on community health and wellness and that place 
special emphasis on family wellness initiatives and 
occupational health programs.
•  SM Energy supports the Houston, Texas Chapter of  
Oilfield Helping Hands (OHH) an organization that 
assists families with financial assistance in times 
of crisis. The funds raised by OHH are given, based 
on need, to familes that live and/or work within the 
greater Houston and surrounding areas, and have 
members employed by our industry. 
•  SM Energy is proud to partner with United Way 
which serves the needs of communities and focuses 
on education, health and human services. Every 
fall, SM Energy hosts an employee campaign to 
support United Way chapters in Metro Denver, 
Houston, Midland, Big Spring and Laredo. United 
Way connects people in our communities to critical 
resources such as food, shelter, rental assistance, 
utility assistance, and childcare. United Way 
chapters also provide financial coaching, classes, 
and opportunities to build job skills to help people 
reach financial stability.
VOLUNTEERISM: 
Our employees volunteer at numerous charities 
throughout Texas and Colorado. Each year 
we volunteer thousands of hours of time and 
commitment to the many charitable organizations 
SM Energy supports.
Habitat for HumanityWe strive to operate in a safe and environmentally 
responsible manner, in support of our industry’s efforts 
to ensure the supply of sustainable, abundant and affordable 
energy.
As part of this commitment, in 2020, SM Energy initiated its 
participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and in 
the publication of the Company’s Sustainablity Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) metrics for oil and gas exploration and 
production companies. The SASB report can be found on our 
website and as an Exhibit to this report.
In addition, SM Energy’s short-term incentive compensation 
program incorporates EHS performance targets, including spill 
volumes, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (including targets 
for CO 2e and methane emissions), and TRIR, as well as certain 
safety training objectives. Short-term incentive compensation 
is tied to top-quartile performance and certain target metrics. 
Top-quartile is based on surveyed and/or publicly available data 
from AXPC members. Additionally, goals include putting systems 
in place for tracking broader ESG metrics to enable increased 
reporting in the future and to increase employee awareness. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Innovation and 
collaboration are pillars 
in supporting our 
commitment to protecting 
the environment and 
being good stewards of 
shared natural resources. 
14 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report15 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP (CONT)
Consistent with our commitment to 
environmental stewardship, we believe 
it is important to control GHG emissions in 
our operations. We strive to comply with 
and often exceed air quality standards 
applicable to our operations, including the 
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) 
New Source Performance Standards (NSPS). 
SM Energy utilizes a variety of technologies to 
help in our efforts to meet applicable regulatory 
requirements. We report annual required GHG 
emissions to the EPA and on our website. As our 
oil and gas production grows, emissions are likely 
to increase, yet at an expected lessor rate.
At SM Energy, we are combining collaboration 
among our teams with innovation to identify 
and solve for ways in which we can reduce 
emissions. Areas of particular opportunity are 
through reduced flaring, improved vapor recovery, 
application of improved controller technology, and 
increased sophistication of leak detection 
technology. Here are examples of 
some of our efforts —REDUCING FLARING
SM Energy developed a gas flare reporting 
tool that provides daily information used 
to support our operational decision 
making and achievement of our ESG 
goals. The system is linked to a dashboard 
where members of our operations team 
can monitor flaring levels and location daily.
The best way to minimize any impact from flaring 
is to prevent it from occurring in the first place. 
Accordingly, we seek to design and maintain our 
facilities to minimize flaring and capture all gas 
so it can be sold. The Permian Basin has been the 
focus of significant oil shale growth since 2008, 
and that growth has strained gas gathering and 
processing infrastructure. We strive to capture 
emissions attributable to well completions on 
all of our assets – a process commonly referred 
to as green completions – through constructing 
infrastructure that routes production flowback 
directly to facilities and pipelines, thereby 
minimizing releases into the 
atmosphere. In 2019, the 
Company collaborated with 
downstream purchasers 
on an interconnection 
project that serves 
to reduce potential 
flaring caused 
by downstream 
capacity 
constraints.
15 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018Identify abnormal odors, which 
could indicate the presence 
of leaking natural gas, some 
components of which have a 
strong odorObserve site conditions and note 
changes in equipment and the 
site, which could be related to or 
result in leaking equipmentListen for auditory cues that 
equipment is not operating 
correctly and may be leakingAUDIO, VISUAL  
AND OLFACTORY  
INSPECTIONAIR16 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP (CONT)
IMPROVING VAPOR RECOVERY
We seek to reduce emissions by installing vapor 
recovery units (VRUs) and combustors at our 
production facilities. VRUs are small compressors 
that remove valuable vapors and gases from 
storage tanks and route them to pipelines for sale. 
This strategy allows us to capture, recover, and 
sell regulated air emissions (VOCs), as well as 
methane, as part of our value chain to increase 
efficiency while reducing GHG emissions.
UPGRADING CONTROLLERS
Additionally we seek to reduce methane emissions 
by converting pneumatic controllers. Prior to 
the EPA’s NSPS OOOO regulation, we employed 
a proactive approach to reducing emissions 
that utilized intermittent or low-bleed gas 
pneumatics on many of our facilities. We have 
converted certain pneumatic devices to operate 
on a compressed instrument air system, which 
replaces pressurized natural gas with atmospheric 
air, eliminating methane emissions. These systems 
have been installed at our new facilities in our 
Midland Basin assets since 2017. At our South 
Texas assets, we are replacing gas pneumatic 
devices with solar and 
wind powered electronic 
controllers. During 2019, 
we installed nearly 
1,000 zero emissions 
and non-gas pneumatic 
controllers resulting in a 
significant reduction in 
methane emissions.MORE SOPHISTICATED LEAK DETECTION 
AND REPAIR TO REDUCE FUGITIVE 
EMISSIONS
We utilize various techniques, including audio/ 
visual/olfactory inspections (AVO) and optical 
gas imaging (OGI) cameras, across SM Energy 
operations to monitor fugitive emissions. Since 
2017, we have been using a leak detection and 
repair (LDAR) program at all new facilities in 
accordance with the EPA’s NSPS OOOOa rules 
and  undertake voluntary efforts over and above 
regulatory requirements, such as our use of 
an OGI camera to conduct LDAR as part of our 
maintenance program in both our Midland 
Basin and South Texas assets. In conjunction 
with our participation in The API Environmental 
Partnership, the Company sets targets above 
and beyond regulatory requirements. During 
2019, the Company exceeded its LDAR goals by 
implementing the technology at 100% of Midland 
Basin and 50% of South Texas facilities.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP (CONT)
We understand the importance of 
respecting the land on which we 
operate. We are thoughtful about where 
and how we build our facilities and how 
we conduct our operations. We work 
with landowners, neighbors, and local 
community leaders before we begin 
operations to ensure the proper planning of well 
locations, service roads, and pipeline routes. Where 
feasible, we utilize multi-well pads and centralized 
facilities to help minimize the surface footprint 
of our operations. Additionally, SM Energy strives 
to adapt our operations to minimize impacts on 
wildlife and their habitat.
LIGHT DETECTION (LIDAR)  
AND AERIAL IMAGERY 
In 2016, SM Energy initiated a pilot project by 
collecting approximately 275 square miles of light 
detection and ranging (LIDAR) data and aerial 
imagery over our South Texas operations. This effort 
provided elevation data for engineering designs, 
enabling us to estimate cut and fill for construction 
projects, increased efficiency and reduced costs in 
well pad planning and construction. This also allowed 
us to reduce our environmental impact by identifying 
topographical features, such as drainage features to 
avoid erosion, and to anticipate potential obstacles in 
the field. Over the past few years, more than 580,000 
acres of high resolution aerial imagery was flown 
over our asset portfolio. This high precision imagery 
data was integrated across various applications 
to guide surface use and development planning to 
reduce surface disturbances in the development of 
access roads, well sites and facilities. 
SPILL PREVENTION, WASTE 
MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING
We know that the best way to minimize any impact 
from spills is to prevent them from occurring in the 
first place. We design and maintain our facilities 
to prevent spills, but in the event of a spill, we 
have safeguards intended to contain all fluids 
on location. When a spill does occur, we work to 
properly clean-up the affected area, dispose of any recovered fluids and, as necessary, 
remediate any contaminated soil or water. 
For each spill, we determine the source 
and the cause to analyze spill trends, and 
work to implement new procedures and 
practices to mitigate future occurrences.
SM Energy has implemented a voluntary Spill 
Reduction Planning effort across the Company. 
This effort, which began in 2013, goes beyond 
current EPA requirements for Spill Prevention, 
Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plans. A 
Spill Reduction Team, comprised of operations 
personnel, engineers and environmental 
specialists,  are responsible for analyzing 
common spill sources and causes, and developing 
mitigation strategies to reduce leaks and spills. 
We benchmark our spill performance against 
AXPC peer companies using the spill metric of 
Total Produced Fluid Spill Rate, which is the ratio 
of the total barrels of produced fluids that are 
spilled to the total barrels of produced fluids. In 
our operations, on average we spill less than five 
barrels of produced fluid per 100,000 barrels 
of fluids produced. Much of this spilled fluid is 
captured within secondary containment built to 
protect the land and environment.
We strive to manage produced waste in our 
operations as part of our commitment to our 
corporate values and goals. We continually look for 
new opportunities and technologies to minimize 
environmental impacts from our operations 
through reduction and/or the reuse/recycling of 
produced waste streams.
We maintain a Corporate Waste Management 
Program, as well as Operations Waste 
Management Plans specific to our operations. 
We also maintain an auditing program directed 
at reviewing third-party operated waste disposal 
facilities. Most of the products/resources from our 
operations are not classified as a hazardous waste 
at end use by the EPA Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act (RCRA) regulations.
LAND
17 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report18 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP (CONT)
Striving to protect the environment 
and be a good environmental steward 
includes our efforts to protect and 
conserve water and other shared natural 
resources. We seek to identify and utilize 
new technologies to help us use water 
resources wisely, recycle water where 
feasible, and minimize the amount of water  
needed for our operations.
Where practical, our drilling operations utilize 
closed-loop technology to eliminate the use of 
reserve pits, thereby minimizing the waste and 
surface impacts associated with pit reclamation. 
Instead of discharging drilling fluids into the 
reserve pit, these fluids are processed real-time, 
removing solids so that the fluids can be recycled 
back into the drilling fluid system.
In the Midland Basin, SM Energy currently 
recycles produced water where infrastructure 
is available, and we continue to explore new 
technologies designed to increase the amount of 
recycled produced water used in our completions 
operations.GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
We apply stringent specifications in the 
design and operation of our facilities to 
better protect groundwater and other 
natural resources, and we meet the 
applicable regulatory requirements. Potable 
water aquifers (permeable rock containing 
groundwater) in the areas where we operate are 
located at relatively shallow depths. The oil and 
gas bearing rock formations that we target for 
production are often more than a mile below such 
aquifers, with a thick layer of solid, impermeable 
rock in between.
Our wells are constructed with multiple layers 
of steel pipe, called casing, that is cemented into 
place to provide a barrier between our drilling and 
production activities and groundwater. The cement 
for the surface casing string must meet certain 
strength and quality criterion and is extended up to  
the surface.
We separate flowback and produced water from 
produced hydrocarbons and temporarily store 
this water in above ground tanks, located within WATER
Approximately 95 percent of our produced water from our Howard County assets is 
transported to our operated disposal wells via pipeline, which reduces emissions,  
truck traffic and operating  costs.
19 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP (CONT)
secondary containment barriers. The water  
is then either recycled or disposed of at  
permitted disposal sites. We do not send any 
flowback or produced water to municipal 
treatment facilities. 
FRACTURING FLUIDS
In general, more than 99 percent of our typical 
fracturing fluid mix is comprised of water  
and sand, with the remaining less than one 
percent a blend of highly diluted special purpose 
chemicals that are also frequently used at 
municipal water treatment plants. SM Energy 
discloses the chemicals used in our fracturing 
fluids at FracFocus.org in accordance with  
state regulations.PRODUCED WATER DISPOSAL WELLS
Oil and natural gas production requires 
wastewater disposal. We recycle water where 
feasible; however, when we cannot, we are 
required to use regulated and approved  
disposal wells.
When using third-party disposal wells, we 
periodically audit the operators to ensure they 
are approved and permitted by applicable 
governmental agencies and meet our 
expectations. In addition, we utilize our auditing 
program in an attempt to confirm that each 
operator and its wells are in compliance with 
applicable regulations.
In some areas, we own and operate our own 
disposal wells in conjunction with our production 
operations. By year-end 2019, SM Energy had 
installed more than 80 miles of pipeline in the 
Midland Basin to transport produced water from 
our wells, thereby minimizing our environmental 
impact while improving operating costs. 
Approximately 95 percent of produced water 
from our Howard County assets is transported 
via pipeline, which reduces emissions, truck 
traffic, and operating costs. We carefully plan 
the location of our disposal wells in an attempt 
to ensure that our operations minimize any 
potential environmental impacts. Our well sites 
20 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP (CONT)
are generally selected by integrated teams of 
geoscientists and engineers using subsurface 
imaging and characterization, including multi-
attribute analysis from our 3D seismic data and 
earth modeling for well planning. These efforts are 
undertaken with the goal of minimizing any impact 
on fault lines and other potential seismic risks.
To monitor potential seismic activity, SM Energy 
has deployed a fit-for-purpose, real-time seismic 
monitoring array in the vicinity of our Howard 
County assets. We serve on the TexNet Center 
for Integrated Seismic Research (CISR) Advisory 
Committee to remain informed about seismicity 
through science and data-based knowledge 
and to collaborate with other operators and 
researchers at the Bureau of Economic Geology in 
the State of Texas.
API ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP 
We participate in The API Environmental 
Partnership, whose programs and initiatives align 
with our commitment to being a good steward of 
shared natural resources. The API Environmental 
Partnership is a voluntary program, comprised 
of a growing number of companies in the U.S. oil 
and natural gas industry committed to improving 
the industry’s environmental performance and 
collaborating with one another to achieve the 
best results. The Partnership’s initial focus is on 
environmental technologies that are technically 
feasible, commercially proven, and operationally 
successful in achieving significant emissions reductions. The Partnership provides a forum 
for participants to share information, best 
practices, and technological advancements to 
help reduce emissions. SM Energy is committed 
to continued learning about the latest innovations 
and practices that can further reduce our own 
environmental footprint.
The Partnership is about taking action, and has 
identified three initial Environmental Performance 
Programs in which SM Energy participates. These 
programs are the Pneumatic Controller Program, 
the Manual Liquids Unloading Program, and the 
Leak Detection and Repair Program.
Learn more about The API  
Environmental Partnership at  
https://theenvironmentalpartnership.org/.
CDP 
In 2020, SM Energy also initiated participation 
in the CDP questionaire. CDP is a not-for-profit 
organization that maintains a global disclosure 
system for investors, companies, cities, states 
and regions to manage their environmental 
impacts. Learn more about CDP at  
https://www.cdp.net.
 
21 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
We utilize state-of-the-art digital technology in our 
operations. We are continually seeking innovative ideas 
to help us reduce our impact on shared natural resources and 
striving to utilize the most effective technologies available to 
operate in an efficient, safe, and responsible manner.
•  SM Energy has cultivated in-house expertise in geomechanical 
modeling and fracture simulation that allows us to tailor 
our completions to specific reservoir intervals across our 
asset to take into account changes in geology. This results 
in minimizing well interference and, hence, optimizing well 
performance. Many of the findings have resulted in using less 
water for our completions, reducing the amount of freshwater 
needed per lateral foot completed.The technology and data 
landscape is rapidly 
changing in the oil and gas 
industry. We recognize 
that as we transform our 
processes and decision 
making to take advantage 
of new data sets and 
technologies, we need to 
ensure that our people have 
the skills and education 
needed to adapt to 
technological advances.DATA, TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION
22 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
DATA, TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION (CONT)
•  Integrating seismic inversion data, now being 
performed in-house, into our well planning and 
geosteering models has substantially increased 
our rate of penetration, saving costs by reducing 
drill time and the number of drill bits required 
per well. Less time drilling leads to fewer 
potential instances of injury and spills and less 
fuel and emissions per pad.
•  Recent in-house microseismic analyses have 
revealed new insights for well sequencing that 
may act to reduce the effects of offset depletion 
for newly-drilled wells at no additional cost to the 
Company.
We offer our entire organization opportunities to 
develop and maintain the skills needed to thrive in 
our current, data-rich environment, including the 
following:
•  Our geoscientists, engineers, and data specialists 
from around the Company attend a three-day, in-
house technical conference to learn and discuss 
innovative technologies and methods being 
employed across the Company. This sharing 
ensures that we broadly leverage the most 
current technologies to efficiently develop our 
assets.•  Employees are offered training on the latest 
analytic platforms, and work on data-driven 
projects that improve operational efficiencies 
around the organization. In 2018, we introduced 
two new internal training programs focused on 
developing the skills needed to work with larger 
datasets, automate workflows, and leverage 
machine learning techniques.
3D EARTH MODELING
Our digital 3D geomodels provide a more complete 
understanding of subsurface geology and facilitate 
economic, efficient and safer development of our 
assets. The models are used for:
•  understanding the 3D distribution of geologic and 
reservoir properties;
•  reservoir mapping and calculations;
•  well spotting and planning;
•  lateral target selection;
•  real-time monitoring of drilling wells; and
•  reservoir simulation and well completion 
activities.23 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
DATA, TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION (CONT)
PRODUCTION AND RESERVOIR 
OPTIMIZATION
As a responsible operator of top-tier assets, 
we apply innovative technologies to continually 
optimize production and reservoir performance. 
Technologies currently being applied or tested in 
our operations, include:
•  fiber optic cable, which is installed to determine 
fracture stimulation stage 
and cluster efficiency  as 
well as for long-term 
reservoir monitoring; and
•  microseismic monitoring, 
which defines fracture 
networks and well 
interference and also aids 
in benchmarking new 
technologies.ANOMALY AND DYNAMIC JOB ROUTING
SM Energy uses anomaly detection algorithms 
and sensor arrays to identify operating conditions 
that are outside expected parameters. We leverage 
machine learning algorithms and supplement 
our existing pressure and rate sensors with the 
latest technology to help identify potential issues 
associated with our field operations. We utilize 
mobile applications to modernize 
our field operations, and improve 
our efficiency and safety by 
reducing the number of miles 
driven each day and focusing our 
activity on the most impactful 
tasks. We work to monitor our 
operations and make changes 
to help improve efficiencies, 
decrease our spill and emissions 
rates, and reduce the expense and 
risk associated with performing 
unwarranted tasks.
24 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
DATA, TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION (CONT)
INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS (IIOT)
SM Energy applies instrumentation and connected 
sensors to equipment in our field operations. 
We are constantly evaluating new and existing 
technologies to expand our monitoring and 
automation capabilities, including applying 
new technology and communications to bring 
automation to legacy devices that could only be 
viewed and controlled on-site in the past. This 
automation helps us determine when to shut 
down wells, pumps, and other devices remotely to 
respond to weather or other unexpected events. 
In addition to automating devices, we are using 
video for site safety, security, and analytics. We 
expect new technologies will allow us to conduct 
remote field surveillance and receive alarms 
for equipment failure that could lead to spills or 
emissions.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND SAFETY
In 2020, the Company is utilizing its mobile 
application available to all employees as it seeks 
to ensure the safety of employees and others 
when entering SM Energy office and field locations 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company’s 
IT group implemented the application requiring 
employees to complete an attestation and 
notification to the Company through their phone 
to control access and maintain adherence to 
COVID-19 rules.CYBERSECURITY
Cybersecurity and information security efforts 
are undertaken to protect the confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability of information. As is 
increasingly apparent, failure to maintain the 
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the 
information facilitating our business activities can 
result in critical failures in our ability to realize our 
corporate vision and strategic plans. Moreover, we 
believe cybersecurity plays a critical role in our 
core sustainability practices because information 
and communications technologies increasingly 
support our traditional sustainability activities. 
To this end we value and support cybersecurity 
efforts across all levels of our organization from 
quarterly meetings with the Board of Directors; 
to building a culture of appropriate cybersecurity 
awareness and behaviors for all our employees. 
We believe that incorporating elements of 
sustainability management into our cybersecurity 
efforts will help reframe the perceptions of 
cybersecurity from fear, uncertainty, and doubt to 
a more proactive belief of awareness, confidence, 
and responsible behavior. This shift, we believe, 
will in turn lead to improved cybersecurity 
practices for all of our stakeholders and ultimately 
a more secure, resilient, and enduring technology 
ecosystem to sustain our Company and our 
stakeholders.
25 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
Our Board is comprised of eight independent 
members, plus one non-independent member, 
our CEO. A number of our independent directors have 
served as members of senior management of other 
companies in the oil and gas industry and are currently 
serving, or have served, as directors of other public 
companies. We believe that our directors, the respective 
experiences and skills that they bring to our Board, and 
the overall leadership of our Board by our independent 
Chairman provide great benefit to our Company and our 
stakeholders.
We are committed to sound corporate governance 
practices. Our Board has adopted charters for each 
of its committees, Corporate Governance Guidelines, 
Financial Code of Ethics, and our Code of Business 
Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy, all of which 
are available on our website, http://sm-energy.com/
aboutus/governance/. Our Board’s oversight focus 
includes the assessment of risks potentially impacting 
our business and the measures taken to minimize and 
manage such risks, including in the areas of economic 
growth, cybersecurity, environmental stewardship, and 
social responsibility.Our governance  
focus and practices are 
directed by our active and 
engaged Board of Directors.  
Our Board reflects an  
effective balance of fresh 
perspective and industry 
and Company experience, 
responsible for representing 
the long-term interests  
of our stockholders.GOVERNANCE & ETHICS
26 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
1-844-747-2906
We are committed to preserving, protecting 
and fostering a culture of trust and integrity 
that has long defined SM Energy as a company. 
Doing this requires that every SM Energy 
director, officer, employee, and contractor  
voice concerns of any suspected violation of 
the law or policy.HOTLINE
sm-energy.ethicspoint.comETHICS
We are committed to conducting our 
business consistent with the highest 
ethical standards. We value and expect integrity 
and honesty of our employees and contractors 
while operating in compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Conflict of 
Interest Policy states the standards of integrity 
and conduct that every SM Energy employee, 
officer and director is expected to uphold. We 
conduct trainings on our Code, and require annual certification of compliance with our Code. As a 
means of promoting compliance, we support 
multiple methods of reporting violations and 
concerns, including anonymous reporting, and 
we prohibit retaliation against any employee for 
providing information concerning a violation of law, 
regulation, or policy.27 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
ADVOCACY AND LOBBYING 
At SM Energy, we are proud to contribute to 
   United States energy independence. To 
help our country become energy self-reliant, 
SM Energy works with industry partners and 
our legislative representatives to advocate for a 
secure energy future.SM Energy does not have a political action 
committee; however, through industry trade 
associations, including those named below,  we 
participate in the legislative process to inform 
policymakers and regulators about our  
industry and advocate for solutions that 
mutually benefit the communities in which we 
live and work.
28 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report
This SM Energy Corporate Responsibility 
Report reflects our priorities, goals and 
intentions related to managing our business in 
the best interest of all stakeholders. The topics 
addressed have been identified as having a 
possible impact on our performance in areas 
important to our stakeholders, as reflected in 
engagement with various stockholders and other 
stakeholders on these issues.
In preparing this report, we also considered 
sector-specific guidelines based on International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association (IPIECA), American International 
Petroleum Institute (API), International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP), 
Oil and Gas Industry Guidance, the core level 
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as well as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) for oil and gas exploration and production.
It is our expectation that our Corporate 
Responsibility Report will continue to evolve 
and improve over time on these and other 
relevant issues, as we continue to respond to our 
stakeholders concerning the type of disclosure 
that is helpful and important to them.
Information or content available on websites 
referenced in this report is not incorporated in or 
otherwise made a part of this report.REPORTING SCOPE
