2018Corporate Responsibility Report
Published: May 20192 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
At SM Energy, our goal is to make people’s lives better by responsibly  
   producing oil and natural gas, contributing to energy security and  
prosperity, and having a positive impact on the communities where we live,  
work, and operate. We work to accomplish this by ensuring that our values drive 
our behavior in everything we do.  
As a leader in the oil and natural gas industry, we provide resources that make 
people’s lives better every day. From our experienced Board of Directors to our 
highly-skilled team members working hard in our operations in Texas and in our 
corporate headquarters in Denver, we understand the importance of conducting 
our business the right way.
We have programs and systems in place that serve to protect the health and  
safety of our employees and contractors. We are also contributing to our 
employees’ professional development by providing a company-wide leadership 
development program. 
Our company is focused on being a good steward of shared resources. We are 
pursuing environmental initiatives that help us minimize our air emissions and 
hydrocarbon and produced water spills from our operations.
Finally, we are dedicated to supporting improvement in the quality of life in the 
communities where we live, work, and operate. We develop strong partnerships 
and understand community needs, so we can make a positive difference, 
particularly in the areas of education, civic and community service, and health and 
human services. SM Energy employees are passionate about giving back through 
volunteer time and financial contributions, and we offer various incentives to 
encourage personal involvement.
We are proud to share highlights of our corporate responsibility efforts in this 
second Corporate Responsibility Report, and we are committed to continuing our 
efforts in the years to come.
Sincerely,
Jay Ottoson 
President and Chief Executive Officer
“Our goal is to make people’s 
lives better by responsibly 
producing oil and natural 
gas, contributing to energy 
security and prosperity, and 
having a positive impact on 
the communities where we  
live, work, and operate.”TABLE OF CONTENTS
02|   CEO Letter
04|   Company Overview
04|   Company Strategy
05|General Statements
06|   Corporate Governance
07|   Commitment to Ethical 
Operations
08|   Investing in Our People
12|   Responsible Operations
15|   Stewardship of Shared Natural 
Resources23|   Innovation
27|   Stakeholder Engagement
28|   Community Investment
30|   Local Economic Impact 
31|   Advocacy and Lobbying
32|   Our Industry, Your Life...Look 
Beyond
33|   Reporting Scope
34|   Index
3 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 20184 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
DENVER
HOUSTONMIDLAND
SOUTH TEXASROCK RIDGE
SWEETIE PECK
*As of December 31, 2018COLORADO
TEXAS
OFFICES
OPERATIONS
SM ENERGY OVERVIEW
SM Energy’s strategic objective is to be a premier operator of top-tier assets. 
Founded in 1908, we are an independent exploration and production 
company with a longstanding, principled approach to doing business ethically and 
responsibly. Our company culture drives our behavior and we build open, honest and 
transparent relationships with our stakeholders. Our goal is to make people’s lives 
better by responsibly producing oil and natural gas, contributing to energy security 
and prosperity, and having a positive impact in the communities where we live, work, 
and operate.
COMPANY STRATEGY
Our strategy is to focus on onshore, Lower 48 oil and natural gas plays with 
top-tier economic drilling, completion, and production opportunities. We 
seek to acquire top-tier acreage through leasing and strategic acquisitions. We 
seek to maximize the value of our assets through the application of the latest 
technologies and outstanding operational execution, with our employees being our 
most valuable asset. Finally, we strive to maintain a strong balance sheet through 
financial discipline and to achieve high returns by efficiently deploying capital to 
develop our assets.GENERAL STATEMENTS
Our stakeholders trust us to conduct business in a manner that will protect our 
reputation, our employees, contractors, and the land on which we operate.  
We recognize that operating in this industry is a privilege and we take that seriously.
We strive to be top quartile among our industry peers in environmental, health, and 
safety (EHS) metrics. Annually, our Board of Directors establishes EHS performance 
goals for us and holds us accountable for our results with quarterly and annual 
reviews. Our performance against these goals impact the compensation of every 
employee.
The following sections describe our efforts on various elements of corporate 
responsibility.
PROVED RESERVES*
503 MILLION
BOE
NET   
PRODUCING WELLS*
1,156Average Daily Production**
122,800
Boe/d 
EMPLOYEES = 606**Year End 2018  **Fourth Quarter 2018SM ENERGY AT A GLANCEENTERPRISE VALUE*
$4.6
BILLION
5 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 20186 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
At SM Energy, we have an active and engaged Board of Directors equipped with an effective balance of  
   fresh perspective and industry experience. Our Board is responsible for representing the long-term 
interests of our stockholders and is focused on ethical behavior and adherence to our core values.
Our Board is comprised of eight independent members, plus one non-independent member, Mr. Ottoson. A 
number of our independent directors have served as members of senior management of other companies 
in the oil and gas industry or are currently serving or have served as directors of other public companies. We 
believe that our independent and experienced directors, the specific experiences and skills that they bring to 
our Board and to their respective board committees, and the overall leadership of our Board by our Chairman 
provide great benefit to our Company and our stockholders.
 
We are committed to sound corporate governance principles. Our Board has adopted charters for its 
committees, and our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Financial Code of Ethics and Code of Business 
Conduct, and Conflict of Interest Policy, all of which are available on our website, http://sm-energy.com/
aboutus/governance/. Our Board’s oversight focus includes the assessment of major risks and the 
resulting measures taken to manage such risks, including in the areas of economic growth, cybersecurity, 
environmental stewardship, and social responsibility.
COMMITMENT TO ETHICAL OPERATIONS
We at SM Energy expect to conduct our business consistent with the  
highest ethical standards, integrity, and in compliance with applicable  
laws and regulations.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy states the standards 
of integrity and conduct that every SM Energy employee, officer and director is 
expected to uphold. We conduct trainings on our Code, and require each employee 
and officer to certify his/her compliance with our Code and inform us of any 
noncompliance. As a means of promoting reporting and compliance, we support 
multiple methods of reporting violations and concerns, including anonymous 
reporting, and we prohibit retaliation against any employee for providing 
information relating to a violation of law, regulation, or company policy.
1-844-747-2906
SM Energy is committed to preserving, 
protecting and fostering the culture of trust 
and integrity that has long defined SM Energy 
as a company. Doing this requires that every 
SM Energy director, officer, employee, and 
contractor voice concerns of any suspected 
violation of the law or company policy.
HOTLINE
sm-energy.ethicspoint.com
7 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 20188 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
Our company vision and culture drive the way we conduct business. Our 
culture promotes:
•  integrity and ethical behavior in the conduct of our business; 
•  environmental, health and safety stewardship; 
•  prioritizing the success of others and the team; 
•  understanding and communicating why we do what we do and how every 
employee contributes to achieving success; 
•  being highly collaborative and open to new ideas and technologies that 
serve business improvement; and
•  supporting team members professional and personal development.  
DIVERSITY
At SM Energy, we believe that diversity in our workforce helps to promote 
our culture and more effectively and responsibly conduct our business.  
We recruit broadly and have benefit programs to help us build and maintain 
a diverse workforce, such as paid parental leave, flexible work hours, 
subsidized continuing education and professional development support. Investing in
 Our People
At SM Energy, we are  
   committed to providing 
a rewarding and productive 
work experience for our 
employees. We encourage  
our employees’ personal  
and professional growth 
through a number of talent 
development programs. 
RACE
14% 
Minority
86% 
Non-Minority
GENDER 
70% 
Men
30% 
Women
AGE
25% 
Over 50
16% 
Under 30
59% 
30–50OUR PEOPLE (CONT)
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
At SM Energy, career development is employee-
driven, manager-facilitated, and organizationally 
supported. It is an ongoing process in which 
employees and managers partner to map realistic 
paths to achieve career aspirations and develop 
goals in alignment with the organization’s 
objectives.
We believe that leadership is a set of behaviors 
rather than a position or title. We believe every 
employee is called to lead every day, and we 
encourage leadership behaviors consistent 
with our culture. Leadership at SM Energy is 
demonstrated through behaviors associated with five core competencies—Building Collaborative 
Relationships, Living SM Energy Values and Ethics, 
Servant Leadership, Strategic Perspective, and 
Leading Change. These core competencies are the 
foundation for our Leadership Learning Journey, 
a broad-based leadership development program 
designed, built, and taught by our executive 
leadership. This program seeks to provide all 
employees with a common understanding of our 
culture and expectations of leadership, as well as 
the tools to operate effectively and in a manner 
consistent with our core competencies. 
Building 
Collaborative 
Relationships
Living SM 
Energy Values 
and Ethics
Servant 
Leadership
Strategic 
PerspectiveLEADERSHIP CORE  
  COMPETENCIES
Leading 
Change
9 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201810 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018OUR PEOPLE (CONT)
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
As part of SM Energy’s commitment to 
its employees’ personal and professional 
development, full-time employees are eligible 
to receive tuition reimbursement for course 
work toward a relevant degree, and training that 
contributes to their overall competency.  
COMPASS PROGRAM
SM Energy’s Compass Program is a two-year 
development program for technical professionals 
as they begin their careers with SM Energy. 
This rotation-based program is designed to 
provide engineers, geoscientists, and landmen 
with a multi-disciplinary and experience-based 
foundation of technical and professional skills. 
The Compass Program helps these employees get 
connected, sharpen their skills and jumpstart their 
journey toward a rewarding career at SM Energy.SUMMER INTERN PROGRAM
SM Energy offers a robust and impactful summer 
intern program that provides students with 
a rewarding work experience during a 10 to 
12-week period. Each intern focuses on a key 
discipline within SM Energy and is challenged with 
meaningful work and practical learning.
Internship disciplines include drilling, completions, 
production or reservoir engineering, geology, 
geophysics, and land management. Not only do 
interns work on projects with significant value to 
the Company, they also observe field operations 
activities and participate in community service 
events to further their professional and personal 
development. All interns entering their graduation 
year conclude their summer experience by 
presenting a report on some aspect of their work 
to senior leadership at our corporate headquarters 
in Denver, Colorado.
COMPASS PROGRAM HIGHLIGHT
Hannah, a Petroleum Engineer from 
the Colorado School of Mines, is 
in her second rotation through SM 
Energy’s Compass Program. Hannah 
wanted to work for SM Energy because 
the Compass Program presented 
her a unique opportunity to better 
understand all aspects of the oil and 
gas industry. Hannah spent her first 
rotation in completions, is currently 
working for the drilling department, 
and looks forward to her second year 
which will be spent on the production 
and reservoir teams.OUR PEOPLE (CONT)
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
SM Energy believes that engagement and 
transparency with its employees is an  
important part of its culture. 
Town Hall Updates
Quarterly, our senior management host a  
town hall, led by our CEO, which include updates 
on business and company performance,  
charitable activities, and safety performance, 
highlighting key achievements and individuals, 
followed by a Q&A session. Additionally, throughout the year, officers of the Company 
travel to different field offices to engage with  
field employees.
Lunch With Our Leadership
On a frequent basis, members of the senior 
management team invite a small rotating  
group of employees to an informal lunch. An 
update is provided on business initiatives and 
projects, and employees have an opportunity to 
engage directly with and ask questions of senior 
management.
11 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201812 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
Responsible 
Operations
2016 2017 2018SAFETY METRICS:  
TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR)
1.24
0.380.53
0.000.40
0.30
Employee TRIR
Injuries/200,000 man-hoursContractor TRIR
Injuries/200,000 man-hoursWe are proud of our strong safety culture at SM Energy.  We conduct our 
business in a manner that focuses on safeguarding the environment 
and protecting the health and safety of all. We strive to achieve performance 
excellence in EHS management, and our Board sets annual EHS performance 
goals that impact the compensation of all employees. 
We strive to conduct our operations in a manner that demonstrates adherence to 
high ethical standards, the proper stewardship of natural resources, compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations, and commitment to operational excellence. We have 
a “Stop Work Authority” directive at all of our sites that empowers any employee or 
contractor to stop any work they believe is being conducted in an unsafe manner.
Our facilities are regularly inspected by SM Energy employees and consultants, 
and periodically by regulatory officials. We also routinely conduct safety meetings 
with our employees and contractors to help ensure compliance with applicable 
laws, regulations, and policies. 
SAFETY METRICS
We track and record our employee and contractor total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR) data and benchmark it against American Exploration and Production Council 
(AXPC) peer companies. We use TRIR as an indicator of safety performance and 
expect our contractors to maintain their safety performance to the same levels we 
expect in our EHS program.CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
We recognize the valuable role our independent 
contractors play in our operations and the 
important contributions they make to the success 
of our company. We want to work with others who 
share our commitment to health and safety and the 
proper stewardship of shared natural resources. 
To help confirm that our independent contractors 
are aligned with our own EHS culture and focus, 
we use a Contractor Management Program which 
facilitates our use of vendors who report proper 
EHS programs, and allows monitoring of contractor 
performance.
Since 2008, SM Energy has utilized ISNetworld 
(ISN) to facilitate the collection, maintenance, and 
verification of contractor information. Contractors 
are required to submit their safety and training 
programs, safety performance data, and proof of 
insurance information to ISN, who independently 
verifies the information and consolidates the results for SM Energy’s use. Contractors are graded on the 
strength of their EHS management systems and 
training programs, as well as their performance. 
Contractors are generally selected based on 
their performance against defined benchmarks, 
and the use of each contractor is approved by 
Company representatives involved in the work 
to be performed. We maintain a list of qualified 
contractors and generally only those contractors 
are permitted to work in our operations.
We expect all of our contractors to comply with 
their respective EHS programs, and to respect 
our safety culture and core values. To help ensure 
that contractors implement their safety programs 
and provide proper training, we conduct periodic 
audits of a sampling of our contractors at both the 
corporate and field level. Contractors are selected 
for these reviews based on the risks attendant
to the work to be performed, activity level, past 
performance, and other factors.RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS (CONT)
13 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201814 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
We pusue a comprehensive approach to 
emergency management. Our emergency 
management framework consists of Emergency 
Response Action Plans, Corporate Response 
Plans, and Business Continuity Plans. SM Energy’s 
preparedness framework attempts to:
•  secure and protect the environment, our 
employees and contractors, and the public;
•  quickly and effectively identify, respond to, 
manage, and recover from an incident;
•  minimize any potential impacts on people, the 
environment, and our facilities; and
•  maintain business continuity throughout the 
incident.Our incident response plans follow the National 
Incident Management System (NIMS) guidelines 
and are designed to expand based on incident size 
and complexity.  Regional plans are supported 
by the SM Energy Corporate Response Plan that 
is intended to guide our response to consider  
impacts beyond the immediate incident.  We 
routinely perform training drills that include 
tabletop and field-based scenarios to test our 
emergency preparedness. These drills are 
specifically designed for each department, 
including but not limited to drilling, completions, 
and production. Additionally, we often include local 
first responders and law enforcement in our drills 
to improve emergency responsiveness.RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS (CONT)
We routinely conduct training drills that 
include tabletop and field-based scenarios 
to test our emergency preparedness.15 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
We are committed to protecting the environment and being a good steward of shared 
natural resources.  We strive to operate in a safe and environmentally responsible manner, 
in support of our industry’s efforts to ensure the supply of sustainable, abundant and 
affordable energy.  
We strive to comply with and often exceed air quality standards applicable to our 
operations, including the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) New Source 
Performance Standards (NSPS). SM Energy utilizes a variety of technologies to help in our 
efforts to meet applicable regulatory requirements. We report annual required greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions to the EPA and on our website.
Consistent with our commitment to environmental stewardship, we believe it is important 
to control GHG emissions in our operations. In 2018, SM Energy’s total CO 2 equivalent GHG 
emissions reported to the EPA, in accordance with EPA’s reporting requirements, were 
approximately 599 thousand metric tons, which was an increase from 2017 emissions, 
due to growth in activity and production in our Permian assets. In 2018, our gross operated 
Permian production increased over 100%, while our GHG emissions increased by 38%. We strive to 
operate 
in a safe and 
environmentally 
responsible manner, 
in support of our 
industry’s efforts to 
ensure the supply 
of sustainable, 
abundant, and 
affordable energy.  Stewardship of Shared  
Natural Resources FLARING AND VAPOR RECOVERY 
We strive to capture emissions attributable to  
well completions on all of our assets – a process 
commonly referred to as green completions – 
through constructing infrastructure that routes 
completions flowback directly to facilities and 
pipelines, thereby minimizing releases into the 
atmosphere.
We seek to limit unnecessary flaring in our 
operations by capturing and routing our production 
to pipelines for sale. We generally install vapor 
recovery units (VRUs), blowers, and/or combustors 
at our production facilities to control emissions. 
VRUs are small compressors that remove valuable 
vapors and gases from storage tanks at many of 
our facilities and route them to pipelines for sale. 
This strategy allows us to capture, recover, and 
sell regulated air emissions (VOCs), as well as 
methane, as part of our value chain to benefit our 
stockholders, while reducing GHG emissions.PNEUMATIC CONTROLLERS
Prior to EPA’s NSPS OOOOa regulation, we had 
adopted a proactive approach to using intermittent 
or low-bleed gas pneumatics on many of our 
facilities to further reduce emissions.
Additional methane emissions reductions can be 
achieved by converting these pneumatic devices to 
operate on a compressed instrument air system, 
which  replaces the pressurized natural gas with  
atmospheric air, eliminating methane emissions. 
These systems have been installed at new  
facilities in our Permian Region since 2017. In 
our South Texas Region, we are replacing gas 
pneumatic devices with solar and wind powered 
electronic controllers. STEWARDSHIP OF SHARED NATURAL RESOURCES (CONT)
16 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201817 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
LEAK DETECTION AND REPAIR
We utilize various techniques, including audio/
visual/olfactory inspections (AVO) and optical gas 
imaging (OGI) cameras, across SM 
Energy operations to monitor 
fugitive emissions. Since 
2017, we have been using 
a leak detection and 
repair (LDAR) program 
at all new facilities 
in accordance with 
EPA’s NSPS OOOOa 
rules. This program 
complements 
state-level LDAR 
requirements we had 
already been meeting. 
In addition, we often 
undertake voluntary efforts 
over and above regulatory 
requirements, such as our use of an OGI camera to conduct LDAR as part of our 
maintenance program in our South Texas Region 
since 2014.
In 2018, we initiated a pilot study 
using fixed methane detectors in 
our South Texas operations. 
Multiple methane sensors 
were installed at a well site in 
order to constantly monitor 
for leaks, quantify volumes, 
and identify the source. 
This data is transmitted to 
our Supervisory Control 
and Data Acquisition 
(SCADA) system for real-time 
monitoring. This technology 
is designed to enhance our 
maintenance program through  
live methane leak detection and 
response.
 STEWARDSHIP OF SHARED NATURAL RESOURCES (CONT)
Identify abnormal odors, which 
could indicate the presence 
of leaking natural gas, some 
components of which have a 
strong odorObserve site conditions and note 
changes in equipment and the 
site, which could be related to or 
result in leaking equipmentListen for auditory cues that 
equipment is not operating 
correctly and may be leakingAUDIO, VISUAL  
AND OLFACTORY  
INSPECTION18 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
 STEWARDSHIP OF SHARED NATURAL RESOURCES (CONT)
SPILL PREVENTION AND WASTE 
MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS 
We are committed to protecting the environment 
and being a good steward of natural resources. We 
know that the best way to minimize any impact 
from spills is to prevent them from occurring in the 
first instance, so we seek to design and maintain 
our facilities to prevent spills, and in the event of
a spill, contain all fluids on location. When a spill 
does occur, we work to properly clean-up the 
affected area, and dispose of any recovered fluids, 
and as necessary, remediate any contaminated soil 
or water. For each spill, we determine the source 
and the cause to analyze spill trends, and work 
to implement new procedures and practices to 
mitigate future occurrences.
SM Energy has implemented a voluntary Spill 
Reduction Planning effort in each region. This 
effort, which began in 2013, goes beyond current 
EPA requirements for Spill Prevention, Control and 
Countermeasure (SPCC) Plans. Each region employs 
a Spill Reduction Team, composed of operations 
personnel, engineers and environmental 
specialists, who are responsible for analyzing the 
region’s common spill sources and causes, and 
developing mitigation strategies to reduce leaks 
and spills. We benchmark our spill performance 
against AXPC peer companies using the spill 
metric of Total Produced Fluid Spill Rate, which is 
the ratio of the total barrels of produced fluids that 
are spilled to the total barrels of produced fluids. In 
our operations, on average we spill less than  5 barrels of produced fluid per 100,000 barrels 
of fluids produced.  Much of this spilled fluid is 
captured within secondary containment built to 
protect the land and environment.
We strive to manage produced waste in our 
operations as part of our commitment to our 
corporate values and goals. We continually look for 
new opportunities and technologies to minimize
environmental impacts from our operations through 
reduction and/or the reuse/recycling of produced 
waste streams.
We maintain a Corporate Waste Management 
Program, as well as Regional Waste Management 
Plans specific to our operations. We also maintain 
an auditing program directed at the review of third-
party operated waste disposal facilities. Most of the 
products/resources from our operations are not 
classified as a hazardous waste at end use by the 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) 
regulations.
Striving to protect the environment and be a good 
environmental steward includes our efforts to 
protect and conserve water and other natural 
resources. We seek to identify and utilize new 
technologies to help us use water resources wisely, 
recycle water where feasible, and minimize the 
amount of water needed for our operations.
Where practical, our drilling operations utilize 
closed-loop technology to eliminate the use of 
reserve pits, thereby minimizing the waste and 
surface impacts associated with pit reclamation. 
Instead of discharging drilling fluids into the reserve 
pit, these fluids are processed real-time, removing
solids so that the fluids can be recycled back into 
the drilling fluid system.
We continue to explore new technologies that could 
provide the opportunity to increase the amount
of recycled produced water in our completions 
operations.
20160.0300.052
0.027
2017 2018Total Produced Fluid Spill Rate:
Produced Fluid Spilled/1000BBL Produced Fluid STEWARDSHIP OF SHARED NATURAL RESOURCES (CONT)
Approximately 95 percent of our 
produced water from our Rock 
Ridge assets is transported to 
our operated disposal wells 
via pipeline, which reduces 
emissions, truck traffic and 
operating  costs.
19 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018PRODUCED WATER DISPOSAL WELLS
Oil and natural gas production requires wastewater 
disposal. We recycle water where feasible; however, 
when we cannot, we are required to use regulated 
and approved disposal wells.
When using third-party disposal wells, we 
periodically audit the operators to ensure they 
are approved and permitted by applicable 
governmental agencies and meet our expectations. 
In addition, we utilize our auditing program in an 
attempt to confirm that each operator and its wells 
are in compliance with applicable regulations.
In some areas, we own and operate our own 
disposal wells in conjunction with our production 
operations. In 2018, SM Energy installed over 
19 miles of pipeline in the Permian to transport 
produced water from our wells to minimize our 
environmental impact while improving operating 
costs. Approximately 95 percent of our produced 
water from our Rock Ridge assets is transported 
to our operated disposal wells via pipeline, which 
reduces emissions, truck traffic, and operating costs. We carefully plan the location of our disposal 
wells in an attempt to ensure that our operations 
minimize any potential environmental impacts. 
Our existing well sites were selected by 
integrated teams of geoscientists and engineers 
using subsurface imaging and characterization, 
including multi-attribute analysis from our 
3D seismic data and earth modeling for well 
planning. All of this was done in our efforts to 
minimize any impact on fault lines and other 
potential seismic risks.
To monitor potential seismic activity, SM Energy 
has deployed a fit-for-purpose, real-time seismic 
monitoring array in the vicinity of our Permian 
disposal system. We serve on the TexNet Center 
for Integrated Seismic Research (CISR) Advisory 
Committee to remain informed about seismicity 
through science and data-based knowledge 
and to collaborate with other operators and 
researchers at the Bureau of Economic Geology in 
the State of Texas.GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
We apply stringent specifications in the design 
and operations of our facilities to better protect 
groundwater and other natural resources, and 
we meet the applicable regulatory requirements. 
Potable water aquifers (permeable rock containing 
groundwater) in the areas where we operate are 
located at relatively shallow depths. The oil and 
gas bearing rock formations that we target for 
production are often a mile or more below such 
aquifers, with a thick layer of solid, impermeable 
rock in between.  
Our wells are constructed with multiple layers 
of steel pipe, called casing, that is cemented into 
place to provide a barrier between our drilling  
and production activities and groundwater. The 
cement must meet certain strength and quality 
criteria, and extends from the depth of the casing 
up to the surface.
We separate flowback and produced water from 
produced hydrocarbons and temporarily store 
this water in above ground tanks, located within 
secondary containment barriers. The water is 
then either recycled or disposed of at permitted disposal sites. We do not send any flowback or 
produced water to municipal treatment facilities. 
We have developed a baseline water sampling 
program for new operating areas to test water 
from nearby functioning groundwater wells and 
select surface water bodies prior to beginning 
operations. Qualified third-party consultants 
collect water samples, and then accredited third-
party laboratories perform baseline evaluations 
that serve as a reference measurement as our 
operations develop.
FRACTURING FLUIDS
In general, more than 99 percent of our typical 
fracturing fluid mix is comprised of water and 
sand, with the remaining less than one percent 
a blend of highly diluted special purpose 
chemicals that are also frequently used at 
municipal water treatment plants. SM Energy 
discloses the chemicals used in our fracturing 
fluids at FracFocus.org in accordance with state 
regulations. STEWARDSHIP OF SHARED NATURAL RESOURCES (CONT)
20 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018LAND AND WILDLIFE
We understand the importance of respecting 
the land on which we operate. We are 
thoughtful about where and how we build our 
facilities and how we conduct our operations. 
We work with landowners, neighbors, and 
local community leaders before we begin 
operations to ensure the proper planning of 
well locations, service roads, and pipeline 
routes. Where feasible, we utilize multi-
well pads and centralized facilities to 
help minimize the surface footprint of our 
operations. 
Additionally, SM Energy strives to adapt our 
operations to minimize impacts on wildlife 
and their habitat.  STEWARDSHIP OF SHARED NATURAL RESOURCES (CONT)
21 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201822 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
API ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP
We participate in the API Environmental 
Partnership, whose programs and initiatives align 
with our commitment to being a good steward of 
shared natural resources. 
The API Environmental 
Partnership is a voluntary 
program, comprised of 
a growing number of 
companies in the U.S. oil 
and natural gas industry committed to improving 
the industry’s environmental performance and 
collaborating with one another to achieve the 
best results. The Partnership’s initial focus is on 
environmental technologies that are technically 
feasible, commercially proven, and operationally 
successful in achieving significant emissions 
reductions. The Partnership provides a forum for participants to share information, best practices, 
and technological advancements to help reduce 
emissions. SM Energy is committed to continued 
learning about the latest innovations and practices 
that can further reduce our 
own environmental footprint.
The Partnership is about 
taking action, and has 
identified three initial 
Environmental Performance Programs in which 
SM Energy participates. These programs are the 
Pneumatic Controller Program, the Manual Liquids 
Unloading Program, and the Leak Detection and 
Repair Program.
Learn more about The API Environmental Partnership 
at https://theenvironmentalpartnership.org/. STEWARDSHIP OF SHARED NATURAL RESOURCES (CONT)
23 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
We offer our entire organization opportunities to develop and maintain the 
skills needed to thrive in our current, data-rich environment, including the 
following: 
•  Each year, our geoscientists, engineers, and data specialists from around 
the Company attend a three-day, in-house Technical Conference to learn and 
discuss innovative technologies and methods being employed across the 
Company. This sharing ensures that we broadly leverage the most current 
technologies to efficiently develop our assets.  
•  Employees are offered training on the latest analytic platforms, and work 
on data-driven projects that improve operational efficiencies around the 
organization. In 2018, we introduced two new internal training programs 
focused on developing the skills needed to work with larger datasets, 
automate workflows, and leverage machine learning techniques.  
 
We utilize state-of-the-art digital technology in our operations. We are 
continually seeking innovative ideas to help us reduce our impact on shared 
natural resources, and striving to utilize the most effective technologies 
available to operate in an efficient, safe, and responsible manner.The technology and data 
landscape is rapidly 
changing in the oil and gas 
industry. We recognize that as 
we transform our processes 
and decision making to 
take advantage of new 
data sets and technologies, 
we need to ensure that our 
people have the skills and 
education needed to adapt to 
technological advances.InnovationPRODUCTION AND RESERVOIR 
OPTIMIZATION
As a responsible operator of top-tier assets, 
we apply innovative technologies to continually 
optimize production and reservoir performance. 
Technologies currently being applied or tested in 
our operations, include:
•  fiber optic cable, which is installed to determine 
frac stage and cluster efficiency and for long-
term reservoir monitoring;
•  microseismic monitoring, which defines fracture 
networks and well interference and also aids in 
benchmarking new technologies;
•  electro-magnetic field data, which detects fluid 
and proppant placement associated with hydraulic 
fracturing to optimize well spacing; and
•  new techniques utilizing borehole waves and 
unique pressure monitoring methods that may 
offer a more cost-effective means to measure 
the characteristics of completions on a stage-by-
stage basis.ANOMALY AND DYNAMIC JOB ROUTING
SM Energy uses anomaly detection algorithms 
and sensor arrays to identify operating conditions 
that are outside expected parameters. We leverage 
machine learning algorithms and supplement 
our existing pressure and rate sensors with the 
latest technology to help identify potential issues 
associated with our field operations. We
utilize mobile applications to modernize our field 
operations, and improve our efficiency and safety 
by reducing the number of miles driven each day 
and focusing our activity on the most impactful 
tasks. We work to monitor our operations and 
make changes to help improve efficiencies, 
decrease our spill and emissions rates, and reduce 
the expense and risk associated with performing 
unwarranted tasks.INNOVATION (CONT)
We apply innovative 
technologies to 
continually optimize 
production and 
reservoir  
performance.
24 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201825 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
INDUSTRIAL INTERNET of THINGS (IIOT) 
SM Energy applies instrumentation and connected 
sensors to machinery and vehicles in our field 
operations. We are constantly evaluating new and 
existing technologies to expand our monitoring 
and automation capabilities, including applying 
new technology and communications to bring 
automation to legacy devices that could only be 
viewed and controlled on-site in the past. This 
automation helps us determine when to shut 
down wells, pumps, and other devices remotely to 
respond to weather or other unexpected events. In 
addition to automating devices, we are using video 
for site safety, security, and analytics. We expect 
new technologies will allow us to conduct remote 
field surveillance and receive alarms for equipment 
failure that could lead to spills or emissions.LIGHT DETECTION AND RANGING (LIDAR)
In 2016, SM Energy initiated a pilot project by 
collecting approximately 275 square miles of light 
detection and ranging (LIDAR) data and aerial 
imagery over our South Texas operations. This 
effort provided elevation data for engineering 
designs, enabled us to estimate cut and fill 
for construction projects, increased efficiency 
and reduced costs in well pad planning and 
construction, and allowed us to reduce our 
environmental impact by avoiding drainage 
features to reduce erosion. This also helps us to 
anticipate potential obstacles in the field and the 
project area topography, which can reduce project 
relocations due to later field observations. We plan 
to continue to use this technology and implement 
it at other operating sites.INNOVATION (CONT)
26 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
INNOVATION (CONT)
3D EARTH MODELING
Our digital 3D geomodels provide a more complete 
understanding of subsurface geology and facilitate 
economic, efficient and safer development of our 
assets. The models are used for:
•  understanding the 3D distribution of geologic and 
reservoir properties;
•  reservoir mapping and calculations;
•  well spotting and planning;
•  lateral target selection;
•  real-time monitoring of drilling wells; and
•  reservoir simulation and well completion 
activities.
27 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
We regularly engage with the communities where we live, 
work, and operate because we believe that open, honest 
dialogue with all stakeholders helps make us a good neighbor. 
By proactively engaging with local officials, landowners, and 
emergency responders, we are able to quickly identify and address 
concerns related to our operations.  
For example, SM Energy field tours have become a part of the annual 
curriculum for the Chamber of Commerce’s Leadership course in 
Big Spring, Texas. Educating leaders in the community about our 
business gives them a better understanding of our industry and the 
positive contributions SM Energy has on their community.
We believe that  
open and honest 
dialogue with  
all stakeholders best 
prepares us to be 
good neighbors.
Stakeholder 
Engagement28 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
SM Energy is committed to building and maintaining partnerships with our stakeholders by investing 
in and connecting with the communities where we live, work, and operate. Developing effective 
partnerships with organizations and our neighbors in these areas helps us to better serve these communities. 
We are proud of the employee-led charitable giving programs that help us realize this vision. 
In addition, we provide a monetary match of our employees’ personal contributions to qualified 
organizations. We are proud to have so many of our outstanding employees investing their time, talents, 
and financial resources in their communities. Our approach is to thoughtfully and purposefully invest in the 
following areas:
EDUCATION: We support education programs 
that focus on science, technology, engineering, 
and math (STEM), while encouraging students to 
pursue higher education. 
In 2018, SM Energy was the headline sponsor 
of Texas Tech University Whitacre College of 
Engineering’s Robotics program for a second 
consecutive year. This partnership helps 
cultivate an interest in STEM studies and 
careers throughout west Texas by serving over 
2,500 students, 65 school districts, 118 school 
campuses, home school organizations, private 
schools, 4-H organizations ,and Boys and Girls 
Clubs. It also lays the groundwork for SM Energy Community
Investment
TOTAL DOLLARS GIVEN IN 2018:
$1,682,767 29 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
to provide meaningful 
support to schools in the 
areas where we live, work, 
and operate.
Working closely with the Big 
Spring Independent School 
District and the Big Spring 
Economic Development 
Council, we have secured 
robotics programs for all 
K-12 students in Big Spring, 
so that these students have 
the opportunity to participate 
in robotics activities on their 
school campuses. 
Our Denver office partners 
with Junior Achievement 
(JA) to teach K-12 students 
to be financially responsible, 
entrepreneurial and career 
ready by giving them a 
realistic view of the working 
world. Our employees 
participate in a number 
of programs, including JA 
Bowl-A-Thon and JA in a 
Day. JA in a Day allows SM 
Energy employees to help students explore the 
role financial investment plays in their families and 
communities. 
CIVIC AND COMMUNITY SERVICE: We are 
responsive to the needs of our communities and 
invest in civic and community organizations that 
serve critical social needs and enhance social and 
economic conditions. 
In 2018, SM Energy launched its partnership  
with the Big Spring community to bring life 
back to a historical venue. The Comanche Trail 
Amphitheater, originally built by the Civilian 
Conservation Corps (CCC) between the years of 
1934 and 1936, is the second largest CCC-built amphitheater in the nation. 
With SM Energy’s financial 
contributions, and other 
support, The Comanche Trail 
SM Energy Amphitheater will 
be restored and expanded 
to host concerts and other 
community events.
Another example of  
SM Energy’s civic and
community focus is our 
involvement with New 
Genesis in downtown 
Denver. New Genesis helps 
meet some of the critical 
needs of those experiencing 
homelessness. Through 
this partnership, SM Energy 
donated office furniture, 
funds, and volunteer  
hours to help New Genesis 
open a new employment 
center to aid individuals 
seeking support to  
prepare, connect, and 
succeed in employment 
opportunities.
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES: We 
support organizations and programs that focus 
on community health and wellness and that place 
special emphasis on family wellness initiatives and 
occupational health programs.
SM Energy supports Oilfield Helping Hands (OHH) 
Houston, Texas Chapter, an organization that assists 
oilfield families with financial assistance in  
times of crisis.  The funds raised are given, based 
on need, to members of the Houston-area oilfield 
family that live and/or work within the greater 
Houston and surrounding areas. As a sponsor,  
SM Energy is proud to have contributed to the  
more than $4.7 million raised and distributed  
since 2003. 
Robotics
Junior Achievement
The Comanche Trail SM Energy AmphitheaterCOMMUNITY INVESTMENT (CONT)30 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
LOCAL ECONOMIC IMPACT 
SM Energy is a significant contributor to the economies of the states and 
communities where we live, work, and operate.  The above graph 
depicts the number of people employed in each region, as well as our company 
headquarters in Denver, as of Dec. 31, 2018, and state and local taxes paid in 2018.
COLORADO
TEXASDenver 
Employees 
297
Total Local Taxes Paid*  
$12.6M  
South Texas/  
Gulf Coast
Employees 
143
Total Local Taxes Paid*  
$25.5M  Midland/Permian 
Basin
Employees 
166
Total Local Taxes Paid*  
$90.3M  
*This includes total amounts paid on Sales and Usage, Ad Valorem, Franchise, 
and Production/Severance taxes for 2018.ADVOCACY AND LOBBYING 
At SM Energy, we are proud to contribute to the United States energy 
  renaissance. To help our country become energy self-reliant, SM Energy 
works with industry partners and our legislative representatives to advocate for 
a secure energy future.
SM Energy does not have a political action committee; however through 
industry trade associations, including those named below, we participate in  
the process to inform policymakers and regulators about our industry and 
advocate for solutions that mutually benefit the communities and states in 
which we live, work and operate.
31 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201832 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
   OUR INDUSTRY, YOUR LIFE…LOOK BEYOND 
Products derived from oil and natural gas are ubiquitous in our everyday lives.  
Our industry works hard to provide the resources that help create many products that 
have become essential to us.
Look Beyond is intended to offer fun and positive insight about the oil and natural gas 
industry.
SM Energy created Look Beyond as a platform that focuses on authentic and compelling 
storytelling to help increase consumer awareness and appreciation of the oil and natural gas 
industry, as well as to help show our industry as essential, forward-thinking and innovative. 
To learn more, visit LookBeyond.org
.
Many people do not realize that oil and natural gas is present in our 
daily lives in ways unnoticed, making many of the things we do today 
possible and even easier. From the time your alarm sounds to the 
time you sleep, what makes up your day?
REPORTING SCOPE
This SM Energy Corporate Responsibility Report reflects our activities from  
January 1 through December 31, 2018. The topics addressed have been 
identified as having a possible impact on our performance in areas important 
to our stakeholders, as reflected in engagement with various stockholders and 
other stakeholders on these issues.
In preparing this report, we also considered sector-specific guidelines based 
on International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association 
(IPIECA), American International Petroleum Institute (API), International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP), Oil and Gas Industry Guidance, and 
the core level of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 
It is our expectation that our Corporate Responsibility Report will continue to 
evolve and improve over time on these and other relevant issues, as we continue 
to respond to our stakeholders concerning the type of disclosure that is helpful  
      and important to them. 
          Information or content available on websites referenced in this report is  
               not incorporated in or otherwise made a part of this report.
33 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 201834 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
INDEX
GRI Standards IPIECA Disclosure Location
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 - Values, Principles, Standards and Norms Commitment to Ethical Operations -  
www.sm-energy.com
102-17 - Ethics SE18 - Non-Relation and Workforce Grievance Systems Commitment to Ethical Operations -  
Responsibility Report 2018
102-18  - Governance Structure
102-19  - Delegating Authority Governance - Responsibility Report 2018
102-22 - The Board of Directors and its Committees Leadership Profile - www.sm-energy.com
102-23 - Board of Directors  - Chair Leadership Profile - www.sm-energy.com
102-24 - Nominating and Governance Governance - www.sm-energy.com
102-25 - Conflicts of Interest Commitment to Ethical Operations -  
Responsibility Report 2018
102-26 - Setting Purpose, Values and Strategy Governance - Responsibility Report 2018
102-28 - Board of Directors Performance Evaluation 2018 Proxy Statement - https://ir.sm-energy.com
102-30 - Risk Management Processes 2018 Proxy Statement - https://ir.sm-energy.com
102-31 - Review of Sustainability Topics 2018 Proxy Statement - https://ir.sm-energy.com
102-32 - Board of Directors and Sustainability 2018 Proxy Statement - https://ir.sm-energy.com
102-33 - Communicating Critical Concerns 2018 Proxy Statement - https://ir.sm-energy.com35 |SM | ENERGY  Corporate Responsibility Report 2018REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 - Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements2018 SEC Form 10-k - https://ir.sm-energy.com
102-46 - Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries Reporting Scope - Responsibility Report 2018
102-50 - Reporting Period January 1 - December 31, 2018
102-51 - Date of Most Recent Report Apr-18
102-52 - Reporting Cycle Annual Reporting Cycle
102-53 - Contact Point for Questions Regarding Report Contact Us - www.sm-energy.com/contact-us/
102-54 - Claims of Reporting in Accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report references these indexed GRI Stan-
dards
102-55 - GRI Content Index Content Index - Responsibility Report 2018
GRI 200: ECONOMIC
Economic Performance
201-3 Defined Benefit Plan Obligations and Other Retire-
ment Plan2018 SEC Form 10-K - https://ir.sm-energy.com
Anti-Corruption
205-2 - Anti-Corruption Communication and Training SE11 - Preventing Corruption Code of Business Conduct and Ethics - Responsi-
bility Report 2018
GRI 300: - ENVIRONMENTAL
Materials
301-1 - Materials Unused HS4 - Product Stewardship Environment - Responsibility Report 2018
306-3 - Waste Management E10 - Waste Environment - Responsibility Report 2018
SPILLS
E9 - Spills to the Environment Environment - Responsibility Report 2018
Emissions
305-1 - Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions E1 - Greenhouse Gas Emissions Environment - Responsibility Report 2018
305-5 - Reduction of GHG Emissions Environment - Responsibility Report 2018
GRI 400: SOCIAL
Occupational Health and Safety
401-1 - Health and Safety Committee Participation HS1 - Workforce Participation Responsible Operations - Responsibility  Report 
2018
403-1 - Injury HS3 - Occupational Injury and Illness Incidents Responsible Operations - Responsibility  Report 
2018
Community Involvement
SE4 - Social Investment Community Investment - Responsibility Report 
2018
Public Advocacy and Lobbying
405 -1 Political Contributions SE 14 - Public Advocacy and Lobbying Advocacy and Lobbying - Responsibility Report 
2018
Diversity
GRI 405-1 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity Investing in Our People – Responsibility Report 
2018
Training and Education
SE16 - Workforce Engagement Investing in Our People - Responsibility Report 
2018
404-2 - Employee Skills and Assistance Program SE17 - Workforce Training and Development Investing in Our People - Responsibility Report 
2018
404-3 - Performance and Career Development Reviews All employees receive annual performance and 
career development reviews.GRI Standards IPIECA Disclosure Location