ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Building on our strengthsForward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking state-ments. Actual results may differ from those stated. Internal factors such as the successful management of research programmes and intellectual property rights may affect future results. There are also external conditions such as the economic climate, political changes and competing research programmes that may affect Sobi’s results.Sobi ™ is an  
international  
biotechnology  company  
dedicated to  
rare diseases.
Our mission is  
to transform the lives of people  
with rare diseases 
by providing inno ­
vative therapies in  our focus areas.”   
Guido Oelkers, CEOContents
8 INTERVIEW
CEO and Chairman
STRATEGY
Sobi’s growth strategy builds on the company’s 
strengths and aims to capitalise on the potential in haemophilia and the rare disease areas.  We also aim to strengthen our pipeline and build a foundation for self-sustained R&D.This is Sobi ....................................................................... 4
The year in brief .......................................................... 6
Interview with the CEO and Chairman ...................... 8
Strategy ..................................................................... 10
Business areas ............................................................... 16
Haemophilia .............................................................. 16
Specialty Care ........................................................... 22
Biologics Development and Supply ........................ 28
Innovation ...................................................................... 30
Sustainability ................................................................. 36
History & Financial Overview ....................................... 48
Sobi’s history ............................................................. 48
The share ................................................................... 50
Five-year summary .................................................... 53
Reporting  ...................................................................... 54
CFO’s statement ....................................................... 55
Directors’ Report ....................................................... 56
Financial statements ................................................. 66
Notes ......................................................................... 76
Corportate Governance ............................................. 108
Corporate Governance Report .............................. 108
The Board ................................................................ 116
Executive Committee ............................................. 118
Auditors’ report ....................................................... 120
Sustainability management ....................................... 123
GRI index ................................................................. 130
Sustainability Report, auditors’ opinion ................ 133
Annual General Meeting 2018 ............................... 134
Definitions and glossary ......................................... 135
This is Sobi’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2017. The audited Annual Report 
includes pages 56–107. The Sustainability Report is found on pages 12–13, 36–47, 
and 123–132 and consist of the Company and the Group’s legally required sustain-
ability report according to the Annual Accounts Act, 6 chap. 11§ . 
 10Sobi operates throughout the entire value chain, from early research, 
over to clinical development and into the commercial market.  “We can add significant value to our partnerships by leveraging all our com petencies, making us the partner of choice for a range of 
 companies with innovative products” , says Guido Oelkers, CEO.
2
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017CONTENTSINNOVATION HAEMOPHILIA
SPECIALTY
CARE
Sales for the newly formed business area Specialty Care reached  
SEK 2,829 M in 2017. Sobi is exploring several opportunities for growth that build on the company’s strengths in patient-centric development and commercialisation.Sobi introduced recombinant extended half-life factor products to 
Europe in 2016 and the Middle East in 2016–2017. The products have been well received in the haemophilia community.Building on a strong legacy in biotechnology, Sobi aims to have  a transformational impact in the rare-disease space. 30
REPORTING54Our rapid growth continued throughout 2017,  with a remarkable financial performance and  a resulting strong financial position. 
22SUSTAINABILITY
Sobi’s corporate sustainability programme is closely connect-ed to the company’s strategy of providing sustainable access to treatments for rare diseases.
3616
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
3
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTCONTENTSThis is Sobi
Sobi is an international rare-disease company dedicated 
to making a significant difference for individuals with rare 
 diseases by providing access to innovative treatments. 
Strong and growing portfolio
We operate through two business areas:  Haemophilia and Specialty Care. Our research 
and product portfolio is primarily focused on haemophilia and specialty care, including inflammation and genetic and metabolic  diseases. In Haemophilia, we aim for a leader -
ship position in Europe, the Middle East and 
North Africa. In Specialty Care, we aim to grow our portfolio to leverage our compe-tence in rare-disease and niche indications, and thereby build on the capital generated in Haemophilia. 
Integrated biotechnology company
As an integrated biotechnology company, we have in-house capabilities that encompass the entire value chain, from research, through preclinical and clinical development, bio-logics manufacturing and supply, regulatory affairs to patient access and distribution. The integrated approach is a prerequisite for providing proprietary drugs, and an  enabler for partnerships throughout all 
stages of drug development. 
Preferred partner
With our dedication and strong capabilities across the entire value chain, proven track record of bringing rare-disease products to the complex European market through a multi-faceted environment, and a demonstrated inherent ability to grow our North American portfolio, we aim to become the preferred partner for pharmaceutical companies with strong franchises and promising drug candi-dates in rare-disease and niche indications. 
Growing international presence
With our head office in Stockholm, Sweden, the Sobi organisation spans 19 countries, delivering treatments to patients in over 70 countries across the globe. Europe is the core market for the Haemophilia franchise. The Sobi strategy for growth is aimed at  balancing this geographic footprint by 
expanding  Specialty Care in other markets 
including North America.
Win-win collaborations
We put the needs of patients first, in the knowledge that this will create long-term, sustainable value for everyone. Through stra-tegic partnerships with multiple stakeholders, we believe it is possible to create a win-win environment for all parties – patients, health-care systems, budget holders, our employees, investors and the pharmaceutical industry – and deliver new treatments to patients.
Responsible pricing
An effective treatment is one that not only provides a medical benefit but is also both available in the country where the patient lives and is affordable in the healthcare  system. One of the most crucial factors to 
ensure patient access to treatment is resp-onsible pricing. That means balancing the role of a sustainable company with being a sustainable part of the healthcare system.
Partnership is key
In 2017, the European Commission author -
ised 14 medicines with an orphan designation and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved 18 new orphan drugs. The main driver of this growth is successful legisla-tion, combined with technological and scien-tific advancements, academic partnerships and the increasing availability of infrastruc-ture, together with patient-led international collaborations which have helped to spur momentum worldwide.
OUR VISION
To be recognised as a global leader in providing access to innovative treat-ments that make a significant differ -
ence for individuals with rare diseases.
OUR MISSION
We transform the lives of people with rare diseases by providing innovative therapies in our focus areas.
We are growing our haemophilia busi-
ness to become a leading player in the EMENAR
1 region.
We look to become the preferred part-ner for the development and commer -
cialisation of products in specialty care.
We continue to identify and develop 
innovative treatments through a self-sustained R&D organisation funded by growth in our business areas.
1. Europe, Middle East, North Africa and Russia.
4
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBIAn urgent need for treatments  
for rare diseasesA rare disease affects a small per -
centage of the population, and is often serious, life-threatening or chronically debilitating. Many rare diseases manifest in childhood, and are present throughout a per -
son’s life. The causes of many rare diseases remain unknown, and they are often not curable with current interventions or medica-tions; this results in a substantial unmet medical need and immense costs for healthcare systems, soci-eties and families. In Europe and North America, an estimated 60 million people are impacted by one of approximately 7,000 known rare diseases. 
The rarity of each disease, the 
extreme variability of the clinical manifestation, the common effects on different organs and the lack of broad recognition of the diseases often result in delayed diagnosis, a lack of medicinal products and restricted access to care. That is why rare diseases are a prime example of an area that can benefit from collaboration between academia, authorities, healthcare providers, patient advocacy groups and drug devel-opment companies. Legislation in the European Union, the United States and other regions aims to stimulate research and develop-ment, and the availability of treat-ments for rare conditions. 
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
5
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTTHIS IS SOBIYear in brief
2017
Revenue, Business area
Haemophilia
SEK 3,088 M
Specialty Care 
SEK 2,829  M• Guido Oelkers appointed President and CEO.
•  Total revenues increased to SEK 6,511 M (5,204),  
an increase of 25 per cent.
•  Total product revenues increased to SEK 5,917 M (4,548),  an increase of 30 per cent. 
• Gross margin increased to 72 per cent (70). 
•  EBITA amounted to SEK 2,053 M (1,543). 
• Ended the year with a cash position of SEK 1,478 M (786).
Key figures
SEK M 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Total revenue1 2,177 2,607 3,228 5,204 6,511
Gross profit 1,284 1,548 2,007 3,651 4,657
Gross margin, % 59 59 62 70 72
Operating expenses 1,351 1,873 1,861 2,518 3,057
EBITA 211 –44 433 1,543 2,053
EBIT –67 –325 146 1,133 1,600
Profit/loss for the year –92 –270 83 802 1,149
Earnings per share, SEK –0.35 –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27
Cash flow from operations 185 234 507 343 1,333
Equity per share, SEK 17.5 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6
Equity assets ratio, % 73 71 56 54 61
Dividend 0 0 0 0 0
No. of employees (full-
time equivalent) 546 589 702 760 800
1.  Full-year 2016 revenue includes a one-time credit in Q1 of SEK 322 M relating to the first commercial sales  
of Elocta, and a one-time credit in Q2 of SEK 386 M relating to the first commercial sales of Alprolix.
NEW LEADERSHIP
6
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI / YEAR IN BRIEFYear in brief
• Outstanding sales growth. 
• Elocta® launched in 22 countries, 
 Alprolix® launched in 14.
• Long-term improvements in joint health 
demonstrated for haemophilia A patients after prophylactic treatment with Elocta.
• Higher capacity of drug substance- manufacturing for Elocta approved by the EMA.
• Elocta and Alprolix approved in Saudi Arabia. Alprolix approved in Kuwait.
• New dosing regimen for Alprolix to dose 14 days or longer was approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
• The first patients were enrolled in the ReITIrate study evaluating immune  tolerance induction with Elocta.• The business area Specialty Care was 
established in Q2.
• Double-digit growth for Kineret
® and 
Orfadin®. 
• Solid uptake of the new oral suspension and 20 mg capsule formulations of  Orfadin.
• New Orfadin formulations approved in Saudi Arabia, Canada, Algeria and  Tunisia.
• Orfadin once-daily dosing approved in the EU and US.
• Kineret approved in Canada for the treatment of NOMID.• First patient randomised in the anaGO study to evaluate efficacy and safety of anakinra for the treatment of acute gout.
• First patient randomised in the ana-STILL’s study evaluating safety and  efficacy of anakinra in the treatment of Still’s disease.
• FDA granted orphan drug designation for SOBI003 for the treatment of MPS IIIA.
• Haemophilia development portfolio expanded by adding rFIXFc-XTEN to the collaboration agreement with  Bioverativ (now a Sanofi company).
• Bioverativ initiated phase 1/2 trial with 
next generation EHL  product in haemo-
philia A, rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN (BIVV001).
Overview of most important products by revenue  
 
SEK M 2017 2016 Change 
Haemophilia 
Elocta 1,557 267 483%
Alprolix 363 60 500%
Royalty1 1,168 1,525 –23%
Total 3,088 1,853 67%
Specialty Care Orfadin 862 770 12%
Kineret 1,142 1,001 14%
Xiapex 164 153 7%
Other 661 772 –14%
Total 2,829 2,695 5%
ReFactoReFacto 559 569 –2%
Royalty 34 88 –61%
Total 594 656 –10%
Grand total 6,511 5,204 25%Haemophilia:   
Elocta is used to treat haemophilia A and Alprolix to treat haemophilia B.
Specialty Care:  
Proprietary products or products where Sobi has global or regional rights. 
Includes Orfadin for treatment of hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) 
and Kineret for the treatment of autoinflammatory conditions. Xiapex® is 
approved for the treatment of Dupuytren’s contracture and Peyronie’s dis-ease in the EU and marketed by Sobi on behalf of Endo Pharmaceuticals. Sobi also markets some 30 products on behalf of partners in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa and Russia.
Manufacturing  
Sobi has been manufacturing the active ingredient in the haemophilia 
treatment ReFacto AF
® for the global market on behalf of Pfizer for 
almost 20 years.
Business highlights 
Haemophilia
Business highlights 
Specialty  
CareBusiness highlights 
Pipeline
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
7
THIS IS SOBI / YEAR IN BRIEF
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTInterview
How would you describe 2017?
Håkan Björklund (HB): It was a very good year for Sobi, a year in which we saw a signi-ficant increase for Alprolix and Elocta. It was also a year when we changed CEO. Geoffrey McDonough made an amazing effort guiding Sobi to the very strong position we have today, something for which I am very grateful. Now we are gearing up with Guido Oelkers as new CEO with the aim of taking the company to its next phase. It really has been an exciting year.Guido Oelkers (GO): Sobi has a great team in place that has delivered tremendous growth over the past year. Group revenues increased by 25 per cent to SEK 6,511 M with an organic growth of 45 per cent, excluding one-time items. 
The two haemophilia products, Elocta and 
Alprolix, have shown stellar performance with 487 per cent growth in sales, and they still hold great promise. We have formed a new Specialty Care unit that has a very attractive position in the industry from which it can grow. 
In 2018, we expect to continue to deliver 
significant growth and achieve revenues of SEK 7,500 to 7,700 M
1. 
In what way has a new CEO affected the company and what should be expected going forward? HB: A new CEO will always make changes and there have been quite a few already. Building on our strengths with CEO
and Chairman
They have been positive ones, but a high-
paced environment puts pressure on the organisation. Growing a company is a team effort, and we have been very successful so far. 
Guido and I have a close dialogue, but it is 
his task to execute on the strategy that the Board has adopted. He is a very active per -
son, so we will see more things happening over time. I expect Sobi to continue to develop organically and through in-licensing, collaborations and acquisitions.
Guido, what attracted you to Sobi and what 
are your main aspirations for the company? GO: Sobi is a biotech company that has  managed to transition from a company with 
assets primarily in the development stage into a successful commercial company. That attracted me. We have a commercial as well as an innovation platform from which we can grow and become recognised as a global leader.
One of our main ambitions in the longer 
term is to achieve self-sustained R&D, with proprietary products that are able to propel the company, something that both requires and results in further growth. We need to identify and develop new, effective  treatments.
In Haemophilia, our near-term focus will 
be on commercial effectiveness and further 
1. The outlook was published on 22 February 2018.“There will be  
a stronger focus on 
 execution and  
external growth.” 
Guido Oelkers, CEO
expansion across 
our territories. 
In Specialty Care, our 
aim is to develop the unit into 
the preferred partner for pharma-
ceutical companies with drugs that can 
really make a difference for individuals with rare diseases. 
We have learnt a lot during our years as a 
pioneer in the rare-disease space that other companies can benefit from. 
An important aspect is the fact that Sobi 
operates throughout the entire value chain, from early development and biological manu-facturing, over to clinical development and into the commercial market. We know how to navigate regulatory affairs and how to form fruitful relationships with the research and medical communities. We can add significant value for our partners by leveraging all our competencies, which should make us the partner of choice for a range of companies with innovative products. 
What were the main achievements in 2017?
GO: We have achieved a successful launch of Elocta and Alprolix, and established a good position for the products in our main markets. Our track record of very strong quarter-on-quarter growth shows that we have managed to deliver consistently on our launch strategy.
We have also managed the patent expiry 
of Orfadin well. Building on our understand-ing of patient needs and the relationships we have formed over the years, we have been able to achieve double-digit growth even during a rather challenging year. 
We have also seen double-digit growth for 
Kineret and have identified potential for fur -
ther significant expansion. We started studies in acute gout and Still’s disease – indications that explore the great potential of IL-1  inhibition and that, if the results are positive, 
can become very important additions to the product.
8
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI / INTERVIEW WITH CEO AND CHAIRMANfor our bottom line and which increase our 
geographical footprint. Financial discipline will be key as we develop the company further.HB: Long term, we need to focus on our pipe-line, which includes acquiring projects and products of some size. To leverage our unique capabilities, it should be a rare-disease treat-ment or possibly something within a specialist indication with a small patient group. We are a rare-disease company, and want to remain so. 
Europe is our home market, but we also 
want to strengthen our operations in the United States because it is the most important rare-disease market. Therefore, we would like our operations to better reflect the fact that these markets are rather equal in size. Europe and the US are therefore our main priorities.GO: With the ambition to become a global leader, sustainability is a vital part of our vision and overall corporate strategy. We will sharpen our sustainability programme, devel-oped during the year, so that we can continue to reinvest in developing new therapies for rare diseases and serve our communities for many years to come. 
In 2017, Sobi evolved the company 
strategy. In which ways has the strategy changed?HB: Long term, our aim is to build a leading rare-disease company and to do it by building on the strengths we already have.GO: The company is evolving, and we aim to 
continue doing so at a rapid pace. Haemophilia is driving growth and transform-ing us into a much more commercial company than we have been previously. We are in a fairly classic development phase for com-panies that are growing quickly.There will be a stronger focus on execution to bring about change within the next two years. We are still a small company though, but we will not let that stop us from taking action. We need to step up throughout the organisation to reach our goal to be recog-nised as a global leader. 
How do you prepare and equip the 
organisation to be able to participate  in and drive the evolution?GO: As we are progressing, we will need add-
tional skills. We are becoming more commer -
cial, which is reflected in a greater empower -
ment of our local country organisations. In 2017, we evolved our previous CARE values (Collaborative, Accountable, Respectful, Engaged) that have been central in how we operate, to better align with our current ambitions. To ensure that more patients can benefit from our advanced therapies and to support our ambitions to grow, we have agreed on the values Care, Ambition, Urgency, Ownership and Partnership. These will help us to develop our leadership and entrepreneurship, and to become an even more formidable competitor. 
Going forward, we will continue to develop 
the organisation and our individuals, and I feel confident that we have a great team in place. I would like to thank everyone within Sobi for all the work they have put in over a demanding and eventful year, and for their continuing dedication and commitment.
Finally, I would like to thank our share-
holders for their support and trust in us  during 2017 and beyond.
“Europe is our home 
 market, but we also   
want to strengthen  
our operations in  
the United States.” 
Håkan Björklund,  
ChairmanAnother exciting development is the initia-
tion of our inhibitor study with Elocta, named ReITIrate. Our aim here is to eliminate inhibi-tors. Should we be successful in demonstrat-ing this, it will be important news because it would significantly improve and facilitate treatment for patients who develop inhibitors. 
Overall, the company is in very good 
shape. We have profitable growth and we are in a strong position to continue to grow and strengthen our business.
What are the main priorities for 2018?
HB: Elocta and Alprolix – the main priority is to increase sales in existing and new markets. GO: Yes, the number one priority is to con-tinue to grow Haemophilia. We have only begun to reach our full potential in a few  markets and new markets are also coming 
on stream. Long term, we want to achieve a leadership position in our region: this means that we aim to establish Elocta and Alprolix as the standard of care. 
We also want to enhance our operations 
in Specialty Care. In 2018, we are aiming for a strong growth for Kineret and further growth for Xiapex. We are also actively seeking exter -
nal growth opportunities to reinforce our product portfolio with assets that comple-ment our areas of focus. We are looking for opportunities where we can utilise our strengths as a company, which are positive 
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
9
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTTHIS IS SOBI / INTERVIEW WITH CEO AND CHAIRMANStrategy
Building on strengths to propel growth
We will continue to build on our strong posi-tion that covers the entire value chain for treatment of rare diseases in EMENAR and North America. Sobi offers an integrated  process, from in-house research and develop-
ment in protein characterisation, biologics manufacturing and industrialisation, to com-mercialisation of products for rare diseases. Partnering with stakeholders and facilitating effective and timely rare-disease therapy development, including an extensive and robust distribution network, creates unique opportunities for us to add value to the  rare-disease field.
Furthermore, our strategy for growth is 
designed to capitalise on the substantial potential in haemophilia. Being first to market with extended half-life (EHL) products in our 
Capitalise on the substantial 
potential in Haemophilia.  
Our EHL products are the first advances in many years in the haemophilia space.  Securing a 
broad and rapid launch has been a high  priority for the company. 
We aim to  further develop our 
position in the field through con-tinued  dedication to advancing 
care and by developing follow-on  compounds.Establish Specialty Care  as a strong business area. 
Our market organisation is well equipped to manage a larger portfolio. We are exploring  different growth opportunities in 
Specialty Care, building on our capabilities of bringing products to patients in a complex market.Expand in certain regions. We aim to rebalance our geo-graphic footprint by scaling up and advancing operations in  certain of our existing regions, 
particularly in North America. The goal is for our portfolio to reflect the geographical balance seen in the rare-disease domain between Europe and North America.Strengthen the late-stage  R&D pipeline. We aim to strengthen our late-stage R&D pipeline and fuel  proprietary product develop-
ment, with the aim of producing commercially viable products that are able to propel the com-pany. We are exploring different opportunities, primarily within  existing therapeutic areas.Sustainable growth 
short and long termterritories povides Sobi with a unique oppor -
tunity to secure a strong market position in haemophilia and generate significant reve-nue and earnings. From this advantageous position, we can continue to invest in the  haemophilia space. The first milestone in 
this regard is the advancement of the  XTEN-programmes in collaboration with 
 Bioverativ  during the year. 
Within Speciality Care, we have extensive 
experience of successful partnerships in rare 
diseases. Sobi has a proven commercial track record across many treatment areas and  specialist indications. We know how to design 
relevant clinical programmes and how reim-bursement and regulatory processes work. Our competencies and strengths have ena-bled us to build sizeable business in North America and EMENAR with Kineret and  Orfadin as showcase examples. Specialty 
Care’s setup makes Sobi an attractive partner for European as well as North American bio-tech companies.
With a solid foundation as a fully integrated 
company, we are ready to take on a larger part of the value chain in later-stage develop-ment of new treatments to broaden the  Specialty Care portfolio and thereby better 
balance our overall business operations, while ensuring sustainable growth in both the short and long term. 
Drive Haemophilia 
 commercial   
effectiveness and 
 internationalisation
Develop  
Specialty Care  
and become  
preferred  
partner
Take leading  
position in  
Haemophilia in  
EMENAR  
and expand  
US business
Strengthen pipeline  
and build foundation  
for self-sustained  
R&D
10
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI / STRATEGYOperational targets 2017  Outcome
Meet or exceed operational targets:
•  Expand market shares for Elocta, Alprolix, and  
Orfadin Oral Suspension and 20 mg capsule
•  Meet contract delivery for ReFacto 
 
Expand portfolio through synergistic new indications,  
partnerships and acquisitions.()Operational targets 2018 
Strengthen commercial focus
•  Increase sales of Elocta and Alprolix in existing  
and new markets
•  Increase sales of Kineret in existing markets  and in applications
Expand our commercial portfolio through new 
 in-licensing, acquisitions or partnerships focused 
on Europe and North America.
Pipeline targets 2018
Progress development towards a self-sustained  
R&D pipeline• Begin SOBI003 first in human phase 1/2 study
• Complete enrolment into the ReITIrate study
• Phase 2 Gout (anakinra) key results for  phase 3 decision
Expand R&D pipeline with new late-stage assets.
Financial outcome 2017  
Revenues SEK 6,511 M
Gross margin 72%
EBITA SEK 2,053 MFinancial outlook 20181 
Revenues SEK 7,500–7,700 M
Gross margin at least 70%
EBITA SEK 2,500–2,700 M
1. Expected outcome published on 22 February 2018.Pipeline targets 2017  Outcome
Ensure key pipeline inflection points are met: 
•  Complete enrolment in the anaGo study
•  Initiate the anaStill’s study 
•  Initiate two Elocta immune tolerance studies in  
collaboration with Bioverativ  Overarching goals and financial outlook
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
11
THIS IS SOBI / STRATEGY
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTSOBI’S VALUE CREATION
True availability and access to treatment for 
patients is what brings long-term value to the patients we serve, our employees, part-ners and shareholders. The capabilities that make this possible are our knowledge of biologics manufacturing and industrialis-ation, our in-house research and develop-ment competencies within protein charac-terisation, and our ability to provide access to treatments for rare-disease patients. We believe that our ability to partner and to pioneer with different stakeholders – and bring together all the opportunities that exist to facilitate effective and timely rare- disease therapy development – creates 
unique opportunities to add value to the rare- disease field.
R & D  |  Innovation1Manufacturing & 
Supply
Sobi’s business model for value creation is founded on  
a fully integrated process that includes Innovation, Biologics Manufacturing  
& Supply as well as Commercialisation and Patient access to treatment. Sobi’s business model
Vision  To be recognised as a global leader in providing access to innovative treatments 
that make a significant difference for individuals with rare diseases.
Mission  We make a real difference to the lives of people with rare diseases   
by providing innovative therapies in our focus areas. These people cannot wait,  
so we must have a sense of urgency in our work. 
Commercialisation  |  Patient
1. Read more about Sobi’s innovation model on page 32.
Drivers
• Increased global understanding and knowledge of treat-ments for rare diseases
• Market development –  Strong market growth expected
–  National health  budgets
– Competitors
• Expectations of improved efficiency
• Digitalisation
Input
• Capital provided by investors and owners
• Manufacturing  facilities
• Skilled workforce
• Partner products
• Patient journey insights
• Intellectual properties
• Partnerships, relation-ships and networksMedical need  |  Patient insights  |  Sustainable access
12
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI / STRATEGYSOBI’S VALUE CREATION
Output  
• Sustainable growth,  
short- and long-term
• Returns to investors and  shareholders
• Returns to partner companies
• Efficient, innovative processes  and platforms
• Strong R&D pipeline
• High-quality speciality care products
• Job creation and productivity
• Engaged and skilled people
• Global access to treatments  of rare diseasesValue for stakeholders
Countries
EmployeesProductsTax
R&D
Shareholders72
850
39
SEK252M
SEK908M
4.27Number of countries to  
access Sobi’s treatments.
Number of people employed 
by Sobi by year-end 2017.
Number of products commer -
cialised by Sobi; proprietary 
and partner products.
Total corporate income tax  
for 2017, to be paid in 2018.
Reinvestment in R&D to 
deliver potential future  treatments for rare diseases.
Earnings per share (SEK).
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
13
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTTHIS IS SOBI / STRATEGYSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 14True availability and access to treatment 
for patients is what brings long­term value to the patients we serve, our  employees, partners and shareholders.”  15 SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Haemophilia
Sobi introduced recombinant extended half-life products 
into Europe in 2016 and the Middle East in 2016 and 2017. 
The products have been well received in the  haemophilia 
community, and experience in a real-world setting is rapidly 
increasing in these regions, building on even longer  experience from the US market.
Only an estimated 25 per cent of the people 
living with haemophilia across the globe have access to satisfactory levels of treatment. The availability of treatment is concentrated in Europe and North America, which have 37 and 44 per cent of the market respectively. 
Clotting-factor therapies are the treatment 
of choice in haemophilia, using either recom-binant or plasma-derived factor. Treatment is provided as prophylaxis to prevent bleeds, or on demand to stop a bleed or allow surgery to be performed. 
Prophylactic treatment is key to a success-
ful long-term treatment outcome in children and adults with severe haemophilia. It offers significant protection, minimising the number of bleeding episodes and reducing the risk of joint damage and life-threatening soft-tissue bleeds.
1 The use of prophylaxis in haemo-
philia is estimated to be around 40–60 per cent in Europe and North America.
2
A European retrospective study3 that 
assessed haemophilia care in seven countries before the introduction of extended half-life (EHL) treatments showed that treatment practice varied widely between countries. It also showed that patients treated both on-demand and prophylactically experienced bleeds, emphasising the need for further improvement in the standard of care. Even when prophylaxis is the norm, it appears that treatment is left at a minimal acceptable level or even lower, which increases the risk of joint injury and limits the ability for people with haemophilia to live full and active lives. 
The development of antibodies (inhibitors) 
that neutralise the effect of clotting-factor therapy is one of the most serious complica-tions in haemophilia treatment, making standard replacement therapy ineffective, increasing the risk of severe bleeding and morbidity, decreasing quality of life and increasing healthcare costs.
4 To resume treat-
ment, those affected need to go through a burdensome and very costly immune toler -
ance induction treatment (ITI), requiring large amounts of traditionally used factor treat-ment often up to twice daily over a long time. Around 30 per cent of people on replace-ment therapy develop antibodies.
5Business area
1. Carcao M. Haemophilia. 2014;20(4):99-105 2.  World Federation of Hemophilia. Report on the Annual Global 
Survey 2016. Available at: http://www1.wfh.org/publications/
files/pdf-1690.pdf. Accessed on: 6 March 20183. Berntorp E, et al. Haemophilia. 2017;23(1):105-114
4. Krishnamoorthy et al. Cell Immunol. 2016; 301:30-3
5. Christoph Königs et al. EAHAD18-ABS-1138.
16
BUSINESS AREAS / HAEMOpHIlIA
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017EHL products
Beginning in 2016, Sobi became the first com-pany to make recombinant extended half-life (EHL) coagulation factor concentrate available for the treatment of haemophilia A in Europe and parts of the Middle East, with the launch of Elocta, and one of the first for haemophilia B with the launch of Alprolix. The products were first approved in the US in 2014, where they are marketed by Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, (pre-viously Biogen) under the names Eloctate
® and 
Alprolix, helping create an extensive bank of real-world experience in these treatments. 
EHL treatments can achieve higher factor lev-
els in the blood for longer than traditionally used factor treatments when used at the same dose and same frequency.
1 This characteristic addresses the challenges that arise when inten-sifying prophylactic treatment with traditionally used clotting factors, such as increased treat-ment burden, compliance, higher factor con-sumption and associated cost implications. 
Moreover, EHL treatment creates an oppor -
tunity to individualise prophylactic treatment to meet the individual patient’s needs, improving the clinical outcome. Interim data from the ASPIRE study
2 first published on-line in 2017, 
show continuous improvement in joint health over a nearly three-year period with prophylac-tic treatment with Elocta, regardless of prior treatment regimen, severity of joint damage or target joints. Improvements were most notable in haemophilia A patients with poor joint health. 
EXTENDED HALF­LIFE TECHNOLOGIES
Fc fusionSobi’s products Elocta and Alprolix are approved in Europe and the Middle East for the treatment of haemophilia A and haemophilia B respectively in children, ado-lescents and adults.
The products achieve extended half-life 
by fusing an Fc fragment, part of immuno-globulin, to a recombinant clotting factor. While the clotting-factor part of Elocta and Alprolix retains the procoagulant activity, the Fc region binds to the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn). This receptor is expressed throughout life and is part of a naturally occurring pathway that protects immuno-globulins from lysosomal degradation by cycling these proteins back into circulation, resulting in their long plasma half-life
1. 
Elocta and Alprolix bind to FcRn, utilising 
this same natural pathway to delay degra-dation and allow for longer plasma half-life than endogenous FVIII and FIX. This makes it possible to achieve substantially higher clotting-factor levels in the body than with the same dosage of traditionally used clot-ting-factor concentrates, which is important for effective prevention of bleeds. The pro-longed half-life also makes it possible to reduce the frequency of intravenous injec-tions needed for prophylactic treatment. While Fc fusion technology has been used for more than 15 years, Bioverativ and Sobi have optimised the technology and are the first companies to utilise it in the treatment of haemophilia.
Furthermore, there are preliminary pre-
clinical and clinical data on the immune tol-erance effects of Fc fusion that indicate rel-atively short immune tolerance induction (ITI) treatment for patients who have devel-oped antibodies to standard clotting-factor treatment, possibly due to immunomodula-tory effects attributed to the Fc domain of the molecule
2, 3. Sobi started a study called 
ReITIrate in 2017 to investigate Elocta’s potential as an ITI treatment.
PEGylation
Other pharma companies are using a tech-nique called PEGylation, in which a com-pound called polyethylene glycol (PEG) is conjugated to clotting factors to extend the half-life of the clotting factor. 
Albumin fusion
A third approach to extend the half-life of clotting factors is fusion with recombinant albumin, which is a protein that occurs nat-urally in the blood. 
1. Roopenian and Akilesh 2007.
2. Krishnamoorthy et al. Cell Immunol. 2016; 301:30-3
3. Malec Haemophilia 20161. Berntorp E, Negrier C, Gozzi P et al. Haemophilia 2016; 22(3):389-96. 2. Oldenburg et al. Haemophilia 2018; 24(1):77-84.
 “EHL treatment creates 
an opportunity to indi-vidualise prophylactic 
treatment to meet the 
individual patient’s needs, and thereby has the potential to improve the clinical outcome.” 
Armin Reininger, Head of Medical 
and Scientific Affairs
17
BUSINESS AREAS / HAEMOpHIlIA
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTAt King Faisal Specialist Hospital & Research 
Centre (KFSHRC), where 40 per cent of peo-ple with haemophilia in Saudi Arabia are treated, most of the patients with haemo-philia A are now treated with Elocta.
Key to this success was the fact that Sobi’s 
team got an early start. From its formation in 2012, our local team dedicated itself to build-ing trust and explaining the extended half-life products to medical experts, hospital physi-cians and budget holders. Discussions exam-ined the challenges facing patients. 
“Since Elocta was seen as a new and inno-
vative product in Saudi Arabia due to its abil-ity to extend half-life, we were allowed a fast track lane for approval, meaning that the  market approval and the reimbursement 
 approval were handled in parallel” , says 
Ahmad Abu-Dahad, Director Sobi  Middle East. 
The product’s ability to help improve both 
the short and long-term quality of life for patients with haemophilia A convinced King Faisal Hospital & Research Center to adopt Elocta as its primary product.
Aside from Elocta as the primary treatment, 
the hospital uses one other treatment. Previ-ously, the hospital provided two different short-acting treatments.With the first EHL treatments coming on the market in 2014, Sobi and Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, have gained considerable experi-ence from the real-world use of EHL products in general, and Elocta and Alprolix specifi-cally. Apart from the growing body of data around efficacy both products display a good safety profile. 
Other EHL products have entered or are 
under review to enter European markets. Gene therapy and other technologies are maturing and may offer treatment alterna-tives in the future.
The launch of Elocta – an update
Commercial access to Elocta for people with haemophilia A in Europe was achieved in  January 2016. It was subsequently approved 
in Kuwait in November 2016, and then in Saudi Arabia in May 2017. By the end of 2017,  reimbursement had since been secured in 
22 markets. Sales increased to SEK 1,557 M from SEK 267 M in 2016, an increase of nearly 500 per cent (excluding royalties).
The launch of Alprolix – an update
Commercial access to Alprolix for people with haemophilia B in Europe was first achieved in May 2016. By the end of 2017, reimbursement had been secured in 14 markets. Among the important milestones in 2017 were the app-rovals in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, as well as the EMA approval for the potential to dose Alprolix every 14 days or longer. Sales increased to SEK 363 M from SEK 60 M in 2016, an increase of 500 per cent (excluding royalties).Manufacturing of clotting factorsWe have more than 35 years of experience in developing therapies for haemophilia. Together with Biogen we developed the process for large-scale manufacturing of Alprolix, based on our experience from the manufacturing the active ingredient ReFacto in Pfizer’s haemophilia product ReFacto AF , is produced according to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) in our bio-logics facility in Stockholm, Sweden. As the global supplier, we receive manufacturing revenues as well as royalties on Pfizer’s sales of ReFacto AF . Manufacturing capacity was increased during 2017, enabling us to deliver higher volumes of the drug. Total revenues from ReFacto AF decreased by 10 per cent to SEK 594 M. This is an effect of the royalty to Sobi on sales on ReFacto AF outside of the US ceasing on 1 June 2016. 
First choice in Saudi Arabia
Ahmad Abu-Dahad, Director Sobi Middle East.
By year-end 2017, 
Sobi and Bioverativ had donated
262
million IUs of Elocta/Eloctate  
and Alprolix  
enabling the treatment of
15,000 +
people in
40
countries  
by addressing
79,500
bleeds and
1,500
surgical proceduresFinancial performance  of the business area
SEK 3,088 M 
Total revenue for the Haemophilia business unit was SEK 3,088 M, up 67 per cent from SEK 1,853 M in 2016. 
18
BUSINESS AREAS / HAEMOpHIlIA
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017HUMANITARIAN AID DONATION REPORT
An estimated 400,000 people are living 
with haemophilia. Around 300,000 of them live in areas with limited access to diagnosis and treatment.
In 2014, Sobi and Bioverativ (formerly 
Biogen) committed to produce up to a 
total of 1 billion international units (IUs) of clotting-factor therapy for humani-tarian aid programmes in the deve l-
oping world. Creating a predictable  supply of factor over a 10-year period 
allows healthcare systems to plan in a way that fosters better care. Surgical procedures can be planned and pro-phylactic treatment becomes a real possibility.
The World Federation of Hemophilia 
(WFH) is leading efforts to improve access to haemophilia treatment and raise the standard of care for people with haemophilia in the developing world. Over five years, 500 million IUs will be donated to the WFH Humanitarian Aid Program to support these efforts.
Importantly, the percentage of children who receive treatment through the dona-tion programme in these countries has almost tripled, from 14 to 39 per cent.  The number of injections used in prophylactic treatment is rising steadily, and these 
are currently approaching half of the treatments. The number of people receiving prophylactic treatment is gradually increasing. Many of these are young children, making it possible to minimise joint damage.
1
1. World Federation of Haemophilia - Humanitarian Aid Program end of 201714% to 39%
A JOURNEY  
BACK IN TIME
The lack of prophylactic treatment 
in many developing countries results in many boys and young men with crutches and in wheelchairs due to joint damage. This was one of the most striking take-aways when a team from Sobi  visited Morocco together 
with the WFH to see the effects of the humanitarian aid donation close up. “Sobi’s commitment to the 
WFH Humanitarian Aid 
 Program is about making 
a real difference with our 
donations, and demonstrat-ing a true commitment to the haemophilia community and patients.” 
Guido Oelkers, CEO
19
BUSINESS AREAS / HAEMOpHIlIA
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTABOUT THE SOBI AND BIOVERATIV  COLLABORATION
Sobi and Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, collaborate on the development and com-
mercialisation of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix. Sobi has final development and  commercialisation rights in its territory – essentially Europe, most Middle Eastern 
markets, North Africa and Russia.
Bioverativ has manufacturing responsibility for the products as well as final devel-
opment and commercialisation rights in North America and all other regions of the world excluding the Sobi territory. 
The financial terms of the agreement between the companies are described in more 
detail in Note 18. Global distribution of haemophilia products provided by Sobi and Bioverativ
 
Sobi territory  
3.5 billion 
USD 
 Bioverativ territory
 Sobi territory
ELOCTA®
Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) is a recombi-
nant  clotting factor VIII therapy developed 
for haemo philia A with  prolonged circula-
tion in the body using Fc fusion technol-ogy. Elocta is approved for the treatment of haemophilia A in adults and children of all ages and marketed by Sobi in the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzer -
land, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Eloctate is approved for the treatment of haemo-philia A in the United States, Japan,  Canada,  Australia and other countries, 
and  marketed by Bioverativ.
For full prescribing information, please 
see the  EMA’s website. Total market value based on internal esitmates for 2018. 
20
BUSINESS AREAS / HAEMOpHIlIA
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Providing access to treatment at a local level 
starts with getting market approval and reimbursement. Thereafter comes the less formal but just as important work of sharing information about the treatments. 
Sobi has put a lot of effort into educating 
physicians about the safety and efficacy of the new EHL treatments Elocta and Alprolix, backing up clinical data with real-world experience, striving to make them feel con-fident about converting patients to these newer technologies. Sobi has also educated others involved in patient care, such as nurses, pharmacists and physical therapists. People with haemophilia often assume great responsibility for their treatment, seeing their physician only on an annual basis. 
“The haemophilia market is a conservative 
and rather cautious market,” says Hege  Hellström, Head of Sobi’s EMENAR region. 
“We had done a lot of preparatory work, but it was not until late 2016 and 2017 that we really started to see market-share growth. A lot of centres and markets have now started to actively convert patients to modern EHL treatments. Once physicians are convinced, we see something of a roll-out starting.”
Europe is far from a homogeneous market 
though. In some countries, centres are free to suggest treatment. In Germany for exam-ple there are 18 approved products and many patients are still on traditionally used treatments. In France, relatively few are on prophylaxis and most are only treated on-demand. In some other markets, it is decided centrally what treatments are  chosen, sometimes through a tender. 
Patients are actively kept on the currently recommended treatment. This is the case for example in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
“In early 2018, the Republic of Ireland 
became the first country in Europe where all people with haemophilia A or B treated with replacement clotting factors will be treated with the newest generation of treatments, EHL therapies – and specifically Elocta and Alprolix,” says Neil Dugdale, General  Manager UK & Republic of Ireland.
As a new entrant into the commercial hae-
mophilia market, Sobi needed to build trust 
in the company and our dedication to the community, something the teams across Europe have done successfully. Sobi UK has been selected as the number one company in haemophilia in the UK for two years in a row, as rated by an independent annual survey.
Marketing regulations also differ between 
markets, making it necessary to adjust activ-ity plans accordingly. In France, it is permissi-ble to talk to physicians about a product before it is granted reimbursement, an opportunity Sobi took up. 
“We needed to set out early to build trust 
and confidence among stakeholders,” says Sofiane Fahmy, General Manager Sobi France. “After market approval we could move on to talking about the characteristics of the product, paving the way for a success-ful launch.” 
Within six months of launch, Elocta had 
become the second most commonly used haemophilia A treatment in France. By the end of 2017, it was the leading treatment; significant market shares had also been achieved in other markets in Europe and the Middle East. 
THE MOST COMMON RARE DISEASE IN THE WORLD1
Affecting 400,000 people across the globe, haemophilia is the most common rare dis-ease in the world
1. It is a genetic disorder in 
which the ability of a person’s blood to clot is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male births annually, and more rarely in females. Haemophilia B occurs in about one in 28,000 male births annually, and more rarely in females. The World  Federation of Hemophilia estimates that 
approximately 185,000 people are cur -
rently diagnosed with haemophilia A and B worldwide.
People with haemophilia A or B experi-
ence bleeding episodes that can cause pain, irreversible joint damage and life-threatening haemorrhages. Prophylactic injections of factor VIII or IX can temporarily replace the clotting factors that are needed to control bleeding and prevent new bleed-ing episodes. The World Federation of Hemophilia recommends prophylaxis as the optimal therapy as it can prevent bleed-ings and joint destruction.
1. World Federation of Hemophilia. Report on the Annual Global Survey 2016. Available at: http://www1.wfh.org/publications/files/pdf-1690.pdf. Accessed on: 6 March 2018Driving conversion in  
a fragmented market
ALPROLIX®
Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) is a recom-binant clotting factor therapy devel-oped for haemophilia B using Fc fusion technology to prolong circulation in the body. Alprolix is approved for the treatment of haemophilia B in adults and children of all ages in the EU, Ice-land, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzer -
land, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, where it is marketed by Sobi. Bioverativ holds the marketing rights for the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New  Zealand, Brazil and other countries.
For full prescribing information, please 
see the  EMA’s website.  “Our approach has been a 
global strategy guided by country-specific needs.” 
Hege Hellström, Head of  
EMENAR, and Philip Wood,  Head of Haemophilia
21
BUSINESS AREAS / HAEMOpHIlIA
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTSpecialty Care
Growth in the newly formed business area Specialty Care 
reached  5 per cent in 2017. Ambitions for the unit are higher 
than this, as Sobi explores several opportunities for growth that build on proven capabilities in bringing products to patients in complex markets.
The business area Specialty Care was formed 
during 2017 by merging Sobi operations in Partner Products, Genetics & Metabolism and Inflammation. The focus is on rare diseases and niche indications, and the products aim to make a significant difference for patients. 
The unit has a distribution network across 
EMENAR and North America used to sell both proprietary and partner products. Sales in 2017 amounted to SEK 2,829 M. The unit’s largest products are Kineret and Orfadin, rep-resenting 40 and 30 per cent of sales respec-tively, followed by  Xiapex representing 6 per 
cent. The port folio currently consists of 37 
products.
We are actively seeking new products for 
our Specialty Care portfolio, to enhance effi-ciency and improve our ability to meet the evolving needs of patients. To make better use of our capabilities, we are also seeking to attain more extensive product rights through external opportunities. 
Based on more than 25 years of experi-
ence, we offer partners strong collaborative skills and well-developed processes that effi-ciently manage partnerships covering several markets with efficient distribution and exten-sive market knowledge. 
Our organisation has a competitive advan-
tage thanks to our ability to launch products Business area
22
BUSINESS AREAS / SpECIAl TY CARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Long experience of commercialising products 
Sobi has extensive experience of launching and commercialising 
products in Europe. Kineret, Orfadin, Xiapex and 34 other products can be found in 70 markets in the EMENAR region. Kineret, Orfadin and Kepivance are also made available by Sobi in North America.
 ” Understanding the rare  
disease space also gives us  capabilities to leverage in 
specialty-care and niche  
indications” 
Norbert Oppitz,  
Head of Specialty Carerapidly in both larger and smaller markets, offering our partners an efficient path to  market. We have a thorough understanding 
of local regulatory environments and the  drivers among payers and healthcare pro-
viders in various markets. 
Partnerships span over many years: apart 
from strategies for regulatory approval,  pricing and reimbursement, they may include 
launch preparations, marketing activities, ten-der management and efficient logistics. We assume a comprehensive responsibility for products to ensure that medical needs are met in the best possible manner.
Our current organisation has offices in 
19 countries, managing products in over 70 countries. Markets are evolving in many coun-tries as their standards of living rise. We are looking to match increased demand with a greater market presence, particularly in more populous countries.
Better meeting patient needs 
In recent years, we have employed active strategies to address patient needs even  better. This can entail product development 
and innovation driven by medical needs. New medical needs may arise when people with certain rare diseases reach adolescence and adulthood for the first time thanks to the treatments we provide.
Sobi also supports rare-disease communi-
ties in various ways, for example through ambassador programmes, financial support to bridge reimbursement, or educational tools for healthcare providers, children and adults. 
Financial performance  of the business area
SEK 2,829  M
Total revenue for the Specialty Care business unit was SEK 2,829 M, up 5 per cent from SEK 2,695 M in 2016.  Direct sales
 Other sales areas
23
BUSINESS AREAS / SpECIAl TY CARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTOrfadin
Before Orfadin was first launched in 2002, few patients living with hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) would celebrate their second birthday. Today, thanks to improved new-born screening, effective treatment and die-tary management, we are seeing patients with HT-1 reach an age where they are start-ing their own families.
Sobi has worked closely with the HT-1 com-
munity to help people to manage their dis-ease not just at diagnosis but throughout their lives. We made a commitment to make treatment as simple as possible, and in recent years we have developed new formulations to achieve this goal on several fronts. 
Firstly, as new-born screening for HT-1 has 
improved and patients are being identified at birth, we developed a liquid formulation of Orfadin that makes it easy to administer a precise dose to infants and young children. Secondly, because patients are growing up and becoming adults, we have developed a 20 mg capsule, allowing patients to reduce the number of capsules they take each day. Lastly, we have conducted studies allowing Orfadin to be taken as a once-daily dosing option for patients five years of age and older. 
ORFADIN®
People with HT-1 are unable to break down an amino acid called tyrosine. Toxic by- products are formed and accumulate in the body, which can cause liver, renal and  neurological complications. In the most common form of the disease, symptoms arise 
within the first six months of the child’s life.
Orfadin (nitisinone) blocks the breakdown of tyrosine, thereby reducing the amount 
of  toxic tyrosine by-products in the body. Patients must maintain a special diet in com-bination with  Orfadin treatment as tyrosine is not adequately broken down. 
Orfadin is a proprietary product, developed and marketed globally by Sobi. Orfadin 
is available in five dosage strengths: 2 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg capsules and 4 mg/ml oral  suspension.
For full European prescribing information, please visit the EMA website.  For full US prescribing information please see orfadin.comThese new dosing options are unique to Sobi and a result of our insights concerning the medical needs of these patients. 
In 2017, competition entered the nitisinone 
market in the US, Canada and Europe in the form of generic treatments. Our commitment to the community and our understanding of patient needs have proven valuable not only to HT-1 patients but also to Sobi. Despite the new generics, Orfadin sales continued to increase during 2017, driven by the launch of the new formulations and comprehensive patient  support services. 
The Orfadin Ambassador programme in the US allows patients and caregivers to connect with other people who have experience of living with HT-1. For a patient population of 1000 people worldwide, this is a rare opportunity.
24
BUSINESS AREAS / SpECIAl TY CARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017In 2014, the US team decided to take a 
closer look at how we could improve the Kineret business from a relatively flat busi-ness to a growing and thriving one. Sobi in North America was established in 2012 and the full rights for Kineret were bought in 2013. At that time there was little under -
standing of patient needs: half of the peo-ple prescribed the drug did not even start treatment due to reimbursement issues. Making matters worse, half of those who actually started dropped out during the first two months. 
“We set out to better understand the 
patients and the market, and then we lev-eraged that understanding to bring about change,” says Rami Levin, Head of Sobi North America. “Our goals were twofold – to remove the barriers that were prevent-ing patients from starting treatment, and to understand and address treatment challenges so that patients could stay on treatment.” 
To allow more patients to access the 
treatment, Sobi applied a rare-disease approach, addressing doctors who were familiar with the treatment and working together with them to identify appropri-ate patients.
 Sobi also invested in supporting 
patients through the very complex r eimbursement process and launched 
the Kineret On Track patient support pro-
gramme, which includes nurse support, training on how to inject the drug, assis-tance in applying for reimbursement, and financing until reimbursement is received. The changes Sobi enacted increased both retention and compliance for Kineret by about 15 percentage points each.
“I cherish the fact that we have 
strengthened our relationships with the rheumatoid arthritis and NOMID commu-nities. And I am also proud that we so strongly have contributed to the growth of Kineret”, says Rami.
Developing Kineret’s market  
potential in the USKineretKineret is a biologic that can reduce the activ-ity of interleukin-1 (IL-1), a key mediator of inflammation in autoinflammatory and auto-immune diseases. Kineret blocks the biologi-cal activity of IL-1a and IL-1b by binding to the interleukin-1 type 1 receptor (IL-1RI), expressed in a variety of tissues and organs, and thereby blocking interleukin-1 (IL-1) sig-nalling. This signal blockade helps manage excess levels of IL-1 in the body, and conse-quently, inflammation and other symptoms. Kineret has a well-characterised safety profile, a quick onset of action and a short half-life.
In 2017, Sobi started clinical trials for acute 
gout (phase 2) and Still’s disease, including SJIA and adult onset Still’s disease (AOSD) (phase 3). The Still’s study (anaSTILLs), is required for approval in the US market. KINERET®
Kineret (anakinra) is approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults, neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID) in chil-dren and adults (in the US and Can-ada), and cryo pyrin-associated peri-
odic syndrome (CAPS) in adult patients, and in children from eight months and older (in the EU). It is also approved in Australia for the treatment of RA, CAPS and also for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) in patients aged two years and above who have failed to respond adequately to non-biological disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, and in Israel for RA and CAPS.
For full European prescribing inform-
ation, please visit the EMA website.  For full US prescribing information please see kineretrx.com.
 “We set out to better 
understand the patients and the market, and 
then use that under -
standing to bring about 
change“
Rami Levin,  
Head of North  America In 2013, at the time we received the CAPS (cryo pyrin-associated periodic syndrome) 
indication in Europe, we made a fundamental revision of our strategy for Kineret. A focused and tailored patient and customer-centric organisation was formed to meet market needs in the best way possible. Listening to healthcare providers and patients has helped us better meet their needs and take an impor -
tant role in the market, one which has also resulted in steadily increasing product sales.
Increasing interest in and understanding 
of the IL-1 field is supporting the growth of Kineret. 
Our work with Kineret in the US is 
described below.
02004006008001 0001 200
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013MSEKFive-year global Kineret sales1
1. Sales in the US and EMENAR follow the same trend.
25
BUSINESS AREAS / SpECIAl TY CARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTXiapex
Xiapex was first granted marketing authoris-ation by the European Commission for the treatment of the disabling hand condition Dupuytren’s contracture in 2011. In 2015, the treatment was approved in Europe for Peyronie’s disease, a condition resulting in an abnormally curved penis.
Since 2013, when we partnered with 
 Auxilium, now Endo International, for Xiapex, 
sales of the product have grown by an aver -
age of 36 per cent per year (CAGR). In 2017, sales increased by 7 per cent to SEK 164 M with growth stemming from both indicationsDuring 2017, people in England with Dupuytren’s contracture were given access to Xiapex on the National Health Service for the first time after a recommendation from the National Institute for Health and Care Excel-lence (NICE), offering an alternative to surgery. 
Dupuytren’s contracture is believed to be 
more common than Peyronie’s disease, and has less stigma attached. In 2017, we contin-ued to raise awareness about Peyronie’s dis-ease, a hidden condition that is not spoken about publicly. More men were subsequently given access to treatment.
XIAPEX®
Sobi and the specialty pharmaceutical company Endo International are part-ners for the commercialisation of  Xiapex (collagenase clostridium histo-
lyticum). Sobi has the exclusive rights to commercialise Xiapex for the treat-ment of Dupuytren’s contracture and Peyronie’s disease in 71 Eurasian and African countries. Sobi is the Market-ing Authorisation Holder (MAH) for Xiapex in the 28 EU Member States, as well as Norway and Iceland. Xiaflex
® is the trade name for Xiapex 
used in the United States.
Xiapex is used to treat Dupuytren’s 
contracture and Peyronie’s disease in adults. Dupuytren’s contracture is a condition where one or more fingers are bent forwards toward the palm and cannot be fully straightened. 
Peyronie’s disease is a condition in 
which men develop plaques of fibrous, scar-like tissue in their penis, causing it to become abnormally curved.
For full prescribing information, 
please visit the  EMA’s website.
Long experience 
from working with partners 
in a complex environment.
26
BUSINESS AREAS / SpECIAl TY CARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201727
BUSINESS AREAS / SpECIAl TY CARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTBiologics  
Development 
and Supply
Sobi’s expertise and capacity within biologics development and 
supply not only brings stable revenue through manufacturing 
of the drug substance for ReFacto AF, but also supports Sobi’s 
development capabilities, ensuring scale-up and industrialisa -
tion. Our network of contract manufacturing organisations 
ensures reliable supply of Sobi’s products in the markets.
We have extensive expertise within biologics 
development and supply, and a long history as a reliable supplier of biopharmaceuticals. In the 1980s, the predecessors of Sobi were pioneers in the development and manufac-turing of biopharmaceuticals using recombi-nant protein technologies. One of these drugs was a recombinant factor VIII called ReFacto/ReFacto AF for the treatment of haemophilia A, a drug substance we have been manu facturing for Pfizer since 1998. 
Today, manufacturing of this drug sub-
stance constitutes the major part of opera-tions, but the unit also manufactures other proprietary drug substances for use in clinical trials and manages the external manufactur -
ing of Group products. The unit’s overall objective is to enable business in Sobi. 
Apart from manufacturing, the unit also 
develops biological manufacturing processes and manages the upscaling from pilot plant to commercial facilities. With a commercial mind-set from the outset, we ensure that development programmes lead to robust processes tailored for large scale and vol-umes. Key competencies include process development, protein characterisation and quality control strategies for drug substances and drug products. 
We play an active role in the Swedish gov-
ernment’s national programme for method development and manufacturing of biologics, which aims to make Sweden a leader in the field. During 2017, we were involved in three nationally funded collaborations.
Manufacturing of proprietary drugs  
In 2017, we manufactured material for the planned clinical studies with our candidate drug SOBI003 using a proprietary process developed in-house. External ManufacturingThe External Manufacturing unit is responsi-ble for the supply of drugs within the group. In 2017, an important task was to ensure  sufficient volumes of Elocta and Alprolix in 
our territories to guarantee the success of launches. During the year, we received approval from the European Medicines Agency for higher capacity drug-substance manufacturing for Elocta, providing a consist-ent and reliable supply across our territories.
In 2017, the transfer of the production of 
Kineret’s biologic drug substance to Pfizer’s manufacturing site in Strängnäs, Sweden, was approve by the US and European medicines agencies. This capacity increase will support growth in potential new indications which are under exploration.
28
BUSINESS AREAS / BIOlOGICS DEVElOpMENT AND SUppl Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017We market and sell a wide range of prod-
ucts to over 70 countries. Our single most important responsibility is to ensure that patients never risk being without their medication. Our robust and efficient sup-ply chain includes 15 contract manufactur -
ing organisations (CMOs) in Europe and the US. It is vital to have full control of the entire chain, as biologics often require cold-chain supply to ensure product integ-rity and quality. See Sustainability from page 38 for more information. A GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN
 “With a commercial mind-set 
from the outset, we ensure that development programmes lead 
to robust manufacturing pro-
cesses tailored for large scale and volumes.”
Kirsti Gjellan, Head of Biologics  
Development and SupplyHIGH­PACED KINERET TRANSFER
At the end of 2017, the transfer of the manufacturing of Kineret drug substance to our new manufacturing partner was approved by both the US and the Euro-pean medicines agencies, ahead of schedule. The transfer will expand cap-acity significantly, improve access for patients and support the growth of Kineret in existing and planned indica-tions, as well as increasing cost efficiency for Sobi. 
Ann-Britt Vikström, Project Manager for 
the technology transfer of the production of Kineret drug substance, says the EMA approved the transfer to a new production site without a single question, something Sobi’s regulatory department described as “extraordinary” for a biotech product.
“We always aim to avoid questions, but 
you can never really be certain,” says Ann-Britt. “Everybody has worked intensively throughout the project, setting up strate-gies both to achieve efficiency and meet all the agency requirements.”
Kirsti Gjellan, Head of Biologics Devel-
opment and Supply, adds: “This project goes to show how our long-standing part-nership with Pfizer has paved the way to an excellent collaboration and how valuable our knowledge in biological manufactur -
ing is. The approval of Pfizer as the drug substance (DS) manufacturer for Kineret will secure the supply of product to our patients now and in the future, and improve our operational effectiveness.”
It was in the spring of 2016 that Sobi 
decided to transfer the production of Kineret drug substance to Pfizer's manu-facturing site in Strängnäs, Sweden. 
Ann-Britt Vikström, Project Manager
29
BUSINESS AREAS / BIOlOGICS DEVElOpMENT AND SUppl Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTInnovation
Expanding the number of programmes, particularly those in 
clinical development, is a priority for the company. In 2017, we 
paved the way for our most advanced early-stage programme, 
SOBI003, to move into clinical studies during 2018.   
Broad scope and focus
Our research and development (R&D)  capabilities span from the discovery phase, 
through clinical development, to post-approval clinical studies in a real-world set-ting. We are currently running pre-clinical research programmes, clinical development programmes and studies in a real-world set-ting – studies in phase 1 through phase 4.
Expanding the number of programmes, 
we have proven our ability to successfully  in-license innovation from outside Sobi. Our two haemophilia products Elocta and 
Alprolix, as well as Orfadin, Kineret and other partner products, all originate from other companies and have evolved into successful lines under Sobi’s stewardship. An additional core strength is our heritage of working with bio-pharmaceutical drugs based on recombi-nant proteins. 
We focus our efforts on selected therapeu-
tic areas, where we can make a difference and where we have the potential to become  lead-ers within haemophilia and specialty care including inflammation, and genetics and metabolic diseases. This focus improves our ability to comprehend, assess and leverage the science of intended drugs. A greater understanding of patient needs facilitates the identification and assessment of unmet medical needs. 
Adding value for patients
At Sobi, we apply a complete life-cycle  management approach to our therapies to 
generate more value for patients. Even after 
30
INNOVATION
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017a therapy is approved and launched, we con-
tinue with research and development. This can involve adding new indications, new for -
mulations and real-world data to approved therapies. As an example, Kineret was origi-nally approved for rheumatoid arthritis. Sobi continued to study and develop Kineret, which is also approved for CAPS, a group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory disease, and NOMID, the most severe form of CAPS. Treatment with Kineret has led to a transfor -
mational improvement in quality of life for people with NOMID and CAPS. Two new studies are investigating the potential of Kineret for patients with Still’s disease in the US and acute gout. Similarly, we are investi-gating the potential effects of Elocta in immune tolerance induction for people with haemophilia A who are affected by inhibitors. 
Continuous development of our medicines is done in-house, and in partnership both with other pharmaceutical companies and with patient organisations and patient-led consortia.
SOBI003
SOBI003 is our most advanced early-stage project. It is being developed for mucopoly-saccharidosis (MPS) type IIIA or Sanfilippo A syndrome, a progressive, life-threatening and rare inherited metabolic disorder affecting children from early age. The body is unable to break down long chains of sugar molecules, resulting in the accumulation of heparan sul-phate in lysosomes and affecting the central nervous system where it causes severe pro-gressive degeneration. 
With approximately 1,000–2,000 persons 
living with the disease in the EU and US, MPS IIIA is a rare disease. It is usually identified at two to four years of age and the lifespan of someone with MPS IIIA usually does not extend past the end of the second or begin-ning of the third decade of life. There is cur -
rently no approved treatment for MPS IIIA. During 2017, SOBI003 was granted orphan status by the US Food & Drug Administration, adding to the previously granted orphan des-ignation in the EU. SOBI003 is preparing to enter phase 1/2 clinical studies during 2018, being tested on patients for the first time.
SOBI003 has been developed in-house by 
Sobi. The technology that allows the poten-tial disease-modifying effects is a proprietary modification of the glycan sugar molecule. All product development and manufacture of medicine for clinical trials has been carried out under the direction of Sobi. Development of the clinical studies has been done in collab-oration with patient organisations and health-care authorities.
Our innovation pipeline as per 31 December 2017
* Extension trial for an already approved indication
1. PUP = Previously untreated patients
2. Bioverativ development programme. Sobi has elected to add programmes to the collaboration agreement but not yet opted in
3. First patient dosed on 30 December 2016. 4. Moving into clinic during 2018Therapeutic area/Indication Product/Project Pre-clinical Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4
Haemophilia A Elocta/ASPIRE*
Haemophilia A Elocta/PUP1*
Haemophilia A XTEN/BIVV0012
Haemophilia A Elocta/A-SURE
Haemophilia A Elocta/ReITIrate
Haemophilia A Elocta/verITI8
Haemophilia A and B EIocta/Alprolix/PREVENT
Haemophilia B Alprolix/B-YOND*
Haemophilia B Alprolix/PUP1*
Haemophilia B XTEN/BIVV0022
Acute gout Kineret/anaGO3
Still’s disease Kineret/anaSTILLs
Alkaptonuria Orfadin/SONIA2 
MPSIIIA SOBI0034
Anti-C5 SOBI005
Anti-IL-1 SOBI006
31
INNOVATION
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTING CORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTUsing a multi-disciplinary approach, cross-
functional teams map and evaluate new R&D projects by applying the three steps of Sobi’s innovation model: patient needs, scientific knowledge and Sobi’s capabilities and  estimated market opportunities. This 
ensures that new projects are aligned with the strategy and build on Sobi’s strengths, and keeps the focus on projects with  favourable risk profiles.Sobi’s  
innovation model
Patient needs
By defining the unmet needs, our innovation model revolves around the patient journey for people with rare diseases. By collaborating with patients, their families, caregivers and the medical community,  
we can define the unmet needs. In this way, we  
strive to substantially improve the lives of  
people living with rare diseases.Development and skills aligned
Our R&D approach provides an interface between 
new discoveries and integrated research  
and development processes. Acquisitions  
and in-licensing of projects/products  
are also included in this process.  
Scientific and technological aspects of  
a proposed research or development  
plan must be aligned with our  
capabilities and skill sets. 
Sustainable access to medicinesBy identifying relevant stakeholders at each stage of the patient journey, we aim to secure  optimal outcomes along the development pathway. We also facilitate each step on the way  to market, resulting in smoother – and ideally faster – development and delivery to patients. Capabilities  
and science
Market 
opportunitiesPatient 
needs
Patient
32
INNOVATION
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Milan 
Zdravkovic
Head of  
Research & Development 
and Chief Medical Officer
What is your background?
I am a medical doctor with more than 18 years in the industry bringing new molecules to market for the benefit of patients.
When Milan joined Sobi in late 2016, 
he came from a position as Corporate Vice  President at Novo Nordisk where he had 
been working in several areas including  diabetes, growth hormone deficiency, obesity 
and immunology. 
What attracted you to Sobi?
When I interviewed for the position, I thought it was a good match with the culture. I liked the inclusiveness, the way you work together and that everyone really sees to the needs of the patients. Secondly, I thought the pipeline was interesting, with opportunities to bring the preclinical assets forward, and ramp up our life-cycle-management activities. Finally, the company has a degree of financial strength that is necessary to enable R&D. Those were the three main factors.
What constitutes a good innovation 
 climate and how is that achieved?On one hand, you need to reward ideas and in parallell maintain certain rigours around your decision making. It is important to strike the right balance here. When evaluating the portfolio, you also need to set up the right cri-teria and goals to ensure that you are getting an answer to your most important questions first – that helps you decide what molecules to move on or move out.What are the key success factors  for an R&D organisation?To demonstrate that we create value for the organisation and for the patients. It requires the right people, which we have: people who are hungry to achieve something; they want to push, and they like to collaborate and  challenge the norms. Then you spice this up 
with good decision making and transparency around how decisions are taken.
Which areas are you working  
to improve within Sobi?I have spent time with the organisation creat-ing transparency around the assets and how they are prioritised. We have defined goals and instilled more accountability for every-one. And finally we want to have fun and to appreciate people for their achievements. What areas do you want to  focus on going forward?We need to focus on what we are really good at, on our DNA: large molecules and putting patient needs in the centre.
The organisation is good at cooperating 
with other companies. Most of our products and projects are in-licensed or developed in collaboration with others. That is certainly another of our strengths. We need to ensure that we move the pipeline forward. This is going to be a very important success factor for our organisation.
How would you describe your  
leadership style?I am very open and clear. As a leader I really believe in being inclusive, and basing my decisions on a sound set of values. I work with delegation combined with holding people accountable for moving things forward.
33
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTING CORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTINNOVATIONSobi has developed two proprietary tech-
nologies that extend the duration of activity of bio-pharmaceutical drugs. Both tech-nologies may be combined with a variety of differ3ent biological substances to form new drugs with attractive characteristics, which meet significant medical needs. The tech nologies have been named Elvera™ 
and Modifa™.
Elvera 
Elvera is an innovative recombinant polymer mimetic technology that exploits the characteristics of a naturally occurring human protein domain to protect active biological molecules and to extend their circulatory half-life and target tissue exposure. Elvera can be used to fine-tune the pharmacokinetic properties of all types of therapeutic proteins. Furthermore, the technology results in improved stability and reduced non-specific clearance of biologicals such as therapeutic enzymes.Since the resulting protein is fully human, it is not only expected to be well tolerated, it is also fully biodegradable, setting it apart from the commonly used chemical conjuga-tion of PEG to increase half-life. It is a versa-tile technology which through its tuneable nature can achieve longer or shorter circula-tion time in the body and may also improve the solubility of drugs. 
Elvera can be applied to create biological 
drugs in all Sobi’s therapeutic areas. It may be used to create recombinant fusions for the potential treatment of haemophilia, genetic metabolic diseases and inflamma-tory conditions. 
Sobi has applied for patents on Elvera 
both regarding composition of matter and methods.  ModifaModifa works by modifying glycans, a type of sugar molecule that is present in peptides and proteins, and causes the peptide or  protein to leave the body rapidly through 
the liver. With this modification, the protein molecules stay longer in the circulation and as a result, their distribution may be altered, thereby enabling penetration of the blood-brain barrier or distribution to hard-to-reach tissues such as cartilage and bone.
Sobi is using the technology in the dev-
elopment of SOBI003, where Modifa is applied to the enzyme sulfamidase in an effort to treat the rare serious genetic  disease Sanfilippo syndrome A (MPSIIIA) 
caused by mutations which result in short-age of this enzyme (see page 31). The tech-nology’s ability to help proteins penetrate the blood-brain barrier may prove to be a breakthrough in developing treatments for many serious conditions.
The technology is based on chemistry 
that is flexible and adaptable. 
Sobi has applied for patents on Modifa 
both regarding composition of matter and methods.
Innovative technologies
Elvera is an innovative recombinant polymer mimetic tech-nology that can help protect active biological molecules and extend their circulatory half-life and target tissue exposure.By modifying glycan sugar molecules, Modifa can help  protein molecules to circulate longer, thereby enabling 
 penetration of the blood-brain barrier or distribution 
to  hard-to-reach tissues such as cartilage and bone.
34
INNOVATION
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201735
INNOVATION
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTING CORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTAs patients who have not had access 
to treatments before are given the  opportunity to live longer lives,  
the medical need changes and  
new challenges are presented.”  Sustainability
Care  
We are who we are 
because of our dedica-tion, our knowledge and our passion. Care is the foundation upon which our strategy, our business and our culture are built.Ambition
We will set ourselves ambitious goals and do our utmost to achieve them.   
  Urgency
We need to embrace a sense of urgency, while safeguarding our standards, because the patients cannot wait. Ownership
It is our duty to act. We therefore encourage intrapreneurship and learn from our experi-ences. Partnership
We embrace partner -
ships and collaboration, within Sobi and with external partners and stakeholders.  The Group’s overall objective from a sustaina-bility perspective is tied to this overall vision: to contribute to the societies in which Sobi operates by improving access to treatment of rare diseases. A sustainable business entails a commitment to responsibility for patients and employees, reduced environmental impact from operations and treatment, as well as long-term sustainable profitability.Sobi contributes to a sustainable future as part of our vision 
of becoming a global leader in providing access to innovative  
treatments that make a significant difference for individuals  
with rare diseases.
Our values
Sobi’s values are the starting point for our 
approach to sustainability. The Code of  Conduct & Ethics also contains policies guid-
ing sustainability activities. Together these provide a solid foundation for our work with sustainability. 
We care about our world, but primarily we 
care about people – in particular, people with rare diseases and our colleagues at Sobi.  During 2017, we evolved our previous CARE 
values (Collaborative, Accountable, Respect-ful, Engaged) which have been central to who we are and the way we work. Because we care, we need to act. To ensure that more patients benefit from our advanced therapies now and in the future, and to align with the company’s ambitions for growth, we have identified new values that build on the CARE values. These are Care, Ambition, Urgency, Ownership and Partnership. They will help us to develop the spirit of leadership and entrepreneurship that we need to become recognised as a leader in rare diseases.
SUSTAINABILITY
36
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Material issues
Value creation •  Improving global access to treatments for rare  diseases
•  Quality and supply chain management
• Strategic research and development
Compliance and 
ethics• Regulatory and legal environment• Developing our people• Ethical practices and collaborations
Responsibility • Environmental impact• Patient and customer integrity• Responsible tax• Anti-corruption• Anti-competitive practices
Material sustainability issues
Sobi’s material sustainability issues were devel-oped during 2017. Based on ongoing input from external stakeholders and an internal analysis of the growth strategy, the Executive Committee approved an updated materiality analysis. Sobi’s material sustainability issues have been clustered in relation to their poten-tial to create value, ability to support a respon-sible business, and expectations to adhere to laws, regulations and society’s expectations. 
The materiality analysis forms the basis 
for Sobi’s sustainability programme. The  programme is under development and cur -
rent initial activities aim to define the overall 
objective, targets and indicators to further drive performance. 
Contribution to the UN’s Sustainable 
Development Goals  
The United Nations’ Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals are 17 global goals, approved by more than 150 countries in 2015, to be reached before the end of 2030. Sobi recog-nises the important role of business in the achievement of these goals. Based on the growth strategy and the materiality analysis, Sobi has identified nine goals to which our operations contribute the most. The most strategic global goal for Sobi is number three “Good health and well-being” and specifi-cally target 3.8: Achieve universal health  coverage, including financial risk protection, 
access to quality essential healthcare services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. For Sobi, this is  sustainability. UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Sobi has identified that, through our actions, we are able to influence a number of the Sustainable Development Goals.
SUSTAINABILITYTHIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
37
  Value creation
Improving global access to  
treatments for rare diseases  
Access to treatments for rare diseases is 
 provided through the business areas Haemo-
philia and Specialty Care. An integrated approach is required to ensure that patients can access treatment and achieve the best possible outcomes. Successfully providing such treatment requires comprehensive and sustainable solutions in several dimensions, including access to early diagnosis and treat-ment, a long-term commitment to the com-munity and healthcare systems, and respon-sible pricing. With a strong focus on patient and medical needs, responsible pricing, adaptive regulatory pathways, partners for manufacturing and an extensive and efficient distribution network, we work continuously to shorten the time it takes for products to reach patients. 
Responsible pricing 
An effective treatment is one that not only provides a medical benefit but is also both available in the country where the patient lives and is affordable in the healthcare sys-tem. One of the most crucial factors to ensure patient access to treatment is responsible pricing. 
Sobi is committed to playing an active role 
in the dialogue with stakeholders, govern-ments and healthcare systems, to ensure that patients get timely and sustainable access to required medicines, irrespective of where they live and irrespective of the level of devel-opment of the local healthcare system. We aim to set prices at a local level according to local needs and preconditions. Our ambition is to work with local health communities to improve health policies and to ensure sustain-able access to treatment. 
Bridging and access programmes
Sobi acknowledges the fact that where the local government and/or healthcare system has not yet included therapies in their local healthcare provisions, patients suffering from rare conditions do not have access to the same quality of treatment as other patients. In these situations, Sobi is committed to working with governments in finding a way to secure that patients get access to treatments through bridging programmes, to bridge access until reimbursed access is secured. In developing and emerging markets, Sobi also works with governments and local and inter -
national patient organisations, to fulfil a humanitarian aid need, while working with key stakeholders to build and lay the founda-tion to move from donation to sustainable reimbursed access by governments and/or healthcare systems.
In the US, Sobi provides financial assistance 
for people in need of treatment with Orfadin and Kineret, to bridge access until reimburse-ment is in place. Sobi is also bridging access in other countries based on individual patient need and engages in dialogue with authorities to adapt local regulations – a successful approach that has provided access to treat-ment in Chile. 
Since 2015, Sobi in collaboration with 
 Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, has contributed 
to providing access to a predictable supply of innovative and effective haemophilia treat-ment to people in developing countries. The companies have pledged to donate up to 1 billion international units of clotting factor between 2015 and 2025. Of these, 500 million have been earmarked for the World Federa-tion of Hemophilia, which is working to ensure a sustainable shift and predictable access to treatment in local markets. 
In several European countries with devel-
oped healthcare systems but limited budgets, the volumes of factor replacement necessary to treat haemophilia effectively are not availa-ble, despite minimum treatment recommen-dations. In order to bridge the gap between the recommendations and current access in those countries, the European Haemophilia Consortium (EHC) has developed the Procure-ment of Affordable Replacement Therapies – Network of European Relevant Stakeholders (PARTNERS) programme, in which Sobi is a key player. This is a new and innovative approach to the sustainable procurement of treatment products for haemophilia A and B in select countries meeting EHC-specified criteria and located both inside and outside the EU. 
“ I have treated 
patients with HT-1 with Orfadin for over 
20 years thanks to 
the support of Sobi.  I am grateful for Sobi’s initiative  to work towards securing sustainable  
treatment for these 
patients.” 
 
Dr Dweikat, Jerusalem 
SUSTAINABILITY
38
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Quality and supply chain 
management 
Patient safety and product quality
Patient safety throughout the product life cycle is one of our most important tasks. With a robust pharmacovigilance system in place, we continuously oversee the benefit/risk pro-files of our products. The pharmacovigilance system complies with all global, national and local regulations. The main purpose of the system is to guarantee patient safety in regards to our products. 
Annual training is provided for all employ-
ees to ensure that all safety information in relation to our products is reported. By col-lecting and analysing safety data from all sources, we aim to provide accurate and up-to-date information to regulators, healthcare professionals and patients. 
Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are a growing 
worldwide problem. To combat this hazard-ous and illegal business, governments all over the world are introducing regulations and systems to detect and prevent the distri-bution of counterfeit products. Sobi’s prod-ucts have not yet been subject to falsification. All Sobi products will be serialised from  February 2019.
Enabling global access to treatments 
We market and sell products in more than 70 countries, typically in small volumes aimed for a small number of patients. Because patient safety is our single most important responsi-bility, ensuring that patients never risk being without their medication is paramount because it could cause life-threatening  situations. We have therefore built up robust 
supply and distribution processes covering all our markets.
Manufacturing of our products for which 
Sobi is Market Authorisation Holder is per -
formed by 15 contract manufacturing organi-sations (CMOs) in Europe and the US, all of which fully comply with good manufacturing practices (GMP) ensuring that all products are produced and controlled according to quality standards for pharmaceuticals. 
Full control of supply and distribution
Our Logistics Development and Supply unit is responsible for managing the global CMO network and ensuring uninterrupted, reliable and sustainable transportation of products. Biologics are sensitive and often require cold-chain supply to ensure product integrity and quality. It is vital to have full control of the entire supply and distribution chain – from manufacturing to patient.
The manufacturing process itself contains 
three steps: manufacturing of drug substance, manufacturing of drug product and finally the packaging of finished goods. Depending on the product, there can be different partners for each step or the same partner for several steps. All manufacturers of products for which Sobi is Market Authorisation Holder are required to meet our Code of Conduct and Ethics. Manufacturers are normally  contracted long-term and are monitored 
closely. For products sold on a partner basis, we strive to ensure that all providers comply with the code. 
Distribution is characterised by collabora-
tion and strong commitment to patient health. We assume responsibility for ensuring the right products of specified quality arrive in the right quantities at distribution units, ensuring their quick and efficient physical delivery to patients when an order arrives. Our Transport and Trade Compliance unit ensures that trade laws and regulations are followed. 
By 2019, all Sobi products will 
have a unique identity code. “ Patient safety is our most important responsibility”, Arvid Cronlund, Head of Drug Safety.
SUSTAINABILITYTHIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
39
Strategic research & development  
Research and development activities are of 
strategic importance for us in our efforts to improve global access to innovative treat-ments for rare diseases. In these activities, we strive to maintain the highest ethical,  technical and scientific standards.
Our ambition is to become a long-term 
global leader in the rare-disease field. Making 
a difference to individuals with rare diseases requires us to remain relevant to them throughout their lives. Therefore, we need to reinvest in research and development to be able to continue to provide innovative treat-ments. We liaise with physicians, payers and patient groups to obtain a good understand-ing of patients’ and society’s needs, and design our research and development pro-jects based on the knowledge gained.
An integrated company
Our expertise includes an understanding of the elements needed to successfully scale up and prepare for commercial production. A holistic view of the process, with integrated development and manufacturing approaches, supports our ability to reduce the overall time from early development to products reaching the patients, without compromising safety.
As a mid-sized rare-disease company, our 
partnerships are key to building a successful pipeline. Our expertise in biologics and  protein engineering, in collaboration with 
partner companies, has allowed us to design and produce therapeutic proteins with the potential to transform the lives of rare-disease patients – our partnership with Bioverativ regarding the development of Alprolix and Elocta being an example of such a collabora-tion. We are also developing platforms aimed at extending the time molecules circulate in the body (half-life), which may present both us and other partners with even more oppor -
tunities to develop novel and clinically rele-vant  treatments for rare and other diseases 
(see page 34).
Responding to patient insights
In order to make a significant difference for individuals with rare diseases, we are also developing existing drugs to meet new  medical needs. As patients who have not 
had access to treatments before are given the opportunity to live longer and healthier lives, the medical need changes and new challenges are presented. Orfadin, our treat-ment for HT-1, has allowed people living with the disease to become adults. To meet the needs of adulthood, new formulations of Orfadin better suited to adults have been developed and introduced.
We secure intellectual property rights 
to safeguard our investments in research and development, enabling a financial per -
formance that allows us to reinvest in the development of new innovative treatments.
Positioning Sweden as a leader in biologics
We are also participating in the Swedish  government’s strategic programme in life 
 sciences to support the future development and production of biologics in Sweden, aimed 
at positioning Sweden as a leading nation in this field. The programme runs over a period of eight years, until 2024, with government funding of SEK 320 million as well as private funding. 
Exploring new technologies
We are working jointly with academia and participated in three centres and projects focused on development and manufacturing of biologics in 2017. Sobi contributes through financial "in-kind" funding and competence. The initiative has allowed us to explore new technologies that are expected to have an impact on development and manufacturing lead times. The academic network provided through this partnership also allows us to  connect with students and graduates, both 
equally benefiting from competence and experience sharing. 
“ We have been pioneers in 
haemophilia for the past 35 years – We intend to con-
tinue bringing innovation to 
the community for at least another 35 years to come.” 
 
  
Philip Wood, Head of Haemophilia
SUSTAINABILITY
40
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Regulatory and legal environment  
We operate in a highly regulated environment 
and are subject to laws and regulations gov-erning research, production and marketing. There is also a general trend towards greater awareness of liability issues and legal risk as well as increased transparency requirements. In parallel, our operating environment is con-stantly changing, requiring an adaptive and agile approach towards evolving regulatory and legal requirements as well as to stimulate innovation.
Sobi manages regulatory and legal 
engagement through various internal pro-cesses and control measures, such as con-tinuous scientific, regulatory and compliance training. The aim is to secure high-quality research, considering all relevant precaution-ary principles, and production as well as trans-parent and comprehensive marketing. During 2017, no incidents of non-compliance con-cerning marketing communications have been identified or reported. Developing our people  
To continue building a company that remains innovative and high-performing while grow-ing, we aim to foster a strong culture and  create and sustain an organisation where 
 continuous learning is key.
Culture-supported performance
We seek to engage our people in high- per-
forming teams to deliver in a competitive market and to reach challenging goals in a way that is aligned with corporate objectives and values. Training in our culture and values (see page 36) plays a vital role in building the business. 
We strive to promote a performance-based 
culture based on individual accountability, mandate and ownership. A critical factor in these efforts is to set, and continuously support, individual goals linked to strategic business objectives. However, performance is not only about what individuals achieve but also how these objectives are achieved. 
  Compliance and ethics
SUSTAINABILITYTHIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
41
850We are committed to providing  
a safe and healthy workplace for our
people around the world. Our people are expected to achieve individ-
ual and team performance goals in line with the corporate values. We endeavour to offer competitive salaries and benefits, which are individually determined. We perform regular benchmarks to ensure that compensation is on a par with similar companies.
Competence development
sInnovation is essential for a growing and research-based company such as Sobi. An adaptive and agile approach to respond to our evolving requirements is important to stimu-late innovation. Through feedback and cross-functional teams we aim to develop a change-ready mind-set across our organisation, a learning process that is dependent on individ-uals across Sobi being engaged in and com-mitted to our shared day-to-day operations. 
Professional development for all employ-
ees is seen as essential for both development of Sobi’s product portfolio as well as the organisation as a whole. In 2017, we imple-mented a training matrix system across the organisation in line with regulatory require-ments, to serve as a comprehensive platform for ensuring individualised and specialised training as well as evidence of learning. 
During the year, 99.1 per cent of all 
employees received a regular performance and career development review. In 2017, Sobi employees spent on average 26 hours completing training through e-learning. This does not include on-the-job or standard oper -
ating procedure (SOP) training or external training opportunities. Safe and healthy labour practices We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our 850 people around the world. Activities to protect labour rights are based on our responsibilities as an employer, and we encourage suppliers and partners to adopt socially responsible labour practices as well. We respect the international labour standards set forth by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and complies with national labour laws. 
The Environmental, Health and Safety 
(EHS) Policy and guidelines aim to promote a working culture where every employee and manager is personally responsible for ensur -
ing a safe and healthy workplace, through preventive measures and regular training. 
The health and safety committee repre-
sents all employees in Sweden. Country  managers have the overall responsibility for 
health and safety within their own operations. 
Investigating and identifying the cause(s) of 
an accident, dangerous situation or near miss makes it possible to take action to prevent a similar occurrence in the future. All employ-ees are required to report EHS-related inci-dents to their employer. In 2017, 23 accidents were reported, none of which led to sick leave.
Diversity supports growth
We have expanded internationally in recent years. The successful incorporation of new knowl  edge and influences is building the future 
company. The combination of rare-disease 
competencies and specific therapeutic knowl-edge has guided the recruitment process. Our business relies on the knowledge and competence of our people. Competitive terms of employment are a prerequisite for recruiting and retaining high-calibre people. We endeavour to offer competitive salaries and benefits, individually determined and adapted to the local labour market.
We are committed to providing equal 
employment opportunities regardless of race, age, gender, religion, national origin, sexual orientation or physical ability. During 2017, focus was placed on strengthening the  general knowledge about Sobi’s Code of 
Conduct & Ethics and non-discrimination  policies. Sobi’s guidelines clearly position 
against sexual harassment. Sobi’s Compliance Hotline is a third party whistle-blower service available to all Sobi employees which offers the option of reporting an issues anony-mously. In 2017, there was no incident of  discrimination.
We believe that diversity among people 
contributes to progress and mutual enrich-ment. Of the total number of people in 2017 (2016), 41 (42) per cent were men and 59 (58) per cent women. The corresponding figures for the Executive Committee and Board of Directors (excluding employee representa-tives) were 78/22 per cent and 67/33 per cent respectively.
SUSTAINABILITY
42
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Ethical practices and  
ethical collaborations
Sobi promotes business ethics by enforcing 
compliance with our corporate principles, and by supporting a culture that promotes an 
open discussion of ethics in our operations 
and among key stakeholders.
Ethical standards across the value chain
We work actively to prevent all forms of cor -
ruption and to ensure compliance with our ethical standards across the value chain. There is a zero-tolerance policy towards brib-ery, supported by the Sobi Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Sobi Global Policy on Anti-Corruption, which have both been translated 
into relevant business processes, such as 
those governing interactions with healthcare professionals and organisations. 
Engagement with organisations
To develop and deliver treatments that help meet the needs of patients and their families, our organisation strives to learn from them about their challenges, and the success and limitations of current treatment options. For this purpose, we collaborate with stakehold-ers throughout the value chain: from research and clinical programmes to patient access and pricing. Collaborations span all stake-holders, including national and regional patient organisations, governments and healthcare systems. 
There are company-wide guidelines in all 
business areas that support compliance with the regulations regarding ethics and trans-parency in engagement with external  organisations. 
Ethical research standards 
The safety of individuals who take part in clini-cal trials is of the utmost importance, building on rigorous, scientifically based evaluations by clinical experts in cooperation with regula-tory authorities, independent ethics commit-tees and stakeholders. To guide the ethical conduct of all research involving humans, we apply the Declaration of Helsinki’s principles for medical researchers. All Sobi-sponsored clinical studies are conducted and reported in accordance with applicable law and the international Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standard. We collaborate to a substantial extent with contract research organisations (CROs) when conducting clinical trials. These collaborations are governed by mutual high standards and procedures. 
Sobi follows the European Medicines 
Agency’s (EMA) policy on the publication of clinical trial data.
SUSTAINABILITYTHIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
43
Environmental impact  
Proactive environmental management is part 
of a sustainable business. We meet our envi-ronmental responsibility by performing risk assessments and acting to reduce these risks even further, managing chemicals and waste by phasing out chemicals of high concern, and working with energy and water consump-tion plans in our production facilities. Environ-mental considerations are integrated into activities and operational control, and formal responsibility has been delegated across the line organisation. We strive to comply with all environmental laws and regulations. 
All employees are required to undergo 
annual Environmental Training, covering risk assessment, greenhouse gas emissions and the management of chemicals and waste in the environment.
Chemicals management
Chemical regulations, aimed to eliminate adverse effects on the environment and human health, are extensive and continuously expanding. The handling of chemicals in R&D and manufacturing processes within Sobi fol-lows clear instructions, with annual risk assessments and internal audits of processes carried out.
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
The environmental hazard of a specific drug refers to its inherent properties, such as toxic-ity, the ability to be broken down by nature and the capacity to be stored in the fat of  animals. According to EU guidelines on the 
environmental risk assessment of medicinal products, some drugs are not expected to have any environmental impact, for example products composed of carbohydrates, amino acids, peptides and proteins. A high percent-age of our products are biopharmaceuticals composed of amino acids, proteins and  peptides, and these are unlikely to pose 
any significant risk to the environment.
Energy use and greenhouse emissions
Business travel is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions from our activities. As operations expand, face-to-face meetings with the multidisciplinary teams across the organisation are important to achieving oper -
ational goals. The importance of complying with the Travel Policy, which calls for consider -
ation of virtual meetings when possible, is emphasised continuously and the company provides tools for virtual meetings. 
We are committed to improving energy 
efficiency at our sites, and regularly review and monitor the operating costs of our build-ings. An energy management plan for the production facility in Stockholm has contrib-uted to reduced energy and water consump-tion relative to production capacity: although production volumes of ReFacto AF increased by 15 per cent, consumption of energy increased by only 0.8 per cent. 
Patient and customer integrity
It is important that customers, clinical trial subjects, staff and others we interact with can rely on Sobi managing and processing per -
sonal data in a responsible and safe manner, and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Emerging EU legislation imposes additional requirements on businesses pro-cessing personal data. To comply with these new requirements, we have assessed our framework and made necessary adjustments: for example the policy on processing of per -
sonal data has been updated. Relevant data flows have been analysed in order to close potential gaps under the new legislation. We have adopted a governance model that supports the compliant use of data and have provided relevant training to the organisa-tion. An updated data privacy organisation will secure compliance from 2018. 
In 2017, we had one Data Breach incident 
documented.
 
Responsible tax
Sobi pays corporate taxes in a responsible way. This means paying taxes where profits are earned in accordance with international transfer pricing rules. It means having a bal-anced tax risk profile and not engaging in  tax-avoidance activities, as well as keeping 
tax levels stable and predictable, insofar as prevailing business conditions permit.   Responsibility
SUSTAINABILITY
44
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Anti-corruption and  
anti-competitive practices
An open dialogue on ethical issues provides 
the foundation for our efforts to prevent cor -
ruption. The dialogue is supported by annual training for all people, where the Code of Conduct and Ethics and other related proce-dures are translated into a business context; completion of this training is a prerequisite to be eligible for and receive incentive pay-ments. In 2017, 100 per cent of the employ-ees participated in the training. No cases of corruption where reported during the year. Zero cases of non-compliance with laws and regulations within the economic and social area were reported.
Transparency in business operations
In the rare-disease community, collaborations between authorities, healthcare profession-als, companies and patient organisations have always been a cornerstone for the devel-opment of new and better treatments. Such collaboration needs to be carried out in a  correct and transparent manner. By further 
increasing transparency the community can achieve an even stronger basis for continued collaboration with positive impacts on the quality of research, development and manu-facturing. 
Sobi has had a programme for Health Care 
Compliance (HCC) in place for quite some time. HCC within Sobi is defined as the ethical business standard for transparent promotio-nal and non-promotional activities and inter -
actions with healthcare professionals, provid-ers, payers and patient organisations. The programme contains policies and  controls 
aimed at minimising the risk of  corruption.
We support transparency initiatives, incl-
uding the European Federation of Pharma-ceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Disclosure Code in Europe and the Physician Payments Sunshine Act in the US. We have implemented the EFPIA Disclosure Code and made all payments and transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organisations in Europe publicly available on www.sobi.com, including sponsorships to attend meetings, grants and donations, speaker fees, consultancies and advisory board postings. 
SUSTAINABILITYTHIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
45
Procurement
We procure materials, goods and services from more than 1 000 suppliers. Establishing good relationships with these suppliers pro-motes sustainability and responsibility in the industry. We strive to apply consistent rules to all suppliers based on our Code of Con-duct and Ethics. Our authorisation and sign-off procedures also reflect our anti-corruption commitment and help to ensure that we enter agreements and perform procurements in a transparent and responsible manner. During 2017, all new suppliers were screened based on requirements in our Code of Conducts and Ethics.
Purchasing can be divided into two main 
categories: products governed by interna-tional and national regulatory requirements and standards, and products of a general nature for all companies regardless of industry. Purchases in the first category are made after careful evaluation according to our governing documents and procedures, followed by con-tinuous assessments. In the second category, the company procures goods at the best terms, balancing price and quality in consid-eration of the relevant industry’s standards of responsibility. We also work with due  diligence to ensure that service providers 
comply with our anti-corruption standards.
SUSTAINABILITY
46
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Sustainability and risk management
The aim of our approach to risk management 
is to identify the risks that could affect the company’s ability to achieve our business goals, and to proactively manage those risks in a professional manner to safeguard the company’s ability to execute on the strategy.
Sobi has a business-integrated risk man-
agement process. Business intelligence, risk management and business continuity man-agement are all integrated into the strategy and business planning process as part of the regular corporate planning procedure. The risk management process is linked in an inte-grated and seamless way to all units and other processes – quality evaluation, financial planning and strategy – within the company. 
During the year, some areas became more 
important to address to reduce the potential risk impact. Competition in commercial  markets, especially in Haemophilia and for 
Orfadin, was one such area. Another is the continued need to balance the development portfolio in terms of the developmental stages. For this reason, a clear strategic direc-tion aimed at acquiring new programmes, projects or treatments through in-licencing or acquisition has been announced.
The assessment of sustainability risks is an 
integrated part of Sobi’s risk management process. The sustainability risk table identifies material risks in relation to our identified  sustainability issues. Read more on pages 
126–127. 
Macro view/ 
business intelligence Strategy process “as-is”Risk 
 
management  process, risk assessment & 
business 
 
continuity 
processStrategy process 
“to be”Financial/ 
 
operational 
planning Business plan with risk 
 
management  
&  continuity 
manage  ment 
plans1 2 3 4 5 6
SUSTAINABILITYTHIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
47
A strong  
heritage
2001
Biovitrum is formed through the merger of several units of the Swedish pharmaceutical company Pharmacia and spun off to a consor -
tium of investors led by Nordic Capital and MPM Capital Funds.
2004
Biovitrum starts to manufacture the active  protein component for Wyeth’s (now Pfizer’s) 
ReFacto and ReFacto AF/Xynta
® drugs for 
treatment of haemophilia A.
Marketing of specialty pharmaceuticals 
(ReFacto, Mimpara and Kineret) is initiated in the Nordic region.
2005
The research and development portfolio is expanded through the acquisition of Arexis, a Swedish biotech company, which includes the Kiobrina project.
2006
An agreement with Syntonix (subsequently  Bioverativ) is signed covering the development 
and manufacture of an extended half-life recombinant factor IX Fc-concentrate, rFIXFc. This substance was later to become the product Alprolix. Any possible development within hae-mophilia A is also included in the agreement.
Biovitrum lists on Nasdaq Stockholm.2007Collaboration starts with Syntonix/Biogen Idec on the development of an extended  half-life factor VIII Fc for the treatment of 
 haemophilia A, later to become Elocta. Sobi 
also manufactures the material for the first  in-human phase 1/2a rFIXFc studies for the 
treatment of haemophilia B.
2008
An agreement is signed with Amgen regard-ing the acquisition of the product Kepivance and the global license for Kineret. 
2009
The decision is taken to initiate final registra-tion studies for rFIXFc after safety and effi-cacy in previously treated (PTPs) haemophilia B subjects is established in phase 1/2a clinical studies.
Investor AB acquires 21 per cent of the 
shares in Biovitrum.
2010
Swedish Orphan International, a pioneer in orphan drugs, is acquired and a new com-pany, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Sobi, is created. With the acquisition comes Orfadin which later becomes an important drug for Sobi, as well as a portfolio of drugs under distribution agreements.A decision is taken to advance both  haemophilia candidates into pivotal phase 3 
studies, A-LONG and B-LONG.
2011
Data from the rFVIIIFc haemophilia phase 1/2 study shows an approximately 1.7-fold increase in half-life compared with Advate
®, 
a conventional factor treatment.
2012
The supply agreement with Pfizer for ReFacto AF/Xyntha is extended until 2020 and Nordic commercial rights are sold to Pfizer.
Global paediatric clinical trials of rFIXFc 
and rFVIIIFc candidates are  initiated.
A collaboration is formed with the Swedish 
biotech company Affibody AB within the Interleukin-1 (IL-1) field.
Sobi establishes operations in the Middle 
East and the US. 
2013
Sobi acquires full rights for Kineret and receives approval for the CAPS indication in the EU.
Sobi moves to the Large Cap segment 
on Nasdaq Stockholm, becoming the first pharmaceutical company in Sweden in eight years to do so. in biologics and 
rare disease
HISTORY & FINANCIAl OVERVIEW / HISTORY
48
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20172014
Biogen launches Eloctate and Alprolix in the US market, marking the start of real-world data collection for extended half-life treat-ments for haemophilia A and B.
Open-label studies to determine the 
safety and efficacy of Elocta and Alprolix in previously untreated males with severe haemophilia A and B commence (PUPs A-LONG/PUPs B-LONG).
Sobi exercises an opt-in right to take 
over final development and commercial-isation of Elocta in the Sobi territories. Sobi also adds a potentially longer-acting hae-mophilia A candidate, rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN to the agreement with Biogen.
The Kiobrina project was terminated.
2015Elocta is approved by the EMA for the treat-ment of haemophilia A and is subsequently launched in Europe in January 2016. 
Sobi exercises an opt-in right to take over 
final development and commercialisation of Alprolix in Sobi territories.
Kineret is approved for the treatment of 
 systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) 
in Australia. 2016Alprolix is approved by the EMA for the treatment of haemophilia B and is subse-quently launched in Europe.
The EMA grants Sobi’s development 
product candidate SOBI003 orphan drug designation for the treatment of the rare disease MPS IIIA or Sanfilippo A syndrome. 
A licensing agreement is reached with 
Affibody AB for the development of novel treatments for inflammatory diseases where IL-1 is involved.
The supply agreement with Pfizer for 
ReFacto AF is extended until 2023.Orfadin is developed to further meet patient needs with a 20 mg capsule and an oral suspension.
The development pipeline is strength-
ened with two proprietary and in-house developed candidate drugs in early-stage development, SOBI005 and SOBI006, as well as new planned clinical programmes.
Elocta is approved in Kuwait.2017Sobi expands its development portfolio by adding a potentially longer-acting haemo-philia B treatment candidate, rFIXFc-XTEN, to its  collaboration agreement with Bioverativ.
The first patients are recruited to the  clinical 
studies anaGO and anaSTILLs with Kineret in acute gout and Still’s disease, and A-SURE and ReITIrate with Elocta in haemophilia A.
The US Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) grants SOBI003, which at this stage is being prepared for clinical trials, orphan designation.
Alprolix is approved in Kuwait and the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Elocta is approved in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
HISTORY & FINANCIAl OVERVIEW / HISTORY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
49
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTIn 2017 the highest price paid was SEK 143.80 
on 5 June, and the lowest was SEK 106.10 on 25 January. Sobi’s market capitalisation at year-end 2017 was SEK 30.6 billion. Over the past five years, the share price has risen 202 per cent. 
Turnover and trading locations
The Sobi share is traded on several exchanges and trading platforms. In 2017, official trading accounted for 92 per cent of turnover in the share, of which the Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for 47 per cent. Unofficial ”off-book” trade in what are called ”dark pools” , private trading forums, represented 8 per cent of trading in the share, with the largest number of trades on UBS MTF . 
The average daily turnover in the Sobi 
share was 704,589 shares in official trading. In 2017, a total of 176.9 million shares were traded, corresponding to a value of approxi-mately SEK 46.1 billion. Share capitalAt year-end, the total number of ordinary shares outstanding in Sobi was 272,507,708. Each ordinary share carries one vote. All C shares were converted during the year.
At year-end, the share capital was 
SEK 149,526,711, distributed between 272,507,708 shares with a par value of approximately SEK 0.55.Sobi’s share
Largest shareholders at 31 December 20171
Shareholders Number of  
A sharesShare  
capital, % Share  
votes, %
Investor AB 107,594,165 39.48 39.48
Swedbank Robur fonder 14,945,541 5.48 5.48
Mellon Omnibus 15%, Agent F ITS clients 12,263,370 4.50 4.50
Fjärde AP fonden 11,653,245 4.28 4.28
AMF Försäkring och Fonder 9,186,284 3.37 3.37
Lannebo fonder 9,034,328 3.32 3.32
SEB Investment Management 6,827,457 2.51 2.51
Handelsbanken fonder 6,300,097 2.31 2.31
Gladiator 4,650,000 1.71 1.71
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 3,249,870 1.19 1.19
JPM Chase NA 3,204,789 1.18 1.18
Länsförsäkringar fondförvaltning AB 3,048,381 1.12 1.12
Afa Försäkring 2,843,306 1.04 1.04
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, W9 2,541,494 0.93 0.93
State Street Bank and Trust Co. 2,185,930 0.80 0.80
Total 15 largest shareholders 199,528,257 73.22 73.22
Other 72,979,451 26.78 26.78
Total 272,507,708 100.00 100.00
1.  The shareholders are presented as they appear in the shareholder register held by Euroclear Sweden AB. The list may therefore not show shareholders whose shares have been registered in the name of  
a nominee, through the trust department of a bank or similar institution.
Source: EuroclearThe share (STO:SOBI) is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, 
under the company name of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum. 
Over the past five years, the share price has increased 
by more than 200 per cent.HISTORY & FINANCIAl OVERVIEW / SHARE
50
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Average value of daily trading volume for  
the Sobi share on Nasdaq Stockholm
SEK 1,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
A shares 22,446 43,445 100,369 131,644 86,178
In 2017, the average daily trading volume in number of shares for the Sobi share on Nasdaq Stockholm 
was 704,589 shares.
Source: SIX Trust
Shareholder categories
 
31 Dec. 2017 % of capital 
Foreign shareholders 18.8
Swedish shareholders 81.2
Of which:
Institutions 94.6
Private persons 5.4
Source: Euroclear
Key data per share
SEK 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Earnings/loss 
per share –0.35 –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27
Equity per share 17.5 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6
Market price,  Series A-share,  
31 Dec., last paid price, SEK 66.75 79.35 134.6 106.7 112.3
P/E ratio –190.7 –78.6 434.2 35.7 26.3
Number  
of shares  at 31 Dec. 
270,389,770 270,785,950, 271,822,806 272,010,948 272,507,708Analyst coverage during 2017
The following research analysts followed Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (Sobi) 
 during 2017. For a current list, visit sobi.com
 
Carnegie Erik Hultgård
Danske Bank Lars Hevreng
Deutsche Bank Richard Parkes 
Handelsbanken Peter Sehested 
Jefferies Eun K. Yang 
Nordea Hans Mähler
Pareto Securities Peter Östling 
Rx Securities Samir Devani
SEB Richard Koch
Recommendations from analysts, %
2015 2016 2017
Buy 75 73 56
Hold 25 9 33
Sell 0 18 11
Source: Based on analyst reports
Brief facts, the Sobi share
Listing Nasdaq Stockholm
Number of shares (A shares) 272,507,708
Market capitalisation, at year end SEK 30.6 billion
Ticker SOBI
ISIN SE0000872095
CUSIP 870321106Incentive programmes
Sobi has launched several share-based incen-tive programmes for senior executives and employees. Currently, there are five active share programmes, all vesting within three years. The programmes represent a total maximum of 2,175,157 shares, or 0.8 per cent 
of the total number of shares in the company. For more information, see note 11. 
Shareholders
At year-end, the number of shareholders was 22,938 (32,397). The largest shareholder, Investor AB, held 39.5 per cent (39.6) of the shares. Swedish legal entities, including institu -
tions and funds, held 75.9 per cent (77.2).Treasury shares held by Swedish Orphan  Biovitrum AB (publ) at year-end totalled 
3,249,870 common shares.During the year, 478,154 shares were used for allotment under two performance-based long-term share programmes. 
Dividend
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid for 2017. For more information about Sobi’s 
dividend policy, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report.
LONG­TERM VALUE 
CREATION
The long-term price trend for Sobi’s 
share depends on how successful we are in our efforts to create value, by: • Improving cash flow and profitability in our  diversified commercial port-
folio; 
• Launching new and innovative medi-cations for rare disease patients; and 
• Focussing on our business model, with partnership in all areas, from early-stage biopharma ceutical research and development to the commercialisation of niche medi-cines in Europe. HISTORY & FINANCIAl OVERVIEW / SHARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
51
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT020,00040,00060,00080,000
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013306090120150Number of shares 
in thousands SEK
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI 
Number of shares traded in thousands per month Nasdaq Biotech indexSobi share price and trading volume 2013–2017Stockholm, 46.9%
Chi-X, 11.8%BATS, 25.7%LSE, 4.0%
Other, 11.6%
Trading places 2017
Stockholm, 54.7%
Chi-X, 8.0%BATS, 21.0%LSE, 1.6%
Other, 14.7%
Trading places 2016
Source: Fidessa2016%
81.2
11.486.2
3.12.72.91.41.9 0.90.5 2.45.4
2017020406080100
OtherFinland
LuxemburgUK US
Sweden
Source: EuroclearShareholders by country
CONTACT DETAILS
For more information about Sobi’s American Depositary  
Receipt (ADR), contact:US Depositary  BNY Mellon Shareowner servicesP .O. Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842-3170, USEmail: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.comToll free in the US: +1 888 269 23 77International dialling: +1 201 680 6825Communication with shareholdersFor more up-to-date information about the Sobi share, please visit www.sobi.com or call +46 (0)8 697 20 00,  to contact Jörgen Winroth, Head of Investor Relations.HISTORY & FINANCIAl OVERVIEW / SHARE
52
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Five-year summary – Group development
 
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Income statement, SEK M 
Operating revenue1 2,177 2,607 3,228 5,204 6,511
Gross profit 1,284 1,548 2,007 3,651 4,657
EBITDA2 241 –12 465 1,574 2,086
EBITA2 211 –44 433 1,543 2,053
EBIT (Operating profit) –67 –325 146 1,133 1,600
Profit/loss for the year –92 –270 83 802 1,149
Capital, SEK M
Total assets 6,525 6,375 8,315 9,974 10,903
Capital employed2 5,550 5,326 5,508 5,880 6,716
Equity 4,745 4,497 4,678 5,365 6,701
Cash and cash equivalents 445 519 904 786 1,478
Net cash (–)/net debt (+)2 352 298 –82 –282 –1,472
Cash flow, SEK MCash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 166 299 411 642 1,431
Cash flow from operating activities 185 234 507 343 1,333
Cash flow from investing activities –405 –184 –143 –158 –139
Cash flow from financing activities 207 20 22 –308 –500
Change in cash and cash equivalents –13 70 386 –123 694
Key figures, %Gross margin
2 59 59 62 70 72
Return on capital employed2 –1.2 –6.1 2.6 19.3 23.8
Return on equity2 –1.9 –5.8 1.8 16.0 19.0
Equity ratio2 73 71 56 54 61
Debt/equity ratio2 37 41 77 86 63
Share ratio, SEKEarnings/loss per share –0.35 –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27
Equity per share
2 17.5 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6
Dividend — — — — —
Cash flow per share2 0.0 0.3 1.4 –0.5 2.5
Cash flow from operating activities per share2 0.7 0.9 1.9 1.3 4.9
1. Full year 2016 revenues include a one time credit in Q1 of SEK 322 M relating to the first commercial sales of Elocta, and a one time credit in Q2 of SEK 386 M relating to first commercial sales of Alprolix.
2.  Sobi presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS, so called alternative performance measures. These have been noted in the table above and further 
 information on why these are considered important, and how they are calculated, can be found in Definitions at the end of this report.HISTORY & FINANCIAl OVERVIEW / FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
53
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTReporting
CFO’s statement  ............................................ 55
Directors’ Report  ........................................... 56
Consolidated financial statements
Statement of Comprehensive Income ............ 66
Balance Sheet ................................................. 67
Statement of Changes in Equity ..................... 68
Cash Flow Statement ...................................... 69
The Parent Company’s financial statements
Income Statement .......................................... 71
Statement of Comprehensive Income ............ 71
Balance Sheet ................................................. 72
Statement of Changes in Equity  .................... 74
Cash Flow Statement ...................................... 75Notes 
Note 1  General information ..................... 76
Note 2    Significant accounting policies  
and basis of preparation for  the Parent Company and  the consolidated financial  statements .................................... 76
Note 3 Financial risk management ........... 81
Note 4   Significant accounting estimates, assumption and judgements ........................... 83
Note 5    Distribution of operating  revenue ........................................ 84
Note 6  Segment reporting ....................... 84
Note 7   Depreciation and  amortisation of assets ................... 85
Note 8  Other operating income ............... 85
Note 9   Other operating expenses ........... 85
Note 10   Operating lease payments ........... 85
Note 11   Employees, personnel costs  and remuneration of the Board  and senior executives ................... 86
Note 12    Remuneration of auditors ............. 91
Note 13 Expenses by nature ...................... 91
Note 14 Finance income ............................ 91
Note 15 Finance costs ................................ 91
Note 16 Income tax .................................... 92
Note 17 Intangible assets and  
 impairment testing ....................... 93
Note 18 Property, plant and equipment .... 96
Note 19 Investments in subsidiaries ........... 97Note 20 Financial assets ............................. 98
Note 21  Deferred tax assets  and liabilities ................................ 98
Note 22 Inventories .................................. 100
Note 23 Trade and other receivables ....... 100
Note 24  Prepayments and accrued  income ........................................ 101
Note 25 Current investments, cash and cash   
 equivalents ................................. 101
Note 26 Financial assets and liabilities  
 per category (Group) .................. 102
Note 27 Other liabilities, non-current ...... 103
Note 28 Other liabilities, current .............. 103
Note 29 Post-employment benefits ......... 103
Note 30 Provisions for pensions ............... 105
Note 31 Accruals and deferred income ....105
Note 32 Pledged assets and contingent  
 liabilities ..................................... 105
Note 33 The Share ................................... 106
Note 34 Related party transactions .......... 106
Note 35  Proposed appropriation  of profit ....................................... 106
Note 36 Events after the reporting date .. 106
Corporate Governance Report  ................... 108Contents
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 54CFO’s statement
Sobi’s outstanding financial performance in 2017 shows how 
we continue to grow substantially in terms of volume and size. We have established our haemophilia products as leaders in the 
 market, and seen double-digit growth in two key Specialty Care 
products. This exceptional growth and the resulting strong finan-cial position give Sobi the platform we need to pursue growth.
Outstanding performance powers growth
Our rapid growth continued throughout 2017, 
with a remarkable financial performance. This was the third consecutive year in which we over-delivered on our financial targets. Our total revenue for 2017 was SEK 6,511 M, up 25 per cent on the year before. Excluding the one-time credits we received in 2016, there was a 45 per cent increase year-on-year. Our gross margin increased by 72 per cent thanks to an improved product mix. 
EBITA reached more than SEK 2 billion, 
which is more than our total revenue figure for 2012. Over the past five years, our revenues have grown by an average of more than 30 per cent per annum. Excluding the one-time cred-its 2016, which were of a non-cash-flow nature, 2017 EBITA was up 146 per cent on 2016.
We have strengthened our balance sheet 
significantly, with operating cash flow of more than SEK 1.3 billion. We were also able to pay off our bank loan, and now have a net cash position of SEK 1.5 billion.
Successful launches in Haemophilia 
We had fantastic growth in our haemophilia products, Elocta
® and Alprolix®, in 2017. Prod-
uct sales for the full-year reached SEK 1,557 M (267) for Elocta and SEK 363 M (60) for Alprolix. The successful launches of both products, together with higher royalties from our collab-oration partner Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, due to higher sales in its territories, were the key drivers for this excellent increase in reve-nue. Over the year, our Haemophilia franchise grew 67 per cent with full-year revenues of SEK 3,088 M (1,853), including royalties.
Double-digit growth for two Specialty  
Care  products
Our new Specialty Care business area also  performed strongly, demonstrating how it will 
contribute to our future growth. The core products Orfadin
® and Kineret® had double-digit growth in 2017, with increases of 12 per cent and 14 per cent respectively. Xiapex
® 
 revenues increased by 7 per cent during 2017.
Total revenue for Specialty Care reached 
SEK 2,829 M for the full year.
Financial strength to pursue growth
We are all very proud of the financial results we were able to achieve in 2017 and the strong financial position in which Sobi is today. Sobi has repaid the entire bank loan of SEK 500 M during the year. This means the company and the balance sheet can afford both to support internal projects and to seize external oppor -
tunities, allowing the company to fulfil the  strategic direction of pursuing possibilities for 
further growth. 
We now are well placed to continue to grow 
the company, both organically and through business development activities. 
Mats-Olof Wallin, CFO
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
55
REpORTING / CFO’S STATEMENT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTHighlights 2017 
Financial highlights 
• Total revenue was SEK 6,511 M (5,204), an increase of 25 per cent. Adjusted for one-time credits in 2016, this was an increase of 45 per cent.
• Product sales amounted to SEK 5,917 M (4,548), an increase of 30 per cent.
• The gross margin was 72 per cent (70).
• EBITA was SEK 2,053 M (1,543). 
• Profit for the year amounted to SEK 1,149 M (802), corresponding to  earnings per share of SEK 4.27 (2.99).
• Cash flow from operating activities 
amounted to SEK 1,333 M (343). Business highlights • By the end of the year, Elocta was  reimbursed in 22 countries and Alprolix 
in 14 countries.
• First patients enrolled in the ReITIrate study evaluating immune tolerance  induction with Elocta.
• Haemophilia development portfolio 
expanded by the addition of rFIXFc-XTEN
1 
for subcutaneous haemophilia B treatment.
• Orfadin oral suspension and 20 mg cap-sules approved on several markets.
• The anaGO and anaSTILLs studies with Kineret were initiated.
• Kineret was approved for treating NOMID in Canada.
• SOBI003 was awarded orphan drug  designation for the treatment of MPS IIIA 
in the US.
• Guido Oelkers took over as CEO on 22 May 2017 and appointed a new  Executive Committee during the year.
• The new business area Specialty Care 
was established.Directors’ Report
Sobi’s operations 
Sobi is an international healthcare company dedicated to rare diseases. Our mission is to make a real difference to the lives of people with rare diseases by providing innovative therapies in our focus areas. The product port-folio is primarily focused on haemophilia and specialty pharmaceuticals. Partnership in the development and commercialisation of spe-cialty pharmaceuticals is an important part of our strategy.
In 2017, the Company generated revenue 
through:• Sales of proprietary products, marketing rights for Elocta and Alprolix, and royalty revenue from Bioverativ’s sales of Eloctate
® 
and Alprolix.
• Sales of products for which Sobi holds the distribution and/or licensing agreements in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa and Russia.
• Sales of the drug substance for ReFacto AF
®/Xyntha® to Pfizer, and royalties from 
Pfizer’s US sales of ReFacto AF/Xyntha.
Key figures
SEK M 2017 2016
Operating revenue 6,511 5,204
Gross profit 4,657 3,651
Gross margin, %1 72 70
EBITA 1 2,053 1,543
EBIT (Operating profit) 1,600 1,133
Profit for the year 1,149 802
Earnings per share, SEK 4.27 2.99
1. APM (Alternative Performance Measures).
See page 53 for a five-year summary of  revenue, expenses and earnings.Revenue trend, SEK M
Total revenue Product revenue including royalty
ReFacto revenue including royalty 15Q1
15Q215Q315Q4
17Q1
17Q217Q317Q416Q1
16Q216Q316Q405001,0001,5002,000Revenue by product category
SEK M 2017 2016
Haemophilia 3,088 1,853
Specialty Care 2,829 2,695
ReFacto 594 656
Total revenue 6,511 5,2041.  XTEN is a Bioverativ development programme. Sobi has elected to add the programmes to the collaboration agreement but not yet opted in.
56
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORTOperating revenue 
Revenue increased to SEK 6,511 M (5,204) in 2017. Product sales increased by 30 per cent to SEK 5,917 M (4,548). 
Haemophilia
Sales in the area of Haemophilia, with the products Elocta and Alprolix, showed growth of 67 per cent, increasing to SEK 3,088 M (1,853). Sales for the comparative year 2016 included one-time credit of SEK 322 M,  related 
to the first commercial sales of Elocta, and a one-time credit of SEK 386 M, related to the first commercial sales of Alprolix. The growth came mainly from France, Italy, the UK and Germany. 
Royalty revenue from Bioverativ’s sales of 
Eloctate and Alprolix accounted for SEK 1,168 M (1,525) of the revenue. Product sales related to haemophilia amounted to SEK 1,920 M (327) during the year, with sales of Elocta accounting for SEK 1,557 M (267) of the figure. Sales of Alprolix amounted to SEK 363 M (60) for the year. At year-end, Elocta was reimbursed in 22 countries in Europe, while Alprolix was reimbursed in 14 countries, with the addition of Bulgaria and Greece towards the end of the year.
Specialty Care
The Specialty Care business area was formed in 2017 by merging Sobi’s operations in Part-ner Products, Genetics & Metabolism and Inflammation. Specialty Care focuses on rare diseases and niche indications, where there is a great medical need.
The business area has its own distribution 
networks across Europe, the Middle East, North Africa and North America, which it uses to sell both proprietary and other products. Sales for Specialty Care, comprising the prod-ucts Orfadin, Kineret, Xiapex and Kepivance
® 
and a large number of products distributed on behalf of partners, increased by 5 per cent to SEK 2,829 M (2,695).
Full-year sales of Orfadin amounted to SEK 
862 M (770), an increase of 12 per cent, with strong growth in North America and EMENAR. The growth in North America is largely attrib-utable to the launch of 20 mg capsules and oral suspension. EMENAR performed strongly in all markets, particularly in the Middle East, North Africa and Russia. In 2017, the Orfadin patent expired and competition entered the nitisinone market in the US, Canada and Europe in the form of generic treatments. Despite the new generic treatments, Orfadin sales continued to increase during 2017, driven by the launch of the new formulations and comprehensive patient support services. 
The year’s revenue from sales of Kineret 
amounted to SEK 1,142 M (1,001), an increase of 14 per cent, with continuing volume growth in North America and EMENAR. This growth was mainly driven by increasing interest in the area of interleukin-1. 
Revenue from Xiapex amounted to SEK 
164 M (153), an increase of seven per cent. The growth was driven by good uptake in both Dupuytren’s contracture and Peyronie’s dis-ease, particularly in less mature markets.
ReFacto
The ReFacto business area’s total revenue from manufacturing and royalties amounted to SEK 594 M (656). Manufacturing revenue declined by 2 per cent to SEK 559 M (569), while royalty revenue declined by 61 per cent to SEK 34 M (88) due to the expiration of Sobi’s rights to royalty revenue on sales outside the US on 1 June 2016. The present supply agreement for ReFacto AF/Xyntha runs until 31 December 2023, with an option to renew. Sobi’s royalty agreement for ReFacto in the US remains valid until January 2018.
Gross margin
The gross margin increased to 72 (70) per cent thanks to an improved product mix driven by a continued strong development of Elocta and Alprolix. 
Expenses
Operating expenses increased to SEK 3,057 M (2,518). The increase was partly due to higher selling and administrative expenses associated with the strengthening of Sobi’s management team and strategic initiatives for future develop-ment. The increase is also reflective of invest-ments to support the continuing launch of Elocta and Alprolix. Selling and administrative expenses amounted to SEK 2,096 M (1,776). 
Selling and administrative expenses, SEK M Net sales (SEK M) and operating margin (%) Net cash (+)/net debt (–), SEK M1
05001,0001,5002,0002,500
2017 2016 2015 2014 20138981,0321,3451,7762,096
Net sales, SEK M Operating margin, %02,0004,0006,0008,000
2017 2016 2015 2014 201350607080902,1772,6073,2285,2046,511
–600–30003006009001,2001,500
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013–352 –298822821,472
1. APM
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
57
REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTOther factors that contributed to the increase 
in operating expenses were higher R&D expenses reflecting clinical operations for Elocta, Sobi’s share of Bioverativ’s develop-ment costs for Elocta and Alprolix, early devel-opment programmes and the programme for Kineret, anaGO, for acute gout. Research and development expenditure amounted to SEK 908 M (778).
Operating expenses also include costs of 
SEK 84 M  (36) for the long-term incentive pro-
grammes. Cash flow is not affected by these programmes until they are vested, and then as social costs.
Other operating income and expenses 
amounted to SEK –52 M (36). Operating  revenues and expenses for this year and the 
previous year are related to currency effects.
Earnings
Earnings before amortisation of intangible assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 2,053 M (1,543). Amortisation of intangible assets was SEK 453 M (410), including a write-down of a clinical programme at an early stage of SEK 12 M. EBIT amounted to SEK 1,600 M (1,133).
Net financial items
Net financial items for 2017 amounted to SEK –68 M (–85) of which SEK –50 M (–51) relates to interest to Bioverativ and SEK –14 M (–29) to interest on external loans. This derives pri-marily from the redemption in 2016 of a bond which has resulted in reduced interest costs. The net financial items included exchange gains/losses of SEK –3 M (5). Net financial items comprised finance income of SEK 1 M (8) and finance costs of SEK 69 M (93). In addition to currency effects, net financial items consisted of interest income and interest expenses.
Taxes
Current tax for the year amounted to SEK –209 M (–82), while deferred tax was SEK –175 M (–164). Total tax recognised for the Group was SEK –384 M (–246). Deferred tax for the previ-ous year has been adjusted during 2017 by a net amount of SEK –7 M as a result of the return to the residual value method of depreci-ation in Q2 2016 and deferred tax on cash flow hedges for which the tax is now assessed as non-temporary. The adjustments have affected deferred tax in both the Parent Company and the Group, but have not had any effect on taxes paid. See also notes 16 and 21.
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income amounted to SEK 147 M (–170) (net) and consisted of cash flow hedges attributable to future inflows in USD, current tax on these hedges, exchange differences and revaluation of the pension obligations and deferred tax on these.
Cash flow and investments
Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 1,333 M (343). Cash flow from investing activities was SEK –139 M (–158). 
An increase in working capital had an effect 
of SEK –98 M (–300 ) on cash flow. The increase was mainly attributable to trade receivables and increased inventories as a result of 
Five-year summary, Group
SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Operating revenue 6,511 5,204 3,228 2,607 2,177
Cost of goods and services sold –1,854 –1,554 –1,221 –1,059 –893
Research and development expenditure –908 –778 –513 –501 –456
Operating profit (EBIT) 1,600 1,133 146 –325 –67
Net financial –68 –85 –61 5 –56
Profit for the year 1,149 802 83 –270 –92
Earnings per share, SEK 4.27 2.99 0.31 –1.01 –0.35
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 4.25 2.98 0.31 –1.01 –0.35
Number of shares, thousands 272,508 270,390 270,390 270,390 270,390
Equity/assets ratio1 61% 54% 56% 71% 73%
1. APM.Revenue by product category (Group)
SEK M 2017 2016
Elocta 1,557 267
Alprolix 363 60
Royalty revenue 1,168 1,525
Haemophilia 3,088 1,853
Orfadin 862 770
Kineret 1,142 1,001
Xiapex 164 153
Other 661 772
Specialty Care 2,829 2,695
Manufacturing revenue 559 569
Royalty revenue 34 88
ReFacto 594 656
Total revenue 6,511 5,204
Product sales by region (Group)
(Excluding royalty revenues)
SEK M 2017 2016 Change
Europe 3,784 2,222 70%
MENAR 1 272 302 –10%
North America 1,168 1,002 17%
Rest of world 84 66 27%
Total 5,308 3,592 48%
1. Middle East, North Africa and Russia
Source of revenue by business line (Group)
Haemophilia Specialty Care ReFacto
Alprolix Akynzeo® Manufacturing
Elocta Ammonaps® Royalty
Royalty Ferriprox®
Kepivance
Kineret
Orfadin
Ruconest®
Valeant portfolio
Xiapex
Yondelis®
Other
58
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORTincreased sales. At the same time, these were 
offset by an increased tax liability as the Parent Company is now in a tax position, see under Parent Company.
Financial position
At 31 December 2017, cash and cash equiva-lents and short-term investments amounted to SEK 1,478 M (786). 
In December, the credit facility with an origi-
nal maturity in June 2019, was restructured from the previous utilised and repaid credit facility of SEK 500 M and revolving credit facil-ity of SEK 500 M to a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M, which has not been utilised to date. During the year, Sobi also used the option to extend the credit facility by one year. The measures will reduce the Company’s  interest expenses, increase financial flexibility 
and reduce refinancing risk. 
Net cash on 31 December 2017 was 
SEK 1,472 M, compared with SEK 282 M on 31 December 2016. The liability to Bioverativ is a non-interest-bearing liability, but is recog-nised at a discounted value and therefore car -
ries an accounting interest cost. This liability is not included in net cash/debt.
Equity
The Group’s equity amounted to SEK 6,701 M (5,365) as per 31 December 2017. In addition to the result for the year, the change includes costs for share programmes and hedge accounting. Closing balance 2016 has been adjusted with net SEK 11 M, see note 21 for more information. 
Revenue by product category, SEK M
Product sales by region (excluding royalty revenues), SEK MParent Company
The Parent Company’s business model is to develop, register, distribute and market drugs for rare diseases. The Parent Company’s reve-nue amounted to SEK 5,756 M (4,594) in 2017. The operating profit was SEK 1,600 M (1,206). Profit for the year totalled SEK –508 M (51), including excess depreciation of SEK –970 M, a Group contribution of SEK 59 M and a non-tax deductable write-down of SEK 1,000 M. At 31 December 2017, cash and cash equivalents were SEK 1,381 M (662) and equity amounted to SEK 5,436 M (5,755). The change was attrib-utable to profit for the year, costs associated with the Company’s share programmes, sales of own shares and hedge accounting including current tax. The opening balance for 2016 has been adjusted by a net amount of SEK 11 M, see note 21. 
After impairment testing, the Parent Com-
pany has written down the value of the shares in the subsidiary Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Inter -
national AB by SEK 1,000 M. The impairment is the result of a reduction in the underlying projected cash flows from Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, which has a nega-tive effect on the value of the Parent Compa-ny’s shares in the subsidiary. These cash flows are only internal within the Group.The impair -
ment does not affect the Group’s earnings or financial position, mainly because surplus  values   of assets in the Group are depreciated 
according to plan annually.
Development 
Sobi’s development projects include pipeline 
programmes in the areas of haemophilia, inflammation and genetic and lysosomal dis-eases. Sobi is also conducting a number of projects focused on the further development of existing products.
In haemophilia, development consists of 
expanded clinical trial activity to strengthen the already extensive evidence for Sobi’s approved haemophilia products. The ReITIrate study is evaluating immune tolerance induction with Elocta. Sobi is also conducting preclinical devel-opment of the XTEN technology in partnership with Bioverativ for the purpose of producing the next generation of treatments for haemo-philia A and haemophilia B.
Two clinical programmes are in progress in 
the area of inflammation, aimed at studying new applications for Kineret – acute gout and 05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
ReFacto Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 
2016 Sales 2017 Growth adjusted for currency effects compared with 2016+64%
+5%
–10%05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
ReFacto Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 2016 Sales 
2017 Growth adjusted for currency effects compared with 2016+64%
+5%
–10%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
ReFacto Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 
2016 Sales 2017 Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2016+64%
+5%
–10%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
ReFacto Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 
2016 Sales 2017 Growth adjusted for currency effects compared with 2016+64%
+5%
–10%
1.  Middle East, North Africa and Russia
2.  Rest of the world Sales
2016Sales2017Growth adjusted for currency effects compared with 2016+65%
–12%+17%
+27%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000
RoW2North America MENAR1EuropeSales
2016Sales2017Growth adjusted for currency effects compared with 2016+65%
–12%+17%
+27%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000
RoW2North America MENAR1Europe
Sales2016Sales
2017Growth adjusted for currency effects compared with 2016+65%
–12%+17%
+27%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000
RoW2North America MENAR1Europe
Sales2016Sales2017Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2016+65%
–12%+17%
+27%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000
RoW2North America MENAR1Europe
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
59
REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTStill’s disease. The anaGO phase 2 trial is to 
evaluate the safety and efficacy of Kineret for the treatment of acute gout. The ana-STILLs phase 3 trial is to evaluate the safety and  efficacy of Kineret for the treatment of Still’s 
disease. 
The earlier pipeline programme explored 
potential new product candidates for the  treatment of inflammatory conditions where 
interleukin (IL-1) is involved. SOBI006 is based on the Affibody platform. 
A clinical programme is in progress in 
the area of genetics. A collaboration study designed to examine the use of nitisinone in patients with alkaptonuria (AKU) is in progress. Surveillance studies to assess the long-term efficacy and safety of Orfadin in HT-1 are in progress. 
Clinical studies are about to be conducted for 
SOBI003, a product candidate for the treatment of the lysosomal storage disease MPS IIIA. 
The product candidate SOBI005 is part 
of the programme for complement-related  diseases.
Regulatory approvals
• EMA approved the possibility of dosing Alprolix at 14-day intervals for hemophilia B.
• Elocta and Alprolix were approved in Saudi Arabia.
• Kineret was approved in Canada for the treatment of systemic multi-inflammatory disease with neonatal debut (NOMID).
• Orfadin capsules and oral suspension were approved in Canada for the treatment of hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with a restrictive intake of tyrosine and phenylalanine.
• Orfadin capsules were approved in Saudi Arabia, Algeria and Tunisia for the treat-ment of HT-1. Algeria and Tunisia are the first approvals for Orfadin in North Africa.
• The European Commission and the FDA approved a reduced dosing frequency of Orfadin to twice daily for patients who are five years of age or older. The FDA also approved the storage of Orfadin capsules (all strengths) at room temperature (25° C 
or lower) for up to 45 days during use.
• SOBI003 received orphan drug status (ODD) in the United States for the treament of mucopolysaccharide type IIIA (MPS IIIA).First patients enrolled in 24-month  real-world study evaluating effectiveness  
of EloctaThe first patients have been enrolled in the A-SURE study. A-SURE is a 24-month real world study evaluating the effectiveness of Elocta compared with conventional FVIII prod-ucts in the prophylactic treatment of patients with haemophilia A in Europe. 
Sobi and Bioverativ present new  
long-term safety and efficacy data for  Elocta and Alprolix New haemophilia data was presented at the 10
th Annual Congress of the European Associ-
ation for Haemophilia and Allied Disorders (EAHAD). Data on the long-term safety and efficacy of Elocta and Alprolix and an updated analysis of data from the ASPIRE and B-YOND studies were presented.
New Alprolix data published in The Lancet 
HaematologyResults from the Kids B-LONG phase 3 clinical study, which studied Alprolix in previously treated children with severe haemophilia B, were published in The Lancet Haematology. The primary outcome measure of the trial was development of inhibitors, and no patients treated with Alprolix in the study developed inhibitors. 
New Alprolix data published in Thrombosis 
and HaemostasisInterim results from the B-YOND extension study, which studies Alprolix in previously treated patients with severe haemophilia B, were published in the March 2017 issue of Thrombosis and Haemostasis. The study results reinforce the long-term safety and efficacy of prophylactic treatment with Alprolix over a median duration of more than three years in adults/adolescents and more than a year and a half in children under twelve years of age. 
Haemophilia B development portfolio 
expanded with rFIXFc-XTEN Sobi opted to add the novel development  candidate rFIXFc-XTEN, for subcutaneous 
treatment of haemophilia B, to the collabora-tion agreement with Bioverativ. ASPIRE and B-YOND studies showed improvement of affected jointsFollow-up data from the ASPIRE and B-YOND continuation studies, showed improvements in the haemodialysis assessment of haemophilia with a lower number of haemorrhages per year, especially in the worst affected joints of people receiving prophylactic treatment with Alprolix and Elocta, was presented by Sobi and Bioverativ at the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) Congress 2017 in Berlin.
ReITIrate study launched
The first patients were enrolled in the ReITIrate study evaluating immune tolerance induction with Elocta.
Bioverativ initiated XTEN molecule studies 
Bioverativ initiated the phase 1/2 study for rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN within haemophilia A. rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN is the next generation of extended half-life products. Sobi is collaborat-ing with Bioverativ in the XTEN programme. 
Start-up of pipeline programmes for acute 
gout and Still’s diseaseThe first patients have been randomised in the two Kineret clinical development pro-grammes, for the purpose of evaluating two new potential areas of application: acute gout and Still’s disease. 
First patient randomised in the anaGO  
phase 2 study The first patient was randomised in the anaGO phase 2 study to evaluate efficacy and safety of Kineret (anakinra) in the treatment of acute gout.
Other information
Company management changesGuido Oelkers succeeded Geoffrey McDonough as President and CEO with effect from 22 May 2017. Guido Oelkers joined Sobi from a pre-vious role as CEO of BSN Medical GmbH. He has extensive experience from pharmaceutical and healthcare companies.
A new Executive Committee was estab-
lished and replaced the Executive Leadership Team as decision-making body. The Executive Committee consists of: 
60
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORTCEO: Guido Oelkers
CFO: Mats-Olof Wallin
General Counsel and Head of Legal 
Affairs: Torbjörn  Hallberg  
(took office in January 2018)
Head of Haemophilia: Philip Wood
Head of Specialty Care: Norbert OppitzHead of EMENAR: Hege HellströmHead of North America: Rami LevinHead of Medical & Scientific Affairs: 
Armin Reininger
Head of Research & Development, 
Chief Medical Officer: Milan Zdravkovic
From the previous management team, Fredrik Berg, former Chief Legal Officer, retired and thus left the company. In addition, former Chief Operations Officer – Alan Raffensperger, former Head of Human Resources – Dennis Pedersen, former Chief Patient Access Officer – Wills Hughes Wilson, and former Head of Business Development – Stefan Fraenkel left Sobi during the year.
Sustainability Reporting
In accordance with the Annual Accounts Act Sobi is required to produce a legal sustaina-bility report. The legal sustainability report is found on pages 12–13, 36–47 and 123–132 in 
the Annual and Sustainability Report which has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Corporate Governance 
In accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, Sobi is required to produce a corporate gov-ernance report. In accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, 6 chapter 8§, Sobi has chosen to prepare a corporate governance report, separate from the annual report, which can be found on pages 108–113.
Environmental regulation
Although the Company is not certified, Sobi’s environmental management system is based on the ISO 14001 standard. Management has established an environmental policy to further underscore the importance of environmental work. The policy can be found on the Compa-ny’s website www.sobi.com. Sobi’s production facility in Stockholm holds a permit for hazard-ous operations for facilities that produce organic substances through industrial-scale  biological reactions. Compliance with the 
 permit conditions is disclosed annually in an 
environmental report to the local supervisory authority. In Solna, the Company has facilities that are subject to a reporting obligation for the professional production, through chemical or biological reactions, of organic or inorganic sub-stances in trial, pilot or laboratory scale or other non-industrial scale production. The conditions for this permit mainly relate to water emissions and include a requirement to adjust the pH of the process water. No breaches of the condi-tions were reported by any of the facilities in 2017. The Company also has an import permit for animal by-products from the Swedish Board of Agriculture, and a permit for handling flam-mable products. While adaptation to current regulations has not had any adverse impact on Sobi’s competitiveness or operations to date, the Company cannot predict the impact of future regulations.
Share capital and ownership
Sobi’s share capital was SEK 149,526,711 divided into 272,507,708 shares, with a quota value per share of approximately 0.55 SEK. On 31 December 2017, there were a total number of outstanding shares of 272,507,708 ordinary shares, each with one vote. On 31 December 2017, Investor AB was the single largest share-holder in Sobi, with a total of 107,594,165 shares, representing 39.48 per cent of the votes and 39.48 per cent of the capital.
Conversion of shares
The Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017 authorised the Board to decide to issue C shares and repurchase the issued C shares for the purpose of hedging long-term incentive programmes. The Meeting also adopted the Board’s proposal concerning the transfer of shares. On 31 December 2017, Sobi held 3,249,870 ordinary shares. All previously issued C-shares were converted into ordinary shares during 2017. For more detailed infor -
mation about the total number of shares in the Company, the number of shares by category and the number of votes carried by the shares, see the section on shares on page 50.
Guidelines and remuneration 2018
The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General Meeting resolves on guide-lines for remuneration for senior executives as set forth below which shall apply until the 2019 Annual General Meeting. Senior executives are defined as the CEO of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) and the executives who report to the CEO and who are members of senior management. 
Objective
The objective of the guidelines is to ensure that the Company can attract and retain the best people in order to support the vision and strategy of the Company. Remuneration for senior executives is based on a total remunera-tion approach. The position of total remunera-tion should be market competitive without being leading relative to competitors in each local market. The market comparisons should be made against a set of peer Group compa-nies with comparable sizes, industries and complexity. The remuneration guidelines should enable international hiring and should support diversity within senior executives. The remuneration may consist of the following components:
• A. Fixed Base Pay
• B. Variable Pay – so-called Short-Term 
Incentives 
• C. Long-Term Incentives
• D. Pensions
• E. Other Benefits
To the extent a member of the Board of Direc-tors carries out work for the Company or for another Group company, in addition to the board work, consulting fees and/or other remuneration for such work may be payable. 
Fixed Base Pay
The fixed base pay of senior executives should be based on competence, responsibility and performance. The Company uses an interna-tional evaluation system in order to evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position.
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
61
REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTVariable Pay
The annual Short-Term Incentive plan is based on the achievement of annual performance objectives (corporate and individual). Payment is based on achievement of the pre-deter -
mined objectives. The annual performance objectives are defined in advance by the  Compensation & Benefits Committee and 
approved by the Board of Directors.
These objectives are determined for the 
 promotion of the Company’s long-term devel-
opment, value creation and financial growth and shall be designed in a way that does not encourage an excessive risk-taking. The  Short-Term Incentives are limited to 75 per cent 
of the annual gross salary for the CEO and 60 per cent of the fixed annual salary for the other senior executives.
Long-Term Incentives 
The Company can introduce long-term incen-tive programmes for all or some of its employ-ees. The objectives of such a programme should be to align the employees’ interests with those of the shareholders, to create a long-term commitment to the Company, to be a tool to retain and attract executives and top talent, to offer participants the opportunity to take part in the Company’s long-term success and value creation, and to contribute to a com-petitive total remuneration.
For more information on the Company’s 
 current incentive programmes, see note 11. 
Pensions
The preferred pension plan design is defined contribution
1. If the operating environment 
requires the establishment of a defined benefit pension plan by law or other regulations, such a plan may be established. The defined benefit level should in such cases be limited to the mandatory level. 
Sobi’s values
Sobi promotes a good working environment. Sobi strives to comply with all health and safety-related laws and regulations and there-fore conducts systematic health and safety work integrated with environmental and qual-ity awareness. The Company has also worked actively for several years to raise awareness of the Company’s values among all employees in the organisation. Sobi has the following values: Care, Ambition, Urgency, Ownership and  Partnership. Compliance with the Company’s 
values is evaluated every year in Sobi’s perfor -
mance appraisal process.
Employees
At 31 December 2017, the number of full-time equivalent was 800 (760), of whom 451 (433) were based in Sweden. Salaries and other  benefits amounted to SEK 927 M (793), 
with the Parent Company accounting for SEK 427 M (367) of the amount.
Of the total number of employees in 2017, 
59 per cent were female and 41 per cent were male. All employees are treated equally and offered the same opportunities regardless of age, gender, religion, sexual orientation, disability or ethnicity.
Care 
We are who we are because of our dedica-tion, our knowledge and our passion. Care is the foundation upon which our strategy, our business and our culture are built.Ambition
We will set ourselves ambitious goals and do our utmost to achieve them.  
  Urgency
We need to embrace a sense of urgency, while safeguarding our stand-ards, because the patients cannot wait. Ownership
It is our duty to act. We therefore encourage intrapreneurship and learn from our experi-ences. Partnership
We embrace partner -
ships and collaboration, within Sobi and with external partners and stakeholders. 
62
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORT
1.  A defined contribution pension plan determines  
the contribution paid to the plan for every employee. Other benefits
Fixed salary during notice periods and sever -
ance pay, including payments for any restric-tions on competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent to the fixed base pay for two years. In addition to this restriction, the total severance payment shall be limited to the existing monthly salary for the remaining months up to the age of 65.
Additional compensation may also be paid 
out in extraordinary circumstances, provided that such arrangements are made for senior executive recruitment or retention purposes and are agreed on an individual basis. Such extraordinary arrangements shall be in line with market practice and may, for example, include a one-time cash payment, a support package including relocation and tax filing support, retention bonus or severance pay-ment in case of a change of control, or similar.
Deviation from the guidelines 
The Board of Directors may resolve to deviate from the guidelines if the Board of Directors, in an individual case, is of the opinion that there are special circumstances justifying that.
Proposed appropriation of profit
The following amounts are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting:
SEK
Share premium reserve 4,231,346,499
Retained earnings 763,083,789
Profit for the year –507,835,892
Total 4,486,594,396
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid for the financial year 2017. 
The Board proposes that the available funds 
of SEK 4,486,594,396 be carried forward.Events after the reporting date, 
up to 27 March 2018 
• The FDA approved an application for a 
 clinical trial and granted Fast Track status 
the product candidate SOBI003 for the treatment of MPS IIIA.
• Elocta was reimbursed in Poland and Slovakia.
• Sobi signed a two-year agreement with the Health Services Executive in Ireland to pro-vide Elocta and Alprolix to all patients who had previously been treated with factor replacement therapy.
• The European Medicines Agency (EMA) Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) issued a favourable opinion for Kineret (anakinra) in the  treatment of Stills disease.
• Henrik Stenqvist was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer (CFO) when Mats-Olof Wallin, current CFO, retires in July 2018.
• Sobi launched Ravicti
® in Europe and 
advances the care for patients with Urea Cycle Disorders.
• New market data was received from the pharmaceutical industry association in France after the end of the financial year which indicates that the provision made by Sobi’s French subsidiary for pharmaceutical tax may be too high. One component in the calculation of pharmaceutical tax is based on the development of the French market. Preliminary prognoses from an independent organisation in France are submitted to the industry body during the financial year, and provide a foundation for pharmaceutical tax provisions. In February 2018, the industry body reported that the growth figure on which the received forecasts were based could be too high. A final figure for pharma-ceutical tax will be received during the  second quarter of 2018, at which point 
the provision in the annual report will be adjusted, if required, and reported.Outlook for 20181
Sobi expects revenue for the full year 2018 to be in the range of SEK 7,500–7,700 M. The gross margin is expected to be at least 70 per cent, while EBITA for the full year is expected to be in the range of SEK 2,500–2,700 M. 
For information regarding forward looking 
statements, see inside front cover. 
1. At current exchange rates.
This outlook was published on 22 February 2018.
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
63
REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTOperational risks
Risk Description of risk Management and comments
Drug development Drug development until launch is a capital-intensive, complex 
and risk-prone process. The probability of reaching the market increases as the project advances through the development process. However, the risks remain substantial up to and includ-
ing phase 3 clinical studies, while costs increase at a faster rate 
when the project moves into the later clinical phases.Sobi currently has a number of projects in clinical development and several projects in preclinical development. Sobi’s innovation model (see page 32) is used to determine the attractiveness of a project and its risk profile.
Obtaining and retaining  authorisation for new  
productsSobi must be able to demonstrate that drug candidates main-tain high quality, are safe and have the intended effect with suf-ficient, well-controlled preclinical and clinical studies. Preclini-
cal and clinical development is a time-consuming process that 
is affected by a number of factors, including those beyond the Company’s control, such as changed regulatory requirements. Before the launch of a drug, it must be demonstrated that the drug meets the stringent proof of quality, safety and efficacy requirements imposed by regulators in the countries or regions where Sobi plans to market the drug.In order to make sure that the clinical studies meet the needs of regulators and society for evidence, relevant stakeholders are identified, which in the best of worlds can result in faster develop-
ment and availability, or the discovery of new opportunities.
Collaboration and  
partnershipsThe strategy includes entering into collaborative agreements on joint development and/or authorisation with other pharma-ceutical and biotech companies for the development and launch of some of Sobi’s products. These partners still have considerable power of decision in terms of the efforts and 
resources to be devoted to the projects, depending on the 
nature of the agreement between the parties.A structured flow of information is crucial for a successful  partnership. The success of such collaborations will largely depend on the 
joint work of Sobi’s partners or licensees. Sobi sets up Joint  Steering Committees in all partnership agreements in order to 
guarantee ongoing coordination and the sharing of information. 
Collaborations in respect of patient organisations, academic 
institutions, healthcare personnel or other relevant groups depend on the counterparts, knowledge, desire and regulatory 
guidelines that govern how these collaborations are to be 
implemented.Sobi strives to maintain and preserve long-term engagement and collaboration. We support and collaborate with many different patient organisations, both nationally and regionally, in order to 
achieve our shared goal, to achieve the best possible outcome 
for patients with rare diseases. There are Group-wide guidelines to guarantee compliance 
with the requirements for ethics and transparency in all of Sobi’s business areas.
Intellectual property  protection and patent  risksSobi’s success is largely dependent on the ability of the Com-pany, or its licensors, to obtain protection in the US, the EU and other countries or regions for the intellectual property rights 
covering the products that the Company develops, manufac-
tures, markets and sells.Sobi’s success will largely depend on its protection. Sobi has a number of technology licenses of importance to the operations, and the Company is expected to obtain additional licenses in the 
future. In addition to patented products and technologies, Sobi 
has its own technology, processes and know-how that are not  protected by patents. The Company strives to protect such infor -
mation through, for example, confidentiality agreements with 
employees, consultants and partners.Risk management
Sobi work according to an integrated risk 
 management process which contributes to 
our ability to achieve defined goals and pursue the strategy adopted for the business. Each operational unit works actively to identify any uncertainties concerning the ability to achieve defined goals. These are also assessed when they could potentially disrupt operations in the short or long term. The risks are quantified against relevant values for operations in order to prioritise and handle the risks in a commer -
cial manner. By identifying risks and getting the management Group to determine strate-gic priorities for risk management, we achieve a dynamic process in which uncertainties and unexploited opportunities concerning the Company’s strategy can be identified and managed. Sobi’s Chief Risk Officer reports the current risk status to the management Group and a review of this process is presented to the Board.
As part of the strategic work on risk man-
agement, the Company’s critical flows are identified and business continuity plans are implemented. For circumstances that fall within the framework of our definition of a cri-sis, there is a crisis management policy and a crisis management team composed of mem-bers of the Company’s management Group. The strategic crisis management team works with operational crisis management groups for each business area within the Company to ensure that the Company’s values are observed in both the short and long term. 
Key risk areas
Research and development of new drugs, and regulations regarding research and develop-ment, manufacturing, testing, marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products are complex and can change over time. A summary of the main operational risks is presented below. The risks are not ranked in any particular order, but are categorised and described.
 
64
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORTRisk Description of risk Management and comments
Biologics manufacturing  
and qualityThe manufacture of Sobi’s products requires all manufacturing processes, methods and equipment to be compliant with Good Manufacturing Practice (GXP) guidelines. The GMP guidelines control all aspects of the pharmaceutical manufac-
turing process, including quality control and quality assurance, 
manufacturing processes and documentation. Sobi’s produc-tion facilities may be inspected at any time by the regulators or the Company’s customers.In 2017, Sobi introduced a system, Qase (abbreviation of Quality Case Management), to manage Non Conformances (NC) as well as Corrective and Preventive Actions (CAPAs). All GMP , GDP , GVP and GCP-related cases are now registered and managed in this 
system. From 2018, all inspections will be managed in this system.
 Internal GXP audits have been completed according to the 2017 
plan within areas covering product supply and distribution set-up, Quality Assurance, Quality Control and IT systems. Any actions arising from audit activities have been followed up in the CAPA system.
Sobi collaborates in the manufacturing of drugs with other pharmaceutical companies as a customer and is dependent on the partners’ facilities meeting GMP requirements as well as being well maintained and available.The GMP guidelines apply to Sobi and its distributors, contract laboratories and suppliers. Sobi conducts extensive audits of its distributors, contract laboratories and suppliers. For Sobi’s exter -
nal network, a total of 54 GXP have been performed during 2017. All audits have resulted in approving the auditee as an approved supplier.
The company’s production and its research and development involve the controlled use of biological and hazardous material and waste.Sobi is subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manu-facture, storage, handling and disposal of such hazardous material and waste.
External risks
Competition The market for specialty pharmaceuticals is characterised by 
intense competition and rapid technological development. Sobi’s competitors include international pharmaceutical, bio-technology and specialty pharmaceutical companies. Some 
competitors have considerable financial, technical and human 
resources, as well as substantial manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing capabilities.To ensure that we remain at the forefront of technology develop-ment, Sobi cooperates with many different groups, for example, within the framework of the Swedish strategic cooperation pro-gram in life science to support future development and production 
of biological drugs.
The Company’s products under development may be exposed 
to competition from similar products or entirely new product concepts that can demonstrate better value.Sobi initiates collaborations with external research groups at the forefront of medical development in order to increase opportuni-ties for gaining access to target proteins that can be developed 
into competitive medical treatment options.
Product counterfeiting Prescription drugs are increasingly being challenged by ille-
gally produced pharmaceutical products (and by access to pirated products in some distribution channels).Sobi’s products have not yet been the subject of pirating. Sobi is involved in global work that has been initiated to investigate prod-uct traceability. To minimise the risk of counterfeiting, all Sobi’s dis-tribution processes comply with good distribution practice.
 Since 2017, Sobi has been using the TraceLink system to manage 
the serial numbers of all products. This system meets the needs of 
regulators in the markets where we operate. By 2019, all Sobi products will have a unique identity code.
Ethical and compliance risks
Areas such as social responsibility and sustainable business play an increasingly significant role in companies’ competitive-
ness and profitability. Sobi’s Risk and Regulatory Compliance Committee continuously 
monitors the development and implementation of the Company’s 
regulatory compliance programme, which aims to reduce Sobi’s 
risk of non-compliance with laws and regulations. The most impor -
tant elements of the compliance programme include identifying risks, promoting clear messages, establishing clear guidelines and processes, training and continuous monitoring.
Financial risks
Currency risks The Company’s operations are exposed to currency risk. Most 
of the Company’s expenses are incurred in SEK, while a signifi-cant portion of revenue is generated in other currencies. As a result of the Company’s international expansion, lower 
exchange rates for EUR in particular, but also for other curren-
cies in which revenue is generated, could have an adverse effect on Sobi’s earnings and financial position.For more information about financial risks, see note 3.
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
65
REpORTING / DIRECTORS’ REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTConsolidated statement of comprehensive income
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 2017 2016
1–4
Operating revenue 5–6 6,510,831 5,204,340
Cost of goods and services sold –1,853,998 –1,553,823
Gross profit 4,656,833 3,650,517
Selling and administrative expenses 12 –2,096,470 –1,776,261
Research and development expenditure –907,721 –777,587
Other operating income 8 417 36,670
Other operating expenses 9 –52,748 –225
Operating profit7, 10, 11, 13, 
17, 18, 29 1,600,365 1,133,114
Finance income 14 1,219 7,925
Finance costs 15 –69,161 –93,060
Net financial items –67,942 –85,135
Profit before tax 1,532,423 1,047,979
Income tax expense 16 –383,811 –246,344
Profit for the year1 1,148,612 801,635
Other comprehensive income2
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial gains/losses on defined-benefit plan –1,042 1,231
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or lossTranslation differences –1,258 4,869
Cash flow hedges 191,856 –226,019
Tax effect of cash flow hedges –42,208 49,724
Other comprehensive income 147,348 –170,195
Comprehensive income for the year
2 1,295,960 631,440
Earnings per share, SEK 33 4.27 2.99
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 33 4.25 2.98
Number of shares (ordinary) 272,507,708 270,389,770
Average number of shares 269,020,363 268,362,041
Number of C shares held in treasury — 1,621,178
Number of ordinary shares held in treasury 3,249,870 1,610,086
Number of shares after dilution 269,975,826 269,252,883
Average number of shares after dilution 270,003,546 269,218,052
1. Everything attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders. 
2.  In accordance with the revised IAS 1, all non-shareholder changes in equity are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income. Translation differences are entirely related to shares in foreign subsidiaries.Operating revenue, SEK M
EBITA1, SEK M
Earnings per share1, SEKOperating revenue
Revenue for the full-year amounted to SEK 6,511 (5,204) M, an increase of 25  per cent. 02,0004,0006,0008,000
2017 2016 2015 2014 20132,6073,2285,204
2,1776,511
–50005001,0001,5002,0002,500
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013−444331,5432,053
211
–2–1012345
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013−1.010.312.994.27
−0.35EBITA
EBITA for the year increased with 33 per cent to SEK 2,053 M compared to 2016.
1. Alternative Performance Measures (APM)
66
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Consolidated balance sheet
Equity/assets ratio1, %
Net cash (+)/net debt (–)1, SEK MAMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016
ASSETS 1– 4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 17 6,445,071 6,806,010
Property, plant and equipment 18 134,182 121,023
Financial assets 20 35,155 1,956
Deferred tax assets 21 131,429 133,897
Total non-current assets 6,745,837 7,062,886
Current assets
Inventories 22 1,053,268 870,046
Trade receivables 23, 26 1,129,016 768,765
Other receivables 23 63,964 75,543
Prepayments and accrued income 24 432,326 411,109
Cash and cash equivalents 25, 26 1,478,496 785,790
Total current assets 4,157,070 2,911,253
TOTAL ASSETS 10,902,907 9,974,139
EQUITY AND LIABILITIESEquityShare capital 149,527 149,254
Other capital reserves 5,023,557 4,983,959
Other reserves –20,386 –167,734
Retained earnings 399,214 –402,148
Profit for the year 1,148,612 801,635
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 6,700,524 5,364,966
LiabilitiesNon-current liabilitiesDeferred tax liabilities 21 667,733 495,558
Liability to Bioverativ 26, 27 1,066,833 1,808,916
Liabilities to credit institutions 26, 27 5,044 502,216
Provisions 29, 30 97,955 44,389
Total non-current liabilities 1,837,565 2,851,079
Current liabilitiesTrade payables 26 358,449 280,173
Tax liabilities 225,579 15,801
Liability to Bioverativ 26, 28 579,895 496,697
Other liabilities 26, 28 82,217 156,123
Accruals and deferred income 31 1,118,678 809,300
Total current liabilities 2,364,818 1,758,094
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,902,907 9,974,139
For information about the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see note 32.020406080
2017 2016 2015 2014 201371
56546173
–600–30003006009001,2001,500
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013−298822821,472
−352
Net cash
Net cash increased during the year from SEK 282 to 1,472 M.
Net cash (+)/net debt (–)
SEK M 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Cash and cash 
equivalents 445 519 904 786 1,478
Interest bearing debt 798 818 822 504 7
Net cash  
(+)/net debt (–) –352 –298 82 282 1,472
1. APM
67
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Consolidated statement of changes in equity
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Share capitalOther capital 
reservesOther 
 reservesRetained 
 earnings Total equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2016 149,150 4,928,765 2,461 –402,04414,678,332
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — 801,6351 801,635
Other comprehensive 
income
Cash flow hedges — — –176,295 — –176,295
Actuarial loss/gain — — 1,231 — 1,231
Exchange differences — — 4,869 — 4,869
Total comprehensive income — — –170,195 801,635 631,440
Shareholder transactionsIssue/repurchase of shares 104 — — –104 —
Sale of ordinary shares — 23,500 — — 23,500
Share programmes — 31,694 — — 31,694
Total shareholder 
 transactions 104 55,194 — –104 55,194
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2016 149,254 4,983,959 –167,734 399,487 5,364,966
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2017 149,254 4,983,959 –167,734 399,487 5,364,966
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — 1,148,612 1,148,612
Other comprehensive 
income — — — — —
Cash flow hedges — — 149,648 — 149,648
Actuarial loss/gain — — –1,042 — –1,042
Exchange differences — — –1,258 — –1,258
Total comprehensive income — — 147,348 1,148,612 1,295,960
Shareholder transactions
Issue/repurchase of shares 273 — — –273 —
Share programmes — 39,598 — — 39,598
Total shareholder 
 transactions 273 39,598 — –273 39,598
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2017 149,527 5,023,557 –20,386
2 1,547,826 6,700,524
1.  Deferred tax has been adjusted during the year related to change in depreciation method and cash flow hedges. The adjustments have 
been reported against retained earnings and have affected deferred tax in both Group and Parent Company but has not had any effect 
on paid tax. See note 21.Equity per share1, SEK
Return on equity1, %
Cash flow hedges
SEK THOUSANDS 2017 2016
Opening balance, cash flow hedges –122,105 54,190
Changes in value for the year, hedging 
 instruments 149,648 –176,295
Closing balance, cash flow hedges 27,543 –122,105
Regarding cash flow hedges SEK 12,662 K (–4,955)  is transferred to the Income statement.2Other reserves
SEK THOUSANDS 2017 2016
Translation differences –21,453 –20,195
Pensions in accordance with IAS 19 –26,273 –25,231
Cash flow hedges 27,543 –122,105
Other –203 –203
Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 –20,386 –167,734–10–505101520
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013−5.81.816.019.0
−1.90510152025
2017 2016 2015 2014 201316.617.5 17.319.824.6
Return on equity
Return on equity increased from 16.0 to 19.0 per cent compared to last year.
1. APM
68
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Consolidated cash flow statement
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 2017 2016
Operating activities
Profit for the year 1,148,612 801,635
Adjustments for non-cash items 282,377 –159,175
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in 
working capital 1,430,989 642,460
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+)/Increase (–) in inventories –183,222 –94,192
Decrease (+)/Increase (–) in operating receivables –369,889 –618,765
Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 455,064 413,354
Cash flow from operating activities 1,332,942 342,857
Investing activitiesAcquisition of intangible assets
1 17 –91,922 –118,657
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 18 –47,523 –45,808
Acquisition of financial assets 20 –737 –100
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 18 1,204 6,555
Cash flow from investing activities –138,978 –158,010
Financing activities
Sale of shares — 23,500
Proceeds from borrowings 27 — 496,914
Repayment of loans2 27 –500,000 –828,000
Cash flow from financing activities –500,000 –307,586
Change in cash and cash equivalents 693,964 –122,739
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 785,790 903,660
Exchange differences in cash flow –1,258 4,869
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,478,496 785,790
1.  The largest investments during the year relate to the right to participate in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme, amounting to SEK 56 M,  
and LMS (education system) for SEK 7 M, see note 17.
2. Amortisation of loan liabilities relates to the disposal of a loan of SEK 500 M from Handelsbanken and Danske Bank.Cash flow per share1, SEK M
Cash flow from operations, SEK M–0.50.00.51.01.52.02.5
2017 2016 2015 2014 20131.4
–0.52.5
0.3
0
03006009001,2001,500
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013234507
3431,333
185
Cash flow for the year
Cash flow for the year amounted to SEK 694 M including repayment of bank loans of SEK 500 M.
1. APM
69
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Consolidated cash flow statement, contd.
Supplemental disclosures to the consolidated cash flow statement
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 2017 2016
Interest and tax paid and received
Interest received 1,219 1,427
Interest paid 13,886 27,772
Corporate tax paid 28,421 10,812
Adjustments for non-cash items
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-current assets 7, 17, 18 485,977 440,710
Revaluation of non-current liabilities — 670
Pensions 29 –1,042 2,851
Cost of share programmes1 39,598 31,694
Deferred tax 21 174,683 164,190
Elocta and Alprolix2 –437,660 –811,832
Other items 20,821 12,542
Total 282,377 –159,175
1. IFRS 2-expenses associated with the share programmes recognised in equity.
2. Refers to royalty revenues used to settle the liability to Bioverativ and interest expenses relating to the liability to Bioverativ.
70
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Parent Company income statement
Parent Company statement of 
comprehensive incomeAMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 2017 2016
1–4
Operating revenue 5–6 5,756,370 4,593,940
Cost of goods and services sold –1,861,398 –1,469,991
Gross profit 3,894,972 3,123,949
Selling and administrative expenses 12 –1,400,380 –1,218,391
Research and development expenditure –854,862 –729,241
Other operating income 8 120 29,922
Other operating expenses 9 –39,824 —
Operating profit 7, 10, 11, 13, 17, 18 1,600,026 1,206,239
Profit from participations in Group companies 19 –1,000,000 —
Finance income 14 11,656 21,883
Finance costs 15 –76,299 –94,819
Net financial items –1,064,643 –72,936
Profit after financial items 535,383 1,133,303
Group contributions 58,956 105,334
Excess depreciation –970,000 –1,154,000
Appropriations –911,044 –1,048,666
Profit/loss before tax –375,661 84,637
Income tax expense 16 –132,175 –33,380
Profit/loss for the year –507,836 51,257
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS 2017 2016
Profit/loss for the year –507,836 51,257
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Cash flow hedges 191,856 –226,019
Tax effect of cash flow hedges –42,208 49,724
Other comprehensive income 149,648 –176,295
Comprehensive income for the year –358,188 –125,038
71
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Parent Company balance sheet
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 17
Patents, licences, trademarks and similar rights 4,057,718 4,261,999
Property, plant and equipment 18
Plant and machinery 72,441 58,536
Equipment, tools, fixtures & fittings 20,579 29,891
Construction in progress 21,041 14,770
Financial assets
Investments in subsidiaries 19 2,882,333 3,882,138
Other non-current financial receivables 20 32,392 1
Total non-current assets 7,086,504 8,247,335
Current assets
Inventories 22
Raw materials and consumables 20,905 25,557
Work in progress 536,603 433,243
Finished goods and goods for resale 336,166 307,584
Current receivablesTrade receivables 23 405,702 280,249
Other receivables 23 53,092 54,532
Receivables from Group companies 901,936 725,626
Prepayments and accrued income 24 418,194 399,373
Cash and cash equivalents 25 1,381,369 662,110
Total current assets 4,053,967 2,888,274
TOTAL ASSETS 11,140,471 11,135,609
72
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Restricted equityShare capital 149,527 149,254
Statutory reserve 800,257 800,257
Total restricted equity 949,784 949,511
Unrestricted equity
Share premium reserve 4,231,347 4,191,749
Retained earnings 763,083 562,451
Profit for the year –507,836 51,257
Total unrestricted equity 4,486,594 4,805,457
Total equity 5,436,378 5,754,968
Untaxed reservesExcess depreciation 2,124,000 1,154,000
Total untaxed reserves 2,124,000 1,154,000
LiabilitiesNon-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 21 10,196 24,813
Liability to Bioverativ 27 1,066,833  1,808,916
Liabilities to credit institutions 27 — 496,914
Other provisions 30 82,443 33,060
Total non-current liabilities 1,159,472 2,363,703
Current liabilitiesTrade payables 312,771 257,038
Liabilities to Group companies 628,848 549,753
Tax liabilities 189,064 40
Liability to Bioverativ 28 579,895 496,697
Other liabilities 28 27,213 100,484
Accruals and deferred income 31 682,830 458,926
Total current liabilities 2,420,621 1,862,938
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 11,140,471 11,135,609
For information about the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see note 32.
73
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Restricted equity Unrestricted equity
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Share capital Statutory reserveShare premium 
reserveRetained  
earnings, and  
profit for the year Total equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2016 149,150 800,257 4,156,272 715,3501 5,821,029
Cash flow hedges — — — –176,295 –176,295
Issue/repurchase of shares 104 — — –104 —
Sale of own shares — — — 23,500 23,500
Share-based payment to employees — — 35,477 — 35,477
Profit for the year — — — 51,2571 51,257
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2016 149,254 800,257 4,191,749 613,7082 5,754,968
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2017 149,254 800,257 4,191,749 613,708 5,754,968
Cash flow hedges — — — 149,648 149,648
Issue/repurchase of shares 273 — — –273 —
Sale of own shares — — — — —
Share-based payment to employees — — 39,598 — 39,598
Profit for the year — — — –507,836 –507,836
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2017 149,527 800,257 4,231,347 255,2472 5,436,378
1. Deferred tax has been adjusted during the year related to change in depreciation method and cash flow hedges. The adjustments have been reported against retained earnings and have 
affected the tax in both Group and Parent Company but has not had any effect on paid tax. See note 21.
At year-end, the share capital was SEK 149,526,711, divided into 272,507,708 shares with a par 
value of approximately SEK 0.55 and one vote per share. The Company held 3,249,870 ordinary 
shares in treasury at the reporting date. Shares held in treasury represent 1.2  per cent of the total 
number of shares in the Company. 2Cash flow hedges 2017 2016
Opening balance, cash flow hedges –122,105 54,190
Changes in value for the year, hedging instruments 149,648 –176,295
Closing balance, cash flow hedges 27,543 –122,105
Regarding cash flow hedges SEK 12,662 (–4,955) K is transferred to the Income statement.
74
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Parent Company cash flow statement
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 2017 2016
Operating activities
Profit for the year –507,836 51,257
Adjustments for non-cash items 1,897,033 305,109
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,389,197 356,366
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+)/Increase (–) in inventories –127,290 –92,829
Decrease (+)/Increase (–) in operating receivables –319,144 –431,145
Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 406,024 537,676
Cash flow from operating activities 1,348,787 370,068
Investing activitiesAcquisition of subsidiaries –195 —
Acquisition of intangible assets
1 17 –91,922 –118,657
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 18 –37,411 –36,315
Disposal of property, plant and equipment — 4,202
Cash flow from investing activities –129,528 –150,770
Financing activitiesProceeds from borrowings 27 — 496,914
Repayment of loans
2 27 –500,000 –828,000
Sale of shares — 23,500
Cash flow from financing activities –500,000 –307,586
Change in cash and cash equivalents 719,259 –88,288
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 662,110 750,398
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,381,369 662,110
1.  The largest investment in the year concerns the right to take part in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme, amounting to SEK 56 M and LMS (education system)  
for SEK 7 M, see note 17. 
2.   Repayment of loans concerns the repayment of a loan of SEK 500 M from Handelsbanken and Danske Bank.
AMOUNTS IN SEK THOUSANDS Note 2017 2016
Interest and tax paid and received
Interest received 11,656 17,252
Interest paid 22,831 30,822
Tax paid — —
Adjustments for non-cash itemsDepreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets 7, 17, 18 322,750 269,323
Revaluation of non-current debt — 670
Impairment of participations in subsidiaries 19 1,000,000 —
Deferred tax 21 –14,616 –16,354
Cost of share programmes
1 39,598 35,477
Excess depreciation 970,000 1,154,000
Elocta and Alprolix2 –437,690 –1,150,850
Other items 16,991 12,843
1,897,033 305,109
1. IFRS 2-expenses associated with the share programmes recognised in equity.
2.  Refers to royalty revenues used to settle the liability to Bioverativ and interest expenses relating to the liability to Bioverativ.Supplemental disclosures to the cash flow statement – Parent Company
75
REpORTING / FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Notes
Note 1
General information
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 
556038-9321, the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, collectively referred  
to as the Group, is a publicly listed international pharmaceutical company 
 dedicated to rare diseases. 
The Parent Company is a limited liability company headquartered in Stockholm, 
Sweden. The address of the head office is Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna, Sweden.
The Company has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange (now Nasdaq 
Stockholm) since 15 September 2006, and as a Large Cap company since 2 Janu-
ary 2014.
Note 2
Significant accounting policies and basis of preparation for 
the Parent Company and consolidated financial statements
Summary of significant accounting policies for Groups 
The primary accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently 
applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. The consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, the 
Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary 
Accounting Rules for Groups, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the EU. The consolidated financial state-ments have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except in the 
case of certain financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) 
which are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
New and amended standards applied by the Group
The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the 
 previous year.
New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing standards not yet 
applied by the Group
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective on 1 January 2018 
and replaces all previously issued revenue-related standards, such as IAS 18. The 
purpose of the new revenue standard is to provide a single, principles-based 
model for all revenue recognition, i.e., for all types of transactions and all sectors. 
The standard works on the basis is that everything begins with a contract 
between two parties for the sale of a product or a service. The first step is to iden-tify a customer contract, which generates an asset for the selling entity (right to 
receive the compensation promised under the contract) and a liability (obligation 
to transfer the promised goods or services). In accordance with the standard, the 
Company recognises revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied by 
transferring the promised goods or services to the customer. A fundamental differ -
ence from previous standards and interpretations is that IFRS 15 focuses on con-
trol rather than risks and benefits. The transfer of control of a product or service 
(and therefore the fulfilment of the performance obligation) is what triggers the 
revenue recognition rather than the transfer of risks and benefits.
Sobi’s customer contracts stipulate rights and obligations, the right to receive 
payment and an obligation to deliver, and rights and obligations for customers, i.e. 
The right to receive delivery and an obligation to pay. The performance obligations associated with contracts between Sobi and its customers are short-term and con-
sist mainly of distinct goods, own products, which are delivered for payment. This 
means that the customer contracts are such that, under normal circumstances, the 
obligations cease on delivery of goods to the customers and receipt of payment.
Sobi has conducted a thorough analysis of the effects that the introduction of 
IFRS 15 may have on the Group’s financial statements, and the assessment is that 
it will not have any material impact on either earnings or the financial position. To reach this conclusion, agreements and transactions have been reviewed and 
tested against the standard’s five-step model for revenue recognition. 
Consequently, revenue recognition according to IFRS 15, which will be applied 
in its entirety, remains unchanged from the present standard. As a transition 
method, Sobi has chosen modified (prospective) retrospective application, which means that the Company applies IFRS 15 prospectively for contracts in place on 
the transition date. As revenue recognition remains unchanged on transition to 
the new standard, the choice of transition method is not of importance. 
For further information concerning the Group’s accounting policies for revenue, 
see “Revenue” further down in this note. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2018 and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard contains rules for the classification and measurement of financial 
assets and liabilities, impairment of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
One of the changes relates to liabilities reported at fair value. The part of the 
change relating to fair value attributable to the own credit risk should be reported 
in other comprehensive income instead of in the result, unless this causes incon-
sistency in the accounting. Sobi has no liabilities valued at fair value and is there-
fore not affected by the change. Another change relates to hedge accounting and requires increased disclosure of risk management and the effect of hedge 
accounting. Sobi’s hedge accounting will be made in accordance with IAS 39 with 
disclosures in accordance with IFRS 9. Finally, new principles have been introduced 
regarding impairment of financial assets, where the model is based on expected 
losses. 
Sobi has analysed the effects that the introduction of IFRS 9 on the Group’s 
financial statements, and the assessment is that it will not have any material impact on either earnings or the financial position. Sobi will apply the retrospective tran s-
ition method, which means that the accumulated effect of the transition will be recognised as a change to retained earnings as at 1 January 2018. In accordance 
with IFRS 9, Sobi has chosen not to recalculate comparative figures. 
IFRS 16 Leases is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, 
and replaces IAS 17 Leases. The new standard introduces changed reporting 
requirements for lessees, with the present classification into operating leases and finance leases being replaced by a model in which assets and liabilities for all 
leases are recognised in the balance sheet. Under the standard, all leases, apart 
from short-term and low-value leases, are recognised as an asset with right of use 
and a corresponding liability in the lessee’s balance sheet. Lease payments are 
 recognised as depreciation, amortisation and interest expense. The financial 
reporting rules for lessors are unchanged. IFRS 16 will have some impact on Sobi’s 
financial statement, particularly regarding property, plant and equipment and non-current liabilities, although the extent has not yet been determined. See note 10 
for more information.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
General information
The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
acquisition method. Accordingly, business combinations are seen as if the Group 
directly acquires the assets and assumes the liabilities of the entity acquired. The 
consolidated income statements and balance sheets of the Group include all enti-
ties in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has control. Control exists when 
the Company has power over the entity, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to use its power to 
affect its returns.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains con-
trol. They are deconsolidated from the date on which control ceases. The cost of 
acquisition comprises the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets trans-
ferred, the equity instruments issued and the liabilities incurred by the acquirer to 
former owners of the acquiree. 
Each contingent consideration is recognised at the acquisition-date fair value. 
Subsequent changes to the fair value of a contingent consideration classified as a provision are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. All transaction 
costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed. Identifiable assets acquired and 
76
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
at their acquisition-date fair value. 
The difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the Group’s 
share of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as 
goodwill. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined at the acquisition date when 
control is obtained, and not at earlier stages of the acquisition. For step acquisi-
tions, any previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair value and taken 
into account in the determination of goodwill, with any resultant gains or losses recognised in profit or loss. For each acquisition, the Group decides whether to 
measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the propor -
tionate share of the net assets of the acquiree. Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment. If the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost, the surplus (negative 
goodwill) is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Intra-group transactions and balance-sheet items and unrealised gains or losses on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Any losses are considered an indication of impairment of the asset transferred.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are presented using a management approach, which means 
that their presentation is the same as for internal reporting. The basis for identify-
ing reportable segments is the internal reporting provided to and monitored by the chief operating decision maker. The Group has identified the CEO as the chief 
operating decision maker. Only one segment is used in internal reporting to the 
CEO. See also note 6. 
Currency
Functional and presentation currency
Items in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity oper -
ates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the Parent Company’s functional and presenta-
tion currency.
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences resulting 
from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at closing rates are recog-
nised in the statement of comprehensive income. Operating items are recognised 
in operating profit, while other items are recognised as finance income or expense.
Translation of foreign subsidiaries
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are established in the functional 
currency of each subsidiary, meaning the primary economic environment in which 
the company operates. For Sobi’s foreign subsidiaries, all assets, provisions and 
other liabilities are translated at the closing rate into the Group’s presentation 
 currency (SEK), with any resulting exchange differences recognised in other com-
prehensive income. All items in the income statement are translated using the 
average exchange rate for the year. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign oper -
ation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Revenue
Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, net of value 
added tax, rebates and returns, after elimination of intra-group sales. Revenue is recognised as follows:
Operating revenue
Revenue from the sale of pharmaceuticals is recognised when Sobi has fulfilled its 
performance obligations, which means that control has passed to the customer. 
This occurs when the customer assumes responsibility for the goods and has an 
unconditional payment obligation, and when the risks and benefits associated with the goods have been transferred to the buyer. This normally occurs when the goods 
have been delivered from the Company’s consignment stock to the end customer.
Contract manufacturing revenue (ReFacto) is recognised when the goods have 
been delivered to the customer, i.e. when the customer has obtained control of 
the goods.
Revenue also includes revenue from licensing agreements, such as out-licensing 
revenue, royalties from third parties and milestone payments. A milestone pay-ment relates to partial payments received from partners triggered by the achieve-ment of a specific part of the collaboration agreement, such as regulatory 
approval of a jointly developed product. Revenue of this type is recognised when 
the milestone has been achieved and the revenue is certain to materialise. 
Due to various agreement formulations, licence revenue can be recognised in 
two ways. The revenue is either recognised directly when the licence revenue is 
received or allocated over its estimated duration. 
Revenue from service assignments is recognised when the economic outcome 
of the work performed can be measured reliably and the economic benefits flow to the Group. 
When the Group has undertaken to perform research and development assign-
ments and receives payment for the services it provides, this is recognised as the 
work is performed. Revenue from research collaborations is recognised in the 
period in which the work is performed.
Government grants
Government grants are recognised when the company meets the conditions asso-
ciated with the grant and it can be established with certainty that the grant will be 
received. Grants received are recognised as deferred income in the balance sheet 
and are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which expenses are recognised 
for the costs for which the grants compensate. 
Sobi receives government grants mainly in the form of reduced employer’s 
 contributions for research for commercial purposes, which are utilised in full, and 
research grants from the EU. A minor proportion of Sobi’s projects are financed 
through government grants.
Other operating income/expenses
Other operating income consists of revenue from activities outside the normal 
operations. The item includes currency effects on operating receivables and lia-bilities. Other operating expenses are expenses from activities outside the normal 
operations. The item includes currency effects on operating receivables and liabili-
ties. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges accumulated in equity are reclassified 
to operating income/expenses in the periods in which the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. See also notes 8 and 9.
Classifications
Within the Group, assets and liabilities are classified as either current or non- 
current. Current receivables and liabilities fall due within one year of the reporting 
date. Non-current receivables and liabilities are essentially amounts expected to 
be settled later than one year from the reporting date.
Intangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assetsAmortisation of product rights and acquired R&D is charged to selling and admin-
istrative expenses. Amortisation of software is also charged to selling and adminis-
trative expenses. See also note 7.
Goodwill
Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of 
the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary/associ-ate on the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is recog-
nised as an intangible asset. On acquisition of an associate, goodwill is included 
in the value of the holding in the associate. Goodwill is tested annually for impair -
ment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment. Gains or losses on the disposal of an entity include the remaining carrying amount of goodwill attributa-
ble to the discontinued unit.
Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisa-
tion. The rights have a finite useful life and amortisation is applied to spread the 
cost over this period (5–20 years). Amortisation is on a straight-line basis over the 
useful life, reflecting the expected earnings of each product or marketing right. 
Amortisation is classified as selling expenses. See also note 4.
Research & development expenditure
Expenditure on development projects is recognised as an intangible asset if the 
Company can demonstrate that it is technically feasible to complete and profitably 
commercialise the results, and only if the cost of the project can be measured relia-
bly. In practice, this means that the expenditure is not capitalised until such time as 
approval is granted by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the European 
Commission. Acquired research projects are capitalised with effect from the 
77
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 acquisition date. Amortisation is applied in order to spread the cost of develop-
ment projects over their estimated useful lives, and begins when the development 
project starts to generate revenue. Other research and development expenditure 
that does not meet the accounting requirements under IAS 38 is recognised as 
incurred.
Software and IT projects in progress
Acquired software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred when the software was acquired and placed in service. These costs are amortised over 
the estimated useful life of the software. 
Costs associated with software development or maintenance are recognised as 
an expense as incurred. Costs directly associated with identifiable software prod-
ucts developed specifically for Sobi, which are controlled by the Company and are 
likely to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recog-
nised as intangible assets. Direct costs include the costs for employees working on software development and a reasonable proportion of overhead costs.
Expenditure to enhance the performance of software or extend its useful life 
(development expenditure) beyond the original plan is capitalised and added to 
the original cost of the software. 
Regular amortisation for software reported under non-current assets is applied 
using the straight-line method over its useful life, up to a maximum of three years.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets in the balance 
sheet when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset 
will flow to the Company and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation. Cost 
includes expenditure that can be directly attributed to the acquisition of the asset. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or are recognised as a separate asset, depending on which is appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and 
the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. All other forms of repair and main-
tenance are recognised as an expense in profit or loss as they occur.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Regular depreciation of property, plant and equipment is based on their useful life. Depreciation is applied on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset, 
taking into account the residual value. The following depreciation periods are 
applied:
Plant and machinery
• Laboratory equipment and other investments  3–7 years
• Other major investments, such as redevelopment of property  5–20 years
Equipment, tools and fixtures & fittings
• Servers and other major computer hardware items  3–5 years
• Furniture, fixtures and fittings  5–10 years 
Land and buildings• Buildings  20 years
• Land Indeterminate useful life
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are tested on each reporting date and 
adjusted as necessary. 
An asset’s carrying amount is immediately written down to its recoverable 
amount if the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. 
The gain or loss arising from the disposal of property, plant and equipment is 
the difference between the selling price and the item’s carrying amount less direct costs to sell. The profit/loss item is reported as other operating income or other 
operating expenses. 
Leased assets are classified as finance leases or operating leases in the consoli-
dated financial statements. Leased non-current assets where Sobi is responsible 
for the same risks and benefits as in the case of direct ownership are classified as 
finance leases. The asset is recognised as a non-current asset in the balance sheet. The corresponding obligation to make future lease payments is recognised under 
current or non-current liabilities. The leased assets are depreciated over their use-
ful life, while lease payments are apportioned between the interest and the repay-
ment of the liability. Leased assets for which the lessor substantially retains owner -
ship are classified as operating leases and the lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. See also note 10.Impairment of assetsGoodwill, which has an indefinite useful life, and intangible assets not yet placed 
in service are not amortised but are tested for impairment, either annually or when 
there are indications of a decline in value for an asset. Product and marketing 
rights, which are amortised, are also tested annually for impairment as their carry-
ing amount is significant for the Group. Other assets that are amortised are 
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An asset is impaired if its 
 carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment is therefore the 
 difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, with the 
recoverable amount being defined as the greater of an asset’s net realisable value 
and its value in use. To calculate the value in use, future cash flows that the asset is 
expected to generate are discounted at a rate corresponding to Sobi’s weighted 
average cost of capital (WACC). 
To test for impairment, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, i.e. the 
smallest identifiable group of assets generating cash inflows. Sobi has made the assessment that the Group’s operations as a whole comprise one cash-generating 
unit. Goodwill impairment is not reversed. Impairment of assets other than good-
will is reversed if there has been any change in the conditions used to determine 
the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the 
asset’s value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been deter -
mined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised. Impairment 
testing of goodwill, product and marketing rights and development projects is 
described in note 17.
Financial instruments
A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one enter -
prise and a financial liability or equity instrument in another enterprise. Financial 
instruments also include contract-based rights to receive cash, such as trade 
receivables. See also note 3.
The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories:
1. Loans and receivables
2.  Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (including derivatives 
not classified as hedging instruments)
3. Other financial liabilities
4.  Available-for-sale financial instruments (including derivatives classified as 
 hedging instruments)
The classification is based on the purpose for which the instruments were 
acquired. Management makes a classification decision on initial recognition and 
reviews this decision at each reporting date. 
Financial instruments are measured at their trade-date fair value plus trans-
action costs. This applies to all financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss. Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit 
or loss are initially measured at fair value, while related transaction costs are 
 recognised in profit or loss. 
Financial instruments recognised under assets in the balance sheet include 
cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and endowment insurances. Financial 
liabilities include trade payables, equity instruments and loans.
1. Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determina-
ble payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current 
assets, apart from items with maturities more than twelve months after the balance-  
sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables consist of trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents 
in the balance sheet. 
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less any impairment. 
As the expected maturities of trade receivables are short, the value is initially  recognised at their nominal amount without discounting. Impairment of doubtful 
receivables, which are assessed on an individual basis, is recognised under operat-
ing expenses.
2. Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (including derivatives 
not classified as hedging instruments)
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets 
that do not constitute hedging instruments. A financial asset is classified in this 
category if it was acquired principally for the purpose of being sold in the short 
term. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are expected to 
be sold within twelve months; otherwise they are classified as non-current assets. 
Derivatives are classified in this category if they have not been identified as 
hedges. Derivatives held for risk management in the financial operations are reported under net financial items and derivatives held to manage risks in the 
operating profit are recognized in other expenses / income. Note 2 contd.
78
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Derivatives are recognised as assets or liabilities, depending on whether the fair 
value is positive or negative. If there are liabilities in this category, they are recog-
nised in the same way as assets.
3. Other financial liabilities
This category comprises loans and trade payables. Liabilities in this category are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of transactions costs. Bor -
rowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost and any difference between the amount received and the repayment amount is recognised in profit or loss over 
the term of the loan using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional 
right to defer settlement of the liability for twelve months or more after the report-
ing date.
4. Available-for-sale financial instruments 
(including derivatives classified as hedging instruments)
Available-for-sale financial assets are assets that have been identified as available 
for sale, or have not been classified in any other category. They are reported under 
non-current assets if management does not intend to dispose of them within 
twelve months of the reporting date. 
A change in value in a financial asset in this category is recognised in other com-
prehensive income. When assets in this category are sold or impaired, the accumu -
lated fair value adjustments are transferred from equity to the income statement 
and reported under gains and losses on financial instruments. This category 
includes financial instruments identified as hedges. These instruments are recog-
nised as assets or liabilities depending on whether the fair value is positive or neg-
ative. Hedge accounting of financial instruments is described in the section below.
Financial instruments and hedging measures
The Group uses derivative instruments and loans to manage currency risks, and 
derivative instruments to manage interest-rate risks in the financing. All derivatives 
are assigned a market value and measured at fair value in the balance sheet, both 
initially and in any subsequent revaluation. The recognition method for the gain or 
loss arising on revaluation depends on whether the derivative is designated as a 
hedging instrument and, if so, on the nature of the hedged item. If a loan is desig-nated as a hedging instrument for currency risk, the loan is measured at amortised 
cost in the balance sheet. 
The entire fair value of a derivative that is a hedging instrument is classified as a 
non-current asset or liability if the hedged item has a term to maturity of more 
than twelve months, and is classified as a current asset or liability if the hedged 
item has a term to maturity of less than twelve months. Derivative instruments that 
do not constitute hedging instruments are always classified as current assets or current liabilities.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument identi-
fied as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain 
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or 
loss. Gains or losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. If a hedging instrument 
expires, is sold or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting and there are cumula-
tive gains or losses in equity, they remain in equity and are recognised when the 
hedged item is finally recognised in profit or loss. If a loan is designated as a hedg -
ing instrument for currency risk, the effective portion of the revaluation effect related to exchange rate changes is recognised in the same way as for derivatives, 
while the other components of the loan are recognised as a loan that is not included in a hedge.
Current assets
Receivables maturing within one year from the balance sheet date are classified as 
current assets.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is 
 calculated using the first in, first out principle (FIFO). Net realisable value is the 
estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell. 
 Obsolescence risk and established obsolescence are taken into account.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents for the Parent Company and the Group include the  balances of cash pools and other bank accounts, and investments with a maturity 
of three months or less from the acquisition date. Equity
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction costs directly attributable to 
the issue of new shares or options are recognised in equity, net of tax, as a deduc-
tion from the issue proceeds.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when Sobi has a legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to set-tle the obligation. It must also be possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount. 
Provisions are recognised at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle 
the obligation. If the outflow of resources is expected to take place at a point far in 
the future, the expected future cash flow is discounted and the provision is recog-
nised at its present value. The discount rate is obtained by reference to the pre-tax 
market rate and the risks associated with the liability. Provisions are recognised in the 
balance sheet under other current and non-current liabilities. 
Provisions for restructuring which substantially change the way in which Sobi 
works are recognised when a detailed and formal restructuring plan has been established and publicly announced, which means there are clear expectations 
that the plan will be implemented. Provisions for restructuring often include termi-
nation benefits, for both voluntary or involuntary termination. Termination benefits 
are recognised as described above, apart from where a service requirement is 
linked to the benefit, in which case the cost is distributed over the period of ser -
vice. Restructuring provisions require estimates of the time and cost of planned 
future activities. The most significant estimates relate to the costs required for 
 severance pay or other obligations in connection with termination of employment, 
as well as costs for termination of agreements and other associated costs. Such 
estimates are based on the current status of negotiations with the parties involved 
and/or their representatives. Salary relating to the period following termination of 
the duty to work is recognised as an expense when the decision is made and com-municated.
Endowment insurance is recognised gross over the balance sheet as a financial 
asset and a provision. In previous years, these have been reported net.
Sobi has a provision for restoration reserve for the restoration of the rented 
property Paradiset 14 at the end of the contract period. The company reports the 
restoration reserve as a provision in the balance sheet.
Cash-based programs directed to employees are handled as a provision until 
the program expires.
Taxes
Taxes in the statement of comprehensive income consist of current tax and 
deferred tax. Current tax is income tax payable or recoverable in respect of the 
current year. Deferred tax is calculated using the liability method on temporary 
 differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities, 
applying the tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the 
reporting date. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for consolidated goodwill, nor for differences 
attributable to investments in subsidiaries, where the Parent Company is able to 
control the timing of a reversal of the temporary differences and such a reversal is 
unlikely in the foreseeable future. In the consolidated financial statements, 
untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilities and equity. Deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences and loss carryforwards are only recog-
nised to the extent that it is probable that they will be utilised. The carrying 
amounts of deferred tax assets are reduced when it is no longer probable that 
they can be utilised. Tax is reported under Tax on profit for the year, in the state-
ment of comprehensive income apart from tax for items reported under other 
comprehensive income or equity. See also notes 16 and 21.
Employee benefits
Pensions
Sobi has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. The CEO 
and senior executives are mainly covered by defined-contribution plans. 
A defined-contribution pension plan provides a contribution to a pension plan 
determined as a percentage of the pensionable salary. The level of pension 
 benefits on retirement is determined by the premiums paid and the return on 
the investments, less management expenses. 
Pension costs relating to defined-contribution plans are charged to earnings 
as the benefits are earned. Pension obligations are calculated without discounting, 
as payments for these plans fall due within twelve months. 
For defined-benefit plans, the pension is determined as a percentage of the 
pensionable final salary, taking into account the number of years of service and 
average final salary. The Group bears the risk associated with paying out the established benefits. 
79
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017The defined-benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet is the net total of the 
estimated present value of the defined-benefit obligation less the fair value of the 
plan assets, which are recognised as a provision or a non-current financial receivable. 
Pension costs and pension obligations under defined-benefit plans are calcu -
lated according to the applicable principles of IAS 19. The calculation is per -
formed annually by independent actuaries. 
The Company’s obligations have been measured as the present value of 
expected future payments. The discount rate used for the obligations in Sweden corresponds to the market yield on mortgage bonds with a term consistent with 
the term of the pension obligations. The main actuarial assumptions are described 
in note 29. 
Actuarial gains and losses may arise in determining the present value of the 
obligation and fair value of plan assets. These arise either when the actual out
-
come differs from the previous assumption or the assumptions change. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in 
which they arise. 
Interest expense, less the estimated return on plan assets, is classified as a 
finance cost. Other expense items in pension costs are charged to operating profit. 
The accounting policy for defined benefit pension plans described above 
applies only to the consolidated accounts. 
The retirement benefit and family pension obligation for employees in Sweden 
is covered by insurance with Alecta. According to Statement UFR3 issued by the 
Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s Emerging Issues Task Force, 
this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2005–2017 financial years, 
the Company did not have access to sufficient information to enable it to report 
this plan as a defined-benefit plan. Consequently, the ITP pension plan insured 
through Alecta is reported as a defined-contribution plan. Payroll tax is calculated on deductible pension premiums. 
For some leading executives, the pension plan has been supplemented with 
commitments on direct pensions. In these cases, the Parent Company has, over 
time, signed endowment insurances which are pledged to the employee as secu
-
rity for the contract. The endowment insurances, subscribed by the Parent Com -
pany, are classified in the balance sheet as financial assets, since they are long-
term holdings, and are reported at fair value. The pension commitment to the 
employee is included under provisions for pensions. 
For the endowment insurance, a reserve for special payroll tax has also been 
reported. Premiums paid to capital insurances are not deductible. The payment to the beneficiary, on the other hand, is deductible.
Long-term incentive programmes
Sobi currently has five active share programmes. The fair value of the allotted 
share programmes is estimated on the issue date using a generally accepted mod
-
elling technique, the Monte Carlo simulation model, also taking into account con -
ditions that are market-related. For the 2017 Share Programme, which includes 
the CEO, senior executives and managers, there is a revenue component, in which the fair value of the allotted shares may fluctuate depending on the assumptions 
on target fulfilment. The total amounts to be expensed are based on the fair value 
of the shares allotted. 
The total amount is recognised as a personnel cost in the income statement, 
distributed over the vesting period, and corresponding adjustments are made in 
equity. At the end of every quarter, the Group reviews its assessments of the number  
of shares expected to be vested based on the service requirement. The shares are delivered to the employee when vested under the framework of the programmes. 
The Group also has four long-term cash-based incentive programmes covering 
all employees in the US, which do not constitute share-based remuneration. Three of them are for all US employees and one is for a number of executives in 
Sweden. As remuneration under these programmes is contingent on continuing 
employment with the Company, the costs are recognised continuously over the 
vesting period. A liability is calculated at each reporting date, taking into account 
the market value, new assessments of target outcomes and the amount earned. The net amount of these effects is recognised as a personnel cost in the consoli
-
dated income statement. 
Costs for social security contributions are remeasured at each reporting date 
until settlement occurs and is allocated in accordance with the same principles as the cost for shares. 
A more detailed description of the long-term incentive programmes can be 
found in note 11.
Termination benefits
A provision for costs in connection with termination of personnel is recognised 
only if the company is demonstrably obligated to terminate employment before the normal period of service has ended or when benefits are provided as an incen
-
tive to encourage voluntary termination, e.g. early retirement packages. In cases where the Company terminates employment, a detailed plan is prepared which, as a minimum, contains information on the workplace, positions and approximate 
number of individuals involved, remuneration due to each employee category or 
position and the schedule for the plan’s implementation.
Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is recognised when a possible obligation arises from past 
events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non- occur
-
rence of one or more uncertain future events, or when there is an obligation which is not recognised as a liability or provision because it is not probable that an out
-
flow of resources will be required to settle the obligation.
Parent Company’s Accounting Policies
The annual report for Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), the Parent Company, has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the 
Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities and statements from the Financial Reporting Board. The Parent Company 
applies the same accounting policies as the Group, with the following exceptions:
Employee benefits/defined-benefit plans
In the calculation of defined-benefit pension plans, the Parent Company complies with the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act, which is a prerequisite for tax 
deductibility. The most significant differences from the rules in IAS 19 relate to 
determination of the discount rate, calculation of the defined-benefit obligation, 
which is based on current salary levels without assumptions about future salary 
increases, and recognition of actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive 
income as they arise. See note 29 for more information.
Leased assets
All the Parent Company’s leases are recognised according to the rules for operat -
ing leases.
Taxes
Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal entities.
Subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised in accordance with the cost model. The value of subsidiaries is measured when there is an indication of a decline in value. Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised as revenue. Transaction costs 
associated with the acquisition of companies are expensed. Contingent considera
-
tions are recognised as part of the cost if it is probable that they will materialise. If the initial assessment needs to be revised in subsequent periods, the cost is 
adjusted.
Group contributions
Sobi applies the alternative rule, which means that all Group contributions received/provided are reported as appropriations.
Basis of preparation
The Parent Company’s functional currency is the Swedish krona (SEK), which is also 
the presentation currency for the Parent Company and the Group. The financial 
statements are therefore presented in SEK. 
All amounts are stated in SEK thousands unless otherwise indicated. Assets and 
liabilities are measured at historical cost, apart from certain financial assets and lia
-
bilities which are measured at fair value. 
To prepare the financial reports in accordance with generally accepted account -
ing principles, the Board of Directors and management make estimates and assumptions that affect the Company’s earnings and financial position, and other information disclosed. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical 
experience and are regularly reviewed. 
Estimates made by management when applying IFRS which have a material 
effect on the financial statements and assumptions have not resulted in material 
adjustments to the following year’s financial statements. The accounting policies 
described above are used consistently in the preparation of the financial state
-
ments which are published and based on IFRS. 
The previous year’s amounts in tables and notes have been adjusted due to 
changes in current and deferred taxes relating to prior years but identified during the current year. 
The amounts and figures in brackets are comparative figures for 2016. See also 
note 4.Note 2 contd.
80
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 3
Financial risk management
Financial risks and risk management
In the course of its operations, Sobi is exposed to various types of risks that may 
affect its earnings and financial position. The risks can be divided into operational 
risks and financial risks. Financial risks are risks of a potentially negative impact on 
the financial position resulting from changes in the financial risk factors. Below is 
a description of the financial risk factors considered most significant for Sobi, and 
the management of these risks. Operational risk is also described in a separate 
section of the Directors’ report.
Financial risk is centrally managed by Sobi’s treasury department, which is also 
responsible for providing solutions for liquidity management and supporting the organisation in treasury-related matters.
The treasury policy, which is adopted by the Board, establishes the division of 
responsibility and control of financial matters between the Board, the CEO, the 
CFO, the central finance department and other Group companies. The Board has 
appointed an Audit Committee which has tasks that include monitoring the struc-ture and content of the treasury policy and, if necessary, suggest changes to the 
Board. The main objective of the treasury policy is to maintain a low level of finan-
cial risk and to manage risk in a prudent way.
Financial risk factors
Currency risk – Commercial transaction risk
Commercial transaction risk is the risk of changes in exchange rates having a  negative effect on operating profit during the period until a transaction is settled. 
As the Group’s subsidiaries generally have most of their commercial flows in local 
currencies, this risk is limited, except in the Parent Company, which has significant commercial flows in foreign currencies, notably EUR and USD.
This risk is managed by limiting the net exposure, i.e. the net of all positive and 
negative exposures, in each currency and by entering into contracts in financial 
instruments such as forward contracts. 
However, part of the transaction risk, associated with highly probable USD 
inflows, primarily from Elocta and Alprolix, is managed by using hedge accounting in the form of cash flow hedges. This means that the FX-effects from revaluing the 
liabilities for Elocta and Alprolix to Bioverativ are recognised in other comprehen-
sive income and accumulated gains or losses on these revaluations are reclassified 
to profit or loss when the mentioned inflows affect profit or loss. See notes 17 and 
27 for further information about these liabilities.
The currencies with the largest net exposures are shown in the graph below. 
The amounts in the graph correspond to the net amounts revalued in operating profit. At 31 December 2017, the exposure was linear and amounted to SEK 
–114 M (159). An instantaneous and permanent change of +/– 10 per cent in all 
rates against SEK would have an impact of SEK –11 M (16) on operating profit 
before tax.
Commercial transaction exposure
–150–100–50050100150200
Other USD EUR2016
2017–45 –106176
101
29
–110SEK MKommersiell transaktionsexponering
Currency risk – Financial transaction risk
Financial transaction risk refers to the risk of changes in exchange rates having a 
negative impact on net financial items. Loans and investments of subsidiaries are 
managed by the Group’s treasury department and are generally denominated in 
the local currencies of the subsidiaries. In this way, financial transaction risk is cen-
tralised to the Parent Company.This risk is managed by matching all transactions in their respective currencies, 
including assets, liabilities and other items revalued in net financial items, and by 
limiting any net exposure of a sufficiently large amount, compared with a fixed measure, by entering into financial contracts, such as forward contracts. The cur -
rencies with the largest net exposures are shown in the graph below. The amounts in the graph correspond to the net amounts (including derivatives) revalued in 
net financial items. At 31 December 2017, the exposure was linear and amounted 
to SEK 271 M (151). An instantaneous and permanent change of +/– 10 per cent 
in all rates against SEK would have an impact of +/– SEK 27 M (15) on financial 
profit before tax. Derivatives outstanding on the reporting date are shown in the table below.
Financial transaction exposure
2016
2017 -50050100150200
Other USD EUR48159
63117
40
–5SEK MFinansiell transaktionsexponering
Outstanding derivatives (nominal amounts in millions, local currency)
2017 2016
USD –30 –21
EUR –29 –23
CAD –5 —
GBP –1 –1
CZK — –24
Currency risk – Translation risk
Translation risk is the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates having a negative 
impact on equity when the balance sheets and income statements of foreign 
 subsidiaries are translated into SEK. This risk is considered low and therefore not 
managed. The translation risk graph shows the Company’s sensitivity to this risk. The graph shows that the translation effect on the Group’s equity would be posi-
tive if SEK weakened, and vice versa. If, for example, SEK depreciated by 2 per 
cent against all currencies, the translation effect on consolidated equity would 
be SEK 3.4 M (1.8).
Translation risk
SEK M, 
Effect on equityCurrency change in SEK, %
–6–4–20246
8.2 6.65 3.4 1.70 –1.7 –3.5 –5.3 –7.2–9
Interest-rate risk
Interest-rate risk is the risk of Sobi being adversely affected by changes in interest 
rates, with changes in general interest rates having a negative effect on earnings 
and changes in market values having a negative effect on fixed-rate instruments. 
Changes in market values are considered acceptable as Sobi’s general principle is 
to minimise its volatility in earnings.
81
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Sobi’s financing sources primarily consist of equity, cash flow from operating 
 activities and borrowings. Interest-bearing borrowings expose the Group to 
 interest-rate risk. Sobi’s long-term interest-bearing financing consists of an unused 
revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M with Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) and 
Danske Bank A/S, Danmark, Sverige filial. This was a three-year facility but an 
option to extend it by one year was exercised during the year and the new matu-
rity date is 27 June 2020. During the year, the credit facility agreement was also 
restructured from the previous utilised credit facility of SEK 500 M and revolving term loan facility of SEK 500 M to a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M, was 
utilised at the reporting date. There were no interest-rate derivatives outstanding 
on the reporting date. The liability to Bioverativ is non-interest bearing by agree-
ment, but is discounted in the financial statements and the effect of the discount-
ing is therefore recognised as an interest expense.
Sensitivity of earnings to interest-rate changes is measured by assuming a per -
manent interest-rate change of 1 percentage point. At 31 December 2017, such a change would have an annual impact of SEK 0 M (3) on net financial items. At 
31 December 2017, Sobi’s interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 7 M (504).
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if a counterparty fails to meet its obligations. 
Credit risk can be divided into credit risk in trade receivables and financial credit risk.
Sobi’s credit risk is primarily related to trade receivables. These amounted to 
SEK 1,129 M (769) at the reporting date, SEK 290 M (272) of which were past due. See note 23 for information about overdue trade receivables. Sobi’s customers are 
 primarily hospitals and government agencies, which means that Sobi’s customers to a 
large extent are funded by governments. If it is Sobi’s assess that a receivable will not 
be paid, provisions must be made. At 31 December 2017, such provisions amounted 
to SEK 35 M (49). There are normally nor guarantees for the credit risk associated 
with trade receivables.
Credit rating reports are obtained, for both distribution agreements and individual 
transactions, when the customer is not previously known or when other circumstances give rise to uncertainty regarding creditworthiness. Credit reports are obtained from 
a market-recognised rating agency.
Sobi has established principles that limit of financial credit risk. Limit the financial 
credit risk further, financial transactions are primarily with banks with a high official 
credit rating.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk of Sobi being unable to obtain financing at acceptable 
terms or to honor its payment obligations, due to factors beyond Sobi’s control. 
Management of liquidity risk is described in the treasury policy. Both short- and 
long-term forecasts of the Group’s liquidity are regularly compiled to ensure the 
availability of sufficient funds to meet the needs of operating activities. Investment of any surplus liquidity shall be in liquid instruments with low credit risk and a high 
level of liquidity. Investments shall only be made in instruments issued by the 
Swedish Government and banks, financial institutions and enterprises with a 
 minimum credit rating of A- from Standard & Poor’s or an equivalent rating from 
another rating agency. With high liquidity means that the investments can be 
 readily converted into cash. According to the policy, there must also be a liquidity 
reserve, the size of which is based on a proportion of annual sales. The liquidity reserve comprises bank balances, short-term investments and the unutilised part 
of committed credit facilities. At 31 December 2017, the Company had unutilised 
committed credit facilities totalling SEK 1,135 M (635).
The long-term financing consists of a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M 
with Handelsbanken and Danske Bank, with a maturity date of 27 June 2020. The 
credit agreement contains customary financial covenants regarding limitations in 
the Group’s ratio of net debt to earnings ratio before interest rates, tax, deprecia-tion and amortisation (EBITDA), the equity/assets ratio and interest coverage 
ratio. The credit agreement also contains covenants with regard to a change of 
control.
The following table shows the contractual undiscounted cash flows from the 
Group’s financial liabilities, divided according to the time to contractual maturity 
as at the reporting date.Maturity analysis
31 DECEMBER 2017Less than 
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 yearsMore than 5 
years
Derivatives 2,624 — — —
Trade payables 358,449 — — —
Other liabilities1 1,624 3,700 1,707,761 —
Total 362,967 3,700 1,707,761 —
31 DECEMBER 2016Less than 
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 yearsMore than 5 
years
Borrowings 7,351 7,531 502,920 —
Trade payables 280,173 — — —
Other liabilities1 1,800 3,502 2,426,195 0
Total 289,323 10,853 2,929,115 0
1.  Other liabilities are mainly related to the liability to Bioverativ. The liability to Bioverativ is recorded at 
nominal amount on the contractual expiration date. Repayment of the liability to Bioverativ in USD is 
mainly via royalty revenue in USD. See note 17.
Capital risk
The goal of Sobi’s capital structure is to generate high returns for shareholders and 
value for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure in order 
to keep capital costs at a reasonable level. The capital structure can be adapted 
to needs by changing the dividends to shareholders, repaying capital to the share-
holders, issuing new shares or selling assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s capital structure is assessed on the basis of the equity/assets ratio. 
The Company’s target is an equity/assets ratio of at least 40 per cent. At 31 December 2017, the equity/assets ratio was as follows:
2017 2016
Equity 6,700,524 5,364,966
Total assets 10,902,907 9,974,139
Equity/assets ratio, % 61.5 53.8
Financial instruments measured at fair valueThe following table shows financial instruments measured at fair value, based on their classification in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are defined 
as follows:
•  Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•  Level 2: Observable data for the asset or liability other than the quoted prices 
included in Level 1.
•  Level 3: Unobservable inputs used for measurement of the asset or liability.
31 DECEMBER 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss
Derivatives held for trading — 2,471 — 2,471
Total assets — 2,471 — 2,471
31 DECEMBER 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss
Derivatives held for trading — 3,901 — 3,901
Total assets — 3,901 — 3,901
All derivatives are measured at fair value based on market data in accordance with 
IFRS. At 31 December 2017, the carrying amount of derivatives in the balance sheet was SEK 2 M (4). See also note 26.Note 3 contd.
82
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 4
Significant accounting estimates, assumptions  
and  judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future,and judgements 
for accounting purposes. Significant accounting estimates, assumptions and 
judgements that involve considerable risk of material adjustments to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities during the next financial year are described below.
ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS 
Revenue
The Group assesses the likelihood of future economic benefits flowing to the Group on the basis of a number of factors, including customers’ payment history 
and credit rating. If a receivable is considered doubtful by the Group, a provision 
is recognised until it is possible to determine whether the Group will receive 
 payment or not. According to the Group’s procedures for advances, advance 
 payments are recognised as other current liabilities until they are earned. When 
recognising revenue, each agreement is interpreted individually and the Company 
makes an assessment of the remaining commitment. 
Revenue is recognised when control of goods is transferred to the buyer. Reve-
nue is calculated as invoiced gross revenue less actual and estimated rebates to public and private customers, adjustments for deliveries where control has not yet 
passed to the buyer, royalty costs to partners and payments to wholesalers and 
distributors. As the actual and final conditions concerning rebates on sales in the 
current period are not always known on the reporting date, some of the deduc-
tions from gross revenue are based on estimates. See also note 2 on revenue  recognition of license fees and milestone payments.
Inventories
Production costs
Costs for production consist of direct production costs, such as raw materials, 
 consumables, media and manpower, as well as indirect costs, such as personnel 
costs, depreciation and maintenance. 
Calculation of indirect production costs is based on a method for calculating 
standard costs. This method is regularly revised in order to ensure reasonable  calculation of the utilisation rate, lead times and other relevant factors. Changes 
in the method of calculating indirect production costs, including the utilisation 
rate, lead times etc., may have an impact on gross margins and the overall 
 valuation of inventories.
Research and development expenditure
The Company conducts research and development as internal projects and with 
external partners. In cases where the Company carries out projects with an exter -
nal partner and both parties share certain costs, the costs are estimated when the project commences. This cost is then used as a basis for settlement with the exter -
nal partner. The calculation is assessed and updated regularly. In some collabora-tive agreements, the Company agrees to make milestone payments. These pay-
ments are capitalised as research and development, and amortisation does not commence until the project has reached the commercialisation phase and meets 
the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Evaluation of a project’s progress 
and impairment testing are performed regularly, at least annually. A write-down 
has been made to one of the clinical programmes in an early phase of SEK 12 M.
Costs for internal development and payments for projects and substances 
under agreement with third parties are expensed continuously if they do not meet 
the requirements of IAS 38. Rules and uncertainty usually mean that the criteria are 
not fulfilled. However, in cases where the requirements are met, intangible assets 
are capitalised and amortised according to plan. Capitalisation commences when 
the Company can demonstrate that it is technically feasible and profitable to 
 commercialise the results. For a sensitivity analysis, see note 17.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Intangible assets
The Group’s intangible assets are essentially attributable to goodwill, develop-
ment projects, product rights and marketing rights. Goodwill arose on the acquisi-
tion of Swedish Orphan. Annual impairment testing of goodwill, development 
projects, product rights and marketing rights is based on their recoverable 
amounts, including essential assumptions such as sales growth, margins and 
 discount rates. See below and note 17.Goodwill
The Group conducts regular goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with the 
policy described in note 2. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is determined by calculating the value in use. This calculation requires certain esti-
mates to be made. See note 17. Sobi’s goodwill amounted to SEK 1,554 M (1,554) 
on 31 December 2017. The impairment testing did not indicate any impairment. 
Acquired development projects 
The Group makes periodic impairment assessments of acquired development pro-
jects in accordance with the policy described in note 2. Impairment assessments require certain estimates to be made. These assumptions are specified in note 17.
Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights have a limited useful life and amortisation is used 
to spread the cost over this period. The amortisation period ranges from 5 to 20 
years, and is adapted to the expected earnings of each product right. 
As the carrying amounts of these product and marketing rights are highly sign-
ificant for the Group, they are tested annually for impairment. The Company has determined that most of the amortisation is attributable to selling expenses, as 
the intangible assets classified as product rights are primarily related to marketing 
rights. The product and licensing rights are not related to any inventory cycle or 
production, nor is it necessary to otherwise bring the product to its current loca-
tion and condition. The rights enable Sobi to market and sell certain products. Use 
of rights is not consumed in a manufacturing process but rather over a useful life which corresponds to the related product’s length of relevance on the market. 
The assumption that has the greatest impact on the future value is projected 
sales growth. It is based on assumptions about underlying growth and future prod-
uct development, and expansion of the applicable areas for the pharmaceutical. 
If the Company’s assumptions regarding product development and expansion of 
the applicable areas for a pharmaceutical prove to be incorrect, this may indicate 
that the product right is impaired. Other assumptions included in impairment test-ing of product rights are presented in note 17. 
Taxes
Deferred tax is calculated using the liability method, based on temporary differ -
ences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their correspond-ing tax bases. The amounts are measured using the tax rates and tax laws enacted 
or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Under current Swedish tax legisla-tion, loss carryforwards continue indefinitely. There are no loss carryforwards in the 
Group at the moment.
Assumptions for the calculation of pension benefits
The actuarial calculation of pension obligations and pension costs is based on the 
actuarial assumptions specified in notes 2 and 29.
Inventories
Obsolescence
Inventories consist of raw materials for production, manufactured semi-finished 
and finished products of Alprolix, Ammonaps, Elocta, Kepivance, Kineret, Orfadin 
and Xiapex, and inventories of finished goods for other products. There is no 
obsolescence provision for these inventories. Stock levels for Kepivance are 
expected to last for several years. The stocked product durability can vary over time. This can lead to an increased risk of obsolescence when a significant change 
in demand for a product, or a change in durability, could result in impairment. 
Products not approved at quality inspection are directly expensed. 
Other stock mainly consists of ReFacto. Production of ReFacto has two compo-
nents: cultivation and purification. If a certain portion of the stock is not approved 
by Sobi’s and/or Pfizer’s quality department, the material is immediately 
expensed. Obsolescence assessments are regularly updated based on historical obsolescence. Sobi is part of the pharmaceutical industry, which is regulated and 
controlled by several authorities in and outside Sweden. The Company collabo-
rates with external partners, both Swedish and foreign, who control and evaluate 
the business. All finished inventories are measured continuously with respect to 
the shelf life limitations of pharmaceuticals.
83
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 5
Distribution of operating revenue
GROUP 2017 2016
Operating revenue by major revenue category
Product sales 4,746,175 2,990,343
Manufacturing and contract development 559,295 568,684
Royalty revenue 1,202,660 1,598,887
Out-licensing and milestone revenue5 — 13,783
Service fee 2,701 32,643
Total 6,510,831 5,204,340
GROUP 2017 2016
Revenue by geographic market1
Europe 2 3,784,036 2,221,801
MENAR 3 271,806 301,513
North America 1,168,279 1,002,050
Rest of world 84,050 66,306
Total 5,308,171 3,591,670
Royalty revenue4 1,202,660 1,598,887
Out-licensing and milestone revenue5 — 13,783
Total 6,510,831 5,204,340
Revenues for the Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), 
amounted to SEK 5,756 M (4,594) with sales to Group companies accounting for 
SEK 2,732 M (1,472) of the amount.
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Operating revenue by major revenue category
Product sales 3,991,714 2,379,943
Manufacturing and contract development 559,295 568,684
Royalty revenue4 1,202,660 1,598,887
Out-licensing and milestone revenue5 — 13,783
Service fee 2,701 32,643
Total 5,756,370 4,593,940
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Revenue by geographic market1
Europe 2 3,453,619 1,882,846
MENAR 3 157,498 200,862
North America 857,941 830,642
Rest of world 84,652 66,920
Total 4,553,710 2,981,270
Royalty revenue4 1,202,660 1,598,887
Out-licensing and milestone revenue5 — 13,783
Total 5,756,370 4,593,940
1.  The geographic distribution is based on where end-customers are located.
2.  Sales in Sweden amounted to SEK 165 M (128). 
3.  Middle East, North Africa and Russia.
4.  Royalty revenue includes royalties from our Haemophilia products which are not attributable to a spe-
cific region as shown above; royalties from Bioverativ’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix were SEK 1,168 M (803), One-time credits from Bioverativ relating to the approval of Elocta and Alprolix amounted to 
SEK 708 M in 2016. Royalty revenue from Pfizer’s sales of ReFacto was SEK 34 M (88). 
5.  Milestone payment of SEK 14 M was received in 2016 in conjunctions with the European Commission’s 
approval of Alprolix.Revenue by product category (Group) 
SEK K 2017 2016
Elocta 1,557,476 267,198
Alprolix 362,798 60,416
Royalty revenue 1,168,207 1,525,085
Haemophilia 3,088,481 1,852,699
Orfadin 861,866 769,992
Kineret 1,141,938 1,001,302
Xiapex 164,146 152,720
Other 660,652 771,347
Specialty Care 2,828,602 2,695,362
Manufacturing revenue 559,295 568,684
Royalty revenue 34,453 87,595
ReFacto 593,748 656,279
Total revenue 6,510,831 5,204,340
Note 6
Segment reporting
The Group reports one operating segment, sales of pharmaceuticals. The basis for 
identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting provided to and moni-
tored by the chief operating decision maker. The Group has identified the CEO as 
the chief operating decision maker. Sobi reports revenue by geographic areas. 
See note 5 for more information on the distribution by major revenue category 
and geographic area.
Sobi’s largest customers in 2017 were Bioverativ, with sales of SEK 691 M (1,176), 
and Pfizer, with sales of SEK 594 M (656), corresponding to 11 and 9 per cent respectively of the Company’s total revenue for 2017. In 2017 and 2016, Sobi did 
not have any other customer for which revenue exceeded 10 per cent of the 
 Company’s total revenue. Most of the non-current assets are in Sweden.
84
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 7
Depreciation, amortisation and write-down of assets
GROUP 2017 2016
Depreciation/amortisation according to  
plan by type of asset
Capitalised software expenditure –15,492 –14,458
Licences and patents –38,766 –39,200
Product and marketing rights –386,594 –356,479
Land and buildings –56
Plant and machinery –15,001 –10,241
Equipment, tools and fixtures & fittings –15,599 –17,571
Other non-current assets –2,525 –2,705
Total –473,977 –440,710
Depreciation/amortisation according to  
plan by function
Cost of goods and services sold –14,412 –13,995
Selling and administrative expenses –453,538 –422,848
Development expenditure –6,027 –3,867
Total –473,977 –440,710
Write-down by type of asset1
Licences and patents –12,000 —
Total –12,000 —
Write-down by function1
Selling and administrative expenses –12,000 —
Total –12,000 —
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Depreciation/amortisation according to  
plan by type of asset
Capitalised software expenditure –15,321 –14,458
Licences and patents –6,669 –5,193
Product and marketing rights –262,213 –224,747
Land and buildings — –56
Plant and machinery –14,652 –10,241
Equipment, tools and fixtures & fittings –11,371 –14,108
Other non-current assets –524 –520
Total –310,750 –269,323
Depreciation/amortisation according to  
plan by function
Cost of goods and services sold –14,355 –13,938
Selling and administrative expenses –290,553 –251,733
Development expenditure –5,842 –3,652
Total –310,750 –269,323
Write-down by type of asset1
Licences and patents –12,000 —
Total –12,000 —
Write-down by function1
Selling and administrative expenses –12,000 —
Total –12,000 —
1.  See note 17 for more information.Note 8
Other operating income
GROUP 2017 2016
Sale of property — 4,166
Exchange gains1 — 30,807
Other 471 1,697
Total 471 36,670
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Sale of property — 4,166
Exchange gains1 — 24,256
Other 120 1,500
Total 120 29,922
1. Exchange rate effects are reported net and represent a loss in 2017, see note 9.
Note 9
Other operating expenses
GROUP 2017 2016
Exchange losses on operating receivables/liabilities1 –52,541 —
Other –207 –225
Total –52,748 –225
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Exchange losses on operating receivables/liabilities1 –39,824 —
Total –39,824 —
1.  Exchange rate effects are reported net and represent a loss in 2017, last year were represented  
as a gain, see note 8.
Note 10
Operating lease payments
Contractual future rental payments for premises with non-cancellable contracts, 
due for payment as follows:
Group Parent Company
2017 2016 2017 2016
Within one year 69,395 68,476 59,144 58,119
1–5 years 251,080 263,663 224,121 222,225
Later than five years 64,492 103,450 64,492 103,450
Total 384,967 435,589 347,757 383,794
Leasings costs for the year 72,530 62,942 58,120 52,980
Other future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases are due for payment as follows:
Group Parent Company
2017 2016 2017 2016
Within one year 6,082 8,215 318 324
1–5 years 8,898 8,742 477 —
Total 14,980 16,957 795 324
Leasing costs for the year 11,565 10,552 323 279
85
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017The decisive factor in the classification of leases is to what extent the economic 
risks and benefits associated with ownership of the leased object are retained by 
the lessor or transferred to the lessee. For property, assessments of the lease 
 contract must be made both for the building and the land. Sobi bases its position 
mainly on the fact that the present value of the minimum lease payments does not 
represent a significant portion of the fair value of the property and that there is no 
compelling evidence of a financial lease. 
Note 11
Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of the Board 
and senior executives
Number of employees1
GROUP 2017%  
Female% 
Male 2016%  
Female% 
Male
Sweden 451 64 36 433 63 37
Denmark 14 59 41 16 64 36
Finland/Baltics 9 57 43 13 54 46
Norway 7 71 29 7 71 29
UK 51 47 53 47 44 56
France 38 63 37 36 71 29
Germany 35 66 34 33 58 42
Italy 36 47 53 30 50 50
Greece2 2 100 0 – – –
Spain 29 52 48 25 48 52
Belgium 16 38 62 15 45 55
Russia 6 83 17 6 67 33
Switzerland 9 42 58 5 26 74
Austria 4 71 29 6 87 13
Central and Eastern 
Europe 16 50 50 18 51 49
US 48 54 46 47 48 52
Canada 6 33 67 4 44 56
United Arab Emirates 23 17 83 19 17 83
Total 800 59 41 760 58 42
1.  At 31 December 2017, the number of full-time employees was 800, while the number of persons 
employed on the same date was 850.
2.  The Greece company was established 20 April 2017.
Gender composition of the Board and management
The information in the table does not include the employee representatives. The 
information refers to conditions on the reporting date.
GROUP 2017 2016
Board of Directors
Male 4 5
Female 2 3
Total 6 8
CEO and senior executives
Male 7 9
Female 2 3
Total 9 12Salaries, other benefits and social security contributions
2017 2016
GROUP AND  
PARENT COMPANYSalaries and 
remunera-
tionsSocial 
 security 
costsSalaries and 
remunera-
tionsSocial 
 security 
costs
Parent Company 427,440 243,525 366,986 198,808
(of which pension costs) (78,864) (65,047)
Subsidiaries 500,024 91,861 426,043 79,102
(of which pension costs) (24,050) (25,100)
Group total 927,464 335,386 793,029 277,910
(of which pension costs) (102,914) (90,147)
Salaries and other benefits by Board and CEO, and other employees
2017 2016
Board and 
CEOOther 
employeesBoard and 
CEOOther 
employees
Parent Company
Salaries and other benefits 16,8621 410,867 6,5651 360,421
(of which bonus) (4,065) 1 (52,312) (772)1 (44,711)
SubsidiariesSalaries and other benefits 14,732
1 485,292 10,0901 415,953
(of which bonus) (1,841)1 (84,261) (3,090)1 (70,340)
Group total 31,305 896,159 16,655 776,374
(of which bonus) (5,906) (136,573) (3,862) (115,051)
1.  2017 includes both former CEO Geoffrey McDonaugh and current CEO Guido Oelkers. The former 
CEO’s salary, bonus and severance pay were mostly paid by the US subsidiary, where the former CEO 
also has his domicile. 
Guidelines and remuneration 2017
The 2017 AGM adopted the following guidelines for remuneration of senior 
 executives.
The AGM adopted the Board’s recommendation regarding guidelines for 
 remuneration of the Company’s senior executives for the period until the 2018 
AGM, as set out below. In this context, senior executives refers to the CEO of 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB and the managers reporting to the CEO, who are 
also included in company management, and any Board members who have signed employment or consulting contracts.
Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives
Objective
The objective of the guidelines is to ensure that the Company can attract and 
retain the best people in order to support the vision and strategy of the Company. 
Remuneration for senior executives is based on a total remuneration approach. The position of total remuneration should be market competitive without being 
leading relative to competitors in each local market. The market comparisons 
should be made against a set of peer Group companies with comparable sizes, 
industries and complexity. The remuneration guidelines should enable interna-
tional hiring and should support diversity within senior executives. 
The remuneration may consist of the following components:
• A. Fixed Base Pay
• B. Variable Pay – so-called Short-Term Incentives 
• C. Long-Term Incentives
• D. Pensions
• E. Other Benefits
To the extent a member of the Board of Directors carries out work for the  Company or for another Group company, in addition to the board work, 
 consulting fees and/or other remuneration for such work may be payable. Note 10 contd.
59% 41%GENDER DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES
86
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1
Basic salary/fees Bonus Pension cost Other benefits Share programs Total
2017
Chairman of the Board
Håkan Björklund2 1,327 1,327
Other Board members 
Helena Saxon 513 513
Hans GCP Schikan 553 553
Lennart Johansson 522 522
Matthew Gantz 502 502
Annette Clancy3 510 510
Jeffrey Jonas4 145 145
Theresa Heggie5 110 110
Group Management, 2017 Guido Oelkers, CEO from 22 May 2017 5,126 3,585 1,497 171 2,772 13,151
Other senior executives (8 persons)
6 7,765 3,953 1,069 901 3,777 17,465 
Former CEO and other senior executives
Geoffrey McDonough, CEO until 21 May 2017 15,1418 2,321 144 780 5,7857 24,171
Former other senior executives (7 persons)6 16,7639 5,046 7,4149 546 3,6327 33,402
Total 48,977 14,905 10,124 2,398 15,966 92,370
1.  Other senior executives refers to Sobi´s Executive Committee, comprising eight individuals in addition to the CEO, at December 2017. The table shows the Company’s costs (excluding social security costs).  
For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report. 
2.   The fee comprises the Board fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Chairman’s company was SEK 1,744 K, which includes compensation for social security costs. 
3.  The fee comprises the Board fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Board member’s company was SEK 670 K, which includes compensation for social security costs. 
4.   Board member Jeffrey Jonas left the Board in connection with the AGM in May 2017. 
5.   Board member Theresa Heggie left the Board as of 7 April 2017. 
6.  In 2017, Sobi established a new management structure: an Executive Committee to replace the former Executive Leadership Team in its form. The Executive Committee is Sobi’s decision-making body.  Remuneration to senior executives in 2017 includes members of the Executive Leadership Team, up to and including the date on which the new management structure was established, and members of the 
 Executive Committee for the period thereafter until the end of the year.
7. See also allotment and fulfillment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2014 share programme.
8. Base pay includes an agreed severance payment of SEK 11,757 K.
9. Base pay and pension cost include an agreed severance payment of SEK 10,066 K.Note 11 contd.
Basic salary/fees Bonus Pension cost Other benefits Share programs Total
2016
Chairman of the Board
Håkan Björklund2, 3 847 847
Bo Jesper Hansen2, 4 812 812
Other Board members6 
Helena Saxon 477 477
Hans GCP Schikan 505 505
Adine Grate Axén5, 6 178 178
Lennart Johansson 484 484
Hans Wigzell5 158 158
Matthew Gantz 457 457
Annette Clancy7 653 653
Jeffrey Jonas5 330 330
Theresa Heggie5 297 297
CEO 
Geoffrey McDonough 5,837 3,862 272 1,755 6,7698 18,495
Other senior executives1 20,819 8,204 6,054 983 5,3938 41,453
Total 31,854 12,066 6,326 2,738 12,162 65,146
1.  Other senior executives refers to Sobi´s Leadership Team, comprising eleven individuals in addition to the CEO, at December 2016.  
The table shows the Company’s costs (excluding social security costs). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report.
2.   At the 2016 AGM, Håkan Björklund was elected to the Board, while former Chairman Bo Jesper Hansen left the Board.
3.  The fee comprises the Board fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Chairman’s company was SEK 1,113 K, which includes compensation for social security costs.
4. Bo Jesper Hansen’s employment and his monthly salary were not linked to his position as Chairman of the Board.
5.   At the 2016 AGM, Jeffrey Jonas and Theresa Heggie were elected to the Board to replace the outgoing members Adine Grate Axén and Hans Wigzell. 
6.  The fee comprises the Board fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Board member’s company was SEK 234 K, which includes compensation for social security costs.
7.  The fee comprises the Board fee and an additional fee of SEK 200 K for extraordinary services carried out in 2015, in accordance with the decision of the 2016 AGM, excluding social security costs.  
The gross payment to the Board member’s company was SEK 658 K, which includes compensation for social security contributions.
8. See also allotment and fulfillment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2013 share programmes.
87
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 11 contd.
Fixed Base Pay
The fixed base pay of senior executives should be based on competence, respon-
sibility and performance. The Company uses an international evaluation system in 
order to evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position. 
Variable Pay
The annual Short Term Incentive plan is based on the achievement of annual per -
formance objectives (corporate, departmental1 and individual. Payment is based 
on achievement of the pre-determined objectives. The annual performance objec-tives are defined in advance by the Compensation & Benefits Committee and 
approved by the Board of Directors.
These objectives are determined for the promotion of the Company’s long-
term development, value creation and financial growth and shall be designed in a 
way that does not encourage an excessive risk-taking. The Short-Term Incentives 
are limited to 75 per cent of the annual gross salary for the CEO and 50 per cent of the fixed annual salary for the other senior executives (pension compensation for 
the CEO may be included in the annual gross salary and therefore also be included 
as a basis for calculating Short-Term Incentives).
Long-Term Incentives 
The Company can introduce long-term incentive programmes for all or some of its 
employees. The objectives of such a programme should be to align the employ-ees’ interests with those of the shareholders, to create a long-term commitment to 
the Company, to be a tool to retain and attract executives and top talent, to offer 
participants the opportunity to take part in the Company’s long-term success and 
value creation, and to contribute to a competitive total remuneration.
Pensions
The preferred pension plan design is defined contribution
2. If the operating 
 environment requires the establishment of a defined benefit pension plan by law 
or other regulations, such a plan may be established. The defined benefit level 
should in such cases be limited to the mandatory level. 
Other Benefits
Fixed salary during notice periods and severance pay, including payments for any 
restrictions on competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent to the fixed base pay for two years. In addition to this restriction, the total severance pay-
ment shall be limited to the existing monthly salary for the remaining months up to 
the age of 65.
Additional compensation may also be paid out in extraordinary circumstances, 
provided that such arrangements are made for senior executive recruitment or reten-
tion purposes and are agreed on an individual basis. Such extraordinary arrange-
ments shall be in line with market practice and may, for example, include a one-time cash payment, a support package including relocation and tax filing support, reten-
tion bonus or severance payment in case of a change of control, or similar.
Deviation from the guidelines 
The Board may decide to deviate from the above guidelines if it considers that 
there are special reasons for doing so in a particular case – for example, if the 
Board considers that a deviation is necessary or appropriate in order to recruit the most competent individual as new CEO.
Deviations from the 2016 guidelines
When Sobi’s 2016 long-term incentive programme (LTI 2016) was introduced, the 
majority of employees, including senior executives, were legally prohibited from 
participating in the programme as they were in possession of inside information at 
that time. In the context of the 2016 AGM’s adoption of the proposal for LTI 2016, intended for senior executives and other employees, and as the Board considers 
long-term incentive programmes to be a key part of a competitive overall remu-
neration package aimed at attracting and retaining senior executives and senior 
managers who are crucial to the Company’s long-term success, the Board decided 
to deviate from the guidelines in order to enable employees who were legally pre-
vented from participating in LTI 2016 to participate in a long-term cash-based 
incentive programme (LCI) instead. The deviation was made in accordance with the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives adopted by the 2016 AGM. 
Like LTI 2016, the LCI is a three-year programme with certain performance condi-
tions that must be achieved in order for any remuneration to be paid to senior executives. For senior executives, the performance conditions are related to prof-itability and revenue growth. On an individual basis, the Company’s maximum 
costs for the LCI may not exceed the maximum costs that could otherwise have 
arisen under LTI 2016. 
In addition, when CEO Geoffrey McDonough left the Company in July 2017, 
the Company entered into an agreement with him that deviates from the remuner -
ation guidelines for senior executives approved by the 2016 AGM. The deviation is that the fixed salary during the notice period together with the severance pay will total an amount equivalent to approximately 27 monthly fixed salaries, i.e. 
more than the maximum two years that is stipulated in the guidelines. Given that it 
was in both the Company’s and the shareholders’ interest to keep the CEO for as 
long as possible while the Company was recruiting a successor and that Geoffrey 
McDonough intended to remain in service during the entire notice period up until 
1 July 2017, the Board of Directors resolved to deviate from the remuneration 
guidelines for senior executives approved by the Annual General Meeting 2016 in this individual case.
Senior executives’ employment conditions and remuneration
Sobi aims to offer market terms that enable the company to recruit and retain 
competent personnel (for the complete guidelines, see the Director´s report. 
Remuneration to Directors elected by the AGM is paid in accordance with the 
decision of the AGM of 2017. No pensions are paid to the Board.
The CEO’s remuneration is reviewed and proposed by the Chairman of the 
Board together with the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. Remuneration to other members of Group Management is proposed by the CEO 
in close cooperation with the Remuneration Committee and approved by the 
Board. Remuneration to the CEO and other senior executives consists of fixed 
 salary, variable remuneration in the short and long term, other benefits and 
 pensions. Other senior executives refer to those persons who together form 
the Group Management.
A new management structure was established as of 1 November, 2017. The 
new management team consists of eight senior executives in addition to the CEO.
Fixed salary
Each senior executive’s areas of responsibility, experience and performance have 
been taken into account in determining the fixed salary. Fixed salary is reviewed every year.
Short-term variable remuneration
For the CEO and former CEO, short-term variable remuneration in 2017 was 
capped at 75 per cent of the annual gross salary. The former CEO qualified for 
short-term variable remuneration for the first half of 2017 until his employment 
with the Company ceased. Variable remuneration is based on Group targets and individual targets defined by the Board. For other senior executives, short-term 
variable remuneration is capped at 50 per cent of the fixed salary and is based on 
targets at Group and division level, and individual targets. There are regular status 
reviews of the expected outcome throughout the year and reserves are adjusted 
monthly. An assessment of the variable salary is made on each reporting date.
Retirement benefits
The CEO is entitled to a defined contribution pension amounting to 30 per cent of 
the basic salary. Sobi has reserved a premium of SEK 1,497 M for 2017. The retire-
ment age is 65 years.
The former CEO had a defined contribution pension agreement, in which Sobi 
for 2017 paid a premium of SEK 144 K (272). Gross salary, excluding severance 
pay, including retirement provision in 2017 amounted to SEK 3,503 M (6,109).
Other senior executives employed in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan with 
a retirement age at 65. They are also covered by a supplementary defined con-tribution pension commitment of 27 per cent of the pensionable salary including 
ITP . The pensionable salary is limited to 50 income base amounts.
In connection with the transition from the defined benefit pension to defined 
contribution pension, some individual agreements have been made with former 
senior management members with percentages higher than 27 per cent. Mem-
bers of Group Management who are employed in other countries receive pension terms according to market practice in the country of employment.
1. Department-specific targets are not relevant for the CEO. 
2.  A defined-contribution pension plan determines the contribution level to be paid to the pension 
plan for each individual.
88
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Incentive programmes
Sobi has five active share programmes as at the reporting date. To participate in 
the share programmes, employees must be permanently employed. All program-
mes run for three years. The company also has three cash-based programmes for 
employees in the US. The 2015 programme has a three-year vesting period, while 
the other programmes have a four-year vesting period. 
Long-term incentive programmes 
The 2014–2017 Annual General Meetings adopted the Board’s proposals to 
establish long-term incentive programmes. The aim has been to create long-term 
commitment to Sobi, to offer participants the opportunity to share in Sobi’s long-
term success and value creation, and to enable the Company to attract and retain 
senior executives and senior managers. The Company’s long-term share-based 
remuneration programmes are described below.
The performance share programmes for 2014–2017 are structured according to 
similar principles. • The programmes have a three-year vesting period.
• These programmes require a personal investment in Sobi shares, although not in the 2017 Management Programme, which requires no personal investment in 
Sobi shares. 
• Employees are entitled to matching shares free of consideration. Some employ-ees may also be entitled to performance shares if the performance criteria are met. The number of performance shares that employees are entitled to receive 
differs according to the organisational level.
• The employee must be permanently employed during the entire vesting period and not sell the investment shares during this period in order to receive match-
ing and potential performance shares. 
• The performance targets are that the share price will increase by a certain per -
centage over a three-year period, and for the 2017 management programme that actual annual revenue during the vesting period will meet or exceed the 
budget for annual revenue. 
• Employee eligibility differs between the programmes, as does the formulation of the performance target. 
2014 Share Programme (paid 2017)
The 2014A and 2014B share programmes expired in 2017. For 2014A, the Board decided that the following performance conditions and other vesting terms were 
fully met when the 2014A Share Programme was redeemed on 9 May 2017. In the 
management programme for senior executives and managers, 249,209 shares with 
a market value of SEK 34.5 M were allotted. In the employee programme, 95,076 
shares with a market value of SEK 13.2 M were allotted. The performance target was 
a 15–75 per cent increase in the share price from the volume-weighted share price 
ten days prior to roll-out of the programme. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent.
During the roll-out of the 2014A share programme, a number of employees 
became insiders and were therefore not able to participate in the programme. 
To compensate for any loss, the Board decided that the performance outcome in 
the 2014B share programme for these individuals would be calculated on the vol-
ume-weighted share price ten days before the 2014A share programme roll-out. 
For 2014B, the Board decided that other vesting terms were met and perfor -
mance conditions were met by up to 45.121 per cent (89.919 per cent for insiders) when the 2014B share programme was redeemed on 17 November 2017. In the 
management programme for senior executives and managers, 128,010 shares 
with a market value of SEK 14.5 M were allotted, of which the former CEO’s 
 proportion comprised 52,296 shares with a market value of SEK 5.9 M. In the 
employee programme, 5,859 shares with a market value of SEK 665 thousand 
were allotted. The performance target was a 15–75 per cent increase in the share price from the volume-weighted share price ten days prior to roll-out of the pro-
gramme. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, 
with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent.
2014 Cash-based Programme (paid 2018)
The 2014 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employees in 
the US. The performance target was a 15–75 per cent increase in the share price from the volume-weighted share price ten days prior to roll-out of the programme. 
The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. In addition, sales must be 95–105 per 
cent relative to the average budget over a three-year period. The programme 
expired in 2017 and the above target relating to the share price performance was 
50 per cent fulfilled, the result relating to sales was achieved in full.
2015 Share Programme
The 2015 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the former CEO, 
a programme for senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees.
Participation requires personal investment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred 
to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: The former CEO is allotted performance 
shares (no matching shares), contingent on the achievement of a certain share 
price performance. Allotment of performance shares in the CEO programme is 
contingent on the share price, adjusted for any dividends, exceeding the threshold value of 20 per cent. If the share price increases between 20 and 100 per cent, a 
proportional number of performance shares is allotted. The maximum possible 
allotment of performance shares is 400,000. 
Participants in the management programme are allotted one matching share 
for each saving share, plus additional performance shares contingent on the 
achievement of a certain share price performance. For maximum allotment of per -
formance shares, the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, 
must increase by at least 75 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, 
has increased by 15–75 per cent, programme participants will receive straight-line 
allotment of performance shares. 
Participants in the employee programme are allotted two matching shares for 
each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching shares, programme 
participants must have retained the saving shares they have acquired. 
The maximum possible allotment of shares in the Management and Employee 
Programme is 398,004 performance shares and 111,288 matching shares.
2015 Cash-based Programme
The 2015 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employees 
in the US. The performance target is a 15–75 per cent increase in the share price 
from the volume-weighted share price ten days prior to the roll-out of the pro-
gramme. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. In addition, sales must be 95–105 
per cent relative to the average budget over a three-year period. 
2015 Share Programme
No. of 
performance 
sharesNo. of 
matching 
sharesValue 
in SEK
Other senior executives in the Group (4). 32,650 2,697 1,724,411
Former CEO and other senior 
 executives in the Group (5). 452,794 3,771 17,359,645
Total 485,444 6,468 19,084,056
2016 Share Programme
The 2016 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the former CEO, senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Partici-
pation requires personal investment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as 
 “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management programme 
are allotted one matching share for each saving share, plus additional perfor -
mance shares contingent on the achievement of a certain share price performance. 
For maximum allotment of performance shares, the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, 
adjusted for any dividends, must increase by at least 75 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased by 15–75 per cent, programme partici-
pants will receive straight-line allotment of performance shares. 
Participants in the employee programme are allotted two matching shares for 
each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching shares, programme 
participants must have retained the saving shares they have acquired. 
89
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 11 contd.
Expensing of the 2015–2017 Share programmes is calculated using the following parameters:
Start date End dateNo. of 
matching 
sharesNo. of 
performance 
sharesVesting 
period 
(months)Fair value 
of matching 
shareFair value 
of perfor -
mance 
share1Fair value 
of perfor -
mance  
share2Expected 
employee 
turnover, 
%Max. 
allotment 
of sharesForfeited 
shares 
2017
2015 Share Programme 19 Aug 2015 19 Aug 2018 111,288 398,004 36 116.40 43.20 n/a 12 509,292 6,944
2015 share Programme 
CEO 24 Sep 2015 24 Sep 2018 n/a 400,000 36 n/a 36.60 n/a — 400,000 —
2016 Share Programme 28 Oct 2016 28 Oct 2019 103,097 203,091 36 94.05 33.34 n/a 5 306,188 4,342
Share Programme 2017:1 
All employees   9 May 2017   9 May 2020 47,138 n/a 36 136.85 n/a n/a 5 47,138 210
Share Programme 2017:2 Management   9 May 2017   9 May 2020 n/a 912,539 36 n/a 54.95 136.85 5 912,539 12,193
1. Fair value of performance shares linked to share price development, see section 2017 Share Programme above.
2. Fair value of performance share associated with income, see section 2017 Share Programme above.  
Volatility is measured as the standard deviation of the expected return on the share price, based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices for Sobi’s ordinary share over the last three years.  
The valuation model also includes the corresponding historical volatility for the share prices of peer companies over the same period, and the correlation between all share prices. The maximum allocation possible in the Management and Employee Programme 
is 203,091 performance shares and 103,097 matching shares.
When Sobi’s 2016 Share Programme was introduced, a number of employees, 
including the CEO and other senior executives in the Group, were legally prohib-
ited from participating in the programme as they were in possession of insider 
information at that time. In view of the legal obstacles and to ensure Sobi is able 
to attract and retain senior executives, the Board decided to establish a long-term 
cash-based incentive programme instead, effective from 1 January 2017. For more information, see the 2016 annual report.
2016 Cash-based Programme
The formulation of the Cash Programme covering all employees in the US and 
Canada was adjusted in 2016. The programme consists of two components: a 
time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component 
(50 per cent) based on two performance measures.
The first performance measure (50 per cent) is an annual increase in the share 
price of at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second performance measure (50 per cent) is for North America’s annual revenue to be at least 95 per 
cent of budget over a four-year period.
2017 Share Programme
The 2017 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Participation in 
the programme for other employees requires personal investment in Sobi’s ordi-
nary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management programme 
are allotted performance shares contingent on a certain share price performance. 
For maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, the price of Sobi’s 
ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased by 15–50 per cent, 
programme participants will receive straight-line allotment of performance shares. 
For maximum allotment of the remaining 40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenue. The 2017 annual revenue target is fully achieved. The maximum 
possible allotment of shares is 912,539. Participants in the employee programme 
are allotted two matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment 
of matching shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares 
they have acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 47,138.
2017 Cash-based Programme
The 2017 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme for all employees 
in the US and Canada, with one senior executive participating in the programme. 
The programme consists of two components: a time-based component (50 per 
cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) based on two perfor -
mance measures.
The first performance measure (50 per cent) is an annual increase in the share 
price of at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second performance 
measure (50 per cent) is for North America’s annual revenue to be at least 95 per 
cent of budget over a four-year period.
2017 Share Programme
No. of 
performance 
sharesNo. of 
matching 
sharesValue 
in SEK
CEO and other senior executives in 
the Group (6). 230,777 — 7,608,718
Former other senior executives in the Group (5). 75,485 — 2,488,740
Total 306,262 —10,097,458
90
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 12 
Remuneration of auditors
GROUP 2017 2016
EY
Auditing assignments1 –4,782 –4,164
Other auditing assignments –681 –1,412
Tax advisory services –81 –1,299
Other services –332 –285
Total EY –5,851 –7,160
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
EY
Auditing assignments1 –1,921 –2,026
Other auditing assignments –593 –1,308
Tax advisory services –81 –1,287
Other services –332 —
Total EY –2,927 –4,621
1.  Audit assignments comprise the statutory audit, required in order to submit an audit report, and 
 auditing consultancy. 
Note 13 
Expenses by nature
GROUP 2017 2016
Raw materials and consumables –1,509,077 –1,228,611
Other external costs –1,499,690 –1,265,018
Costs for remuneration of employees –1,363,445 –1,173,332
Depreciation, amortisation and write-down1 –485,977 –440,710
Other operating expenses –145,226 –81,746
Total –5,003,415 –4,189,417
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Raw materials and consumables –1,516,485 –1,144,774
Other external costs –1,565,730 –1,387,869
Costs for remuneration of employees –711,675 –615,657
Depreciation, amortisation and write-down1 –322,750 –269,323
Other operating expenses –133,824 –81,631
Total –4,250,464 –3,499,254
1.  Depreciations in 2017 includes an impairment of one of the clinical programmes at an early stage  
of SEK 12 M.
The above costs correspond to: Cost of goods and services sold, selling and 
administrative expenses, research and development expenditure, depreciation, 
amortisation, write-down and other operating expenses in the income statement 
classified by function.Note 14 
Finance income
GROUP 2017 2016
Other interest income 1,219 1,427
Exchange gains1 — 6,498
Total 1,219 7,925
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Interest income, Group companies 11,258 16,329
Other interest income 398 923
Exchange gains1 — 4,631
Total 11,656 21,883
1. Exchange rate effects are reported net and consisted of a loss in 2017. See note 15. 
Note 15 
Finance costs
GROUP 2017 2016
Interest expense, borrowing1 –13,886 –27,722
Interest expense, other2 –50,085 –50,824
Exchange loss3 –3,389 —
Administrative expense –1,277 –2,319
Other –524 –12,194
Total –69,161 –93,060
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Interest expense, Group companies –8,945 –3,100
Interest expense, borrowing1 –13,886 –27,722
Interest expense, other2 –50,085 –50,824
Exchange loss3 –1,588 —
Administrative expense –1,277 –2,319
Other –518 –10,854
Total –76,299 –94,819
1.  The lower interest expense in 2017 is attributable to refinancing during 2016, where the existing bond 
of the time was replaced by a bank loan at a significantly lower interest rate.
2.  Refers to interest costs for loans from Bioverativ.
3.  Exchange rate effects are reported net and consisted of a loss in 2017, and a gain in the previous year,  as reported in note 14. The figures include realised and unrealised currency effects of SEK 8 M (–17) from derivatives.
91
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 16 
Income tax
GROUP 2017 2016
Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+)
Tax expense/tax income for the period –209,067 –79,993
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –61 –2,161
Total current tax for the Group –209,128 –82,154
Deferred tax arising from:Change in excess depreciation –213,400 –111,684
Residual value depreciation — 40,702
Change of depreciation method 19,729 –39,458
Internal profit in inventories –4,331 43,327
Acquired product rights 38,148 38,148
Other intangible assets –3,720 –144,367
Provision for pensions 8,299 636
Loss carryforwards –15,447 15,110
Other –3,961 –6,604
Total deferred tax for the Group –174,683 –164,190
Total tax for the Group –383,811 –246,344
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+)
Tax expense/tax income for the period –146,855 –49,724
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years 64 –10
Total current tax for the Parent Company –146,791 –49,734
Deferred tax arising from:Residual value depreciation — 40,702
Change of depreciation method 19,729 –39,458
Provision for pensions 9,094 —
Loss carryforwards –15,447 15,110
Other 1,240 —
Total deferred tax for the Parent Company 14,616 16,354
Total tax for the Parent Company –132,175 –33,380Reconciliation of effective tax
GROUP 2017 2016
Profit before tax 1,532,423 1,047,979
Tax according to Parent Company’s applicable  
tax rate –337,133 –230,555
Effect of foreign tax rates –10,254 7,699
Effect of adjusted tax rate in the US1 –30,311 —
Change of depreciation method — –33,495
Provision for pensions 6,608 —
Non-deductible expenses –19,318 –8,761
Non-taxable income 2,241 3,648
Deductible expenses, not recognised in the income statement 1,710 7,274
Taxable income, not recognised in the income statement –19 –1,571
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –61 –2,161
Deferred tax on tax losses not previously  recognised — 15,050
Other 2,726 –3,472
Recognised effective tax –383,811 –246,344
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Profit before tax –375,662 84,637
Tax according to Parent Company’s applicable  
tax rate 82,646 –18,620
Write-down of shares in subsidiary –220,000 — 
Change of depreciation method — –33,494
Provision for pensions 6,608 — 
Non-deductible expenses –1,897 –2,026
Non-taxable income 1 17
Deductible expenses, not recognised in the 
income statement 468 7,274
Taxable income, not recognised in the income statement — –1,571
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years — –10
Deferred tax on tax losses not previously  recognised — 15,050
Recognised effective tax –132,175 –33,380
1. The tax rate for our US subsidiary has been reduced from 34 to 21 per cent as of 1 January 2018. 
The applicable tax rate for the Parent Company is 22 (22) per cent.
Deferred tax related to 2016 has been adjusted during the year, for more 
 information see note 21. 
92
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 17
Intangible assets and impairment testing
GROUP GoodwillLicences &  
patentsProduct &  
marketing 
rights Advance 
 paymentsCapitalised 
expenditure 
on softwareIT software 
in progress Total
1 January – 31 December 2016
Opening accumulated cost 1,554,158 546,233 5,276,018 82,400 104,787 29,460 7,593,056
Initiation of construction in progress — — — — 30,584 –30,584 —
Acquisitions1 — 15,067 1,382,384 — — 31,196 1,428,647
Reclassification — 11,797 79,988 –82,400 –8,945 — 440
Exchange differences — — 25 — — — 25
Closing cost 1,554,158 573,097 6,738,415 — 126,426 30,072 9,022,168
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –308,241 –1,429,172 — –68,608 — –1,806,021
Amortisation — –39,200 –356,479 — –14,458 — –410,137
Reclassification — –1,592 — — 1,592 — —
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — –349,033 –1,785,651 — –81,474 — –2,216,158
Closing carrying amount 1,554,158 224,064 4,952,764 — 44,952 30,072 6,806,010
1 January – 31 December 2017
Opening accumulated cost 1,554,158 573,097 6,738,415 — 126,426 30,072 9,022,168
Acquisitions2 — — 59,017 — 12,414 20,491 91,922
Write-downs/scrapping3 — – 12,000 — — — — – 12,000
Exchange differences — 15 — — –69 — –54
Closing cost 1,554,158 561,112 6,797,432 — 138,771 50,563 9,102,036
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –349,033 –1,785,651 — –81,474 — –2,216,158
Amortisation — –38,766 –386,594 — –15,492 — –440,852
Exchange differences — –13 — — 58 — 45
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — –387,812 –2,172,245 — –96,908 — –2,656,965
Closing carrying amount 1,554,158 173,300 4,625,187 — 41,863 50,563 6,445,071
1.  Acquisitions in 2016 relate to Alprolix opt-in (SEK 1,348 M), Kineret milestone (SEK 72 M) and other (SEK 8 M), divided among all intangible items.
2.  Acquisitions in 2017 relate to the right to take part in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme for SEK 56 M, LMS (training programme) for SEK 7 M as well as other smaller investments  
totalling SEK 29 M divided between the various intangible items. 
3. Refers to write-down/scrapping of one of the early-stage clinical programs.
93
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 17 contd.
PARENT COMPANY Licences &  
patentsProduct &  
marketing 
rights Advance 
 paymentsCapitalised 
expenditure 
on softwareIT software 
in progress Total
1 January – 31 December 2016
Opening accumulated cost 49,921 2,991,318 82,400 97,878 29,376 3,250,893
Initiation of construction in progress — — — 30,584 –30,584 —
Acquisitions1 15,067 1,721,037 — — 31,196 1,767,300
Reclassification 11,797 79,998 –82,400 –8,945 — 440
Closing cost 76,785 4,792,343 — 119,517 29,988 5,018,633
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –11,663 –435,811 — –64,762 — –512,236
Amortisation –5,193 –224,747 — –14,458 — –244,398
Reclassified accumulated amortisation –1,592 — — 1,592 — —
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –18,448 –660,558 — –77,628 — –756,634
Closing carrying amount 58,337 4,131,785 — 41,889 29,988 4,261,999
1 January – 31 December 2017Opening accumulated cost 76,785 4,792,343 — 119,517 29,988 5,018,633
Acquisitions
2 — 59,017 — 12,414 20,491 91,922
Write-downs/scrapping3 –12,000 — — — — –12,000
Closing cost 64,785 4,851,360 — 131,931 50,479 5,098,555
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –18,448 –660,558 — –77,628 — –756,634
Amortisation –6,669 –262,213 — –15,321 — –284,203
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –25,117 –922,771 — –92,949 — –1,040,837
Closing carrying amount 39,668 3,928,589 — 38,982 50,479 4,057,718
1.    Acquisitions in 2016 relate to Alprolix opt-in (SEK 1,348 M), Kineret milestone (SEK 72 M) and other (SEK 8 M), divided between the various intangible items.
2.  Acquisitions in 2017 relate to the right to take part in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme for SEK 56 M, LMS (training programme) for SEK 7 M as well as other smaller investments totalling SEK 29 M divided between  
the various intangible items. 3. Refers to write-down/scrapping of one of the early-stage clinical programs.
3. Refers to a impairment of one of the clinical programmes at an early stage.
Impairment testing of intangible assets
Goodwill
The assessment of the value of the Group’s goodwill is based on value in use for 
the smallest cash-generating unit, which for Sobi is deemed to be the Group 
(excluding ReFacto). 
Cash flows are based on financial plans that have been established by manage-
ment covering a five-year period. The financial plans have been drawn up based 
on past performance, experiences and expectations in the market. The plans include assumptions about the current product development and future product 
launches. The financial plans also include assumptions concerning the develop-
ment of prices, sales and expenses. Cash flows beyond five to ten-year periods 
have been extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2 per cent. Sobi’s 
goodwill amounted to SEK 1,554 M (1,554) on 31 December 2017. There is no 
indication of goodwill impairment at Group level.
The following table shows the growth rate and pre-tax and post-tax discount 
rate used:
PARAMETER, % 2017 2016
Growth rate beyond the initial five-year period 2 2
Pre-tax discount rate 11.9 11.8
Post-tax discount rate 9.2 9.2
Assumptions regarding Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC):• Risk-free interest rate: ten-year treasury bills or comparable 
financial investment with the lowest possible risk. 
• Market risk premium: 6.3 (6.1) per cent. 
• Beta coefficient: Sobi’s beta coefficient is calculated at 1.31 (1.30).
• Interest expense: according to Sobi’s borrowing costs.
• Tax rate: according to tax rates in Sweden. 
Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following variables in goodwill impairment testing: discount rate, margin, sales volume and perpetual growth rate. 
The sensitivity analysis indicates that there are good margins in the calculation.Development projects and product rights
Development projects and product rights are tested annually for impairment. 
 Separate impairment testing has been carried out for each product and project. 
The assessment of the value of development projects and product rights is based 
on the value in use for each asset. The value in use is based on cash flows that are 
expected to be generated over the remaining life of the asset. When discounting 
future cash flows, the discount rate is used as described in the tabel.
Key parameters for impairment testing of development projects are future cash 
flows from the individual asset, the probability of achieving positive outcomes in clinical trials, and assumptions of the best commercial outcome. Future cash flows 
are estimated with regard to project development in the short and long-term and 
adjusted for the likelihood of the project being commercialised. The earlier in the 
chain of development the project is, the higher the risk. As it passes through the 
defined development phases, the likelihood of reaching the market increases. 
The likelihood of a project successfully coming through the relevant development phase is assessed on the basis of the project’s scientific potential to have a positive 
outcome in the individual phase of the development process. A best-case assump-
tion is made on the basis of the parameters that have the greatest effect on whether the project will develop into a drug with the highest commercial poten-
tial, and on the basis of what is reasonable to assume about the project’s scientific 
profile using the information currently available. The forecast period is based on 
the product’s estimated market life.
In the impairment testing of product and marketing rights, a number of 
assumptions are made. The assumptions concern forecasts of future sales, costs 
attributable to each product, product life and discount rate. In cases where the contract or patent for product and marketing rights exceed five years, the term of 
contract or patent is used as the remaining life. The impairment testing of product 
and marketing rights has not indicated any impairment.
Impairment in 2017
Sobi valued one of the early stage programmes during 2017 and it was deemed 
necessary to write down the value of the assets by SEK 12 M. The impairment has 
affected intangible assets.
94
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS ON ACQUISITIONS OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Sobi has undertaken to pay additional payments under certain acquisition and 
licensing agreements (often referred to as milestone payments) linked to the 
achievement of certain defined targets. The most significant agreements are 
listed below. 
AGREEMENT WITH BIOVERATIV
Bioverativ was created as a spin-off from Biogen’s haemophilia business and sepa-rated from Biogen on 1 February 2017. Bioverativ is a Sanofi company located in 
Massachusetts, US. Bioverativ will continue to collaborate with Sobi in our joint 
development programmes.
Under the agreement between Sobi and Bioverativ regarding the development 
and commercialisation of Elocta and Alprolix, Bioverativ took full responsibility for 
development and production, plus associated costs, until Sobi exercised its opt-in 
right to the programmes. There are similar arrangements with Bioverativ in place for the XTEN-programmes BIVV001 and BIVV002.
Under Sobi’s s opt-in rights to the development and commercialisation of 
the programmes, Sobi obtained the commercial rights for Europe, North Africa, 
 Russia and certain countries in the Middle East (Sobi’s territory). Bioverativ has 
commercialisation rights for North America (Bioverativ’s North American territory) 
and for the rest of the world excluding Sobi’s territory (Bioverativ’s direct territory 
and Bioverativ’s distribution territory). Sobi and Bioverativ receive a royalty on each other’s sales of Elocta/Eloctate in the respective company’s territory accord-
ing to the royalty rates set out in the table on the next page.
Sobi opted to assume responsibility for the final regulatory process and other 
commercialisation activities in Sobi’s territory by making a deposit of USD 10 M 
per programme – for Elocta in 2014 and for Alprolix in 2015.
Liability arising from pipeline programmes
On taking over commercialisation and the regulatory process, Sobi became liable 
to reimburse Bioverativ for 50 per cent of the development and production costs 
arising for each programme from 1 October 2009. Reimbursement of develop-
ment activities that only benefited Sobi’s territory was 100 per cent.
Liability settlement
Sobi’s reimbursement to Bioverativ for each pipeline programme takes the  following three forms:
• When regulatory approval was granted in the EU, a deposit of USD 10 M per 
product was transferred to Bioverativ and offset against Sobi’s liability.
• With the first commercial sales of each of its products, Sobi was able to credit retroactive royalty revenue corresponding to the difference between the base 
rate and the 2 per cent Sobi had already received on Bioverativ’s sales. This 
amount was offset against the liability and generated non-recurring revenue which did not affect cash flow.
• From Sobi’s first commercial sales, the royalty rates between the companies are adjusted until the liability has been repaid in full (see the table).If full payment has not been made within six years of Bioverativ’s first commercial sales for each programme, Bioverativ is entitled to request that Sobi pay the 
remaining amount within 90 days from the sixth anniversary of the date of Biovera-
tivs first commercial sales.
Elocta
The total liability for development and commercialisation of Elocta is USD 211 M. 
On 24 November 2015, Sobi and Bioverativ announced that the European Com-mission had approved Elocta for the treatment of haemophilia A in all 28 EU 
 member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In connection with the 
approval, the deposit was transferred to Bioverativ and offset against the liability. 
In connection with its first commercial sales in January 2016, Sobi credited retroac-
tive royalty revenue of SEK 322 M against the liability. At 31 December 2017, the 
remaining liability was SEK 835 M (USD 101), corresponding to the discounted 
value of the nominal liability, which amounted to USD 104 M.
Alprolix
The total liability for development and commercialisation of Alprolix is USD 185 M. 
On 13 May 2016, Sobi and Bioverativ announced that the European Commission 
had approved Alprolix for the treatment of haemophilia B in all 28 EU member 
states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In connection with the approval, 
the deposit was transferred to Bioverativ and offset against the liability. In connec-tion with its first commercial sales in June 2016, Sobi credited retroactive royalty 
revenue of SEK 386 M against the liability. At 31 December 2017, the remaining 
liability was SEK 811 M (USD 99), corresponding to the discounted value of the 
nominal liability, which amounted to USD 103 M.
BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN)
In September 2014, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development pro-gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia A treatment BIVV001 (rFVII-
IFc-VWF-XTEN) in the agreement with Bioverativ. Under the agreement between 
Sobi and Bioverativ, Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the pro-
gramme, and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s territory 
according to the principles described above.
BIVV002 (rFIXFc-XTEN)
In February 2017, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development programme 
for the potentially long-acting haemophilia B treatment BIVV002 (rFIXFc-XTEN) in 
the agreement with Bioverativ. Under the agreement between Sobi and Bioverativ, 
Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the programme, and the possi-
bility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s territory according to the princi-
ples described above.
Percentage rates for royalties and reimbursement between the companies
Percentage rates after the first commercial sales  
in Sobi’s territory if Sobi exercises its opt-in right3
Method Base rate, %3Adjusted royalty rate 
 during repayment period3Net royalty payment during 
repayment period4, %
From Sobi to Bioverativ based on net sales in Sobi’s 
territoryRoyalty on sales 
12 Base rate plus 5% 17
Bioverativ to Sobi based on net sales in North America  Royalty on sales 
12 Base rate minus 5% 7
Bioverativ to Sobi based on net sales in Bioverativ’s 
territory outside North AmericaRoyalty on sales 
17 Base rate minus 5% 12
Bioverativ to Sobi based on net profit1  
from Bioverativ’s distribution territory 2Royalty on net profit 
50 Base rate minus 15% 35
1.  Net profit refers to Bioverativ’s revenue before tax from distributors (third-party), less expenses incurred by Bioverativ for supporting these sales.
2. Bioverativ’s distribution territory refers to the territory in which sales are conducted through a third party.
3.  Base rate has an impact on the results. Repayment of the liability corresponds to the difference between the base rate and the adjusted royalty.
4.  Actual payments that have an impact on cash flow.
95
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 18 
Property, plant and equipment
GROUPLand & 
buildingsPlant & 
machineryEquipment, tools, 
fixtures & fittingsOther non-current 
assetsConstruction 
In progress Total
1 January – 31 December 2016
Opening accumulated cost 6,728 409,544 216,517 15,439 10,902 659,130
Acquisitions — 27,274 9,742 4,474 3,868 45,808
Reclassification — –440 –317 — — –757
Disposals –6,728 –1,819 –1,010 –4,552 — –14,109
Exchange differences — — 789 — — 789
Closing cost — 435,449 225,281 15,361 14,770 690,861
Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment –2,801 –368,720 –170,765 –4,168 — –546,454
Depreciation –56 –10,241 –17,571 –2,705 — –30,573
Disposals 2,857 1,488 772 2,437 — 7,554
Exchange differences — — –365 — — –365
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment — –377,473 –187,929 –4,436 — –569,838
Closing carrying amount — 57,536 37,792 10,925 14,770 121,023
1 January – 31 December 2017
Opening accumulated cost — 435,449 225,281 15,361 14,770 690,861
Acquisitions — 28,636 9,854 2,762 6,271 47,523
Reclassification — — 542 — — 542
Disposals — –922 –1,752 –2,886 — –5,560
Exchange differences — 36 9 — — 45
Closing cost — 463,199 233,934 15,237 21,041 733,411
Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment — –377,473 –187,929 –4,436 — –569,838
Depreciation — –15,001 –15,599 –2,525 — –33,125
Reclassifications — — –542 — — –542
Disposals — 922 1,713 1,721 — 4,356
Exchange differences — –13 –67 — — –80
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment — –391,565 –202,424 –5,240 — –599,229
Closing carrying amount — 71,634 31,510 9,997 21,041 134,182
96
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017PARENT COMPANYLand & 
buildingsPlant & 
machineryEquipment, tools, 
fixtures & fittingsOther non-current 
assetsConstruction  
in progress Total
1 January – 31 December 2016
Opening accumulated cost 6,728 404,721 194,740 5,210 10,902 622,301
Acquisitions — 27,724 4,723 — 3,868 36,315
Reclassification — –440 — — — –440
Disposals –6,728 –1,819 — — — –8,547
Closing cost — 430,186 199,463 5,210 14,770 649,629
Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment –2,801 –362,897 –159,114 –1,040 — –525,852
Depreciation –56 –10,241 –14,108 –520 — –24,925
Disposals 2,857 1,488 — — — 4,345
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment — –371,650 –173,222 –1,560 — –546,432
Closing carrying amount — 58,536 26,241 3,650 14,770 103,197
1 January – 31 December 2017
Opening accumulated cost — 430,186 199,463 5,210 14,770 649,629
Acquisitions — 28,557 2,583 — 6,271 37,411
Disposals — –922 — — — –922
Closing cost — 457,821 202,046 5,210 21,041 686,118
Opening accumulated depreciation and impairment — –371,650 –173,222 –1,560 — –546,432
Depreciation — –14,652 –11,371 –524 — –26,547
Disposals — 922 — — — 922
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment — –385,380 –184,593 –2,084 — –572,057
Closing carrying amount — 72,441 17,453 3,126 21,041 114,061
Note 19 
Investments in subsidiaries
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Accumulated costAt beginning of year 4,059,573 4,059,573
Investment
1 195 —
Total 4,059,768 4,059,573
Accumulated impairmentAt beginning of year –177,435 –177,435
Impairment for the year
2 –1,000,000 —
Total –1,177,435 –177,435
Carrying amount at end of period 2,882,333 3,882,138
1. The investment for the year concerns a newly formed subsidiary in Greece.
2.  The Parent Company has written down the value of the shares in the subsidiary Swedish Orphan  Biovitrum 
 International AB by SEK 1,000 M. The impairment is the result of a revision of the underlying forecast cash flow 
from certain products owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, which has had a negative impact on the value of the Parent Company’s shares. The impairment does not affect the consolidated profit or financial position, as the surplus value in the form of assets in the Group is written off annually according to plan.Note 18 contd.
97
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 19 contd.
Specification of Parent Company and Group holdings of shares in subsidiaries
SUBSIDIARY/REG. NO./DOMICILENumber of 
 participations Participations, %1Carrying amount
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB (publ), 556329-5624, Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 2,655,588
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S, 19179079, Copenhagen, Denmark
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum SARL, 490259405, Paris, France
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o., 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic
 Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, 1024811, Åbo, Finland
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.l., 5288990962, Parma, Italy
 OOO Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 5087746194520, Moscow, Russia
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS, 976313682, Trollåsen, Norway
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum S.L., B84710623, Madrid, Spain
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ltd, 4369760, Cambridgeshire, UK
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, HRB 226770, Martinsried, Germany
SOBI Middle East FZ-LLC, 91193, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 1,000 100 132
Arexis AB, 556573-5130, Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 225,137
Sobi, Inc EIN 68-0682244, Delaware, US 1,000 100 7
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o., 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic2 1 1 8
BVBA Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 0536.217.087, Brussels, Belgium 100 100 162
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AG, 284.917.678, Lucerne, Switzerland 100 100 723
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, 416986, Vienna, Austria 100 100 313
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI) Canada, Inc. 949375-1, Oakville, Canada 10,000 100 69
Sobi Single Member I.K.E, 142300401000, Athens, Greece 20,000 100 195
Total 2,882,333
1.  Refers to the ownership of capital, which also corresponds to the proportion of the votes.
2.  The remaining portion is owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB (publ).
Note 20 
Financial assets
GROUP 2017 2016
Accumulated cost
At beginning of year 1,956 1,791
Divestment of Akinion — –20
Endowment insurance1 32,391 —
Financial receivables 1,356 158
Returned deposit –619 –67
Other 71 95
Accumulated cost 35,155 1,956
Carrying amount at end of period 35,155 1,956
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Accumulated costAt beginning of year 1 21
Divestment of Akinion — –20
Endowment insurance
1 32,391 —
Accumulated cost 32,392 1
Carrying amount at end of period 32,392 1
1.  Sobi has elected to report the endowment insurance gross over the balance sheet. In previous years, 
the endowment insurance has been reported net. In connection with the amendment, an adjustment 
of provisions for special payroll tax was also made.Note 21 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
GROUP 2017Deferred tax 
asset Deferred tax 
 liability Net
Excess depreciation — –467,280 –467,280
Change of depreciation method — –19,729 –19,729
Internal profit in inventories 115,929 — 115,929
Acquired product rights — –251,906 –251,906
Other intangible assets 68,613 — 68,613
Provision for pensions 11,390 — 11,390
Restoration reserve — –689 –689
Derivatives — –544 –544
Doubtful debts 1,671 — 1,671
Other 6,242 — 6,242
Total 203,845  –740,149 –536,303
Offsetting –72,416 72,416 —
Tax assets/tax liabilities, net 131,429 –667,733 –536,303
98
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017GROUP 2016Deferred  
tax asset Deferred  
tax  liability Net
Excess depreciation — –253,880 –253,880
Change of depreciation method — –39,458 –39,458
Internal profit in inventories 120,260 — 120,260
Acquired product rights — –290,054 –290,054
Other intangible assets 72,333 — 72,333
Provision for pensions 2,805 — 2,805
Restoration reserve — –803 –803
Loss carryforwards 15,368 — 15,368
Other 11,768 — 11,768
Total 222,534 –584,195 –361,661
Offsetting –88,637 88,637 —
Tax assets/ltax iabilities, net 133,897 –495,558 –361,661
The Parent Company’s total deferred tax liabilities/tax assets amount to SEK –10 
M (–25), and consist of deferred tax liability related to the change of depreciation 
method of SEK –20 M (–40), deferred tax asset related to provision for pensions of SEK 9 M (0), deferred tax asset related to doubtful debts of SEK 2 M (0), deferred 
tax liability related to restoration reserve of SEK –1 M (–1) and deferred tax liability 
related to exchange rate derivatives of SEK –1 M (0). The Parent Company’s total 
loss carryforwards of SEK 70 M are utilised this year and thereby offset against the 
Parent Company’s taxable profits. The value of deferred tax after the end of the 
year is calculated using a tax rate of 22 (22) per cent. ADJUSTMENT OF DEFERRED TAX 
Deferred tax has been adjusted during the year related to changes in depreciation 
method, i.e. amount to return to taxation due to the return to accounting depreci-
ation from the residual depreciation initiated in Q2 of 2016, and cash flow hedg-
ing, where deferred tax has previously been reported, although the effect cannot 
be considered temporary and thus should only have affected current tax. The adjustments have been reported against capitalised earnings and have affected 
deferred tax in both the Group and the Parent Company, but have not had any 
effect on paid taxes. The closing balance for 2016 has in total been adjusted with 
an amount of SEK 11 M, distributed as below, of which SEK –7 M has been 
adjusted against the 2016 result and SEK 18 M against the 2015 result.
Net closing balance and change versus previously reported
Previously 
reported 
amountAdjusted 
amount Adjustment
Excess depreciation –253,880 –253,880 —
Change of depreciation method –69,475 –39,458 30,017
Internal profit in inventories 120,260 120,260 —
Acquired product rights –290,054 –290,054 —
Other intangible assets 72,333 72,333 —
Provision for pensions 2,805 2,805 —
Restoration reserve –803 –803 —
Cash flow hedging 34,439 — –34,439
Loss carryforwards 258 15,368 15,110
Other 11,768 11,768 —
Total –372,349 –361,661 10,688
Changes in deferred tax on temporary differences and loss carryforwards
GROUP 2017Amount at 
beginning of yearRecognised in 
income statementRecognised  
in OCIAmount at end  
of year
Excess depreciation –253,880 –213,400 — –467,280
Change of depreciation method –39,458 19,729 — –19,729
Internal profit in inventories 120,260 –4,331 — 115,929
Acquired product rights –290,054 38,148 — –251,906
Other intangible assets 72,333 –3,720 — 68,613
Provision for pensions 2,805 8,299 286 11,390
Restoration reserve –803 115 — –689
Derivatives — –544 — –544
Doubtful debts — 1,671 — 1,671
Loss carryforwards 15,368 –15,447 79 —
Other 11,768 –5,202 –326 6,242
Total –361,661 –174,683 39 –536,303
GROUP 2016Amount at 
beginning of yearRecognised in 
income statementRecognised  
in OCIAmount at end  
of year
Excess depreciation –142,196 –111,684 — –253,880
Residual value depreciation –40,702 40,702 — —
Change of depreciation method — –39,458 — –39,458
Internal profit in inventories 76,933 43,327 — 120,260
Acquired product rights –328,202 38,148 — –290,054
Other intangible assets 216,700 –144,367 — 72,333
Provision for pensions 2,500 636 –331 2,805
Restoration reserve –803 — — –803
Loss carryforwards 258 15,110 — 15,368
Other 18,047 –6,604 325 11,768
Total –197,465 –164,190 –6 –361,661Note 21 contd.
99
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Adjustment in Group statements
GROUPPreviously 
reported 
amount 
2016Adjusted 
amount 
2016
Balance sheet
Equity 5,354 5,365
Deferred tax asset 506 496
Total equity and liabilities 9,974 9,974
Income statementTax on profit for the year –239 –246
Profit for the year 809 802
Effect on Income statement from adjustment  
of deferred tax –7
Note 22 
Inventories
GROUP 2017 2016
Raw materials and consumables 20,905 25,557
Products in progress 536,603 433,244
Finished goods and merchandise 495,760 411,245
Total 1,053,268 870,046
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods sold 
and amounted to SEK 1,516,822 K (1,145,708). 2017 includeds a positive one-time 
adjustment of stock of SEK 59 M in connection with the delayed release of the 
pharmaceutical substance for Kineret manufactured in 2016.
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Raw materials and consumables 20,905 25,557
Products in progress 536,603 433,244
Finished goods and merchandise 336,166 307,584
Total 893,674 766,384
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods sold and amounted to SEK 1,516,485 thousand (1,144,773). 2017 included a one-off 
adjustment of stock of SEK 59 M in connection with the delayed release of the 
pharmaceutical substance for Kineret manufactured in 2016.Note 23 
Trade and other receivables
GROUP 2017 2016
Trade receivables 1,164,054 818,043
Minus:  
Provision for doubtful debts –35,038 –49,279
Trade receivables, net 1,129,016 768,765
Tax receivables 25,232 35,011
Other receivables 38,732 40,532
Total other receivables 63,964 75,543
Total trade and other receivables 1,192,980 844,307
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Trade receivables 413,296 293,048
Minus:  
Provision for doubtful debts –7,594 –12,799
Trade receivables, net 405,702 280,249
Tax receivables 22,261 27,203
Other receivables 30,831 27,329
Total other receivables 53,092 54,532
Total trade and other receivables 458,794 334,781
Profit for the year was adversely affected by established customer losses of 
SEK 5,271 K, of which SEK 4,167 K is attributable to the Parent Company.
At 31 December 2017, the Group’s past due trade receivables amounted to 
SEK 291 M (272), SEK 35 M (49) of which were considered doubtful debts.
A new reporting standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments comes into force on 
1 January 2018 and includes rules for classification and valuation of financial 
assets and liabilities and impairment of financial Instruments. Sobi has analysed the effects of the introduction of IFRS 9 on the Group’s financial statements, and 
the assessment is that it will not have any material impact on either earnings or 
the financial position. See also note 2.
Changes in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows:
Doubtful debts
GROUP 2017 2016
At beginning of year –49,279 –25,280
Provision for doubtful debts –10,566 –25,219
Reversed provisions 24,807 1,220
At end of year –35,038 –49,279
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
At beginning of year –12,799 –13,171
Provision for doubtful debts –2,296 –849
Reversed provisions 7,501 1,220
At end of year –7,594 –12,799Note 21 contd.
100
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Past due trade receivables
GROUP 2017 2016
Not past due 838,737 497,161
Past due 1–30 days 183,050 150,588
Past due 31–90 days 68,366 70,830
Past due 91–120 days 11,954 21,981
Past due > 121 days 27,273 28,204
Total 1,129,016 768,765
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Not past due 335,870 212,234
Past due 1–30 days 62,111 28,906
Past due 31–90 days 5,754 38,383
Past due 91–120 days — 128
Past due > 121 days 1,967 598
Total 405,702 280,249
Recognised amount per currency for trade  
and other receivables
GROUP 2017 2016
AUD 10,459 12,720
CHF 20,333 8,414
CZK 2,088 5,033
DKK 24,786 95,962
EUR 661,603 310,339
GBP 101,106 58,223
NOK 35,945 16,246
PLN 5,129 5,942
RON 10,248 13,405
SEK 167,292 152,400
USD 150,155 161,123
Other currencies 3,834 4,500
Total 1,192,980 844,307
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
AUD 10,459 12,720
CHF 20,333 8,414
CZK 1,799 1,640
DKK 24,619 16,425
EUR 172,013 84,446
GBP — 887
NOK 35,404 15,745
PLN 5,129 5,942
RON 10,248 13,405
SEK 167,292 152,400
USD 9,631 20,555
Other currencies 1,865 2,202
Total 458,794 334,781Note 24
Prepayments and accrued income
GROUP 2017 2016
Accrued royalty revenue 327,390 285,858
Prepaid lease payments 176 88
Prepaid rents 16,174 17,412
Prepaid insurance expenses 14,469 12,233
Accrued interest income 2,884 144
Prepaid IT licences 11,229 15,567
Prepaid charges to supervisory authorities 16,975 10,066
Other accrued income 179 —
Other prepayments 42,850 69,741
Total 432,326 411,109
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Accrued royalty revenue 327,390 285,858
Prepaid rents 15,012 15,134
Prepaid insurance expenses 13,343 10,360
Accrued interest income 2,884 —
Prepaid IT licences 11,229 15,567
Prepaid charges to supervisory authorities 16,975 10,066
Other prepayments 31,361 62,688
Total 418,194 399,373
Note 25 
Cash and cash equivalents
2017 2016
GROUP Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash  
equivalents 1,478,496 1,478,496 785,790 785,790
Total 1,478,496 1,478,496 785,790 785,790
2017 2016
PARENT COMPANY Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash  equivalents 1,381,369 1,381,369 662,110 662,110
Total 1,381,369 1,381,369 662,110 662,110
Cash equivalents refer to the retention of funds in bank accounts.Note 23 contd.
101
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 26 
Financial assets and liabilities per category (Group)
Loans and  
receivablesAssets at fair value  
through profit or lossAvailable-for-sale  
assets Total
31 December 2017
Assets in the balance sheet
Trade receivables 1,129,016 — — 1,129,016
Endowment insurance — 32,391 — 32,291
Derivatives — 5,095 — 5,095
Cash and cash equivalents 1,478,496 — — 1,478,496
Total 2,607,512 37,476 — 2,644,998
31 December 2016
Assets in the balance sheetTrade receivables 768,765 — — 768,765
Derivatives — 3,901 — 3,901
Cash and cash equivalents 785,790 — — 785,790
Total 1,554,555 3,901 — 1,558,456
Liabilities at fair value  
through profit or lossOther financial  
liabilities Available-for-sale  
liabilities Total
31 December 2017Liabilities in the balance sheet
Finance leases — 6,668 — 6,668
Derivatives 2,624 — — 2,624
Trade payables — 358,449 — 358,449
Other liabilities — 1,646,728 — 1,646,728
Total 2,624 2,011,845 — 2,014,469
31 December 2016
Liabilities in the balance sheetBorrowing — 496,914 — 496,914
Finance leases — 7,102 — 7,102
Trade payables — 280,173 — 280,173
Other liabilities — 2,305,613 — 2,305,613
Total — 3,089,802 — 3,089,802
See note 2 for further information about what is included in the different categories. Advance payments are not included in trade and other receivables, as the analysis is 
only required for financial instruments. Accrued social security costs etc. are excluded from this table for the same reason.
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
Borrowing Finance leases
2016 496,914 7,102
Cash flow –500,000 —
Dissolution of prepaid borrowing costs 3,086 —
Other — –434
2017 — 6,668
102
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 27
Other liabilities, non-current
GROUP 2017 2016
Liability to Bioverativ 1,066,833 1,808,916
Liabilities to credit institutions — 496,914
Financial leasing 5,044 5,302
Total 1,071,877 2,311,132
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Liability to Bioverativ 1,066,833 1,808,916
Liabilities to credit institutions — 496,914
Total 1,066,833 2,305,830
Following EU approval of Elocta and Alprolix, Sobi acquired the right to market 
the products in certain markets. The cost of marketing rights corresponds to 50 
per cent of Bioverativ’s development costs for each product. After revision, the original nominal amounts were USD 211 M for Elocta and USD 185 M for Alprolix. 
As these liabilities will be repaid over a number of years, the discounted amounts 
after repayment are reflected in the balance sheet (USD 101 M for Elocta and USD 
99 M for Alprolix). The right to market the products in certain markets, reported 
under intangible assets, is initially recognised at the same amount as the liabilities. The costs of acquisition correspond to the discounted liability, and the difference 
compared with the nominal amounts gives rise to deferred tax in the financial 
statements. The risk associated with currency effects on these liabilities is reduced 
by applying hedge accounting. This is done by hedging highly probable future 
inflows in USD using cash flow hedges. The effect of the remeasured liabilities is 
reflected in other comprehensive income. If full payment has not been made 
within six years of the first commercial sales for each product, Bioverativ is entitled to request that Sobi pay the remaining amount within 90 days of the sixth anniver -
sary of Bioverativ´s first commercial sales. 
During the year the bank loan of SEK 500 M from Svenska Handelsbanken AB 
(publ) and Danske Bank was repaid. Also see note 26.
Note 28
Other liabilities, current
GROUP 2017 2016
Liability to Bioverativ 579,895 496,697
Goods received, not invoiced 14,678 58,367
Other 67,539 97,756
Total 662,112 652,820
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Liability to Bioverativ 579,895 496,697
Goods received, not invoiced 14,678 58,367
Other 12,535 42,117
Total 607,108 597,181
The liability to Bioverativ refers to the current portion of the liability described in 
note 27.Note 29 
Post-employment benefits
Group employees have various forms of pension benefits, either defined-con-
tribution or defined-benefit plans. In Sweden, compensation after the end of 
employment is primarily through defined-contribution plans. 
Pension obligations are calculated annually on the reporting date, based on 
actuarial principles. Sobi has a defined-benefit pension plan for the subsidiary in 
Norway and for two individuals in Sweden.
The present value of the obligation includes special payroll tax, in accordance 
with IAS 19, for the Swedish and Norwegian pension plans.
Pension costs are reported under Selling, Administrative Expenses and 
Research and Development expenditure. 
Risks connected to defined-benefit pension plans
Through its defined-benefit pension plans for post-employment benefits, the 
Group is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are:
Life expectancy assumptions: Most of the pension obligations concern life-long 
benefits for employees covered by the plan, which means that longer life expec-tancy assumptions will result in higher pension liabilities. This is most significant in 
the Swedish plan, where increases in inflation result in greater sensitivity to 
changes in life expectancy assumptions.
Inflation risk: Some of the plan’s pension obligations are linked to inflation. 
Higher inflation leads to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, an inflation 
 ceiling has been set to protect the plan against exceptional increases in inflation). 
Most of the plan assets are either unaffected by inflation (fixed-rate bonds), or 
weakly correlated with inflation (equities), which means that an increase in inflation 
will also increase the deficit.
Discount rate: A decrease in the interest rate on corporate bonds will increase 
the liabilities of the plan, although this will be partly be offset by an increase in the value of the bond holdings. 
Pension benefits
For white-collar employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pension obli-
gations for retirement and family pensions are insured through Alecta. According 
to the Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for ITP 2 Plans 
Financed by Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. 
The Company did not have access to sufficient information for the 2017 financial 
year to report its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and 
expenses, which meant that it has not been possible to report the plan as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore reported as a defined-
contribution plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retirement and family 
 pension is calculated individually, and is based on factors that include salary, 
 pre viously earned pension and expected remaining period of service. Expected 
 contributions in the next reporting period for ITP 2 pension plans insured through 
Alecta are SEK 25 M (21). The Group’s share of the total plan contributions and the 
Group’s share of the total number of active members in the plan are insignificant. 
The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percent-
age of insurance obligations calculated by reference to Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which are not consistent with IAS 19. The collective funding ratio 
is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alecta’s collective 
funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent, measures should 
be taken to create the right conditions for the ratio to return to the normal range. 
If the ratio is low, an appropriate measure could be to raise the agreed price for new policies and extensions of existing benefits. If the ratio is high, premium 
reductions could be introduced. At the end of 2017, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 154 (149) per cent.
Some current and previous office-holders are not covered by the governing 
principle, so a direct pension is used for that part of the premium which is not 
deductible. A direct pension is secured by the company undertaking an endow-ment insurance policy which is credited to the senior office-holder.
The Norwegian pension plan is covered by the Norwegian Pensions Act 
(Foretagspensjonsloven) and the Swedish plan is covered by the Pension Obliga-
tions Vesting Act and the consortium agreement. Under the consortium agree-
ment, Sobi is required to allocate the funds required to ensure that the pension 
assets correspond to Sobi’s share of the pension liability.
Both the Swedish and Norwegian plans are based on final salary.
103
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Changes in defined-benefit pension obligations during the year are as follows:  
1 January –  
31 December 2017Present value of 
obligationsFair value of 
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –40,639 26,679 –10,960
Current service cost –1,859 — –1,859
Interest expense –983 — –983
Revaluations:
  Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts in interest expense — 732 732
  Changed financial 
 assumptions –1,251 20 –1,231
  Experience assumptions 1,447 1,362 2,808
Contributions:
 Employer 1,020 1,658 2,678
 Settlements — –219 –219
Exchange differences 852 –456 395
At end of year –41,414 32,775 –8,639
1 January –  
31 December 2016Present value of 
obligationsFair value of 
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –37,874 28,300 –9,576
Current service cost –1,866 — –1,866
Interest expense –1,094 — –1,094
Revaluations:
  Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts in interest expense 2,177 –135 2,041
  Changed financial 
 assumptions –2,350 –36 –2,386
  Experience assumptions –1,400 1,791 391
Contributions:
 Employer 3,328 –712 2,616
 Settlements — –277 –277
Exchange differences –1,599 749 –810
At end of year –40,639 29,679 –10,960
Net obligation per country 
2017 2016
Sweden –744 –3,088
Norway –7,895 –7,872
Total –8,639 –10,960
Actuarial assumptions on the reporting date 
SWEDISH PENSION PLAN 2017 2016
Discount rate, % 2.5 2.8
Expected annual inflation, % 2.0 2.0
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, 
male, years 20.8 20.8
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, female, years 23.4 23.4NORWEGIAN PENSION PLAN 2017 2016
Discount rate, % 2.3 2.1
Expected annual inflation, % 1.5 1.5
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, male, years 21.3 21.3
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, 
female, years 24.4 24.4
Demographic assumptions 
Mortality assumptions for the Swedish plans correspond to the Swedish Financial 
Supervisory Authority’s recommendations, which came into force on 31 December 
2007 for the Swedish pension plan, while assumptions for the Norwegian plan are based on the K2013 BE mortality table. At the reporting date, Norway had seven 
active employees and Sweden had no active employees and two retired employees. 
The retirement age is set at 65 years. 
Distribution by asset class
2017  Quoted, % 2016  Quoted, %
Equity funds1 10,878 100 8,601 100
Interest-bearing securities 18,070 100 17,281 100
Property 1,016 — 527 —
Other funds 2,669 — 3,243 —
Other 142 — 27 —
Total 32,775 29,679
1.  The pension and assets are managed by Procordias Pensionsstiftelse. Some of their equity funds (e.g. 
the AMF Aktiefond Sweden) have holdings of Sobi shares. 
Sensitivity analysis
2017 2016
Pension obligation under current assumptions 41,413 40,639
Discount rate –0.5% 45,870 45,018
Discount rate +0.5% 37,482 36,767
Inflation +0.5% 45,699 43,558
Inflation –0.5% 39,489 37,839
Life expectancy after retirement –1 year 38,867 38,257
Life expectancy after retirement +1 year 43,335 42,403
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption, with all 
other assumptions remaining constant. In practice, this is highly unlikely to occur and some of the changes in the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the 
sensitivity of the defined-benefit obligations to significant actuarial assumptions, 
the same method (present value of the defined-benefit obligation applying the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied 
as when calculating the pension liability recognised in the balance sheet.
Other informationFor the 2018 financial year, contributions to plans for post-employment benefits 
are expected to be SEK 1,362 K (1,336). The weighted average maturity of
the obligation is estimated at 29.8 years.Note 29 contd.
104
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 30 
Provisions
Group Parent Company
2017 2016 2017 2016
Provisions at beginning of year 44,389 41,966 33,060 32,390
Endowment insurance 32,391 — 32,391 —
Cash-based incentives programme 16,817 — 16,817 —
Commitment lease 2,725 — — —
Restoration Reserve 171 1,039 175 670
Changes in pension obligations –2,321 1,384 — —
Other 3,783 — — —
Provisions at end of year 97,955 44,389 82,443 33,060
1.  Sobi has chosen to account for the endowment insurance on a gross basic; in previous years, endow-
ment insurance has been accounted for on a net basis. In conjunction with this change, an adjustment 
has been made for a special salary tax. On the reporting date, endowment insurance reached SEK 32 M.
2.  The long-term cash-based incentive programme reached SEK 17 M on 31 December 2017.  
See note 11.
3.  Sobi has returned the rented property Paradiset 14 to acceptable condition with consideration of the operations the Company has run there in accordance with the Rental Agreement (IAS38). The  Company has recorded a provision of SEK 33 M in the accounts as of 31 December 2017.
Group Parent Company
2017 2016 2017 2016
Non-current 94,172 44,389 82,443 33,060
Current 3,783 — — —
Total provisions 97,955 44,389 82,443 33,060
Note 31 
Accruals and deferred income
GROUP 2017 2016
Provision for holiday pay and bonuses, incl. social 
security contributions 239,469 239,037
Accrued social security contributions 89,205 48,334
Accrued royalty expenses 112,849 26,614
Accrued manufacturing costs 46,014 41,143
Accrued R&D expenditure 64,960 45,782
Accrued interest expenses 175 253
Accrued consulting and travel expenses 23,351 14,738
Accrued discounts 145,446 176,435
Pharmaceutical taxes 141,894 12,198
Accrued expenses for audit and Annual Report 4,700 3,762
Accrued expenses sold goods 10,426 —
Other accruals 240,189 201,004
Total 1,118,678 809,300
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Provision for holiday pay and bonuses, incl. social security contributions 146,223 134,958
Accrued social security contributions 51,856 34,676
Accrued royalty expenses 112,849 26,189
Accrued manufacturing costs 46,014 27,731
Accrued R&D expenditure 64,960 45,782
Accrued interest expenses 175 253PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Pharmaceutical taxes 45,150 1,390
Accrued consulting and travel expenses 7,295 4,893
Accrued expenses for audit and Annual Report 2,756 2,149
Other accruals 205,552 180,904
Total 682,830 458,926
Note 32 
Pledged assets and contingent liabilities
GROUP 2017 2016
Collaterals
Endowment insurance 32,391 —
Other pledged assets 686 2,298
Total 33,077 2,298
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
CollateralsEndowment insurance 32,391 —
Other pledged assets 43 43
Total 32,434 43
PARENT COMPANY 2017 2016
Contingent liabilitiesGuarantee commitment 36,835 19,915
Total 36,835 19,915
Guarantees for 2017 for the subsidiaries relate to general guarantees up to  
a specified amount and relate to all types of credit, such as rental guarantees, 
credit cards, etc., that the subsidiary in question may hold.
Tax and legal disputes
Legal disputesSobi has received a claim from a distributor in connection with the termination of 
the agreement for losses/damage they believe they have incurred. Sobi has made 
an initial assessment that the claim is groundless for their claims, and is expected 
to submit its response to the court on 10 April 2018.
105
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Note 33 
The share
At year-end, the share capital was SEK 149,527, divided into 272,507,708 shares 
with a par value of approximately SEK 0.55. Previously issued Class C shares were 
converted to ordinary shares in 2017, which means that all issued shares are now 
ordinary shares. Ordinary shares carry one vote per share, and Class C shares 1/10 
vote per share. The Company held 3,249,870 ordinary shares in treasury at the 
reporting date. Shares held in treasury represent 1.2 per cent of the total number 
of shares in the Company.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before dilution is calculated by dividing earnings attributable 
to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding during the period, excluding shares held in treasury.
To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential 
ordinary shares.
2017 2016
Earnings attributable to Parent Company 
 shareholders 1,148,612 801,635
Weighted average number of ordinary shares  outstanding (thousands) 269,020 268,362
Earnings per share before dilution (SEK per share) 4.27 2.99
Earnings per share after dilution (SEK per share) 4.25 2.98
Note 34 
Related party transactions
Apart from what is stated in the notes on remuneration of senior executives and 
intra-group transactions, there have been no related party transactions.
See note 5 for internal transactions between the Group’s subsidiaries.Note 35 
Proposed appropriation of profit
The following amounts are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting:
SEK
Share premium reserve 4,231,346,499
Retained earnings 763,083,789
Profit for the year –507,835,892
Total 4,486,594,396
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid for the 2017 financial year. 
The Board proposes that the available funds of SEK 4,486,594,396 be carried 
forward.
Note 36 
Events after the reporting date, up to 27 March 2018
• The FDA approved an application for a clinical trial and granted Fast Track status for the product candidate SOBI003 for the treatment of MPS IIIA.
• Elocta was reimbursed in Poland and Slovakia.
• Sobi signed a two-year agreement with the Health Services Executive in Ireland 
to provide Elocta and Alprolix to all patients who had previously been treated 
with factor replacement therapy.
• Kineret (anakinra) has received a positive opinion from CHMP for the treatment of Still’s disease.
• Henrik Stenqvist was appointed as new Chief Financial Officer.
• Sobi launched Ravicti in Europe and advances the care for Urea Cycle Disorders.
• New market data was received from the pharmaceutical industry association in 
France after the end of the financial year which indicates that the provision made 
by Sobi’s French subsidiary for pharmaceutical tax may be too high. One com-
ponent in the calculation of pharmaceutical tax is based on the development of 
the French market. Preliminary prognoses from an independent organisation in France are submitted to the industry body during the financial year, and provide 
a foundation for pharmaceutical tax provisions. In February 2018, the industry 
body reported that the growth figure on which the received forecasts were 
based could be too high. A final figure for pharmaceutical tax will be received 
during the second quarter of 2018, at which point the provision in the annual 
report will be adjusted, if required, and reported.  
 See Directors´ Report for more information.
106
REpORTING / NOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated annual financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with international finan-cial reporting standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial performance and position. The  Parent Company’s annual financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Sweden and provide a true and fair view of the Company’s financial performance and position.The Directors’ Report for the Group and the Parent Company provides a fair overview of the development of the Group and the Parent Com-pany’s operations, financial position and performance and describes material risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies in the Group.
The income statements and balance sheets will be presented for 
adoption at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2018. 
Stockholm, 27 March 2018
 Håkan Björklund Annette Clancy Matthew Gantz
 Chairman Board Member Board Member
 Lennart Johansson Helena Saxon Hans GCP Schikan
 Board Member Board Member Board Member
 Pia Axelsson Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand
 Employee representative Employee representative
 
 
Guido Oelkers
CEO
Our audit report was submitted on 10 April 2018
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorised Public Accountant
107
REpORTING / NOTES
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Sobi’s Corporate 
 Governance
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) “Sobi” 
is a Swedish public limited liability company with its registered office in Stockholm, Swe-den. Sobi is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. In addition to the rules under laws or other reg-ulations, Sobi applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code without any derogations. This report covering the 2017 financial year is part of Sobi’s Directors’ Report and has been reviewed by the Company’s auditors.
1. Annual General Meeting
Sobi’s highest decision-making body is the Annual General Meeting (AGM) at which all shareholders have the right to elect Board members and the Chairman of the Board. The AGM must be held within six months of the end of the fiscal year in order to decide on adoption of the income statement and balance sheet and appropriation of profits. The AGM also elects the Company’s auditor.
The Company does not apply any special 
arrangements with regard to the function of the general meeting, either on the basis of provisions in the Articles of Association or, to the extent they are known to the Company, shareholder agreements.
The Articles of Association state that the 
AGM is to be held in Stockholm or Solna. Sobi has not found that the composition of share-holders motivates any special measures for shareholders being able to take part in the AGM remotely. Notice of the AGM is pub-lished in Post- och Inrikes Tidningar and on the Company’s website. When this has been done, an announcement to this effect is published in Svenska Dagbladet.
2017 AGM
The AGM was held on 4 May 2017 in Stock-holm. The Meeting was attended by 169 (208) shareholders, in person or by proxy, represent-ing 65.2 (60.0) per cent of the total votes. Law-yer Eva Hägg was elected to chair the Meeting.
The full minutes and information from the 
2017 AGM are available at www.sobi.com.
2018 AGM
The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 9 May 2018 at Näringslivets Hus in Stockholm. More information about the AGM can be found on page 134. 
Shareholders, share capital, the share and 
voting rightsSobi had a total of 22,938 (32,397) sharehold-ers at the end of the year. Investor AB was the largest shareholder, with 39.5 (39.6) per cent of the share capital and 39.5 (39.8) per cent of the votes. The 15 largest shareholders accounted for 73.2 (68.3) per cent of the share capital and 73.2 (68.2) per cent of the votes. No share-holders other than Investor AB has a direct or indirect shareholding that represents one-tenth or more of the voting rights for all shares in the Company. 
Sobi’s Articles of Association do not contain 
any restrictions on how many votes each share-holder may cast at a general meeting. Nor do they contain any specific provisions on the appointment and dismissal of directors or on amendments to the Articles.
Conversion of shares
The Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017 authorised the Board to issue C shares and repurchase the issued C shares for the purpose of hedging long-term incentive programmes. The Meeting also adopted the Board’s pro-posal concerning the transfer of shares. On 31 December 2017, Sobi held 3,249,870 ordinary shares. All previously issued C-shares were converted into ordinary shares during 2017. For more detailed information about the total number of shares in the Company, the number of shares by category and the number of votes carried by the shares, see the section on shares on page 50.
CHAIRMAN OF
THE BOARD AND  
BOARD OF DIRECTORSANNUAL  
GENERAL MEETING1
CEO AND PRESIDENT
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEESCIENTIFIC 
COMMITTEE NOMINATION  
COMMITTEEAUDITORS
COMPENSATION & 
BENEFITS COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE8 2
3 4 6
7 5
108
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE / CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Dividend policy
One of Sobi’s most important business objec-tives is to create long-term shareholder value. This can take the form of increased share value and dividends. Sobi’s Board bases its evalua-tion of future dividends on several factors, including:• the Company’s sustainable earnings trend;
• the Company’s expansion potential and access to capital; 
• the Company’s operational risk; 
• the dividend’s impact on liquidity; and
• the Company’s equity ratio target. 
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid for 2017. In the short-term, the Company intends to use profits to finance the continuing development and expansion of its operations.
Important internal regulations
• Articles of Association
• Charter of the Board
• CEO Instructions
• Policy documents
• Charters of the Board Committée
Important external regulations• Swedish Companies Act
• Swedish and international accounting law
• Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulations
• Swedish Corporate Governance Code
2. Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee represents Sobi’s shareholders and has the sole task of prepar -
ing the AGM’s resolutions on election and remuneration matters.
According to the instructions and statutes 
adopted by the AGM on 26 April 2013, the Nomination Committee shall consist of four members, three of whom represent the Com-pany’s three largest shareholders on the final banking day of August, based on shareholder list from Euroclear Sweden AB. As stipulated in the same resolution, the fourth person shall be the Chairman of the Board. The composition of the Nomination Committee is to be announced at least six months before the AGM. The Nomination Committee observes the rules on the independence of Board  members according to the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code. 
In the period up to the 2018 AGM, the 
 Nomination Committee has the following com-
position: Petra Hedengran, Investor AB, Chair -
man of the Nomination Committee, Lennart Francke, Swedbank Robur Fonder AB, Thomas Ehlin, Fjärde AP-fonden and Håkan Björklund, Chairman of the Board of Swedish Orphan  Biovitrum AB (publ). Prior to the 2018 AGM, 
the Nomination Committee has held three meetings, with contact by telephone between meetings, and has also met and interviewed a number of potential Board candidates. As a basis for its work, the Nomination Committee has taken note of the Chairman’s account of the Board’s work. The Committee has also pre-pared recommendations to the AGM regard-ing Board members, remuneration of Board and Committee members, the appointment of auditors and their fees, and the Chairman of the AGM.
3. Board/Chairman of the Board
Sobi is a pharmaceutical company with a focus on marketing, developing and producing  pharmaceutical products to treatment of rare 
diseases. The product portfolio contains both marketed products and products in various phases of clinical and preclinical development. It is therefore crucial that Board members have extensive, in-depth experience of marketing and research in the pharmaceutical industry, as well as solid financial expertise. The Board is responsible for the Group’s organisation and management. The Board also decides on over -
all objectives, strategies, the financial structure, policies, appointment of the CEO, remunera-tion of management, acquisitions, divestments and major investments. The Board approves and adopts annual and interim reports, and proposes dividend, if any, to the AGM.
Nomination Committee for 2018 AGM 
Name/RepresentedShare of votes 
2017-12-31, % Share of votes 
2017-08-31, %
Petra Hedengran (Chairman of Nomination Committee) 
Investor AB 39.5 39.5
Lennart FranckeSwedbank Robur Fonder AB 5.5 5.0
Tomas Ehlin
Fjärde AP-fonden 4.3 3.8
Håkan Björklund
Chairman of the Board of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 0.0 0.0
Total 49.3 48.3The Board’s work is based on its charter, the 
CEO instructions and the principles for the division of work between the CEO, Chairman of the Board, Board members and committees established by the Board. The Board Charter and the CEO instructions are revised and updated once a year. 
Composition of the Board
The Company’s Board shall comprise a mini-mum of three and a maximum of twelve mem-bers. The Nomination Committee represents the shareholders and is responsible for nomi-nating Board members to the AGM. The Nom-ination Committee has applied rule 4.1 of the Corporate Governance Code as a diversity policy. The objective of the policy is that the Board shall have an appropriate composition with regard to the Company’s business, stage of development and situation in general, char -
acterised by versatility and breadth in respect of the competence, experience and back-ground of members elected by the AGM, and that efforts shall be made to achieve an even gender distribution. As mentioned in the Nom-ination Committee’s motivated opinion to the 2017 AGM, the Nomination Committee has in its work considered the importance of an effective composition of the Board with regard to diversity, in respect of aspects such as gen-der, nationality and professional experiences, and considered that it is important to achieve and maintain an even gender distribution.
The 2017 AGM resolved in accordance with 
the Nomination Committee’s revised proposal, to the effect that from the 2017 AGM the Board has consisted of six members elected by the AGM (all re-elected at the 2017 AGM) and two employee representatives appointed by the trade union organisations (plus two depu-ties for the employee representatives). One third of the members elected by the AGM are women.
More detailed information about the Board 
is presented on pages 116–117.
Resolutions 2017 AGM
The following resolutions were adopted by the 2017 AGM:• Re-election of six Board members. 
• Re-election of Chairman of the Board Håkan Björklund.
• Re-election of EY as auditors.
• Adoption of remuneration of the Board and auditors.
• Adoption of proposed guidelines for remu-neration of senior executives.
• Discharge from liability for the Board and CEO for the 2016 financial year.
109
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE / CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Chairman of the Board
In addition to leading the Board work, the Chairman of the Board’s duties include moni-toring the Company’s performance and ensur -
ing that important matters that arise are dealt with in addition to those already on the agenda. The Chairman shall consult with the CEO on strategic matters, participate in impor -
tant external relationships and represent the Company in ownership issues. The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the Board’s work is regularly evaluated and that new Board members receive adequate training. 
Independence
The Company fulfills the Swedish Corporate Governance Code’s independence require-ments in that a majority of the AGM-elected Board members are independent of the Com-pany and its management, and at least two of them are independent of major shareholders. The table on page 111 shows the independ-ence of the Board members on the publication date of this report.
Number of meetings
The Board shall meet at least four to six times a year, usually in connection with the publication of interim, year-end and annual financial state-ments and the AGM. Additional meetings or teleconferences are convened as necessary. The Board conducts an in-depth strategic review of operations during at least one of the Board meetings each year. The Board has scheduled a total of nine meetings for 2018.
The Board’s work in 2017
The Board held a total of 16 meetings in 2017, 10 of which were scheduled and 6 were extra meetings. Sobi’s CEO and President attends Board meetings, as does Sobi’s General Coun-sel, who has served as secretary at the meet-ings. Other Sobi employees have attended in a reporting capacity. The number of extra Board meetings was motivated by discussions concerning strategic projects and extensions to product and distribution agreements. The agenda items are shown in the illustra-tion below.
Board fees 
The AGM on 4 May 2017 adopted total Board fees of SEK 3,995 K for the period until the next AGM, distributed as follows: SEK 1,275 K to the Chairman and SEK 425 K to be paid to each of the AGM-elected members. Fees for Audit Committee work were adopted as fol-lows: SEK 125 K to the Chairman SEK 75 K to each of the other members. Fees for Com-pensation & Benefits Committee work were adopted as follows: SEK 80 K to the Chairman SEK 40 K to each of the other members. Fees for Scientific Committee work were adopted as follows: SEK 80 K to the Chairman SEK 40 K to each of the other members. Board fees paid in 2017 totalled SEK 4,212 K, including fees for committee work. It was further resolved that for each physical Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K would be paid to Board members resid-ing in Europe but outside the Nordic region, and USD 3 K to Board members residing out-side Europe.
More information about the remuneration 
of Board members can be found in note 11 and in the table on page 111.
4. Audit Committee
The Committee’s main task is to deal with issues related to the Company’s accounting, auditing and financial reporting, and matters related to internal governance and control. Sobi’s Audit Committee consists of three members, all of whom are independent of management:• Lennart Johansson (Chairman)
• Hans GCP Schikan
• Helena Saxon
Significant events in the Board’s work in 2017
BOARD MEETING  
• Approval of 2016 year-end report
•  Decision to add a novel product candidate 
(rFIXFc-XTEN) to the collaboration agree -
ment with Bioverativ for the potential treatment of Haemophilia B.
 
BOARD MEETING  
•  Approval of  
interim report for Q2
•  Share issue and repurchase of own 
shares for the LTI programmeBOARD MEETING•  Approval of strate -
gic projects2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Approval of interim report for Q3.BOARD MEETING  
•  Approval of  2018 budget
AUDIT COMMITTEE•  Review of interim report for Q1
• Financial report
• 2017 audit planAUDIT COMMITTEE  
•  Tax matters
•  2016 Annual Report
• Financial report
3 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Approval of new employment 
contract for new CEO 
•  AGM
2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Discussion about the Partner 
Products business areaBOARD MEETING 
•  Approval of interim report for Q1
AUDIT COMMITTEE
• Tax matters
• Review of interim report for Q2• Financial reportAUDIT COMMITTEE  
• Internal control report•  Review of interim report 
for Q3
• Financial report
•  Provisional audit report for Q32 BOARD MEETINGS•  Approval of termination of  employment between former CEO  Geoffrey McDonough and Sobi
AUDIT COMMITTEE• 2016 Year-end report
• Audit report
• Financial report• Plan for annual reportAUDIT COMMITTEE• Share option programme• Internal financial guidelines
•  Final audit report for Q3
• Financial reportBOARD MEETING•  Strategic matters 
and new business opportunities
BOARD MEETING  
•  Approval of 2016  
annual report
110
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE / CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Sobi’s CFO attends in a reporting capacity and 
serves as secretary to the Committee, but is not a member. Sobi´s CEO has taken part in the meetings but is not a formal member. The Committee held six meetings during the year. Sobi’s elected auditors attended five of the meetings. The agenda items are shown in the illustration on page 110. The Committee reports regularly to the Board about its work. The attendance and remuneration of Board members at the Committee meetings are shown in the table below. 
5. Compensation & Benefits 
 Committee
The Compensation & Benefits Committee’s 
task is to recommend guidelines and principles for Sobi’s remuneration programmes. This includes review and proposals on remunera-tion of senior executives and recommendations concerning long-term incentive programmes, pension plans and other issues related to remuneration of the Company’s employees. Sobi’s Compensation & Benefits Committee consists of two members, both of whom are independent of management:• Håkan Björklund (Chairman)
• Helena Saxon
Former member Theresa Heggie resigned from the Board, and therefore from the  Compensation & Benefits Committee, on 
31 March 2017.
Sobi’s acting Head of Human Resources 
attends in a reporting capacity and serves as secretary to the Committee, but is not a mem-ber. The Compensation & Benefits Committee held seven meetings during the year. At these meetings, the Committee discussed and  followed up annual salary revisions and bonus 
outcome for the CEO and senior executives, and proposed guidelines and allocations for the long-term incentive programme. The Com-mittee reports regularly to the Board about its work. The proposed guidelines on remunera-tion of the CEO and senior executives will be presented at the AGM in May 2018 for adop-tion by shareholders. The Board members’ attendance at the Committee meetings is shown in the table below.
For information about salaries and remuner -
ation of the CEO and senior executives, see note 11.
6. Scientific Committee
The Scientific Committee’s task is to provide advice on scientific matters, to evaluate the Company’s research strategies and to follow up and report to the Board on scientific trends and new fields of research. The Scientific  Committee consists of two members, both 
of whom are independent of management:• Annette Clancy (Chairman)
• Hans GCP Schikan.
Annette Clancy has been Chairman of the  Scientific Committee since May 2017, when 
former Chairman Jeffrey Jonas resigned from the Board.
Sobi’s CEO and the Head of Research and 
Development/Chief Medical Officer have taken part in the meetings, but they are not formal members. The Head of RD/CMO serves as Sec-retary to the Committee but is not a member.
The Committee held five meetings in 2017. 
These meetings dealt with the development of the company’s research and development pipeline, reviews of individual projects, feed-back from expert networks, goals for 2018, budget and opportunities for external research and development programme sourcing. The Committee reports regularly to the Board about its work.
7. CEO/Executive Committee
Up to the end of October 2017, Group  Management consisted of twelve members, 
including the CEO. 
On 1 November 2017, a new management 
group, the Executive Committee, was formed, consisting of CEO and eight managers of the most important functions and regions. The new Executive Committee has a broad compo-sition of individuals with extensive experience in R&D, the production and sale of drugs and Sobi’s markets. The Executive Committee members also have the required expertise in economics, finance and law. The Executive Committee held a meeting every month in 2017. More detailed information about the Executive Committee is presented on pages 118–119.
Each year, the Board defines the division of 
work between the Board, the Chairman and the CEO. Operational management is based on the decision-making procedure adopted by the Board, which is reflected in the organisa-tional form and control model according to which Sobi works and is governed. 
At Board meetings, the CEO and, if required, 
the CFO, General Counsel and other senior executives present matters to be dealt with by the Board. 
Remuneration of senior executives 
To attract and retain qualified and motivated employees, Sobi has long-term incentive 
Remuneration (SEK thousands) Attendance 1
Independ-
ence FeesAudit 
 CommitteeCompensa-
tion & 
 Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee Other Total BoardAudit 
 CommitteeCompensa-
tion & 
 Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee
Håkan Björklund 6 • 1,250 – 77 – – 1,327 16 – 7 –
Lennart Johansson2 405 117 – – – 522 16 6 – –
Helena Saxon2 405 70 38 – – 513 15 6 7 –
Hans GCP Schikan • 405 70 – 38 50 553 14 6 – 5
Matthew Gantz • 405 – – – 116 502 15 – – –
Annette Clancy 6 • 405 – – 65 40 510 15 – – 5
Theresa Heggie 3 • 91 – 9 – 10 110 3 – 2 –
Jeffrey Jonas 3 • 122 – – 23 – 145 1 – – 2
Pia Axelsson 5 4 – – – – – – 15 – – –
Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand 4 – – – – – – 16 – – –
Catarina Larsson 5 4 – – – – – – 3 – – –
1. The table figures show the totals for attendances/meetings. The Board held a total of 16 meetings in 2017, ten of which were scheduled and six extra meetings. 
The Audit Committee held six meetings in 2017. The Compensation & Benefits Committee held seven meetings and the Scientific Committee held five meetings.
2. Board member not considered independent of major shareholders.
3. Theresa Heggie and Jeffrey Jonas left the Board in April and May 2017 respectively. 
4. Employee representative.
5. At the 2017 AGM Pia Axelsson was appointed as new employee representative on the Board to replace outgoing Catarina Larsson. 
6. The fee in the table does not include social security contributions. The total including social security contributions for Håkan Björklund was SEK 1,744 K and for Annette Clancy SEK 670 K.
111
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE / CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 programmes. All employees receive fixed and 
variable pay. The variable component, derived from a system adopted by the Board, is based on both Company goals and individual goals. The variable salary component for senior exec-utives, apart from the CEO, may not exceed 10–50 per cent of the annual salary. 
For more information, see note 11.
8. Auditors
Sobi’s auditor is the auditing firm Ernst & Young (EY), with Authorised Public Accountant Björn Ohlsson as chief auditor. EY was elected as Sobi’s auditor until the end of the 2018 AGM and has been Sobi’s auditor since the AGM 2014. The external auditors discuss the external 
Control environment
Risk assessment Monitoring
Information & 
 communicationControl activitiesCorporate culture 
Tone at the top is impor -
tant, i.e. management’s behaviour.Governing documentsOverall framework and 
policies are in place and 
implemented
Evaluation, monitoring and follow-up
1.  Implement a process for ongoing follow-up.
2.  Evaluation and reporting of identified 
 derogations
InternalClearly functioning two-way communica-tion between management and operations 
External
Correct information to external stakehold-
ers within the prescribed time.Implement control activities that reduce, elim-
inate or monitor significant identified risks.1.  Identify and analyse risks that may impede target achievement
2.  Identify what risks that have a 
material effect on operations
3.  Decide on measures and  persons responsible
Adopted objectives1
2
3 45audit plan and risk management with the Audit 
Committee. The auditors perform a review of the Q3 interim report and an audit of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. The auditors also express an opinion on whether this Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and whether certain disclosures herein are consistent with the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. The audi-tors report the results of their audit of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements and their review of the Corporate Governance Report in the auditor’s report, with a separate opinion on the Corporate Governance Report, which they present to the AGM. In addition, the auditors present detailed findings from their reviews to the Audit Committee three times a year, and to the full Board once a year. 
For more information about remuneration 
of the Company’s auditors, see note 12.
Internal control and risk management 
in relation to financial reporting
The Board is responsible for internal control in 
accordance with the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The Board presents the most important ele-ments of Sobi’s internal control and risk man-agement systems in relation to the financial reporting process below. 
A new position was created in 2017, and a 
person was hired with the task of strengthen-ing internal control within the Group. The posi-tion reports to the CFO and prepares an annual internal control plan, which is approved and followed up by the CFO. 
COSO Framework
Sobi’s internal control environment follows the established COSO framework, comprising the following five components:
1. Control environment
2. Risk assessment3. Control activities4. Information and communication5.  Supervision including monitoring and  evaluation
The illustration below shows how the five com-ponents of the COSO model work together to improve the operations’ ability to achieve defined targets.
1. Control environment
The control environment constitutes the basis of Sobi’s internal control. The control environ-ment mainly comprises the culture on which the Board and management base their work and communication. It is the foundation for all other internal governance and control  components, bringing order and structure in 
the form of manuals, processes and policies.
Björn Ohlsson 
Authorised Public 
Accountant
112
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE / CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017The basis for internal control over financial 
reporting consists of a clear organisational structure, decision-making channels, powers and responsibilities that are documented and communicated in governing documents.
The guidelines for Sobi’s business activities 
have been compiled on the Company’s intranet and include the following:• The Group’s mission, vision, strategies, objectives and values.
• Sobi’s Code of Conduct & Ethics.
• Organisational structure and descriptions of positions.
• Administrative procedures, guidelines and instructions such as powers, authorisation instructions, risk management policy, purchas-ing and investment policy, security policy, and accounting and reporting instructions.
• Information about the Company’s ethics and core values, expertise matters and the regulatory environment in which the Company operates.
2. Risk assessmentEffective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s business opportunities and profits with shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ demands for stable, long-term value growth and control. Sobi’s risk management process aims to help the Com-pany’s operations create profitable business opportunities combined with good evaluation of risk, and to ensure and strengthen stake-holders’ faith in Sobi, in order to support the operations in executing the defined business strategy. The risk management process con-tributes with structures and systems to proac-tively identify and manage risks which could have a negative effect on the business’s ability to achieve its set targets. 
Risk assessment, as part of risk manage-
ment, is carried out to identify and analyse risks so that decisions can be taken on actions to ensure good control of identified risks and, if required, actions to reduce risk. 
In terms of this report, the operational units 
carry out risk assessments together with the responsible controllers, to identify, analyse and ensure a correct evaluation of risks within the accounting and reporting processes. 
Risk management during 2017 focused on 
following up work carried out by the units involving process-based evaluation and report-ing on the internal management and control. Risk management reports are submitted quar -
terly to the Executive Committee, Risk Com-mittee, Audit Committee and the Board.
3. Control activities
The aim of the control activities is to prevent and detect errors and deviations, and to  propose corrective measures for identified 
deficiencies. Activities include analytical moni-toring and comparison of financial results,  reconciliation of accounts, monitoring, recon-
ciliation of Board decisions, approval and reporting of business transactions and partner -
ship agreements, mandate and authorisation instructions, and accounting and valuation  principles. 
The controls are carried out manually or 
are incorporated into the systems used (IFS, Cognos, Business Intelligence etc.).
Controllers are responsible for maintaining 
internal control in each area and ensuring that this is developed as necessary. They follow up activities through a variety of control measures, including monitoring of forecasts and budgets, earnings and balance-sheet analyses, reconcilia-tion, trend analysis and market intelligence. The result of this work is reported to the relevant business area managers, and to management and the Board.
4. Information and communication
Sobi has internal information and communica-tion channels aimed at ensuring efficient and accurate information disclosure with respect to financial reporting. Effective communication is important for all the Company’s employees. Guidelines for financial reporting are set out in the communication policy and social media guidelines, which are communicated to employ-ees and are available on the Company’s intranet.
Meetings are held within the Company at 
management level, then at the level that each department head considers appropriate. There are also a number of large meetings which all employees attend.
The Board receives regular financial updates 
on the Group’s financial position and perfor -
mance.
Procedures for external information disclo-
sure are aimed at to providing the market with relevant, reliable and correct information about Sobi’s development and financial posi-tion. Sobi has a communication policy, which meets the requirements for a listed company.
Financial information is presented regularly 
in the form of:• Year-end and interim reports.
• Annual report.
• Press releases about important news and events that could significantly affect the val-uation of the Company and the share price.
• Presentations and telephone conferences for financial analysts, investors and media representatives on the publication date for year-end and interim reports and in connec-tion with the release of other important information.
• Meetings with investors and financial analysts. 
All reports, presentations and press releases are simultaneously published on the Group’s website www.sobi.com when communicated to the market.5. Supervision, including monitoring  and evaluationForms of supervision of internal control are determined by the Board and the Audit Com-mittee. Sobi’s CFO is responsible for ensuring internal control is conducted in accordance with the Board’s decisions. Group-wide moni-toring takes place at various levels.
The Board deals with all interim reports and 
annual report prior to publication, and moni-tors the review of internal control through the Audit Committee. The information provided is evaluated regularly. The Company’s auditors report their observations and their assessment of internal control to the Audit Committee.
2017 activities to strengthen internal control 
• Appointment of a person responsible for strengthening internal control within the Group.
• Local visits by internal control function to the subsidiaries in Denmark, France, Italy, and the UK.
• Commencement of the new purchasing  system roll-out to the subsidiaries.
• Preparation of policies for the Group.
• Process analyses conducted within the 
financial function.
Activities in focus for 2018 to further strengthen internal control• Implementation of new budget system.
• Continued roll-out of the new purchasing system at the subsidiaries. 
• Production and implementation of a  financial manual for the Group. 
• Continued work to conduct process 
 analyses within the financial function.
Internal Audit
Sobi does not have a separate internal audit function, but has chosen to conduct monitoring and the annual evaluation of compliance with the internal control and risk management related to financial reporting through the exist-ing organisation. The Board and the Audit Com-mittee regularly examine the issue of whether an internal audit function should be established.
Breaches
The Company has not breached any rules of the stock exchange on which its shares are traded, or acted contrary to generally accepted practices on the share market.
113
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE / CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9021
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2017 on pages 108–113 and that  it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Stockholm, 10 April 2018 
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorized Public Accountant 
114
CORpORATE GOVERNANCE / AUDITOR’S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017115
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017CORpORATE GOVERNANCEThe board
HELENA SAXON
Born 1970. 
Board member since 2011.MSc from Stockholm School of 
 Economics. 
Other appointments: CFO at Investor 
AB. Board member of SEB. 
Previous appointments: CFO of Hall -
varsson & Halvarsson, Vice President 
at Investor AB and financial analyst at Goldman Sachs. Board member of 
Aleris and Mölnlycke Health Care.
Shares: 15,500HÅKAN BJÖRKLUND 
Born 1956.Chairman. Board member since 2016.Ph.D. from Karolinska Institutet in 
Stockholm. 
Other appointments: Industry 
 Executive at Avista Capital Partners, 
chairman of the board for Bone -
support AB.
Previous appointments: CEO of 
Nycomed. Member of the Board of 
Directors of several international life 
science companies including Alere, 
Coloplast, Danisco, and Lundbeck. 
Between 2001 and 2007, Håkan 
Björklund also served as member of 
the Board of Directors for Biovitrum.
Shares: 15,800MATTHEW GANTZ
Born 1965. Board member since 2012.BA Princeton University and MBA 
from Harvard Business School. 
Other appointments: CEO of 
 OxThera AB. Member of the board 
for Pennsylvania Life Sciences Associ -
ation and Marine Corps Scholarship 
Foundation.
Previous appointments: Executive 
Vice President of BTG Plc, Founder 
and previously CEO of Acureon 
 Pharmaceuticals, President and 
CEO of Hydrabiosciences Inc., VP 
Europe for Chiron’s Biopharmaceutical 
Division and General Manager for PathoGenesis Europe. Prior to 
 Chiron/PathoGenesis a variety of US 
sales and marketing roles at Abbott 
Laboratories Diagnostic Division
Shares: 0PIA AXELSON
Born 1962. Board member since 2017. 
 Deputy board member since 2009. 
Representative of the council for 
negotiation and cooperation. 
Employee Representative. Laboratory engineer.
Shares: 6,631
BO-GUNNAR 
 ROSENBRAND
Born 1963. 
Board member since 2006. 
 Representative of the council for 
negotiation and cooperation. 
 Deputy board member 2001–2005.
Employee Representative. Laboratory engineer.Shares: 9,148 (including share -
holdings of related physicals)
116
GOVERNANCE / THE BOARD
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
HANS GCP SCHIKAN
Born 1958. 
Board member since 2011.Pharm D, Utrecht University. 
Other appointments: Chairman of the 
Board of Directors of Asceneuron, 
Switzerland, Interna, The Nether -
lands and Complix, Belgium. Member of the Board of Directors of Hansa Medical and Wilson Therapeutics, 
Sweden, Therachon, Switzerland as 
well as of the Dutch Top Sector Life 
Sciences & Health, The Netherlands. 
Advisor to various organisations in 
Life Sciences & Health.
Previous appointments: CEO of 
Prosensa, Director of the Supervisory Board of Prosensa, Board member 
of Top Institute Pharma, Chairman of 
Dutch Association of the Innovative 
Pharmaceutical Industry, Nefarma. 
Various senior management positions 
within previous Organon and 
 Genzyme.
Shares: 4,000ANNETTE CLANCY
Born 1954. Board member since 2014.BSc Hons Pharmacology from Bath 
University UK. 
Other appointments: Non executive 
Chairman of the Board, Enyo SA and 
Lysogene SA. Member of the Board 
of Directors, Obseva SA.
Previous appointments: Senior 
 Advisor, Biopharmaceutical Team 
of Frazier Healthcare. Chair of the 
Board of Directors, Genable Thera -
peutics. Non-Executive Board Direc -
tor, Silence Therapeutics plc. and 
Clavis Pharma. Head of Transaction 
and Alliance Management at  GlaxoSmithKline (GSK).
Shares: 3,414LENNART JOHANSSON
Born 1955. Board member since 2010. MBA from Stockholm School of 
 Economics. 
Other appointments: Member of 
the management team and Senior 
Advisor at Patricia Industries (division 
of Investor AB). Chairman of the board of Fastighets AB Tingshuset 13, 
board member of Vectura Fastigheter 
AB, HI3G, Chalmers Ventures, 
 Bonesupport AB, and deputy board 
member of Mölnlycke Health Care.
Previous appointments: Chairman of 
the Board of Vectura Fastigheter AB, 
CEO in b-business partners and Emerging Technologies AB. Board 
member of SAAB AB, IBX Group AB 
and Gambro Holding AB.
Shares: 20,000
117
GOVERNANCE / THE BOARD
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
GUIDO OELKERS
Chief Executive Officer
Born 1965Employed since 2017
PhD in Strategic Management, 
 University of South Australia, Master 
of Economics, South Bank University, 
London, Complementary  studies in 
Economics, London School of Econo -
mics and Political Science.
Other appointments: Board member 
of Sartorius AG.
Previous positions: CEO, BSN Medical. 
Board member Meda. President & 
CEO, Gambro AB. Executive roles in 
Nycomed, Invida Holding and DKSH Group. Various country  management 
positions in Aventis.
No shares: 0MATS-OLOF WALLIN
Chief Financial OfficerBorn 1951 Employed since 2013
BSc from Uppsala University, 
 Sweden.
Previous positions: CFO,  Biotage AB. 
Over 30 years of experience from life 
science industry in diffent leadership 
roles at Pharmacia and Ortivus.
Shares: 104,011TORBJÖRN  HALLBERG
General Counsel and  
Head of Legal Affairs
Born 1969 Employed since 2018Master of Laws from  University of 
Lund, Sweden.Previous positions: Vice President, 
General Counsel, Emerging Markets, 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals. Senior Director and Senior Corporate 
 Counsel, Takeda Pharmaceuticals. 
Corporate Councel, Nycomed 
Pharma. Corporate Councel, Ferring 
Pharmaceuticals. Senior Associate/
Lawer, Advokatfirman Lindahl.
Shares: 0PHILIP WOOD
Head of Haemophilia
Born 1968Employed since 2012
BSc Joint Honours degree 
in  Geology and Physical  Geo graphy, 
Charted Institute of Marketing  certification, UK.
Previous positions: Head of European 
Strategic Asset team, Haemophilia, and Business Unit Head Haemophilia, 
UK, Pfizer.
Shares: 29,292Executive committee 
GUIDO OELKERSMATS-OLOF WALLIN
PHILIP WOODTORBJÖRN HALLBERG
118
GOVERNANCE / ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE  
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017NORBERT OPPITZ
Head of Specialty Care
Born 1967 Employed since 2017
Business Administration, FH 
Rhenania Palatina/Mainz, 
 Germany.
Previous positions: Executive 
Committee member in charge 
of Latin America, BSN Medi -
cal. Executive Committee 
member Emerging Markets, 
Endo Pharmaceuticals. Head 
of Latin America, Takeda/
Nycomed. Country manage -
ment roles at Roche Pharma -
ceuticals and Aventis Pharma.
Shares: 0HEGE HELLSTRÖM
Head of EMENARBorn 1965 Employed since 2013
BSc in Bioengineering, Oslo, 
Norway.
Previous positions: Global 
Head Cardiovascular, Sanofi, 
Vice President Renal Europe 
and Head of Regional Liai -
sons, Sanofi. Vice President 
Renal and Endocrine Europe, 
Genzyme. General Manager 
Benelux, Genzyme. 13 years 
in Baxter in different leader -
ship roles.
Shares: 51,191RAMI LEVIN
Head of North America
Born 1969 Employed since 2014
MBA from Rekanati Business 
School, Tel-Aviv University, 
Israel. BSc in Biology,  Tel-Aviv 
University, Israel.
Other assignments: Board 
of advisors of “Life Science Cares”, Corporate alliance 
member for Global Genes, 
Corporate council member 
for the National Organization 
for Rare Disorders (NORD), 
Regional chamber represent -
ative for the Swedish Ameri -
can Chamber of Commerce.
Previous positions: Vice 
 President of Marketing US, 
Managing Director Scandina -
via, Global Marketing Head, Business Unit Manager, Merck. Product Manager, 
Schering AG.
Shares: 0ARMIN REININGER
Head of Medical and  
Scientific Affairs
Born 1957 Employed since 2017MD, PhD, Ludwig-Maximilians-
University Munich, Germany; 
certified specialist in Trans -
fusion Medicine.
Previous positions: Head of 
Medical Affairs EMEA Hemo -
philia, Baxter. Head of Global Medical Affairs Hematology, 
Baxalta. Head of Medical 
Affairs EMEA Hematology, 
Baxalta/Shire. Senior Physi -
cian University Clinic Munich. 
Harvard Medical School & 
Mass. General Hospital, 
 Boston, MA. The Scripps 
Research Institute, La Jolla, 
CA. Professor of Anatomy 
at the Ludwig Maximilians-
University Munich, Germany.
Shares: 0MILAN ZDRAVKOVIC
Head of Research & Develop -
ment, Chief Medical OfficerBorn 1970 Employed since 2016 MD, PhD University of Aarhus, 
Denmark, MSc Pharmaceuti -
cal Medicine, University of Surrey, UK.
Other assignments: DIA Advi -
sory Council Europe, Middle 
East and Africa. Board mem -
ber and co-founder of Selma Diagnostics Aps
Previous positions: Corporate 
Vice President, Novo Nordisk. 18 years in R&D organisation, 
Novo Nordisk, responsible for 
diabetes, devices, growth 
hormone deficiency, obesity 
and immunology. 
Shares: 0
NORBERT OPPITZ
HEGE HELLSTRÖM ARMIN REININGERRAMI LEVIN
MILAN ZDRAVKOVIC
119
GOVERNANCE / ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE  
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Auditor’s report
TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SWEDISH  
ORPHAN BIOVITRUM AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556038-9321
Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
Opinions
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2017. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on 
pages 56–107 in this document.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance 
with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, 
the financial position of the Parent Company as of 31 December 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accord
-
ance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 December 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Stand
-
ards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The stat -
utory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders 
adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the Parent Company and the Group.
 Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has 
been submitted to the Parent Company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our 
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Audi
-
tor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the Parent Company 
and the Group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accord
-
ance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Reg
-
ulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited com -
pany or, where applicable, its Parent Company or its controlled compa -
nies within the EU.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
 
Key Audit MattersKey audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts 
and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but 
we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter 
below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided 
in that context. 
 We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsi
-
bilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accom
-
panying financial statements.
Valuation of product and marketing rights, goodwill and shares in subsidiaries 
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
At December 31, 2017 the majority (55% or 6,179 MSEK) of the Group’s total 
assets were related to product rights, marketing rights and goodwill. A substan-tial part (26% or 2,882 MSEK) of the Parent Company’s assets consisted of shares in subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as ‘the assets’ together with product rights, 
marketing rights and goodwill). The Company tests the assets for impairment 
annually or when events or change in conditions indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may fall below the recoverable amount. Testing impairment of the assets involves several significant estimates and assessments. This includes estimating the value in use by identifying cash-generating units, estimating expected future cash flows including the growth rate and calculating weighted average capital cost (“WACC”) used to discount future cash-flows. The Com-
pany’s process for assessing impairment requirements also includes the use of 
management’s and the board of directors’ business plans and forecasts. We focused on this area as the reported value of the assets is significant and 
the impairment test is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Therefore we con-sidered this a key audit matter in our audit.Our audit was conducted together with our valuation specialists and included but were not limited to the following audit procedures:
•  obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for identifying indicators 
of impairment
•  evaluation of methods used by management when performing the impairment 
test including the sensitivity analysis and 
•   review of the assessments made by the company when testing the impairment with our focus on assumptions for which the result of impairment testing is most sensitive to.
We have assessed if the disclosed information is suited for the purpose. For further information, refer to the Group’s accounting principles in note 2, significant esti-mates and assumptions in note 4, as well as information on product rights and  market rights, goodwill and participations in subsidiaries in notes 17 and 19.
120
GOVERNANCE / AUDITOR'S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Accounting of liabilities to Bioverativ
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
SOBI and Bioverativ collaborates regarding the development and commerciali-
sation of the hemophilia products Elocta and Alprolix. The collaboration is regu-lated by agreement and defines the rights and obligations under the collabora-tion. As at December 31, 2017 the nominal value of liabilities for development 
costs amounted to USD 207 M.
 The repayment of the liabilities for development costs is made by adjusted roy-
alty rates and is based on each party’s sales until full repayment has been made. Refer to note 17 for specification. The carrying value of the liabilities to Bioverativ is a net present value of the future repayments based on a forecast of the repay-ment period and the discount calculation of future repayments. As the liabilities are nominated in USD the carrying value of the liabilities are also affected by a 
currency revaluation effect. The Company has assessed that since the royalty 
income from Bioverativ also is nominated in USD an effective hedge relationship with the liabilities exists. The currency revaluation effect of the liabilities is there-fore recorded in the other comprehensive income. Due to the significant amount that the liabilities represents in relation to the 
Company’s financial position and the complex agreement and accounting assess-ments required we consider the accounting of liabilities to Bioverativ to be key 
audit matter in our audit.We have reviewed the agreement with Bioverativ and assessed the reasonableness 
of management’s forecast of the repayment period based on our knowledge of the Company’s business and past accuracy in developing forecasts. We have evaluated the reasonability in the used discount rate and performed a recalculation of the net 
present value.
 We have evaluated the Company’s own assessment of the effectiveness in the 
hedging relationship and audited the currency revaluation of the liabilities and the effects of the hedge accounting in other comprehensive income. Refer to note 2 and 17 in the annual report for a detailed description of the 
agreement with Bioverativ and the reported liabilities. We have assessed if the  disclosed information is suited for the purpose.
Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–11, 14–35, 48–55, 115–119 and 134–135. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. 
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does 
not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assur
-
ance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially  misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, con
-
clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is neces
-
sary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The 
Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going  concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going con
-
cern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors 
and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s 
responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial reporting process.Auditor’s responsibilityOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.  Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstate
-
ment resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, mis-representations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the  reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the Group’s  ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and consoli
-
dated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a company and a Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
121
GOVERNANCE / AUDITOR'S REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair pres
-
entation.
• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the finan -
cial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. 
We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified.
We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we 
have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independ
-
ence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we deter
-
mine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most important 
assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes disclosure about the matter.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
Opinions
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, 
we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Directors of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2017 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss.We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminis
-
tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Directors be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Basis for opinions
We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are fur
-
ther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independ -
ent of the Parent Company and the Group in accordance with profes -
sional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled 
our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Directors
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes 
an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the 
requirements which the company’s and the Group’s type of operations, 
size and risks place on the size of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s 
equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in  general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization 
and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among 
other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is 
designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the compa
-
ny’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The 
Managing Directors shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s account
-
ing in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Directors in any material respect:• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or
• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accord
-
ance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaran -
tee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted  auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions 
that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appro
-
priations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act.
As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with start
-
ing point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the opera
-
tions and where deviations and violations would have particular impor -
tance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions under -
taken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in accord
-
ance with the Companies Act.
Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm was appointed auditor 
of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on May 4, 2017 and has been the company’s auditor since May 8, 2014.
Stockholm, 10 April, 2018
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorized Public Accountant
122
GOVERNANCE / AUDITOR'S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Sobi’s material sustainability issues, based on an analysis of value crea-
tion and critical issues in relation to Sobi and its stakeholders, have been identified as improving global access to treatments of rare diseases, strategic research and development as well as quality and supply chain management. Sobi has also determined to act with compliance and ethics in relation to the regulatory and legal environment, when developing our people and by only engaging in ethical practices and collaborations. In relation to Sobi’s responsibility, important sustainability issues are identified as reducing the company’s environmental impact, safeguard-ing patient and customer integrity, ensuring responsible tax payments, ruling out anti-corruption and anti-competitive practices.Stakeholders and materiality analysisSobi’s stakeholders are groups and individuals whose interests, directly or indirectly, have influence on or are influenced by the company’s actions. Sobi’s management and the Board of Directors have the overall responsibility for weighing up these interests, while ensuring the conti-nuity of the company. Following this approach, Sobi aims to create long-term value for and to earn trust of all its stakeholders. To ensure regular dialogue, Sobi engages with a broad range of internal as well as exter -
nal stakeholders through several different channels. As part of a com-prehensive materiality analysis in 2016, web-surveys and targeted  interviews were used for internal and external stakeholders to raise 
 relevant issues. 
Stakeholder’s engaging with Sobi discuss the following sustainability areas:
Internal stakeholders External stakeholders
Access to healthcare and medicine Access to healthcare and medicine
Product safety and quality Sustainable supply chain
Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials
Engagement with patient organisations Regulatory and legal environment
Anti-corruption Responsible marketing and sales activities
Responsible marketing and sales activities Product safety and quality
Research and development Pharmaceuticals in the environment
Sustainable supply chain Engagement with patient organisations
Diversity and equal opportunity Anti-corruption
Employee recruitment, development, retention Research and developmentIMPORTANT EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
Important external stakeholders that we are listening to: 
• Patient organisations
• Families and carers
• Regulators
• Pharmaceutical companies
• Governments and Government  agencies
• Regulatory authorities 
• Health care systems• Budget holders and insurers 
• Academic researchers 
• Centres of expertise
• Specialist physicians and nurses 
• Investors and analysists
• ShareholdersSustainability Management
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
123
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTSUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENTDuring 2017, the materiality analysis has been further developed and 
adapted to be in line with the revised corporate strategy aiming to  create a more sustainable business growth, both short and long term. 
Important aspects to consider have been Sobi’s value creation model as well as the new requirements on sustainability reporting found in the Annual Accounts Act. In the end of the year Sobi’s Executive Committee approved the updated materiality analysis. 
Sobi’s material sustainability issues
Value creation Material issues
Value •  Improving global access to treatments  for rare  diseases
•  Quality and supply chain management
• Strategic research and development
Compliance  
and ethics• Regulatory and legal environment• Developing our people• Ethical practices and collaborations
Responsibility • Environmental impact• Patient and customer integrity• Responsible tax• Anti-corruption• Anti-competitive practices
A detailed description on how Sobi is performing in relation to its  material sustainability issues is found in the section Sustainability, 
page 36–47.
Sustainability governance, management and organisation
Sobi’s Board of Directors holds the overall responsibility for Sobi’s sus-tainability performance, while the CEO and the executive management team approve Sobi’s sustainability programme and ensure compliance of and decides on overall objectives and implementation of the sustain-ability programme. All sustainability activities are guided by the Code of Conduct and Ethics and the other sustainability related policies. The Head of Communication is responsible for communication and opera-tionalisation of the programme in close collaboration with the business units. The approved sustainability programme and goals are broken down into specific targets and activities to ensure that sustainability  targets are well-integrated with Sobi’s overall objectives and business 
plans. The annual reporting of the sustainability performance is pre-sented in Sobi’s Annual- and Sustainability Report. Policies guiding Sobi’s sustainability  performance
Annual Limits on Compensation for Healthcare  professionals 
Anti-Corruption Policy
Charitable Contributions and Sponsorships Policy
Code of Conduct and EthicsCommunications Policy
Compensation for Healthcare Professionals Policy
Consultants and Speakers Policy
Educational Grants Policy 
Environment Health and Safety Management
Fair Competition Policy
Global Policy Risk Management 
Information Security PolicyInsider Policy 
Interactions with Patient Organisations Policy
IT Security Policy
Patient Access Bridging Programmes Policy
Procedure for Conducting Market Research  Activities
Procurement PolicyPromotional and Scientific Material Review PolicyPublications Policy
Requirements and Approval Process for  Non-Promotional Material
Requirements and Approval Process for  Promotional Material
Research Agreements, Grants and Fellowships  Policy
Sobi Inc Policy on Compliance Enforcement  Discipline 
Sobi Inc Policy on Reporting Investigating and Responding to Compliance Issues
Travel Policy
124
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / MATERIAl SUSTAINABIlITY ISSUESMaterial issues Overall sustainability objectives
•  Improving global access to treatments  
for rare  diseases 
• Strategic research and development  
•  Quality and supply chain management•  Ensure that Sobi’s products are made 
 available to patients through local health-
care budgets
•  Invest in R&D to build a self-sustaining  pipeline
•  Our products are to improve the lives of  rare disease patients and their families
Material issues Sustainability targets
• Regulatory and legal environment 
• Developing our people • Ethical practices and collaborations•  Allways be compliant with laws  
and  regulations
•  Engaged and skilled people who are  offered a safe and developing workplace
•  Allways be compliant with Code of Conduct and Ethics
• Environmental impact
• Patient and customer integrity• Responsible tax• Anti-corruption• Anti-competitive practices•  Reduce Sobi’s environmental impact
•  Always secure patients integrity
• Tax to be paid where revenue is generated•  Always be compliant with laws, regulations 
Code of Conduct and Ethics Sobi’s overall objective from a sustainability perspective is tied to the overall vision: to contribute to the societies in which Sobi operates by improving access to treatment of rare diseases. True availability and access to treatment for patients is what brings long-term value to the patients we serve, our employees, partners and shareholders. 
Sustainability is a vital part of Sobi’s vision and overall corporate strat-
egy. A sustainable business entails a commitment to responsibility for patients and employees, reduced environmental impact from opera-tions and treatment, as well as long-term sustainable profitability so that we can continue to reinvest in developing new therapies for rare diseases and serve our communities for many years to come.During the year Sobi has developed a comprehensive sustainability  program. The sustainability programme is based on Sobi’s material 
 sustainability issues and will be further developed in terms of activities, 
targets, key performance indicators and implementation during the cur -
rent year. The sustainability programme will make it possible for Sobi to follow progress towards the overall sustainability objectives and vision.
Sustainability objectives, targets and programme
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
125
SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / OBjECTIVES, TARGETS AND pROGRAM
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTRisk Description of risk Management and comments
Global access to drugs  
for rare diseasesThe market is increasingly affected by cost-consciousness due to the growing cost of healthcare in many countries. Market approval of drugs in the product portfolio does not guarantee that these products will be granted reimbursement 
and  pricing approval by the national or regional healthcare 
 systems.
A decline in revenue from Sobi’s key products could have a material adverse effect on Sobi’s operations, earnings and financial position – regardless of whether this is due to reduced demand, increased competition or other reasons, such as policy changes for the national drug reimbursement scheme.Sobi’s way of working with most stakeholders throughout the entire development process is designed to anticipate market needs and the demands that will be imposed on the product by paying regulators in the event of approval.
The use of medications may be affected by the treatment guidelines, recommendations and studies published by regula-tors and other bodies. The products must achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients and procurement organisations. The degree of market acceptance for each of the Company’s 
 products therefore depends on several factors. Many of these  
are beyond the Company’s control and dependent on external decision-making procedures and policy-making bodies.Sobi’s way of working with regulators throughout the entire devel-opment process is designed to anticipate market needs and the demands that will be imposed on the product by regulators and prescribers in the event of approval, with the aim of ensuring that patients receive rapid and sustained access to these new and approved therapies, and that they meet the demands that arise 
over time.
Sobi donates drugs to patients with rare diseases in cases 
where humanitarian aid has been considered necessary. These 
donations require the existence of a long-term plan describing 
how drugs can be guaranteed aside from the donation. In developing countries and growth markets, Sobi works in con-sultation with regulators and international patient organisations in 
order to meet humanitarian needs. At the same time, Sobi works 
with key stakeholders to build and lay the foundations for a shift from donations to a sustainable reimbursement system that is owned by governments and/or healthcare systems. In cases where healthcare systems do not yet include Sobi’s treat-ments, Sobi works in consultation with regulators to identify possi-ble ways of making sure that patients are given access to drugs 
through programmes that provide a bridging arrangement until 
access through subsidy has been achieved.
Quality and Supply Chain  ManagementBiologics Manufacturing and Quality in Operational  risks, see pages 64–65.
Strategic Research and  Development Drug Development in Operational risks, see pages 64–65.
Sobi develops new drugs for serious diseases for which there is 
no treatment. Drugs under development must be tested on 
patients in the first instance and cannot be tested on healthy 
volunteers. Looking after the safety of those people taking part in our studies is extremely important and is based on precise, scientifically based 
evaluations of our clinical expertise in collaboration with supervi-
sory authorities, independent ethical committees and stakehold-ers. Sobi applies the Declaration of Helsinki’s ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects, and all clinical studies that we sponsor are conducted and reported in accordance with current laws, regulations and ordinances as well as the interna-tional standard for Good Clinical Practice (GCP).
Patients who are being treated with Sobi’s drugs often have chronic, life-threatening diseases and are expected to be treated with Sobi’s drugs for a long time. The safety of the products is extremely important. One of our most important tasks is to secure patient safety throughout the whole life cycle of products.Sobi has a comprehensive safety system for our drugs and we are constantly monitoring the risk-benefit profile of our products. We provide annual training for all our employees in order to make sure that all safety information for our products is reported. Our goal is to provide correct, updated information to legislators, healthcare personnel and patients by collecting and analysing safety data 
from all available sources.Sustainability risks
Sustainability risks and the assessment of their impact are an integral  element of 
Sobi’s risk management process. The sustainability risk table identifies material 
risks in relation to our identified sustainability strategies. For those areas that  coincide with operational risks, see pages 64–65.
126
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / SUSTAINABIlITY RISKSRisk Description of risk Management and comments
Regulatory and legal 
 environment Sobi operates in a strictly regulated environment and we must comply with laws and regulations governing not only produc-tion, but also research and marketing. Any change in legislation and regulations can have a direct impact on Sobi by limiting 
access to the market, manufacturing opportunities or develop-
ment strategies.  Sobi monitors all laws and regulations carefully in order to make sure that the company’s work complies with current legislation. In cases where legislation concerns requirements for the approval of drugs, we adopt an agile approach to adapt development pro-
cesses rapidly in order to meet the new requirements and thereby 
not risk extending the time it takes for the drug to reach the patient.  The handling of chemicals in our R&D and manufacturing pro-
cesses is covered by annual risk assessments in order to avoid any impact on the future ability to deliver as agreed.
Developing our employees Sobi operates in a competitive market, where our employees form the basis of the company’s ability to develop special drugs to meet our patients’ needs. If we are unable to attract employees who can contribute to this work through their  various competencies and experiences, we risk becoming less 
efficient and not being able to produce the right drugs at the 
right price.Sobi works with a learning organisation and involves employees 
in high-performance teams in order to achieve and deliver in a competitive market. 
Anti-corruption, anti-com-petition and ethical approach, as well as collaborationsThe risk of corruption is greatest in activities in which Sobi interacts with the healthcare sector.To mitigate corruption risks, Sobi has for several years had a Health Care Compliance (“HCC”) programme in place. Health Care Com-pliance within Sobi is defined as the ethical business standard for transparent promotional and non-promotional activities and inter -
actions with healthcare professionals, providers, payers and patient organisations. The programme includes processes and controls that aim to mitigate the risks of, for example, corruption.
Environmental impact Sobi’s business activities involve business trips that give rise to greenhouse gas emissions. The consumption of energy, water, 
products and services as well as the handling of chemicals in 
the manufacturing facility also have an environmental impact.Sobi monitors legislation in the environmental field and integrates requirements into controlling procedures for the business activity 
concerned. A control programme has been agreed with the regu-
lators for the manufacturing facility. Risk assessments of the busi-ness are performed annually and in connection with changes, and action plans are drawn up as required.
Patient and customer  integritySobi processes personal data in the course of its business. Sobi is committed to protecting the personal rights of any individual whose personal data it processes – including its employees, customers, suppliers and other contractual partners, stake-holders, subjects and patients in clinical trials. A programme is in place for the purpose of ensuring compliance with emerging legislation regarding the processing of personal data.
Reponsible tax  managementSobi carries out decentralised business activities in various dif-ferent countries. Changing local rules and interpretations may thus lead to incorrect tax treatment in the local companies. All local companies are required to monitor that correct taxes are paid in their respective country.Sobi’s tax policy clearly states that tax must be paid in the coun-tries where revenue is generated in accordance with determined transfer pricing methods.
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
127
SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / SUSTAINABIlITY RISKS
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTSustainability performance 2017
Sobi is committed to report relevant data on economic, social and environmental performance, 
focusing on material issues and to communicate their progress. The sustainability notes found below complement the performance reporting found in the Sustainability section of this report. Reported data covers all Sobi’s business operations unless otherwise stated.
Sustainability notes
Economic Performance
Direct Economic Value Generated  
(SEK Thousands) 2017
Revenues 6,512,521
Economic Value Distributed
Operating costs –3,632,615
Employee wages & benefits –1,262,850
Payments to providers of capital –69,161
Payments to government –209,128
Community investments1 –15,471
Direct economic value 1,323,295
Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2017. 
1. Community investments is based on costs reported in May 2017 related to  support to Patients 
 Organisations during 2016. Costs for 2017 will be reported in our Transparency Report to be published 
in May 2018.
Indirect economic impact
Sobi and Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, have pledged to donate up to 1 billion 
IUs of coagulation factor to humanitarian aid between 2015–2025. 
500 million IUs have been donated in support of the World Federation of 
Hemophilia’s (WFH) humanitarian aid work. Sobi’s indirect economic impact is 
reported in accordance with the WFH:s progress report for this programme. The 
impacts are the result of Sobi’s and Bioverativ’s contribution to the programme. 
2017 2016 2015
Total MIU’s delivered 262 146 19
New patients treated 15,072 12,311 2,347
Acute bleeds treated 40,557 33,876 4,984
Total surgeries 709 719 78
Paediatric patients, % 39 28 14
In developing countries and growth markets, Sobi works in collaboration with regulators and international patient organisations to meet humanitarian needs. 
Sobi donates drugs to patients with rare diseases in cases where humanitarian 
aid has been considered necessary. Environmental Performance
Carbon dioxide emissions
(CO 2 tonnes) 2017 2016
Indirect emissions from energy (metric tonnes) 221 222
Emissions from travel (metric tonnes) 983 1,112
Reported emissions reflects only operations in Sweden. Travelling emissions 
include emissions from business travel and company cars. 
Waste
Waste (metric tonnes) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Recycled waste 50 46 68 52 42
Hazardous waste 22 16 13 13 16
Landfill 0.1 0.0 1.6 0.1 1.1
Total waste 72 62 82 65 59
Waste reporting is based on Sobi’s only production facility found in Solna, 
 Stockholm. 
Waste data does not include waste from marketing and sales offices. 
128
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / SUSTAINABIlITY pERFORMANCESocial performance
Employees per region 2017
Region New employee hires Female Male Employees 2017
Sweden 67 41 26 451
EMENAR (Europe, Middle East, North Africa, Russia) 
 (excluding Sweden) 67 41 26 295
North America (USA & Canada) 10 7 3 54
Total 144 89 55 8001
1. Per year-end 2017, the number of full-time equivalent employees was 800, while the number of persons employed at the same date was 850.
New hires
Female Male
RegionUnder 30 
years old30–50  
years oldAbove 50 
years oldFemale 
TotalUnder 30 
years old30-50  
years oldAbove 50 
years oldMale 
Total Total
Sweden 8 21 12 41 9 14 3 26 67
EMENAR (Europe, Middle East,  
North Africa, Russia) (excluding Sweden) 4 29 8 41 2 20 6 28 67
North America (USA & Canada) 1 5 1 7 2 1 3 10
Total 13 55 21 89 9 38 8 55 144
Turnover 2017
Employees 2017 2016
Number of employees1 812 757
Departures 90 83
Turnover 11.1% 11%
1. Mean number of employees during the year, including only permanent contracts.
Employees, contract type and type of employment 2017
Employees Male Female Totalt
Permanent contract 337 497 834
Temporary contract 8 8 16
Employees Sweden Other region Totalt
Permanent contract 473 361 834
Temporary contract 15 1 16
Employee numbers are expressed as head count. Sobi has no employees working 
part time. Some employees have been granted a part time equivalent employ-
ment type due to issues such as child care.
All employees in the Swedish operations (representing approximately 
57 per cent of all employees) are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
129
SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / SUSTAINABIlITY pERFORMANCE
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTGRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Comment
GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Sobi complies with the reporting 
principles for defining reporting content and quality stipulated  by GRI.
STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Organisational Profile
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 76
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7, 10–13, 58
102-3 Location of headquarters 76
102-4 Location of operations 20, 23, 86, 98
102-5 Ownership and legal form 76
102-6 Markets served 20, 23, 98
102-7 Scale of the organisation 6–7, 84
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 86, 129
102-9 Supply chain 12–13, 39
102-10 Significant changes to the organisation  
and its supply chainNo material changes to the organisation and supply chain 
during the year.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 64–65, 126–127
102-12 External initiatives 43, 45, 130 Sobi complies with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Disclosure Code in Europe and the Physician Pay-ments Sunshine Act in the US. Sobi’s clinical programmes and 
testing follow the ethical prin-
ciples of the Declaration of  Helsinki and EMA’s policy on the 
publication of clinical trial data.
102-13 Membership of associations See www.sobi.com for current list of memberships.
Strategy
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8–9, 55
Ethics and Integrity
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 36, 124
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 108–113, 124Sobi´s Sustainability Report 2017 is defined in the GRI Index below. 
Its main components are found in the following sections of the  Annual and Sustainability Report 2017: • Business Model is found in the section Sobi’s Value Creation, page 12–13
• Description of sustainability approach, activities and performance 2017 are found in the section on Sustainability, pages 36–47. 
• Information on objectives and targets on Sustainability issues is reported in the non-financial notes, on pages 128–129.
• Information on the buildup of the Sustainability Report is found  in the section Sustainability Management, on pages 123–132. This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It also fulfills the requirements on sustainability reporting in the Annual Accounts Act. The 2016 sustainability report was published in April 2017. 
Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, as part 
of the Annual- and Sustainability Report. The indicators below have been selected on the basis of a materiality analysis, which is further described on pages 124–125. All page references below refer to pages in Sobi’s 2017 Annual- and Sustainability Report or at www.sobi.com. For questions regarding the  Sustainability Report, please contact  
info@sobi.com.Global Reporting Initiative Index
130
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / GRI INDExGRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Comment
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 123
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 129
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 37, 123
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 37, 123
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 37, 123
Reporting Practice
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 98
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 124–125, 130, GRI 101
102-47 List of material topics 37, 124
102-48 Restatements of information 98
102-49 Changes in reporting 123–124
102-50 Reporting period 130
102-51 Date of most recent report 130
102-52 Reporting cycle 130
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 130
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 130
102-55 GRI content index 130–133
102-56 External assurance Sobi’s Sustainability Report  
has not been subject to  external assurance.
MATERIAL TOPICS
Economic
Economic Performance
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 128
Indirect Economic ImpactsGRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 128
Anti-corruptionGRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 45, 47, 124
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 47, 127
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption poli-
cies and procedures45
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 45
Anti-competitive Behaviour
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 45, 47, 124
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 
and monopoly practices45
Environmental
Emissions
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 128
Effluents and WasteGRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 128
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
131
SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / GRI INDEx
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTGRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Comment
Social
Employment
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41–42, 124
GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 129
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 42, 124
GRI 403: Occupational Health and 
Safety403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities42
Training and Education
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 42
GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 42
404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programmes42
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews42
Non-discrimination
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 42, 124
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 42
Local CommunitiesGRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programmes19, 38
Supplier Social Assessment 
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 46, 124
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 46
Customer Health and SafetyGRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 
and service categories39, 44
Marketing and Labeling
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 
 service information and labeling39
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
 communications41
Customer Privacy
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 44, 124
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches  
of customer privacy and losses of customer data44
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 124
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and economic area45
132
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / GRI INDExAuditor’s report on the statutory  
sustainability statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2017 on pages 12–13, 36–47  and 123–132 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in  Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. 
10 April 2018, Stockholm
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorised Public Accountant 
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
133
SUSTAINABIlITY MANAGEMENT / AUDITOR'S REpORT
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT2018 Annual General Meeting
2018 Annual General Meeting
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) will hold its Annual General Meet-ing on Wednesday, 9 May 2018, in Näringslivets Hus, Storgatan 19, Stockholm, Sweden.
To participate
Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting must be recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, 3 May 2018. Shareholders must notify the company of their intention to participate no later than Thursday, 3 May 2018 in one of the following ways:• Visiting Sobi’s website: www.sobi.com • By phone: +46 (0)8-697 31 91, Monday to Friday 9:00–16:00•  By mail: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ),  Annual General Meeting, SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
The notification should include the shareholder’s:• Name• Personal/corporate identity • Address and telephone number (daytime)• Number of shares held•  Where applicable, information about any  representatives/advisors
Nominee sharesShareholders who have registered their shares with a bank or another nominee must, to be entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting, register their shares in their own name, so that the person concerned is recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, 3 May 2018. Shareholders wishing to register their shares in their own name should inform the nominee in good time before this date. Such registration may be temporary.ProxyShareholders who intend to be represented by proxy must issue a writ-ten and dated power of attorney for the proxy. If the power of attorney is issued by a legal entity, a certified copy of the registration certificate or equivalent for the legal entity must be attached. The power of attor -
ney is valid for one year from the date of issuance, or until the date of expiration shown on the power of attorney, but not later than five years. The registration certificate shall evidence the circumstances prevailing at the date of the Meeting and should not be older than one year on the date of the Meeting. The original power of attorney and any registration certificate should be sent to the company by mail at the address indi-cated above well in advance of the Meeting. A proxy form is available on the company’s website, www.sobi.com, and can also be sent to shareholders upon request.
Financial calendar 2018
January–March Interim Report 26 April 2018
Annual General Meeting 9 May 2018
January–June Interim Report 18 July 2018
January–September Interim Report 31 October 2018
The Annual Report can be downloaded in PDF format from  www.sobi.com, as well as previous annual reports, interim reports and press releases.
Contact details
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)  SE-112 76 Stockholm, SwedenVisiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, SolnaPhone: +46 (0)8 697 20 00Email: info@sobi.comWebsite: www.sobi.com
134
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017AGM 2018Earnings per share
Profit/loss divided by the average number of shares.
Full-time equivalent (FTE)
A unit that indicates the number of hours worked by an employee on a full-time basis, used to make workloads comparable across various contexts.
Profit/loss
Profit/loss for the period.
Alternative key figures
Financial measures not defined  according to IFRSSobi uses certain financial measures in the interim report that are not defined according to IFRS. The company considers that these measures provide valuable supplementary information for investors and company man-agement, as they enable an assessment and benchmarking of the company’s reporting. Since not all companies calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always comparable to measures used by other companies. These financial measures should therefore not be regarded as substitutes for measures defined according to IFRS. The fol-lowing key ratios are not defined according to IFRS. Capital employedTotal assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. 
Cash flow per share
Changes in cash and cash equivalents divided by the weighted average number of outstand-ing shares.
Debt-to equity ratio
Relative proportion of shareholders equity and debt used to finance the company’s assets.
EBIT
Earnings before interest and tax (Operating income).
EBITA
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Equity per share
Equity divided by the number of shares.
Equity ratio
Total assets divided by equity.
Gross margin
Gross profit as a percentage of sales.Gross profitOperating revenues less cost of goods and services sold.
Net debt
Interest-bearing non-current and short-term liabilities minus cash and bank balances.
Return on capital employed
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/Capital Employed.
Return on equity
Profit/loss after tax as a percentage of aver -
age equity.
Return on total capital
Profit/loss after financial items plus financial expenses as a percentage of average total assets.
Weighted Capital Cost (WACC)
Risk-free interest rate (1.0%) plus Beta (1.31) multiplied with a risk premium (6.28). The risk-free rate is an average of 10-year Treasury bill over the last five years. Beta is the correlation between Sobis share and stock exchange index. Risk premium is calculated as an aver -
age over five years of the market expectations of growth and return. A flat rate tax of 22% has been used.Definitions
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
135
THIS IS SOBI BUSINESS AREAS INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY HISTORY & 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW REPORTINGCORPORATE
GOVERNANCESUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENTDEFINITIONSGlossary
Acute gout
An autoinflammatory disease and an intensely painful and disabling inflammatory arthritis involving one or several joints. Gout is also a disease that is associated with multiple comorbidities, which may limit the use of some conventional treatment regimens. 
Alprolix
Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) is a recombinant extended half-life clotting factor IX therapy approved for the treatment of haemophilia B in adults and children of all ages in the EU,  Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Kuwait, 
 Switzerland and Saudi Arabia. It is also 
approved in the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and other countries. 
anaGO
A randomised, double-blind, multicentre study being conducted in North America studying two subcutaneous dose levels of anakinra in comparison to intramuscular triamcinolone for the treatment of acute gout.
anaSTILLs 
A randomised, double-blind, multicentre study being conducted in North America studying two subcutaneous dose levels of anakinra, administrated subcutaneously, in comparison to placebo for the treatment of Still’s disease.
A-SURE
A multicentre, non-interventional study to evaluate the effectiveness of Elocta compared to conventional factor products in the prophy-lactic treatment of patients with haemophilia A.
Bioverativ
Bioverativ, a Sanofi company, spun out of  Biogen’s haemophilia business. Bioverativ 
 collaborates with Sobi on our joint haemo-
philia programmes.CAPSCryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, constitutes a group of rare autoinflammatory diseases with an incidence estimated to be 1:1,000,000 worldwide. CAPS is characterised by uncontrolled overproduction of interleu-kin-1 (IL-1) which induces a number of inflam-matory responses such as fevers, rash, joint pain, headaches, conjunctivitis and many other symptoms.
CHMP 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use at the European Medicines Agency.
Dupuytren’s contracture 
Dupuytren’s contracture is a condition caused by a thickening of the tissues under the skin of the palm where one or more fingers are bent forwards toward the palm and cannot be fully straightened.
EC
European Commission.
EHL
Extended half-life. 
Elocta
Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) is a recombinant extended half-life clotting factor VIII therapy approved for the treatment of haemophilia A in adults and children of all ages in the EU,  Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Kuwait, 
 Switzerland and Saudi Arabia. It is also 
approved in the United States, Japan,  Canada, Australia and other countries,  
where it is known as Eloctate.EMAEuropean Medicines Agency.
EMENAR
A business region including Europe, Middle East, North Africa and Russia.
FDA
US Food and Drug Administration. 
Haemophilia
A rare, genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to clot is impaired. Haemo-philia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male births annually, and haemophilia B occurs in about one in 25,000 male births annually. Both occur more rarely in females. People with hae-mophilia experience bleeding episodes that may cause pain, irreversible joint damage and life-threatening haemorrhages.
HT-1 
Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) is a rare genetic dis order that can cause liver failure, 
kidney dysfunction and neuro logical problems 
and can be fatal if left untreated. 
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting Interpreta-tions Committee. 
IL-1
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of inflamma-tion and driver of autoinflammatory diseases.
136
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017GlOSSARYIntrapreneurship
Intrapreneurship is about taking responsibility and driving development, change and innova-tion within one’s company or organisation. 
ITI – Immune tolerance induction 
A therapy used when haemophilia patients develop inhibitors to treatment. Factor con-centrate is given regularly and at high doses, over a period of time until the body is trained to recognise the treatment product without reacting to it. 
Kineret
Kineret (anakinra) is a drug used to treat inflammatory  diseases. 
MAHMarketing authorisation holder, the company in whose name the marketing authorisation has been granted and who is responsible for all aspects of the product.
MPS IIIA
Sanfilippo syndrome (MPS IIIA) is a progres-sive, life- threatening and rare inherited meta-
bolic disorder affecting children from a young age. Belongs to a group of diseases called  Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSDs).
NOMID
Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory dis-ease, the most severe form of CAPS, also asso-ciated with chronic meningitis, hearing loss, craniofacial abnormalities, bone lesions and increased mortality.OrfadinOrfadin (nitisinone) is a drug used to treat hereditary  tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1). 
Peyronie’s diseasePeyronie’s disease is a condition that involves the development of collagen plaque, or scar tissue, on the shaft of the penis. The scar tissue may harden and reduce flexibility causing bending or arching of the penis during erection. 
Real world evidence 
Real world evidence is gained by examining how approved medicines and treatments are working in the healthcare system. Real-world evidence studies use observational data such as electronic medical records, insurance claims information and patient surveys. Real-world analyses can assess how various treatments impact actual patient outcomes.
reITIrate 
An open-label, multicentre study designed to investigate the ITI potential of Elocta in patients with haemophilia A who have devel-oped inhibitors which have failed to be resolved with other therapies.
SOBI003
A chemically modified variant of a recombinant human  sulfamidase product candidate 
intended as an enzyme replacement therapy in lysosomal storage disease MPS IIIA, aimed to reduce heparan sulfate storage materials in affected cells. Still’s disease Still’s disease is an autoinflammatory disease that affects both children and adults, and is characterised by persistent high spiking fevers, recurring rashes and arthritis. Still’s  disease is 
also known as systemic-onset juvenile idio-pathic arthritis (SJIA) or adult-onset Still’s  disease (AOSD).
UCD
Urea cycle disorders are a group of serious conditions in which patients suffer from defi-ciencies in the enzymes required to remove ammonia from the blood stream.
Xiapex
Xiapex (collagenase clostridium histolyticum), is a pharmacological treatment for Dupuytren’s contracture and  Peyronie’s disease. 
XTENXTEN is a technique used to extend the half-life of  proteins.
WFHWorld Federation of Hemophilia, an interna-tional not-for-profit organisation.
Sobi, Elocta, Alprolix, Kineret, Orfadin and Kepivance are 
 trademarks of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All third party 
trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2018 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All rights reserved.
Production: Sobi in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson.
Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet.
Photos: Martin Botvidsson, Malte Danielsson, Morten Lasskogen/Kunde & Co, Thomas Nielsen, Jonathan Trace, Lacy Davillier, Sobi.Illustration on front cover: 4MHX (Sidhu NS et al. Acta Crystallogr D 
Biol Crystallogr. 2014), glycans modeled using ICM (Molsoft LLC).Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)
SE-112 76 Stockholm, SwedenVisiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00
www.sobi.comEmail: info@sobi.com