Annual &   
Sustainability  
Report 
2018 
Contents
Introduction
This is Sobi 2
CEO letter 6
Sobi’s market in rare diseases 8
Business overview
Strategy 10
Meeting patient needs 15
Innovation 30
Manufacture and supply of biologics 34
We make it happen 36
Our Responsibility 40
History and financial overview
Sobi’s history 42
The share 44
Five-year summary 47
Reporting
Director’s report 50
Financial statements 64
Notes 74
Corporate governance
Letter from the Chairman 107
Corporate Governance Report 108
Auditor’s report on the Corporate 
Governance statement 115
The Board 116
Executive Committee 118
Auditor’s report 120
Sustainability
Sustainability management 123
GRI index 130
Auditor’s report on the statutory 
 Sustainability statement 133
Additional information
2019 Annual General Meeting 134
Definitions 135
Glossary 136
This is Sobi’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2018.  
The audited Annual Report includes pages 50–106.  
The Sustainability Report is found on pages 12–13, 
15–17, 30–31, 34–41, 58–63 and 123–133 and  consists 
of the Company and the Group’s legally  required 
 sustainability report according to the Annual Accounts 
Act, 6 chap. 11§. The report also constitutes our 
reporting to the UN Global Compact, Communication 
on Progress. 
rare strength
A specialised biopharmaceutical company  
dedicated to rare diseases  
At Sobi, we bring something rare to the rare disease space. 
By turning our clinical research into treatments that transform 
lives, and getting them to the people who need them as quickly 
as  possible, we help make medicine more accessible, opening 
up possibilities for patients and those caring for them.This is sobi
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
2This is Sobi
sobi is an international biopharmaceutical company dedicated to rare diseases. 
As an integrated company, we have extensive capabilities across the value chain, 
from the discovery, development and manufacture of medicines to patient 
access and support. o ur plan is to continue diversifying to create a broader 
yet focused R&D and product portfolio.
Haemophilia, Immunology  
and Specialty Care 
Our therapies are concentrated within the 
areas of Haemophilia, Immunology and 
 Specialty Care. Uptake of our extended half-
life recombinant treatments for  haemophilia 
A and haemophilia B, developed in conjunct-
ion with Sanofi (formerly Bioverativ), is 
growing rapidly as they become increasingly 
accepted as the standard of care in several 
countries. During 2018, we created a strong 
Immunology portfolio, and have important 
specialty treatments in the area of genetics 
and metabolism.
Patients in over 70 countries 
With our global head office in Stockholm, 
Sweden, our organisation spans 19 coun-
tries, delivering treatments to patients in 
over 70 countries around the globe. Europe 
and the Middle East – which together 
with Russia and North Africa comprise our 
EMENAR region – are the core markets for 
our  Haemophilia franchise, while acquisi-
tions during 2018 greatly strengthened our 
business and footprint in North America, 
balancing our success in Europe. Integrated biopharmaceutical company 
We cover the entire value chain, from ideation 
and research, through preclinical and clinical 
development, biologics manufacturing, 
regulatory affairs to patient access and dis-
tribution. Our commercial success allows us 
to reinvest in the research and development 
of new therapies that transform the lives of 
people with rare diseases.
By promptly turning our clinical research 
into groundbreaking treatments, we help 
make medicine more accessible more 
quickly, opening up new possibilities for 
patients and more opportunities for those 
caring for them.
Our focus and capabilities, track record 
of bringing rare-disease products to market, 
and ability to find creative business devel-
opment and licensing solutions make us an 
ideal partner for biotech companies with 
promising drug candidates which could 
have a high impact in small populations. 
Patients’ needs first 
In all our partnerships, we put the needs of 
patients first, in the knowledge that good 
medicine is good business. Working strate-gically with multiple stakeholders, we create 
value for all parties – patients and their 
families, healthcare systems, payers, our 
employees, investors and the pharmaceu-
tical industry – to deliver new treatments to 
the people who need them.
Responsible pricing
A vital factor in access to treatment is responsi-
ble pricing. That means balancing the role of a 
sustainable company with being a sustainable 
part of the healthcare system. Our continual 
dialogue with rare-disease communities, reg-
ulators and budget holders allows us to create 
powerful value propositions and product vali-
dations enabling us to get therapies to patients 
efficiently and responsibly.
Together with our partners and stake-
holders, we ensure that we create solutions 
that serve the needs of those affected by 
rare diseases while also facilitating sustain-
able growth.
We bring something rare to rare diseases 
– a belief in the strength of being focused, 
the power of agility and the potential of the 
people our business is designed to serve.
70 935 9,139
We serve patients in over  
70 countries Employees SEK M in revenue
This is sobi
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
3Focus is strength 
As a specialised biopharmaceutical company, we are dedicated to rare diseases. 
We see this focus as a strength. With over 80 years of experience, s obi has a lot to 
offer in product development and commercialisation.
Research 
R&D enables us to generate innovative treatments, 
as well as evaluate projects and products from outside 
and further develop them in-house.
Development
We cover the entire development process, from pre-
clinical and clinical development, to post-approval 
 clinical studies in a real-world setting. 
Manufacturing 
In addition to in-house biological manufacturing, Sobi 
works with 15 contract manufacturing organisations 
(CMOs) in Europe and the US.
Regulatory and safety
Patient safety is of utmost importance, and is the 
guiding principle for our work in the regulatory area, 
including distribution. Stringent pharmacovigilance 
and drug safety systems help protect patient safety.
Commercialisation and patient access, 
worldwide
The footprint of our commercial organisation con-
tinues to grow and covers issues including access 
to treatment, responsible pricing and education of 
healthcare professionals. 
Research
Development
ManufacturingRegulatory 
and SafetyCommercialisation 
and patient access
rare 
strength
 66% Haemophilia 
 of which manufacturing revenue accounts for 5% 
 34% Specialty CareShare of total revenue, by business area+40%
Revenue growth 2018
This is sobi
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
4The year in figures
Haemophilia 
SEK M 2018 2017 Change, % 
Elocta® 3,261 1,557 109
Alprolix® 974 363 168
Manufacturing 436 559 –22
Royalty1 1,341 1,203 12
Total 6,012 3,682 63
1. See page 82 for details.2018 was a year of impressive growth. Revenue was up 40 per cent year on year, 
with E biTA rising 74 per cent. Product sales in h aemophilia more than doubled, 
and we achieved double-digit growth in s pecialty Care.
Specialty Care 
SEK M 2018 2017 Change, % 
Kineret® 1,320 1,142 16
Orfadin® 899 862 4
Other 908 825 10
Total 3,127 2,829 11Overview of most important products by revenue
Haemophilia
Product sales more than doubled. The main countries contributing to 
this growth were France, Germany, Italy and the UK.Specialty Care
There was a strong performance across the Specialty Care portfolio. 
Solid growth for Kineret continued across all regions for the full year. 40%
74%Revenue growth
EBITA growthKey figures
SEK M 2014 2015 2016 2017  2018
Total revenue 2,607 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139
Gross profit 1,548 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723
Gross margin, % 59 62 70 72 74
Operating expenses 1,873 1,861 2,518 3,057 3,601
EBITA –44 433 1,543 2,053 3,571
EBIT –325 146 1,133 1,600 3,122
Profit/loss for the year –270 83 802 1,149 2,418
Earnings per share, SEK –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97
Cash flow from operations 234 507 343 1,333 2,090
Equity per share, SEK 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1
Equity assets ratio, % 71 56 54 61 53
Dividend 0 0 0 0 0
No. of employees (full-time equivalent) 589 702 760 800 902This is sobi
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
5The year in brief
Acquisitions helped take s obi to a new level in 2018. s ynagis® will strengthen our footprint 
in the North American market, where business will almost triple compared with 2018.  
The acquisitions of rights to emapalumab and s ynagis create a strong second leg in 
 immunology to better balance our success in h aemophilia.
Haemophilia Specialty Care Research & 
DevelopmentOrganisation
Q1
Ireland becomes the first coun-
try in Europe where every person 
with haemophilia has access to 
extended half-life (EHL) thera-
pies after new supply contracts 
are signed with Sobi.
Sobi becomes the first com-
pany in France to make EHL 
treatments available for both 
haemophilia A and B.
Q2 
Data released at the World 
 Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) 
World Congress in Glasgow 
show quality-of-life improve-
ments for patients treated 
prophylactically with Elocta 
and Alprolix EHL  haemophilia 
therapies.
Q4 
At the American Society of 
Hematology (ASH) conference, 
data is presented showing that 
EHL therapies Elocta and Alprolix 
demonstrate proven efficacy and 
well-characterised safety over 
four years.Q1  
Sobi launches Ravicti® in 
Europe and advances the care 
of patients with urea-cycle 
disorders.
Q2
Kineret approved in the Euro-
pean Union for the treatment of 
Still’s disease.
Q3
Sobi strengthens the Immunol-
ogy franchise by acquiring the 
global rights for emapalumab 
from Novimmune. 
Q4 
Sobi acquires US rights to 
 Synagis from AstraZeneca, 
creating a platform for global 
growth. The acquisition was 
finalised in January 2019.
The Food & Drug Administration 
(FDA) approves Gamifant® 
(emapalumab) in the US, the first 
approved treatment for primary 
haemophagocytic lympho-
histiocytosis (HLH).Q1  
FDA accepts investigational new 
drug application and grants Fast 
Track Designation for SOBI003 
for the treatment of mucopoly-
saccharidosis (MPS) type IIIA.
Q2  
Preliminary phase 1/2a data on 
BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN)1, 
presented at the WFH World 
Congress.
Q3  
First patient dosed in phase 1/2 
trial evaluating SOBI003 for 
treatment of MPS IIIA.
Results presented from the 
anaGO study, a phase 2 trial with 
anakinra in patients with acute 
gout.
Q4 
BIVV0011 phase 1/2a data 
presented at ASH underscores 
potential for once-weekly dosing 
with sustained high factor levels in 
haemophilia A.
Data presented at ASH supports 
emapalumab as an innovative, 
targeted therapeutic option for 
primary HLH.Q1  
Torbjörn Hallberg joins Sobi as 
General Counsel and Head of 
Legal Affairs.
On Rare Disease Day, Sobi 
launches an enhanced corporate 
sustainability programme with 
a strong connection to the 
company’s strategy of providing 
sustainable access to treatments 
for rare diseases. 
Q2  
Sobi appoints Henrik Stenqvist 
as Chief Financial Officer and 
Fredrik Wetterlundh as Head 
of Human Resources.
Q3  
Anne Marie de Jonge  
Schuermans joins Sobi as  
Head of Technical Operations.
Total sales: SEK 4,235M
Sales growth: 145% 
Number of new markets: 10
Elocta and Alprolix –  
market leaders in France.Total sales: SEK 3,127M
Sales growth: 11% Total products in  
pre-clinical stage: 3
Total products in  
clinical stages: 14Number of employees2: 
935
1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in.
2. Number of employees at end of year.CEo LETTER
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
6Growing globally
2018 was a year of transformation for s obi. our progress in h aemophilia, acquisitions 
in immunology and sales growth in s pecialty Care mean that the company is essen -
tially, on a pro-forma basis, two-and-a-half times the size it was at the end of 2016. 
but it is important to understand that we see this as an important stepping stone.
Our achievements demonstrate that we are 
delivering on every aspect of our strategy. 
By continuing with substantial growth in 
Haemophilia, enlarging our Specialty Care 
portfolio and building a new Immunology 
franchise, through expansion in North 
 America and continued growth in EMENAR, 
and by strengthening our innovation pipe-
line, we are ensuring the company can con-
tinue to grow. This is essential for achieving 
our vision of being recognised as a global 
leader in providing innovative treatments that 
transform life for people with rare diseases. 
The most prescribed EHL treatments 
We have positioned Sobi as a leading player 
in haemophilia in many markets. Elocta (sold 
by Sanofi as Eloctate® in Sanofi territories) 
and Alprolix are now the most prescribed 
extended half-life treatments in the world 1. 
We have made a significant leap in terms of 
market share to become one of the top three 
companies in Europe, in both haemophilia A 
and B, on a consolidated basis. 
We – along with patients, carers, treaters 
and payers – have seen how our products 
help people with haemophilia to liberate 
their lives and expect more from their 
treatment. And we are seeing positive results 
from the phase 1/2a data for BIVV001. I 
expect the strong growth of our Haemo-
philia franchise to continue as more people 
gain and seek access to our treatments.We have been able to accelerate Kineret 
significantly, and full-year growth of 16 per 
cent for 2018 is a testament to this. The 
approval of Kineret as a treatment for Still’s 
disease in Europe helped in this regard. We 
expect more growth in the near future from 
our investment in Kineret in the US.
On the other side, with regard to Orfadin, 
we have maintained market share in the face 
of emerging competition. 
A strong emphasis on immunology
Our acquisitions in 2018 were a huge step 
forward for the company. They help artic -
ulate what we mean by specialty care, and 
give us a strong emphasis on immunology. 
On a pro-forma basis, the acquisitions of 
rights to Synagis and emapalumab mean 
that more than 70 per cent of the Specialty 
Care business will be driven by Immunology. 
This gives the Group a strong second leg to 
balance our success in Haemophilia. 
The acquisition of global rights to 
emapalumab last summer represented the 
first major step in our transformation. The 
therapy was approved as Gamifant in the US 
late last year, as the first approved treatment 
for primary haemophagocytic lymphohistio-
cytosis (HLH). We have seen good results 
in the clinical data. It is very encouraging 
to have such a life-changing product with 
the financial potential to further transform 
the Group.Emapalumab creates a significant growth 
opportunity for the Group, but also requires 
further investment. Launch costs for the US 
were seen in Q4, while future investment 
will focus on commercialisation, seeking 
approval in primary HLH in the EU, and 
advancing the development of emapalumab. 
Clinical development activities to expand 
indications, such as into secondary HLH, 
are under preparation. 
Tripled size in north America
With the Synagis rights acquisition signed 
in November 2018, and finalised in January 
2019, we now have a very strong field force 
in the US, more than 270 people in total. 
This positions Sobi on a completely different 
scale in the North American market, where 
business will essentially triple what we 
recorded in 2018. Under a committed lead-
ership, we have a skilled team with a strong 
paediatric focus that will serve us well in the 
years to come. I was particularly pleased that 
all 133 people from AstraZeneca who we 
invited to join in conjunction with the acqui-
sition accepted our offer. This confirms to 
me that Sobi is an attractive company to join.
In both deals, we were able to demon-
strate that not only are we an attractive 
partner, but that we can also provide creative 
solutions that address our business partners’ 
needs and create value for both parties.
The combined effect of our commercial 
success ensures that we have significant 
1. Data on file.CEo LETTER
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
7earning capacity to support research and 
development, and particularly strong late-
stage development.
In R&D, it was gratifying to see that 
SOBI003 has now advanced into the clinical 
phase 1/2 study, and that we are recruiting 
well for the continuing study. The entire 
organisation has done a fantastic job in 
achieving this major milestone, and I am 
proud of the team for showing that we can 
take a molecule and potential treatment 
from idea to patient.
As part of our collaboration partnership 
agreement with Sanofi, we have seen 
encouraging results in the phase 1/2 trial 
of the Fc fusion follow-on drug candidate 
BIVV0011 , showing unprecedented levels 
of protection in factor VIII therapy. This 
investigational treatment shows potential to 
become one of the products of choice in the 
treatment of haemophilia A. The results con-
firm our commitment to play a very active 
role in this partnership with Sanofi.
Stronger organisation
In 2018, we also strengthened our leadership 
team with Torbjörn Hallberg as General 
Counsel and Head of Legal Affairs, Henrik 
Stenqvist as CFO and Fredrik Wetterlundh 
as Head of Human Resources. In October, 
Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans joined 
Sobi as head of our new Technical Opera-
tions unit, which brings together a variety 
of functions including the development, 
manufacture and supply of medicines. Anne 
Marie is building a technical organisation 
with strong discipline, a focus on costs and 
the scale required to serve Sobi for the years 
to come.
Our entire organisation continues to 
evolve, with a strong emphasis on the 
development and maintenance of high- performing teams. While maintaining our 
foundational focus on patients, we as a 
company are learning to assert ourselves 
more strongly and compete in the market. 
This is a trait that we will increasingly need 
as we see more competitors entering the 
haemophilia space. The evolved Sobi values 
introduced in 2017 and implemented in 
2018 – Care, Ambition, Urgency, Ownership 
and Partnership – provide the guiding prin-
ciples for everything we do every day. I have 
been pleased to see that people across the 
organisation have embraced these as part 
of their work. These are values that guide 
and empower us all, and are essential for the 
growth journey we are on. 
Growth empowers us to meet our respon-
sibility of providing sustainable access to our 
treatments for the people who need them. 
This is the most obvious aspect of our work 
in sustainability, but we also continue to 
advance in areas including corporate gover -
nance, ethical partnerships and behaviour, 
and strong corporate citizenship. 
I am pleased to confirm that Sobi con-
tinues to support the ten principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact in the areas 
of human rights, labour, environment and 
anti-corruption, and that we are committed 
to making the Global Compact and its prin-
ciples part of our strategy, culture and daily 
operations. 
Building our pipeline
We are staking out Sobi’s direction in terms 
of building our pipeline and looking for 
further value-creating acquisitions to accel-
erate growth. Our vision is to be recognised 
as a global leader in the rare disease space. 
We have made significant progress, but to 
achieve our vision, we still have more to do. We now have an R&D portfolio with a signi-
ficant collection of late-stage assets, includ-
ing BIVV001, financial rights to MEDI8897, 
additional indications for emapalumab and 
further opportunities in Kineret. We also have 
high hopes for the future of SOBI003. 
As well as the transformational changes 
on the R&D side, we have Gamifant in launch 
phase in the US, and substantial potential in 
both haemophilia and with Kineret. We are 
also confident that Synagis can grow further 
under our ownership.
In the months and years ahead, we will 
continue to search for more late-stage 
assets that will diversify the company further, 
particularly in the areas of haematology and 
immunology. 
I am proud to be working with the great 
people here at Sobi. I would like to thank 
all my colleagues for their efforts during a 
demanding and eventful year, and for their 
continuing dedication and commitment.
And I would also like to thank our share-
holders for their support and trust throughout 
2018 and beyond.
We have laid the foundations, and now we 
have to build. It is a big challenge that we are 
taking on. With our capabilities and commit-
ment, strategy and financial strength, I am 
convinced we will succeed.
In summary, I can say that 2018 was a year 
of achievements and great strides towards 
our vision. But this was only the beginning. 
Guido Oelkers 
Chief Executive Officer
»We have laid the foundations and 
now we have to build. With our 
capabilities, commitment, strategy 
and financial strength, I am  
confident we will succeed.« 
1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in. sobi’s mARkET iN RARE DisEAsEs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
8Rare diseases
There are an estimated 6,000–8,000 rare diseases in the world today affecting 
more than 300 million people1. because only around 500 of these diseases have 
approved treatments, this is a hugely under-served area with great unmet medical 
needs. At s obi, we specialise in rare diseases because it is where we can make the 
greatest difference to people’s lives.
The rare disease space is unlike any other in 
medicine. In Europe, a rare disease is defined 
as one affecting fewer than one person per 
2,000. In the US, the Orphan Drug Act of 
1983 defines a rare disease as a condition 
affecting fewer than 200,000 people. 
Because physicians may never have seen 
the condition before, many cases can go 
undiagnosed for years. 
Around 75 per cent2 of identified rare 
diseases affect children, and many have a 
devastating effect on life expectancy and 
quality of life. An estimated 35 per cent of 
children with a rare disease will not live to 
see their fifth birthday, and rare diseases are 
thought to be responsible for around 35 per 
cent of deaths during the first year of life.
Around 80 per cent of rare diseases are 
inherited rather than acquired: they involve 
a defect in the genes that tell our bodies 
how to work. As a result, the body may fail to 
produce an essential enzyme or protein, for 
example, or its own immune defences may 
attack its own systems. 
Because they are most commonly genetic 
disorders, rare diseases tend to be lifelong. 
Treatment is often focused on resolving the problem caused by the defective gene, 
alleviating the symptoms and allowing the 
person to live a more normal life. 
The price of orphan drugs is relatively 
high compared with other treatments target-
ing larger patient populations. However, the 
total cost for the healthcare system is not as 
great as perceived, particularly considering 
the transformative value that orphan drugs 
bring to patients. 
Rare challenges
The rare disease landscape also presents 
specific challenges – scientific, medical 
and commercial. They range from under -
standing the biology of a disease, identifying 
molecules that can become successful 
treatments, developing the complex bio-
pharmaceutical processes to manufacture a 
drug, designing and running clinical trials in 
extremely small patient populations, obtain-
ing regulatory approvals, negotiating pricing 
and reimbursement, through to working 
with healthcare professionals and patients 
to ensure access for the people who need 
the treatment. At each step, we draw on our 
expertise and experience, working across functions and with external stakeholders 
to achieve the best possible outcome.
An example is the way we work with regula-
tory authorities to get treatments to patients 
as quickly as possible. In small trials, the pro-
cess can be accelerated if a candi date treat-
ment demonstrates transformative results 
for trial patients. Both the FDA and European 
Medicine Agency (EMA) can allow such 
breakthrough therapies to be fast-tracked 
through the approval process,  providing pri-
ority review procedures. SOBI003, for exam-
ple, has been granted Fast Track  Designation 
by the FDA. 
The growth we have experienced in 
recent years demonstrates that doing good 
for patients can also be good business. We 
focus on small patient populations and are 
sized accordingly. We know rare diseases, 
and that is where we concentrate our efforts. 
When assessing a potential treatment, we 
look at where our know-how and capabil-
ities can play a significant role, and where 
we can stand out from the crowd.
Being the first to bring a new orphan 
therapy to patients also brings advantages. 
In such a case, regulatory authorities can 
1. Global Genes, www.globalgenes.org
2. ËURORDIS, www.eurordis.orgsobi’s mARkET iN RARE DisEAsEs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
91. www.sobi.com
2. www.iqvia.comgrant market exclusivity for a specific 
time, allowing the company to recoup its 
investment in the discovery, development 
and regulatory review processes. Backed 
by solid science, and with an understanding 
of the approval, pricing and reimburse-
ment mechan isms, a new therapy can be 
launched without delay and reach patients 
in the shortest possible time.
Our size is a strength
We have the scale to invest in innovation 
and provide comprehensive support in all 
our territories, yet still have the flexibility 
and agility required to act quickly. As an 
integrated biopharmaceutical company, we 
work in cross-functional teams, across our 
disciplines. Having patient access experts 
involved in the early stages of the devel-
opment process, regulatory approval and 
pricing negotiations, for example, allows us 
to get treatments to patients more quickly. 
Our commercial, medical and research 
teams work together with healthcare pro-
fessionals, external researchers and other 
stakeholders to improve understanding of 
evolving patient and treater needs. This also allows us to learn how, for example, new 
formulations can better meet an emerging 
patient need. We also reinvest revenues back 
into developing new treatments. 
Our close contact with patient and treater 
communities allows us to identify other 
non-drug measures to address unmet 
needs. These can include educational pro-
grammes, disease awareness and bridging 
finance initiatives.1
Treatments reaching more people
Advances in scientific knowledge allow us 
and other companies in the industry to iden-
tify and develop new treatments for more of 
those 6,000–8,000 rare diseases that have 
been identified. In the US, the FDA approved 
80 new orphan indications in 2017, with 
59 approvals within the first eight months 
of 20182, the highest figures since the intro-
duction of the Orphan Drug Act in 1983.
The small size of rare disease populations, 
and the often high levels of engagement 
among patients, families and treaters, also 
stimulate the uptake of new treatments. 
Such closely connected, well-informed 
disease communities share information about novel therapies, and better informed 
patients feel more able to discuss possible 
new treatments with their physicians. Many 
people with rare diseases – who historically 
have been and often still are under-served by 
their healthcare systems – are increasingly 
becoming empowered to pursue treatments 
that can improve their lives. 
In many countries with less-developed 
healthcare systems, improving finances and 
better infrastructure are also allowing the 
expansion of screening programmes that 
can detect rare diseases. In many cases, early 
diagnosis and treatment can  prevent long-
term injury and reduced  quality of life.
sTRATE gy
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
10Delivering on our 
strategy for growth
sobi’s strategy is based on our vision of becoming a global leader  
in getting transformational treatments to people with rare diseases.  
in 2018, we have seen major progress in all four areas of our strategy.
Our strategy for growth is built on four 
 cornerstones:
• Increasing access to our treatments for 
haemophilia
• Enlarging our Specialty Care franchise
• Expanding our position in EMENAR, 
and growing in North America
• Strengthening our R&D pipeline.
The strategy builds on our strong position as 
an integrated biopharmaceutical company 
covering the entire value chain of treatment 
for rare diseases in EMENAR and North 
America. 
We continue to invest in our strongly 
growing market position in haemophilia. 
Having seen the transformative benefits of 
our extended half-life treatments for people 
with haemophilia A and B, enabling access 
for more people through their local health-care systems is a moral imperative. The 
dramatic commercial growth in this area is 
also generating significant revenue, allowing 
us to invest further in the haemophilia space.
Enlarging our Specialty Care portfolio 
allows us to create a better balance for our 
overall business operations, while ensuring 
sustainable growth in both the short and 
long term. Acquisitions in 2018 have allowed 
us to create a strong Immunology franchise; 
these therapies, together with our other 
products in the Specialty Care area, will 
bene fit from our extensive commercialis-
ation platform in Europe and emerging 
strength in North America. The addition of 
new treatments to our Immunology and 
Specialty Care portfolios allows us to bring 
further transformative therapies to patients.
Major expansion in North America, 
combined with continued growth in our EMENAR-region, allows our business 
to  better match the overall geographic 
balance of the global rare-disease domain. 
The growth in both regions strengthens 
our commercial platform and adds to our 
 financial capacity.
We continue to advance and expand our 
research & development pipeline. With our 
ongoing investment in R&D, we are devel-
oping new therapies in-house and bringing 
in external late-stage candidate drugs that 
address significant unmet medical needs, 
create synergies in our portfolio, expand 
our global platform and show potential for 
future growth. 
The combination of our strength with 
that of our partners creates unique oppor -
tunities to create added value in the rare- 
disease field.sTRATE gy
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
11FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 2018 FINANCIAL OUTCOME 2018 FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 2019
Revenues: SEK 7,500–7,700 M Revenues: SEK 9,139 M Revenues: SEK 12,500–13,000 M
EBITA: SEK 2,500–2,700 M EBITA: SEK 3,571 M EBITA: SEK 5,000–5,300 M
Gross margin of at least 70 per cent Gross margin 74 per centDelivering on our strategy
• 109 per cent increase in sales for Elocta.
• 168 per cent increase in sales for Alprolix.
• 10 new markets reached agreement on pricing and reimbursement.
• Synagis rights acquisition provides further diversification into immunology.
• Acquisition of the global rights to emapalumab. 
• Emapalumab was approved as Gamifant in the US.
• 16 per cent increase in sales of Kineret across NA and EMENAR.
• Kineret for Still’s disease approved and launched in EU.
• Acquisition of global rights to emapalumab strengthens geographic footprint, 
particularly in the US. 
• Acquisition of US rights to Synagis nearly triples commercial footprint in the  
US and allows us to expand our presence beyond Synagis.
• Encouraging data from the phase 1/2 study of BIVV001 presented.
• Acquired rights to 50 per cent of future earnings from the MEDI8897  
drug  candidate in the US.
• First patient enrolled in SOBI003 phase 1/2 trial in August 2018.
• Key results for the phase 2 anaGO trial with anakinra published.Outcome
Increasing access  
to our treatments  
for haemophilia
Enlarging  
our Specialty Care  
franchise
Expanding our  
position in EMENAR,  
and growing in  
North America
Strengthening  
our R&D pipelinesTRATE gy
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
12Sobi’s value creation
For whom  Our vision and mission  
Stakeholders  Input  We provide treatments that transform life for people with rare 
 diseases. These people, their families, the healthcare community 
and society at large benefit from sustainable access to treatment.
Through good business practice, we also provide solid returns 
on investment and reinvestment in further R&D and business 
 development.Vision
Our vision is to be recognised as a global leader in providing access 
to innovative treatments that transform the lives of  individuals with 
rare diseases.
Mission
Our mission is to develop and deliver innovative therapies and 
 services to improve the lives of patients.
• Patients, families, carers and patient organisations
• Regulatory authorities and healthcare systems
• Payers and insurance companies
• Pharmaceutical companies
• Healthcare professionals and experts
• Capital markets
• Shareholders• Rare disease space – high unmet medical need,  
favourable  regulatory environment and growing market
• Patient involvement and patient journey insights
• Skilled workforce specialising in rare diseases and 
 biopharmaceuticals 
• Manufacturing facilities 
• Intellectual property and innovation capital
• Reputational capital – partnerships and networks
• Proprietary and licensed products
• Strong earnings platform and financial resources
• Geographical footprint in EMENAR and North America
Business model  
AN INTEGRATED PROCESS
  We use an integrated process, from in-house research in protein 
characte risation, and the development and industrial manufactur -
ing of biologics, to providing sustainable access to treatments for 
rare diseases.  
   Insights about the patient journey and the needs of patient repre-
sentatives and healthcare systems are  continuously fed back into 
the process to enhance our offering of treatments.
1. Research 
2. Development 
3. Manufacturing
4. Regulatory and safety
5. Commercialisation and patient access
rare 
strength1
2
345sTRATE gy
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
13• Access to treatments that transform life 
for people with rare diseases.
• Evidence-based generation of treatments 
and increased knowledge-sharing with 
rare-disease and patient communities.
• Reduced inequalities and transformative 
circumstances for people with rare 
diseases.• Good business practice helps combat 
corruption.
• Strategic partnerships and integrated, 
 efficient and innovative processes that 
create value for shareholders.
• Financial strength enabling investment 
into research & development.• Sustainable organisational growth, short 
and long term.
• Engaged and skilled people. Creating 
jobs and a skilled workforce.Value for stakeholders  
935
Number of people employed  
by Sobi at year-end 2018Increase of patients  
on our haemophilia  
treatments>70
72%Number of countries with  
access Sobi’s treatments
Share price increaseSEK 507M12%
88%8.97Total corporate income tax for 2017,  
to be paid in 2018Percentage of revenue reinvested  
in R&D to deliver potential future  
treatments for rare diseases
Earnings per share (SEK)
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations describes its 17 Sustainable Development Goals as “a universal call to action to end poverty, 
protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity”. Business can and must play an important 
role in the achievement of these goals. While our operations support several of the goals, based on our growth 
strategy and materiality analysis, we have focused our efforts on three goals in 2018:
Improving global health by making treatments 
for rare diseases more accessible is what we do 
every day. We contribute to the pursuit of universal 
health coverage, including financial risk protection, 
access to quality essential healthcare services and 
access to safe, effective, quality and affordable 
essential medicines and vaccines for all. Transparency regarding business ethics and 
corruption form the foundation of strong collab-
orations for qualitative research, development 
and manufacturing. We work actively to combat 
corruption in all of its forms, and to ensure compli-
ance with our ethical standards in all our dealings.By working strategically with multiple partners, 
we create value for a variety of stakeholders 
including patients and their families, healthcare 
systems, payers, our employees, investors and the 
pharmaceutical industry. We see partnership – with 
healthcare authorities, patient organisations and 
other stakeholders – as essential for providing 
sustainable access to treatment. sTRATE gy
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
14Business fundamentals
Key considerations when developing new treatments for rare diseases
Demand/need  
Feasibility  
Market potential and commercialisation (viability)  Incidence and prevalence  
Is there a high unmet medical need? Is the 
condition life-threatening or debilitating? 
How many people does it affect? How 
can patients be identified? Is the biology 
understood? Does the condition represent 
one disease or a syndrome of related disor -
ders? How does the disorder develop and 
progress? What is the prognosis for patients? 
In what way would the new treatment be 
transformative?
R&D capabilities 
Does the new treatment fit with the profile 
of our R&D expertise? Is this something 
we could research and develop in-house? 
Could we conduct the required R&D in 
partnership?
Potential
How many patients will benefit from this 
therapy? How many are eligible for treat-
ment? How long will they require treatment?Current standard of care
Are there treatments in use today? If so, 
what are the safety and efficacy profiles? 
Are there significant side-effects? Are cur -
rent treatments transformative, or do they 
alleviate symptoms? Would a new treatment 
be a complement to existing treatments or 
a replacement?
Clinical and regulatory planning
Are there any clinical obstacles to conduct-
ing trials? What are the validated end-points 
for measuring clinical benefit? Is historical 
clinical data available, from within Sobi or 
externally? What new data is required? Is this 
treatment likely to be approved by regulatory 
bodies? What clinical end-points would they 
require? Will the trials be blinded or not? 
What are the safety requirements? How long 
will the trials take?
Position
What is the treatment paradigm? What is the 
competitive landscape like? Will this product 
be first to market? How is the competitive 
landscape likely to develop?Horizon scanning 
Are there any other prospective treatments 
currently under development? Can our 
potential treatment be developed further? 
Would it be possible to extend the label to 
other indications or patient groups?
Sourcing capabilities 
Do we have the in-house manufacturing 
capacity for this therapy? Is it something we 
can manufacture together with a partner? 
Can we guarantee supply in both the short 
and long term?
Sustainable access to treatment 
How can we engage with patient communi-
ties, regulators and payers to ensure patients 
get sustainable access to the treatment? 
How can our pricing and reimbursement 
submissions help more people get access to 
treatment? Is the revenue stream sustainable 
in the long term? mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
15Taking the treatment 
to the patient
our patients cannot wait. The nature of many rare diseases makes it imperative 
to bring treatments to patients, to save and transform lives. our experience in 
rare diseases has helped us refine our processes and systems to bring medicines 
as promptly as possible to the people who need them, while always having 
patient safety as the top priority.
At Sobi, we are committed to supporting the 
rare disease community and partnering with 
healthcare systems to ensure that our medi-
cines are accessible to the vulnerable patient 
population for which they are intended. 
Insight and understanding
The special circumstances of the rare disease 
landscape create specific challenges in 
taking treatment to patients. Bringing inno-
vative therapies that address unmet medical 
needs to market requires insight and under -
standing, a commitment to partnership, and 
determination.
For us, the process is built on understand-
ing the needs of people with rare diseases. 
From early research through to pricing and 
reimbursement negotiations, we work in 
close consultation with stakeholders who 
are united in their determination to improve 
the lives of patients and their families.  
In clinical research, for example, we work 
closely with patient advocacy groups and 
healthcare professionals right from the 
beginning. This includes discussing the true burden of the disease, for patients and care-
givers, to shine a light on what is important 
for them. 
By having these insights early on, we can 
ensure that the clinical endpoints for trials 
are the correct ones, to make sure that any 
eventual therapy truly addresses the unmet 
medical need.
In parallel, we work with healthcare 
and regulatory authorities, to provide an 
all-round understanding of what is relevant 
for patients, physicians and payers. Our 
Regulatory Affairs team – with a combined 
400 years of experience from the pharma-
ceutical industry, regulatory consultancy 
services and regulatory bodies – contributes 
with its knowledge to the development, 
approval and maintenance of our products. 
Early dialogue with bodies such as the EU 
Network for Health Technology Assessment 
(EUnetHTA) helps ensure quality data that 
allows rapid advancement through regula-
tory approval and pricing/reimbursement 
processes.This means that the entire process is aligned, 
avoiding the need for delays to find addi-
tional information later on. A smoother 
process means earlier access to life-saving 
treatment.
Responsible pricing
We conduct extensive stakeholder research 
to ensure that that the price of our medi-
cines is aligned with the benefit they provide 
to patients, healthcare systems and payers. 
Such analysis includes discussions of the 
indicated usage and evidence package with 
clinical experts and payers/HTA (health 
technology assessment) bodies, as well as an 
evaluation of analogues for other ultra-rare, 
life-threatening disease medicines.
Combined with understanding of patient 
needs, insight into the requirements of and 
demands on healthcare systems are also 
vital in ensuring that pricing levels are nego-
tiated to provide truly sustainable access to 
treatment. mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
16All our pricing decisions balance three basic 
principles:
• The benefit that the innovation provides 
to patients 
• The impact on healthcare systems 
• The costs required to sustain innovation 
and continue to meet medical needs in 
the future.
Our haemophilia therapies are a perfect 
example. To make the benefits of our 
extended half-life treatments available to as 
many people as possible, we have worked 
together with healthcare systems to apply a 
pricing strategy based on annual parity with 
conventional treatments available on the 
market. This means that our products can 
reach everyone with haemophilia without 
any significant extra cost and no additional 
barriers.
Enabling global access
By working closely with patient organisa-
tions, healthcare authorities and payers, we have gained a deeper understanding of 
the specific challenges facing rare-disease 
 communities in countries and regions 
around the world. 
With offices in 19 countries, serving more 
than 70 national markets, we have patient 
access experts on the ground who know 
what problems can arise and are working 
to ensure that patients get the medicines 
they need.
In rare diseases, the patient populations 
are by definition small. In some cases, there 
is no regional patient organisation, only 
national ones; in such a situation, insight into 
local challenges is vital. 
Our agile organisation and depth of 
understanding allows us to support patients 
across the broad scope of rare diseases – 
from ultra-rare conditions such as MPS IIIA 
to the comparatively large group of people 
living with haemophilia. Whether the therapy 
we provide is the first approved, such as 
emapalumab, or an innovative alternative 
to existing treatments, our commitment to people with rare diseases drives us to find 
the best way of bringing the treatment to 
the patient.  
Partnership and collaboration
We see partnership as essential to our efforts 
to provide sustainable access to treatment 
around the world. Our collaboration with 
Novimmune brought emapalumab to 
the market quickly, being approved and 
launched in the US late in 2018 as Gamifant, 
the world’s first approved treatment for 
primary HLH. We partner with several other 
pharmaceutical companies to bring their 
treatments to patients across our territories. 
As well as a range of healthcare author -
ities, payers, researchers and other bodies, 
we also work with patient organisations to 
support their initiatives to provide access in 
under-developed countries and regions. 
Our largest such commitment is our 
donation, together with Sanofi Genzyme, 
the specialty care business of Sanofi, of 
1 billion international units (IU) of extended 
mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
17
half-life clotting replacement factor for use 
in developing countries: 500 million IUs have 
been committed to the World Federation 
of Haemophilia’s Humanitarian Donation 
Program over a five-year period starting in 
2015. We were also a founding sponsor of 
the European Haemophilia Consortium’s 
PARTNERS programme, to increase access 
to haemophilia treatment in countries in 
Europe that currently provide little or no 
such treatment. 
Our patient-centric approach, partnership 
capabilities and in-house expertise and 
capacity give us the power to deliver on our 
promise of providing sustainable access to 
life-changing treatments for people with 
rare diseases.Patient safety and product quality
Patient safety throughout the product life cycle is one of our most important tasks. 
With a robust pharmacovigilance system in place, we continuously oversee the 
benefit/risk profiles of our products. The pharmacovigilance system complies with all 
global, national and local regulations. The main purpose of the system is to guarantee 
patient safety in regards to our products.
Annual training is provided for all employees to ensure that all safety information 
in relation to our products is reported. By collecting and analysing safety data from 
all sources, we aim to provide accurate and up-to-date information to regulators, 
healthcare professionals and patients.Fc fusion
Elocta is an extended half-life recombinant clotting factor VIII replacement 
therapy for treatment of haemophilia A. Seen here in orange, Elocta is an FVIII 
molecule fused to the Fc domain of immunoglobulin-gamma (in blue). Elocta 
binds to FcRn receptors (in grey) on the surface of endothelial cells, initiating 
the recycling pathway which drives the Fc-driven prolongation of its half-life.The most common rare disease in the world
With nearly 200,000 people diagnosed across the globe, haemophilia is the most 
common rare disease in the world. It is a genetic disorder in which the ability of a 
person’s blood to clot is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male 
births annually, and more rarely in females. Haemophilia B occurs in about one in 
28,000 male births annually, and more rarely in females. The World Federation of 
Haemophilia estimates that approximately 196,700 people are currently diagnosed 
with haemophilia A and B worldwide.1
People with haemophilia A or B experience bleeding episodes that can cause 
pain, irreversible joint damage and lifse-threatening haemorrhages. Prophylactic 
injections of factor VIII or IX can temporarily replace the clotting factors that are 
needed to control bleeding and prevent new bleeding episodes. The World Fed-
eration of Haemophilia recommends prophylaxis as the optimal therapy as it can 
prevent bleedings and joint destruction.
1. World Federation of Haemophilia. Report on the Annual Global Survey 2017. 
 Available at: www.wfh.org
Our aim in each country is the same:  
to provide timely and sustainable access 
to transformative treatment for every 
person with haemophilia.mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
19 Haemophilia
more and more people living with haemophilia A and b , and their treaters, are 
seeing the improvements in quality of life that treatment with Elocta and Alprolix 
brings. This was the key driver of continued strong growth for our haemophilia 
 franchise throughout 2018.
T he ambition within Haemophilia 
continues: we will do our best to 
enable access to our treatments 
for everyone in our territories who 
has a need. More people are getting access 
to Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) and Alprolix 
(eftrenonacog alfa), and more are choosing 
to switch to them. Sales of both products 
showed strong and consistent quarter- on-
quarter growth throughout 2018. 
The platform that we and Sanofi have 
developed with Elocta and Alprolix has 
reshaped the expectations that people with 
haemophilia A and B can have for their lives.  
Liberate life
For many people with haemophilia, the main 
goal of treatment over the years has been 
safe protection from bleeds. This is obviously 
a primary consideration, but replacement 
treatment has now progressed beyond 
bleed prevention. As well as protection 
from bleeds, extended half-life treatments 
are allowing people with haemophilia to 
expect less pain, better target joint resolu-
tion (halting repetitive bleeds into a specific 
joint and reversing joint damage) and fewer 
days when they have to worry about their 
treatment. The main benefit of extended 
half-life treatments is no longer seen simply 
as convenience but rather the way these 
treatments let people with haemophilia live 
well and feel confident.
In 2018, we undertook an extensive 
ethnographic study of people living with 
haemophilia. Despite advances in recent 
years, many people in the study told how 
they have to live with compromises and 
 limitations. Younger people told of restricting their activities on non-treatment days, of 
missing out on opportunities to spend time 
with friends. Adults spoke of having to cope 
with everyday pain, of living with stiff joints, 
having to live with constraints. 
This study showed us that people with 
haemophilia can liberate their lives when 
treatment delivers in four fundamental areas. 
Treatment needs to:
• Allow you to feel safe
• Provide protection from all types of bleeds
• Preserve long-term joint health and 
reduce pain; and
• Remove the mental burden of haemophilia.
We believe that every person with haemo-
philia has the right to live well, to live a life 
free from constraints and compromises. 
That is why we have a vision of liberating 
people’s lives.
In recent years, increasing levels of 
understanding and experience with Elocta 
and Aprolix, among thousands of people 
of all ages, have spread throughout the 
haemophilia community. Patients, carers 
and treaters talk to each other about lower 
levels of pain and higher quality of life. This 
has created a momentum for change, and 
as a result, we have seen higher numbers of 
people switching to our treatments.
Proven safety and efficacy
The latest research1, released at the Ameri-
can Society of Hematology (ASH) annual 
meeting in December, confirms the efficacy 
and safety profiles of Elocta and Alprolix. 
The results from the ASPIRE and B-YOND 
studies demonstrate that long-term 
prophylactic treatment with Elocta and 
1. Sobi press release: At ASH, extended half-life therapies Elocta® and Alprolix® demonstrate proven efficacy and well-characterised 
safety over four years, 12 January 2018 www.sobi.comSEK6,012 M
Total revenue, Haemophilia
 66%  HaemophiliaShare of total revenue,  
by business areaIncreased number of patients 
on Elocta and Alprolix+88%mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
20Alprolix consistently improved annualised 
bleed rates, including joint bleeds, across 
all patient populations studied and at 
extended dosing intervals. No inhibitors 
were observed in subjects enrolled in either 
of the two extension studies and the overall 
safety  profile was consistent with the pivotal 
phase 3 trials. 
Debilitating joint disease, which is caused 
by repeated bleeds into joints over time, is 
one of the most common complications 
for people with haemophilia. In ASPIRE and 
B-YOND, subjects on prophylactic treatment 
experienced low joint and spontaneous 
joint annualised bleed rates (ABRs) across all 
dosing regimens. These results support the 
conclusion that prophylactic dosing with 
Elocta and Alprolix can effectively manage 
and control all types of joint bleeds.
In addition to providing the clinical evidence 
to support the long-term use of our thera-
pies, we continue to explore the impact 
of Fc fusion on joint health. An interim, 
post-hoc analysis of ASPIRE1 published 
in  Haemophilia found that a prophylactic 
regimen of efmoroctocog alfa can lead to 
continuous improvement in joint health, 
regardless of prior treatment regimen, 
 severity of joint damage, or target joints.EHL factor replacement a mainstay  
of treatment
We remain convinced that the well-estab-
lished safety and efficacy profile of both 
Elocta and Alprolix, confirmed by several 
years of real-world data from thousands of 
patients, and their suitability for all patient 
groups and ages, position them and Sobi 
well to withstand competition from treat-
ments now entering the market (see box).
We see replacement factor as funda-
mental to the wellbeing of people with 
 haemophilia, and expect it to be the main-
stay of treatment for the foreseeable future. 
We see significant opportunities for growth 
in the treatment of haemophilia A and B 
in our  territories, notwithstanding the 
 eventual uptake of alternative treatments.
We estimate the market value of haemo-
philia A treatments to be around USD 3.5 
billion and USD 500 million for haemophilia B. 
Sobi’s market share is estimated at 15 to 
20 per cent. 
2018 access achievements
Elocta is now available and reimbursed in 
26 countries, and Alprolix in 19 countries. 
Both received new reimbursement in five 
countries respectively during 2018, Elocta in Slovakia, Poland, Portugal, Croatia and the 
Czech Republic; Alprolix in Austria, France, 
Sweden, Slovakia and Hungary. A filing for 
approval for Elocta in Russia was filed in July 
following successful GMP inspections. 
Committed to treatment for all 
Every person with haemophilia should have 
an equal right to treatment that can liberate 
their lives and lead to a better tomorrow. But 
people in different countries face different 
challenges. So we are working actively to 
find ways to provide sustainable treatment for 
as many people with haemophilia as possible.
Our aim is the same in each country: to 
provide timely and sustainable access to 
transformative treatment for every person 
with haemophilia. 
Yet only 30 per cent of people diagnosed 
worldwide are currently receiving access to 
clotting factor replacement treatment. To 
overcome this fact, we work with stakehold-
ers to improve access to sustainable treat-
ment. Two key initiatives in this commitment 
are the World Federation of Haemophilia’s 
Humanitarian Donation Program and 
the European Haemophilia Consortium’s 
 PARTNERS programme.
Manufacturing of clotting 
factors
As part of our commitment to providing treatment for haemo-
philia, we continue to manufacture the drug substance for Pfizer’s 
haemophilia product ReFacto AF, which is produced according 
to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) in our biologics facility in 
Stockholm, Sweden. 
We have more than 35 years’ experience in developing therapies 
for haemophilia. Together with Biogen/Bioverativ (now Sanofi), we 
developed the process for large-scale manufacturing of Alprolix, 
based on our experience from manufacturing the drug substance 
for ReFacto AF.
As the global supplier, we receive manufacturing revenues on 
Pfizer’s sales of ReFacto AF. Manufacturing capacity was decreased 
during 2018, in line with Pfizer’s requirements.  
Read more on page 51.About the Sobi-Sanofi 
 collaboration
We work together with Sanofi on the development and commerciali-
sation of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix. We have final development and 
commercialisation rights in our territory – essentially Europe, most 
Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia.
Sanofi has manufacturing responsibility for the products as well as 
final development and commercialisation rights in North America and 
all other regions of the world excluding the Sobi territory. 
Our development and commercialisation agreement also includes 
BIVV0011 (added 2014), an engineered factor VIII molecule that uses 
Fc fusion and XTEN, a half-life extension technology, and BIVV002 
(added 2017), a novel factor IX fusion protein, that also uses Fc fusion 
and XTEN. 
BIVV001 is a Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected 
to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but 
has not yet opted in. 
1. The financial terms of the agreement between the  companies are described in more detail  
in Note 17.1. Sobi press release: At ASH, extended half-life therapies Elocta® and Alprolix® demonstrate proven efficacy and well-characterised 
safety over four years, 12 January 2018 www.sobi.commEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
21As visionary contributors to the WFH 
 donation programme, Sobi and Sanofi 
Genzyme, Sanofi’s specialty care business, 
have committed to donate 1 billion interna-
tional units of our EHL factor treatments to 
the haemophilia community, of which 500 
million IUs has been committed to the WFH 
Humanitarian Donation Program over a five-
year period which started in 2015. As well as 
treatment and the necessary transportation, 
we are supporting the programme’s efforts 
to build up infrastructure and expertise in the 
recipient countries. This will enable them to 
provide ongoing, sustainable treatment for 
people with haemophilia. 
The impact of the donation programme 
so far has been extensive and rewarding1: 
• More than 16,800 people reported treated 
in 45 countries
• Nearly 2,000 surgeries including opera-
tions that have saved people’s lives and 
limbs
• More than 117,000 acute bleeds treated.
More than 370 million IUs of factor have 
already been donated to the WFH.
The EHC PARTNERS programme is 
designed to improve access to treatment 
in countries in Central and Eastern Europe that currently have insufficient budgets 
to provide sustainable access to the level 
recommended by the European Directorate 
for the Quality of Medicines and Healthcare 
(EDQM)2.
Sobi was one of the two founding corpo-
rate partners in the programme, which aims 
to provide subsidised treatment to countries 
that commit to increasing their investment 
in haemophilia to ensure sustainable access 
to treatment. We are pleased to see other 
companies now agreeing to support the 
PARTNERS programme. 
In developed countries in our territory, 
we work together with healthcare systems 
to apply a pricing strategy based on annual 
parity with conventional treatments available 
on the market. This means that our products 
can reach everyone with haemophilia 
without any significant extra cost and no 
additional barriers. 
We work closely with the community 
– patients, caregivers, treaters and payers 
– in areas such as education and support 
services. This is part of our commitment to 
enabling people living with haemophilia to 
liberate their lives.
ELOCTA®
Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) is a recombinant clotting factor VIII 
therapy developed for haemo philia A with prolonged circulation 
in the body using Fc fusion technology. Elocta is approved for 
the treatment of haemophilia A in adults and children of all ages 
and marketed by Sobi in the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, 
Switzerland, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. It is approved under the name 
Eloctate, for the US, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil 
and other countries, where it is marketed by Sanofi.
For full prescribing information, please see the EMA’s website.
Total sales: SEK 3,261M
Sales growth: 109%
Number of new markets: 5ALPROLIX®
Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) is a recombinant clotting factor therapy 
developed for haemophilia B using Fc fusion technology to prolong 
circulation in the body. Alprolix is approved for the treatment of 
haemophilia B in adults and children of all ages in the EU, Iceland, 
Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, where 
it is marketed by Sobi. Alprolix is approved for the treatment of 
 haemophilia B in the US, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, 
Brazil and other countries, where it is marketed by Sanofi.
For full prescribing information, please see the EMA’s website.
Total sales: SEK 974M
Sales growth: 168%
Number of new markets: 5
»More and more patients 
in France are converting  
to our therapies for 
 haemophilia.«
Sofiane Fahmy,  
Head of Southern and Western  
Europe and North Africa
Brief facts about Sobi’s Haemophilia portfolio:1. www.wfh.org 
2. www.edqm.eumeeting patient needs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
22»Believe in yourself. You can achieve anything.«
Alexis Perdikis has a message for people with 
haemophilia: “Believe in yourself. You can 
achieve anything. This is what I feel, it comes 
right from my heart.”
Alexis, 33, is a sports journalist in Athens, 
the capital of Greece. 
He also has severe haemophilia A. 
Today, he lives a life full of opportunity and 
possibility. “I can go to work without having 
to worry about getting a bleed. I can go 
swimming, which is very important for my 
quality of life.”
But life hasn’t always been so free of 
limitations. As a boy, Alexis experienced the 
restrictions familiar to many who grow up 
with haemophilia.
“Growing up with severe haemophilia is 
difficult, a bit tough. It is very strange for a 
parent to have to explain to a little child, you 
cannot play, you cannot play football with 
your friends, you cannot run, you cannot 
ride your bicycle. It’s like there is a big DON’T 
above your head all the time. Don’t do this, 
don’t do that.
“That is one part. The second part is your 
psychology. Haemophilia hits your self-con-
fidence and self-esteem. You grow up and 
you don’t believe in yourself. You think, ‘I won’t be able to do this or that’. This is 
probably the biggest limitation.” 
Alexis was receiving on-demand treatment 
until the age of 27. For five years he has been 
on prophylaxis, the past two years with Elocta.
“There have been many differences. The 
most important at first was zero bleeds – 
less pain in my joints and muscles, in my 
body in general.”“Secondly, it’s about your mental health. 
It’s a sense of freedom. You feel freer. You 
feel that you can do things you couldn’t 
do before.”
He emphasises the importance of self- 
confidence and self-esteem for people living 
with haemophilia. “It’s all about believing 
in yourself. To realise, I can have a normal 
job like anyone else, a girlfriend or a family. 
This is so, so important.” 
For the past five years, Alexis has served as 
secretary general of the Greek Haemophilia 
Society. He sees national member organ-
isations as playing an essential role in the 
haemophilia community: “They are a link in 
the chain between the patients and all the 
other stakeholders: government, ministry 
of health, hospitals, administration, the 
 companies. Patient organisations must help 
bring those different parts together.”
Asked what someone with haemophilia 
should expect from their treatment, Alexis 
says people can set their own ambitions: 
“Be strong. Use your inner power to achieve 
whatever you want. Of course, good treat-
ment is important. But in the end everything 
has to do with you, and with what you want 
to achieve.”Therapeutic options for haemophilia A and B
Haemophilia therapy has undergone a major 
evolution over the past decade. Because 
haemophilia A and B are caused by deficien-
cies in factor VIII (FVIII) and factor IX (FIX) 
respectively, replacement of the missing 
factor has been and remains the standard 
of care for both the prevention of bleeding 
episodes (prophylaxis) and the treatment of 
breakthrough bleeds (on-demand therapy). 
Factor concentrates were initially 
produced from plasma, but large-scale 
production first became possible with the 
development of recombinant technology, 
which also avoids the inherent risks of using 
pooled human plasma in the manufacturing 
process. 
A more recent evolution in factor replace-
ment therapy is the use of technologies to 
extend the relatively short half-life of clotting factor, which allows improved protection 
without increasing treatment burden. Half-
life extension can be accomplished by fusion 
of factor to the Fc part of antibodies (IgG) 
or albumin, or the addition of synthetic 
 polyethylene glycol (PEG). In contrast to FIX, 
the extension of the half-life of FVIII has so 
far been limited by the binding of FVIII to 
von Willebrand Factor (VWF), a problem 
which is circumvented by the development 
of the VWF-independent product candidate 
rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN (BIVV001)1. The long-
term safety and efficacy of factor replace-
ment therapies using Fc fusion to extend 
half-life have been demonstrated in trials 
including ASPIRE and B-YOND. 
When haemophilia patients develop 
 neutralising/inhibitory antibodies to infused 
factor, eradication of those inhibitors through Immune Tolerance Induction 
(ITI) therapy is considered a first-choice 
treatment. To prevent or treat breakthrough 
bleeds, by passing agents such as FVIII inhi-
bitor bypass agent and recombinant FVIIa 
can be used. Recently, a bispecific antibody 
mimicking FVIIIa has been approved for 
the prevention of bleeding in haemophilia 
A patients with or without inhibitors. These 
patients would however still need alterna-
tive/bypass therapy for the treatment of 
breakthrough bleeds.
Other non-factor replacement therapies 
are under development. Gene therapy has 
been under investigation for quite some time 
now for haemophilia A and B, but remains 
in clinical development and the long-term 
efficacy and safety of this potentially curative 
approach have yet to be established. 
Alexis Perdikis is a sports journalist  
in Athens. 1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to its collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in.
 Reference: Peters R, Harris T. Advances and innovations in haemophilia treatment. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2018 Jul;17(7):493-508.mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
23
Background
When Armin joined Sobi in January 2017, it was the latest step in a 
distinguished career in medicine and research. With extensive expe-
rience in both blood research and transfusion medicine, Armin has 
published more than 70 scientific articles. He has also held senior 
positions at Harvard Medical School, Scripps Research Institute, and 
at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in Munich where he continues as 
a professor of anatomy. He has served on the boards and commit-
tees of several international organisations in the areas of thrombosis 
and haemostasis. When Armin joined Sobi, he came from a position 
as Head of Medical Affairs EMEA at Shire/Baxalta. 
What have been the highlights for you in Haemophilia in 2018?
The most important is that more people are benefiting from our 
treatments. As word spreads through the patient and treater com-
munities about the difference our treatments can bring, people 
are re-examining their initial hesitation about switching from con-
ventional therapies. Key opinion leaders tell us they see significant 
benefits for patients on EHL treatments. 
Real-world experience is showing that patients can expect more 
from life, and truly live well with haemophilia. Just a few decades 
ago, we told people with haemophilia not to move – stay at home, 
don’t do anything, in order to avoid bleeds. That has changed dra-
matically. Now we offer them EHL products that can liberate their 
lives. 
Looking forward, we can see from the preliminary data released 
last year (see Haemophilia section) that BIVV001 has potential to 
build on where we have already taken treatment for haemophilia A. 
We continue to streng then our relationship with Sanofi, and I see a 
very bright future here.
How do you see the haemophilia landscape developing?
There is a lot of hype about new treatments being approved. I 
believe strongly, and I hear constantly from the treater community, 
that replacing the missing clotting factor is fundamental to the 
wellbeing of people with haemophilia. The safety and efficacy 
profiles of Elocta and Alprolix have been confirmed by several years of real-world experience from thousands of patients. They have 
been shown conclusively to be suitable for all patient groups and 
ages, and provide the flexibility to truly match treatment to expected 
outcomes. 
I hear clear feedback from physicians that they and their patients 
appreciate the very physiological approach of replacing the missing 
clotting factor: you can measure the factor level, you can increase 
the dose to the level needed. I remain convinced that proven and 
effective factor replacement that can be matched to an individual’s 
treatment goals in all situations will continue to be the mainstay of 
treatment for the future.
What do you see as some other major highlights from 2018?
One was definitely emapalumab. This is a huge step forward for Sobi, 
because it confirms our commitment to the immunology space 
and demonstrates how our success in haemophilia lets us invest in 
helping more children with a severe unmet medical need. Our most 
recent addition, Synagis, fulfils the same fundamental ambition. It 
helps as a prophylactic treatment so that premature babies survive 
better, and require fewer hospitalisations and intensive care unit 
admissions when exposed to RSV (respiratory syncytial virus), which 
causes respiratory tract infections.
Another highlight for me is the way everyone within Sobi – from 
the Executive Committee to the many teams throughout the organ-
isation – works together to find innovative treatments and get them 
to the people who need them. This is a long-standing strength at 
Sobi. Our position today, as a leading player in rare diseases, is built 
on a lot of partnership over the years, internally and externally, as 
well as on our core values, which have been evolved to address the 
challenges we encounter on a daily basis. 
We have a clear strategy on which we are delivering, and a clear 
path ahead of us. We really have made a mark, in haemophilia in 
particular, and are no longer the new kid on the block. Sobi is seen 
today as a major player, making a real difference to the lives of peo-
ple with rare diseases. And as a physician that is my main motivation 
for trying to do better every day.»Sobi is seen today as a 
major player, making a real 
difference to the lives of 
people with rare diseases.«
Armin Reininger
Our Head of Global Medical and Scientific Affairs  
reflects on highlights from 2018, and emerging  
trends for the years ahead. 
Better meeting patient needs 
We are working actively to find better ways to meet 
patient needs. This can entail product development and 
innovation driven by medical needs. New medical needs 
may arise when people with certain rare diseases grow 
up, reaching adolescence and adulthood for the first time 
thanks to the treatments we provide.
mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
25Specialty Care
more patients than ever before are being helped by our treatments. sales for 
 specialty Care surpassed s Ek 3 billion for the first time in 2018, with a solid perfor -
mance across the portfolio. Two major acquisitions in 2018 have given specialty 
Care a clear focus on i mmunology, creating a strong  second leg to our business.
Specialty Care concentrates on 
rare diseases and niche indica-
tions, with treatments that aim 
to transform life for patients. 
The two key acquisitions during 
2018 – for the global licence to emapalumab 
and the US rights for Synagis (palivizumab) 
– have shifted the weight of the Specialty 
Care portfolio significantly. The resulting 
strong Immunology franchise – comprising 
emapalumab, Synagis and Kineret (anakinra) 
– will comprise the majority of sales in 
 Specialty Care, and we see immunology as 
a promising area of development in which 
we will invest further. 
Synagis is the only approved medicine for 
the prevention of serious lower respiratory 
tract infections (LRTI) caused by respiratory 
syncytial virus in high-risk infants. As an 
important treatment for vulnerable children, 
Synagis matches our expertise in paediatrics 
and we are convinced we can get more value 
from the product. Synagis will constitute the 
majority share of total Specialty Care sales.
Emapalumab, approved in November 
in the US as Gamifant for the treatment of 
primary HLH, is also a perfect fit with our 
expertise, strategy and infrastructure. As the 
first approved treatment, it demonstrates 
our ability to bring innovative solutions to 
address highly unmet medical needs, and 
as a therapeutic concept shows potential 
for expansion into other indications.  
It will also provide growth in North 
 America in line with our strategy.
The acquisitions are transformative for 
the company in several ways, and are an 
excellent fit with our strategy:
• New Immunology franchise  
– By creating a strong second leg to 
our portfolio, the acquisitions enable 
the company to diversify our revenue 
base and balance our strong growth 
in Haemophilia. • Accelerates US commercial platform 
– Both acquisitions strengthen our 
commercial platform in North America, 
providing critical scale to drive sustainable 
growth in the US. We see this as imper -
ative for the company to be recognised 
as a preferred partner in future global 
deals. The Synagis acquisition includes 
the transfer of AstraZeneca employees 
from a highly qualified sales & marketing 
team. Synagis is thereby expected to 
nearly triple both the revenue and size of 
our US organisation. We have also been 
expanding our North American organisa-
tion to address the expected demand for 
emapalumab. 
• Enhances financial strength  
– Synagis will provide substantial recur -
ring revenue, and we believe that our 
specialist competence in this area will 
allow us to extract more value from the 
product. In the coming year, we expect 
revenues from Synagis and emapalumab 
to help us advance our geographical 
expansion, enable future strategic acqui-
sitions over the mid-term and allow us 
to continue to invest in our own research 
and development.
As well as its primary focus on Immunology, 
our portfolio also includes products in the 
areas of genetics & metabolism. Specialty 
Care has a distribution network across 
EMENAR used to sell both proprietary and 
partner products, while in North America 
we currently sell Sobi’s own products 
exclusively. In 2018, total sales amounted 
to SEK 3,127 M. Specialty Care’s largest 
products in 2018 were Kineret and Orfadin, 
representing 42 and 29 per cent of sales 
respectively. The portfolio currently consists 
of 39 products. From 2019, Synagis will be 
the largest single product in Specialty Care.SEK3,127M
Total revenue, Specialty Care
 34%  Specialty CareShare of total revenue,  
by business areamEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
26Building up capacity in North America
Our operations in North America expanded 
 dramatically during 2018. From 55 employees at 
the start of 2018, we grew to 270 colleagues in 
the US and Canada in early 2019. 
More than 130 people are joining Sobi from AstraZeneca as 
part of the Synagis deal. 
Revenue from North America is expected to account for 
around one-third of global total revenue, up from around 
14 per cent.
The additional staff greatly reinforce our medical, commercial 
and market access capabilities, and will work both with our new 
products Synagis and Gamifant, and the existing portfolio.Expanding our footprint in the US and Canada is an important 
part of our strategy – the North American market represents 
around 50 per cent of the worldwide market for rare disease 
treatments. Having a stronger footprint there opens up the 
 possibility of even greater growth opportunities.
One effect of the expansion has been continued double-digit 
growth for Kineret, approved in the US for rheumatoid arthritis 
and neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID). 
Additional staff are reaching out to 1,000 new physicians, who 
have now started to prescribe Kineret and already represent a 
double-digit share of prescriptions. As a result, 180 new patients 
are now benefiting from treatment with Kineret. 
The additional capacity is also helping to maintain sales 
momentum for Orfadin, which is starting to face generic 
 competition.We have offices in 19 countries, managing 
products in over 70 countries. Rising stan-
dards of living and improving healthcare 
systems are allowing more people with 
unmet medical needs to receive treatment. 
We continue to adapt and develop our 
organisation to match this growing demand, 
particularly in more populous countries.
Throughout 2018, the Specialty Care fran-
chise demonstrated our ability to manage 
products at different stages of the life cycle 
in diverse regions, and contrasting competi-
tive and payment environments.  
As well as double-digit growth for Kineret 
and a maintained market position for Orfa-
din despite emerging competition, newly 
launched Ravicti is now improving quality of 
life for an increasing number of people with 
urea cycle disorders (UCD).
We continue to seek further new products 
to improve our ability to meet the evolving 
needs of patients. To make better use of our 
capabilities, we are also seeking to attain 
more extensive product rights through 
external opportunities. 
Better ways to meet patient needs 
We work actively to find better ways to meet 
patient needs. This can entail product devel-
opment and innovation driven by medical 
needs. New medical needs may arise when 
people with certain rare diseases reach 
adolescence and adulthood for the first 
time thanks to the treatments we provide.We also support rare-disease communities 
in various ways, including through ambassa-
dor programmes, financial support to bridge 
reimbursement, and teaching tools for 
healthcare providers, patients and carers. 
The continuing growth of our business, 
the overall development of our products 
and the successful acquisitions in 2018 all 
underline our capabilities in the area of rare 
diseases and specialty care.We hope to offer these capabilities to 
future partnering companies to do their 
therapeutic solutions justice and bring them 
successfully to patients in North America 
and EMENAR. 
Binding blocks signalling cascade 
Anakinra is a recombinant interleukin (IL)-1 receptor 
 antagonist. It binds to the IL-1 receptor on the lymphocyte 
surface, reducing the IL-1-mediated signalling cascade.  
IL-1 is involved in several severe inflammatory diseases.mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
27EMAPALUMAB AND HLH
We acquired the global rights to emapa-
lumab from Novimmune SA in August 
2018. In November, it was approved by 
the US Food and Drug Administration and 
launched under the name Gamifant in the 
US in December as world’s first approved 
drug therapy for primary haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a rare and 
life-threatening syndrome of extreme 
immune activation. An application for mar -
ket authorisation in the EU was submitted in 
mid-2018.
The primary form of the disease (inherited) 
mainly occurs in infants and young children, 
while the secondary form of the disease is 
acquired from or associated with infection, 
autoimmune diseases or malignancy. 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis is 
a clinical syndrome of hyper inflammation, 
driven by high interferon gamma (IFN ) 
production, characterised by fever, swelling 
of the liver and spleen, severe low red and 
white blood cell counts, bleeding disorders, 
infections, neurological symptoms, organ 
dysfunction and organ failure. Primary HLH 
typically arises in paediatric patients, is fatal 
if untreated, and has a 40 per cent mortality 
rate with current best available care.
The patient population in the US, EU and 
Japan is estimated at around 5,000 people 
across both primary and secondary HLH.  
For full US prescribing information please 
see gamifant.com
SYNAGIS AND RSV
Synagis is the only approved medicine for 
the prevention of serious lower respiratory 
tract infections (LRTI) caused by respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV) in high-risk infants. We 
announced in November that we acquired 
the US rights to Synagis from AstraZeneca 
and will also participate in 50 per cent of 
the future US earnings from the follow-up 
candidate drug MEDI8897, a monoclonal 
antibody (mAb) being investigated for 
the prevention of LRTI caused by RSV in a 
larger patient population. The completion 
of the acquisition was announced on 
24 January 2019.Synagis is an attractive product for Sobi due 
to its orphan-sized paediatric patient pop-
ulation and immunology profile. It remains 
the only product preventing RSV infection in 
a young vulnerable patient population with 
a great medical need. RSV is a virus that can 
cause severe lung disease in infants who 
are born either prematurely or during RSV 
season. 
For full US prescribing information please 
see synagis.com
KINERET
The case of Kineret also illustrates how 
we work continuously to find new ways to 
help people with rare diseases. Originally 
introduced in 2002, Kineret continues to 
show potential for the treatment of various 
illnesses involving interleukin-1 (IL-1), a 
key mediator of inflammation. Increasing 
interest in and understanding of the IL-1 
field is supporting the continued growth of 
Kineret, which again reached double digits 
during 2018. 
In 2013, when it was approved for CAPS 
(cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome) 
in Europe, we made a fundamental revision 
of our strategy for Kineret, establishing an 
organisation focused on patients and treat-
ers to identify and address their needs. As 
specialists learn more about how Kineret has 
improved their patients’ lives, they share their 
insights with us and the patient community. 
Physicians and patients see Sobi as good 
partner: we take their insights seriously, and 
try to follow their leads. Then together we 
examine how we can develop the treatment 
to benefit patients in other indications.
In 2018 Kineret was approved by the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for use in 
all 28 European Union (EU) member states 
for the treatment of Still’s disease, including 
Adult-Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD) and 
Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA), 
the most severe form of arthritis in children. 
Still’s disease affects approximately 25,0001 
children and adults in the EU. Uptake in the 
Still’s population is expected to accelerate 
over the coming year. A phase 3 trial (ana- 
STILLS) is ongoing in the United States, for 
the use of Kineret in the treatment of Still’s 
disease (SJIA and AOSD).In August, we published the primary  efficacy 
results from the anaGO phase 2 trial into 
anakinra (Kineret) as a possible treatment for 
acute gout. 
Kineret is a biologic that reduces the 
activity of interleukin-1 (IL-1), a key medi-
ator of inflammation in autoinflammatory 
and autoimmune diseases. Kineret blocks 
the biological activity of 1  and IL-1  by 
binding to the interleukin-1 type 1 receptor 
(IL-1RI), expressed in a variety of tissues and 
organs, and thereby blocking interleukin-1 
(IL-1) signalling. This signal blockade helps 
manage excess levels of IL-1 in the body, 
and consequently, inflammation and other 
symptoms. Kineret has a well-characterised 
safety profile, a quick onset of action and a 
short half-life.
Kineret is approved for the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults, neona-
tal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease 
(NOMID) in children and adults (in the US 
and Canada), and cryopyrin-associated 
periodic syndrome (CAPS) in adult patients, 
and in children from eight months and older 
(in the EU). It is also approved in Australia for 
the treatment of RA, CAPS and also for the 
treatment of active SJIA in patients aged two 
years and above who have failed to respond 
adequately to non-biological disease mod-
ifying anti-rheumatic drugs, and in Israel for 
RA and CAPS.
For full European prescribing information, 
please visit the EMA website. 
For full US prescribing information please 
see kineretrx.com.
Total sales: SEK 1,320M
Sales growth: 16%Brief facts about Sobi’s Immunology portfolio:
1. Data on file.mEETiNg PATiENT NEEDs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
28ORFADIN
Our patient-centric approach can be seen 
clearly in the way we have worked with 
Orfadin. When it was first launched in 2002, 
few patients living with hereditary tyros-
inaemia type 1 (HT-1) would celebrate their 
second birthday. Today, thanks to improved 
newborn screening, effective treatment and 
dietary management, we are seeing the first 
generation of patients with HT-1 to reach 
an age where they are starting their own 
families.
Over the years, we have worked closely 
with the HT-1 community, and seen that 
people with HT-1 face different challenges 
during different stages of life. In 2015 and 
2016, an oral suspension for infants and 
a 20 mg capsule for older patients were 
approved and introduced for patients in 
Europe and the US. 
With an increase in newborn screening in 
several countries, more patients are being 
diagnosed earlier. The oral suspension 
makes treatment simpler for younger 
infants. At the other end of the scale, the 
larger 20 mg capsule allows older patients 
to reduce the number of times they have to 
take their treatment every day. Both formu-
lations are exclusive to Sobi.Generic competition is now entering some 
markets, although uptake of these generic 
formulations has been slower than expected. 
During 2018, Orfadin continued to maintain 
its market position – we remain strongly 
committed to the HT-1 community and pro-
viding life-long treatment with Orfadin and 
associated patient support services. 
Total sales: SEK 899M
Sales growth: 4%
UCD PORTFOLIO
Ravicti® (glycerol phenylbutyrate) was 
made available across Europe in 2018, as 
a treatment for all six urea-cycle disorder 
(UCD) indications. The six, all referred to 
by the name of the missing enzyme, are: 
CPS1 (Carbamoyl Phosphate Synthetase); 
NAGS (N-Acetylglutamate Synthetase); OTC 
Deficiency (Ornithine Transcarbamylase); AS 
(Argininosuccinic Acid Synthetase (Citrulli-
nemia)); ASL (Argininosuccinate Lyase (Argi-
ninosuccinic Aciduria)); and AG (Arginase). 
Our other UCD treatment, Ammonaps®, is 
approved for three indications: CPS1, OTC 
and ASL. People with a UCD have difficulty removing 
ammonia – naturally formed as a by-prod-
uct of metabolising protein – from their 
bloodstream. Ammonia is toxic, and if it 
reaches the brain it can cause irreversible 
brain damage, coma and even death. 
Despite the launch of Ravicti in Europe 
being slightly delayed, there are indications 
of an accelerated uptake in the second 
half of 2018. Feedback from physicians 
indicates that patients appreciate the fact 
that Ravicti is tasteless and odourless, and is 
required in smaller volumes than other UCD 
treatments. A study has also shown fewer 
treatment-related symptoms, such as body 
odour, abdominal pain, nausea, burning 
sensation in mouth, vomiting and heartburn, 
with Ravicti than with treatment using 
sodium phenylbutyrate. All these factors are 
expected to contribute to better adherence 
and compliance, particularly among children 
with UCD, leading not only to improved 
treatment outcomes but greatly improved 
quality of life.
For full European prescribing information, 
please see ema.europa.eu. Brief facts about Sobi’s Specialty Care portfolio:
»Every person with a rare 
disease has the right to live 
the life they choose. They 
deserve to feel safe in 
making their own  choices.«
Cecilia,  
Drug Safety ManagerFinding creative ways to help
Our close contact with patient and treater communities follows 
us to identify non-drug measures to address unmet needs.  
These can include educational programmes, disease awareness 
and bridging finance iniatives.iNNov ATioN
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
30Innovation
At sobi, we are driven by science, and drive science in turn. building on our heritage, 
we continue to invest in innovation and have made progress on several fronts 
during 2018. o ur most advanced early-stage programme, sobi 003, moved into 
clinical studies during 2018 with the first patients dosed. And acquisition of the
global rights to emapalumab has significantly strengthened our late-stage pipeline.
Strong platform for growth
Innovation is part of our DNA. Throughout 
the history of Sobi and our predecessors, 
we have built a legacy of combining our 
expertise with that of partners to identify and 
develop innovations that address significant 
unmet medical needs among people with 
rare diseases.
From the first B-domain deleted recom-
binant clotting factor VIII for haemophilia 
A in the 1980s, through the life-cycle man-
agement of Kineret, and the development 
of Orfadin and the Fc fusion technology that 
makes our extended half-life treatments 
Elocta and Alprolix possible for haemophilia 
A and B, our research and development is 
built on a record of achievement.
We see innovation as essential to our 
vision of being a global leader in rare dis-
eases. We need to reinvest in research and 
development in order to continue to provide 
innovative treatments.
We made significant strides towards this 
strategic objective in 2018, not only through 
progress in our internal pipeline but also by 
bringing in external innovation. 
Our R&D is focused on biological treat-
ments for rare diseases, where we have 
extensive competence and experience. Our 
understanding of all the connections – from the molecular format to clinical experience, 
manufacturing, regulatory, commercialisa-
tion and patient access – differentiates us in 
the pharma space. 
In medical terms, we are 
living in one of the most 
 exciting times in history, on 
a par with the discovery of 
antibiotics. Science drives 
what we are doing, and we 
are driving science. Our 
strength in rare diseases 
puts us at the cutting edge.
As an integrated, patient-centric company, 
we feed insights from patients, carers and 
payers back into our research and develop-
ment organisation, creating a feedback loop. 
This allows us to concentrate our research 
efforts on areas in which we can truly make a 
difference and have the potential to become 
leaders. These include our ongoing work 
within haemophilia, and our strong focus in 
the area of immunology.Our Immunology franchise emerged largely 
through anakinra, and our subsequent 
development of the therapy to include 
new indications in the IL-1 field. We are 
now established as a credible partner in the 
immunology field, as evidenced by the part-
nership with Novimmune for emapalumab 
as well as the acquisition from AstraZeneca 
of the US rights to Synagis.
Our R&D activities span from the discov-
ery phase, through clinical development, to 
post-approval clinical trials in a real-world 
setting. We are currently running pre-clinical 
research programmes, clinical development 
programmes and studies in a real-world 
setting.
As well as in-house research, we continue 
to work extensively with external stakehold-
ers, including patient and healthcare organ-
isations, government-supported initiatives, 
researchers from the academic community, 
and with other research partners. We see 
broad collaboration and partnership as 
essential to strengthening the knowledge 
base in rare diseases in order to address 
unmet medical needs. 
In all our research and development work, 
we constantly strive to maintain the highest 
ethical, technical and scientific standards.iNNov ATioN
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
31We secure intellectual property rights to 
safeguard our investments in research 
and development, enabling a financial 
performance that allows us to reinvest in the 
development of new innovative treatments.
Highlights during the year 
The commencement of the SOBI003 first-
in-human trial, with the first patient dosed in 
August 2018, was a significant achievement 
that confirms the strength of our integrated 
approach to drug development. SOBI003, 
built on our own research platform, has now 
been brought all the way to humans. The 
initial dosing of the first patients has gone 
well, and ongoing recruitment into the trial is 
encouraging. (See more in box, on page 33)
With the addition of emapalumab to our 
portfolio, we have created a bridge between 
our early and late-stage pipelines. Following 
emapalumab’s approval in the US as Gami-
fant for treatment of primary HLH, we con-
tinue to study its potential in a phase 2 trial 
in secondary HLH plus a number of potential 
follow-on indications. Acquisition of the 
global rights to emapalumab, and resulting 
partnership with Novimmune, makes the 
most of our strengths, and benefits both 
companies. 
Considering the competition in the market 
for assets that address unmet medical needs 
for patients, we can be justifiably proud of 
being chosen by Novimmune as partners on 
this journey.The approval in April 2018 of Kineret as a 
treatment for Still’s disease in Europe was 
also a major achievement. It illustrates our 
commitment to continuous development 
of our treatments to assist patients through 
different stages of life, as well as in new indi-
cations and new geographical areas.
We completed recruitment for the anaGO 
phase 2 study with anakinra (Kineret) as 
a possible treatment for acute gout, and 
released the top-level outcome on the 
primary endpoint. Although we did not meet 
the primary endpoint, we did demonstrate 
that anakinra does provide pain relief in this 
disorder. There continues to be an unmet 
medical need among patients who do not 
tolerate or respond to conventional treat-
ment, and we will continue discussions with 
the FDA on how we may potentially proceed 
with this indication.
In the area of haemophilia, results were 
presented in several research programmes 
that confirm the safety and efficacy of Elocta 
and Alprolix.
The potential of BIVV001, a clinical-stage 
molecule that uses the Fc fusion technology 
from Elocta to further extend the half-life of 
factor VIII, continues to be examined1. (Read 
more, box on Page 33). 
Continuous development 
Even after a therapy is approved and 
launched, we continue with research and 
development as part of a complete life-cycle management approach to provide more 
value for more patients and explore the full 
potential of our treatments. Physicians share 
their insights, experience and results with 
our researchers, helping us to add new indi-
cations, new formulations and real-world 
data to approved therapies. 
As an example, Kineret was originally 
approved for rheumatoid arthritis. With input 
from the medical community, we continued 
to study and develop Kineret in the IL-1 field. 
It was subsequently approved for CAPS, a 
group of rare, inherited auto-inflammatory 
diseases, and NOMID, the most severe form 
of CAPS – and has led to a transformational 
improvement in quality of life for people 
with these disorders. In 2018, Kineret was 
approved and subsequently marketed in 
several European countries as a treatment 
of Still’s disease. Similarly, we are deepening 
our understanding of Elocta and investigat-
ing its potential effects in immune tolerance 
induction for people with haemophilia A 
who are affected by inhibitors. 
Continuous development of our medi-
cines is done both in-house and in partner -
ship with other pharmaceutical companies 
and with patient organisations and patient-
led consortia.
1. A Sanofi development programme. Sobi has elected to add BIVV001 to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in.
Emapalumab (in orange) is approved in the US as the world’s first approved treat -
ment for primary HLH, a life-threatening disease of the immune system. An anti-
IFN antibody, emapalumab binds to IFN  (in blue) and thereby prevents activation 
of IFN  receptors (in green) on the monocyte surface. This prevents initiation of 
the signalling that results in the expression of inflammatory cytokines.iNNov ATioN
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
32Our innovation pipeline at 31 December 2018
Therapeutic area/Indication Product/Project Pre-clinical Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4
Haemophilia A Elocta/PUP1,2
Haemophilia A BIVV0013/EXTEN-A
Haemophilia A Elocta/ASURE
Haemophilia A Elocta/ReITIrate
Haemophilia A Elocta/verITI8
Haemophilia A and B EIocta/Alprolix/PREVENT
Haemophilia B Alprolix/PUP1,2
Haemophilia B BIVV0023/EXTEN-B
Primary HLH Emapalumab
Secondary HLH Emapalumab
RSV prevention MEDI88974
Acute gout Anakinra/anaGO
Still’s disease Anakinra/anaSTILLs
Alkaptonuria Nitisinone/SONIA2
MPSIIIA SOBI003
Anti-C5 SOBI005
Anti-IL-1 SOBI006
1. Extension trial for an already approved indication.  
2. PUP – Previously Untreated Patients.
3. A Sanofi (formerly Bioverativ) development programme. Sobi has elected to add the programme to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted-in. 
4. Sobi has the right to participate in 50 per cent of future earnings in the US.Haemophilia Speciality Care
InnovatIon
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
33Brief facts about pipeline innovations:
BIVV001
Our product Elocta is an extended half-life 
(EHL) version of factor VIII for the treatment 
of haemophilia A, which is approved in 
Europe and the Middle East. 
BIVV001 is a Sanofi development 
programme. Sobi has elected to add the 
programme to the collaboration agreement 
with Sanofi but has not yet opted in.
BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN) is a novel 
and investigational recombinant factor VIII 
therapy that is designed to extend protection 
from bleeds with once-weekly prophylaxis 
dosing. BIVV001 builds on the Fc fusion 
technology used in Elocta by adding a region 
of von Willebrand factor and XTEN poly-
peptides to potentially extend the factor VIII 
molecule’s time in circulation. 
BIVV001 is the only factor therapy that has 
been shown to break through the von Wille-
brand factor ceiling, which is understood to 
impose a half-life limitation on current factor 
VIII therapies. BIVV001 was granted orphan 
drug designation by the Food and Drug 
Administration in August 2017.MEDI8897
The agreement with AstraZeneca for the US 
rights to Synagis also includes our participa-
tion in 50 per cent of future earnings for the 
candidate drug MEDI8897 in the US.
MEDI8897, a follow-on candidate to 
 Synagis, is a monoclonal antibody (mAb) 
being investigated for the prevention of 
lower respiratory tract infections caused 
by RSV in a larger patient population.
MEDI8897 is a single dose extended 
half-life anti-RSV F mAb being developed for 
the passive immunisation of a broad infant 
population. It has been engineered to have 
a long half-life so that only one dose will be 
needed for the entire RSV season. Primary 
analysis from the pivotal, phase 2b study to 
evaluate the safety and efficacy of MEDI8897 
showed that the study met its primary 
endpoint. The current development plan 
includes a proposed phase 3 study in late 
preterm and healthy full-term infants. Based 
on the results from the phase 2b study, the 
FDA has granted Breakthrough Therapy 
Designation (BTD) for MEDI8897, which will 
help bring MEDI8897 as quickly as possible 
to all infants at risk for RSV. 
In March 2017, AstraZeneca and Sanofi 
Pasteur announced an agreement to jointly 
develop and commercialise MEDI8897. 
Under the agreement, AstraZeneca is 
respons ible for all development activity 
through initial approvals, as well as manu-
facturing of MEDI8897, while Sanofi Pasteur 
leads commercialisation activities. The two 
companies share all costs and profits equally.SOBI003
SOBI003 is a clinical-stage molecule being 
tested for the treatment of patients with 
 mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (MPS IIIA), 
also called Sanfilippo A syndrome. 
MPS IIIA is a genetic disease that arises as a 
result of mutations to the gene that encodes 
an enzyme called sulfamidase. The disease 
is a rare inherited disorder that is progressive 
with significant morbidity and mortality. 
Patients present with the disease in early 
childhood and, after significant loss of devel-
opmental skills, many die of their disease 
before the age of 20. 
MPS IIIA arises due to a lack of sulfamidase 
activity, leading to the inability of the body to 
break down long chains of sugar molecules 
and resulting in the accumulation of heparan 
sulphate inside lysosomes in cells. This in 
turn also affects the cells in the central ner -
vous system and causes severe progressive 
degeneration. 
SOBI003 is a recombinant version of the 
wild-type form of sulfamidase which has 
been designed to cross the blood-brain 
barrier (BBB) and enter the brain. The BBB is 
the capillary bed of the brain which shows 
low permeability for blood-borne proteins. 
Using our proprietary Modifa™ technology 
to modify the glycan sugar molecules dec -
orating sulfamidase, the resultant SOBI003 
molecule has been shown to enter the 
brains of several animal species and to treat 
MPS IIIA very effectively in a mouse model of 
the disease, by reducing the accumulation of 
heparan sulphate in the brain parenchyma. 
This is achieved by prolonging the enzyme’s 
presence in the bloodstream and enhancing 
the passive adsorption of SOBI003 at the 
BBB with subsequent increased transcytosis 
into the brain. 
SOBI003 has been granted orphan status 
in both the EU and the US and also has Fast-
Track Designation in the US.
Our ability to take a molecule from idea to 
approved treatment enables us to provide 
groundbreaking therapies that transform lives. 
mANuf ACTuRE AND suPPL y of bioL ogiCs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
34Manufacture and 
supply of biologics
We continue to advance our expertise and capacity in the development, 
 planning, sourcing, manufacture and delivery of innovative biologic therapies. 
The integrated nature of s obi allows us to bring treatments to patients faster.  
And our global  network of manufacturing and supply partners ensures the 
 reliable provision of medicines to patients around the world.
As an integrated company, we can advance 
medicines seamlessly from development to 
commercial scale, reducing the time it takes 
for innovative therapies to reach patients 
without compromising safety. 
Our Technical Operations organisation, 
which came into effect in October, brings 
together our Quality Assurance, CMC 
(Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control) 
Development, Biologics Process Develop-
ment, Procurement, Supply Chain and 
Internal and External Manufacturing, as well 
as Environment & Safety functions under 
a single umbrella. 
The new organisation will allow greater 
synergies between the various functions, 
allowing cross-functional initiatives to have 
the greatest possible effect. The introduc -
tion of Technical Operations also creates 
improved career opportunities and devel-
opment for colleagues across the various 
functions, ensuring a smooth transition from 
process development into manufacturing.
We developed and scaled up the SOBI003 
drug substance manufacturing process 
in-house to support the programme with active substance for preclinical and early 
clinical studies during 2016–2018.  
Due diligence 
The expertise and experience within Techni-
cal Operations was an important component 
in the due diligence for the announced 
deals with Novimmune and AstraZeneca. 
The teams collated and assessed data for 
information around the manufacturing pro-
cesses, analytical methods, manufacturing 
sites, cost structure, operational risks and 
compliance of the products, processes and 
facilities in the supply chains of Synagis and 
emapalumab. The team has been instru-
mental in securing the manufacturing supply 
and quality assurance agreements with the 
new partners.
Ensuring global access to treatment
Patient safety is our most important 
responsibility; ensuring that patients never 
risk being without their medication is 
paramount. That is why we have built up 
robust and reliable supply and distribution 
processes covering all our markets; these ensure that the right products arrive in 
the appropriate quantities for distribution, 
ensuring quick and efficient delivery to 
patients. We currently provide access to 
treatment in more than 70 countries, typi-
cally in small volumes for a small number of 
patients, providing logistical scale for us and 
our partners across the EMENAR region and 
North America. 
We work with a global network of contract 
manufacturing organisations to ensure the 
reliable supply of medicine for patients. All 
manufacturers of products for which Sobi is 
Market Authorisation Holder are required to 
meet our Code of Conduct and Ethics. For 
products sold on a partner basis, we strive 
to ensure that all providers comply with 
the code.
As a measure to combat counterfeit 
medicines, we use serialisation to ensure 
the traceability of all our products. A unique 
serial number on every product provides 
information on where a product was pro-
duced and packaged. All our products have 
been serialised from February 2019 following 
a successful implementation project. In May 
mANuf ACTuRE AND suPPL y of bioL ogiCs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
352018, we became one of the first companies 
to connect to the EU Hub, a central compo-
nent of the EU serialisation initiative. We are 
unaware of any case of Sobi products being 
subject to falsification.
Due to the sensitive nature of biologic 
medicines, they often require cold-chain 
supply to safeguard product integrity and 
quality. Having full control of the entire 
supply and distribution chain – from man-
ufacturing to patient – is vital. Our Logistics 
Development and Supply unit ensures 
uninterrupted, reliable and sustainable 
transportation of products sourced from our 
global CMO network.  
Our Trade Compliance unit ensures that 
trade laws and regulations are followed.
The transfer of the production of the 
biologic drug substance for Kineret was 
completed on time and budget during 2018. This resulting increase in capacity allows us 
to meet the growing demand for Kineret, in 
existing and new indications.  
In 2018, we continued our involvement 
in three projects funded by Vinnova, the 
Swedish Innovation Agency, and are colla-
borating with Lund University in a further 
Vinnova-funded project. 
As well as strengthening connections 
with a network of students and graduates, 
these initiative explore new technologies 
that are expected to have positive effects on 
development and manufacturing lead times. 
Such projects reflect our investment in the 
future of Sweden as a leading country in the 
development and manufacturing of innova-
tion biologics. 
A global supply chain
We market and sell a wide range of products to over 70 countries. Our single most 
important responsibility is to ensure that patients never risk being without their  
medication. Our robust and efficient supply chain includes 15 contract manufacturing 
organisations (CMOs) in Europe and the US. Full control over the entire chain is vital,  
as biologics often require cold-chain supply to ensure product integrity and quality.  WE mAkE iT hAPPEN
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
36We make it happen
sobi is a value-driven company with a scientific and patient-centric organisation. 
As employees, we are the enablers that make it possible to reach our vision of 
transforming the lives of people with rare diseases and delivering on a strategy for 
increasing growth. i t is our everyday behaviour and achievements that matter the 
most in shaping the future of our company.
Focus on growth and leadership
Sobi is an evolving company on a strong 
growth path. This requires that our organisa-
tion remains innovative and high-performing 
in a time of change – as well as fostering a 
culture where continuous learning is key. We 
are one of only a few biotech companies
to successfully transition into a commercial 
biopharmaceutical company. As a result, we 
need to manage products at very different 
stages of the life cycle, simultaneously in 
diverse regions and contrasting competitive 
and payment environments. To be success-
ful in doing so, we need an organisation that 
is both stable and agile at the same time. 
Everything we do at Sobi supports our 
long-term vision and strategy. As the results 
of 2018 have shown, we have been successful 
in delivering on our strategy. As we continue 
to deliver, we are now promoting and devel-
oping high-performing teams throughout 
the organisation. This involves developing 
our methods to help managers, leaders and 
colleagues facilitate continuous growth. We 
see strong leadership based on cross-func -
tional capabilities as crucial. This focus is part 
of building an organisation that has a clear 
direction but is prepared for the unknown, 
while embracing change as opportunity. Culture-supported performance 
For those of us working at Sobi, our “WHY” – 
addressing patient needs – is what motivates 
and drives our high-performance culture. 
Every day, we work actively to find better 
ways to understand and meet patient needs. 
Urgency has always been an important 
value to us, and in line with Sobi’s strategy 
to extend the reach of our offerings to more 
patients, it is becoming even more important 
in our operations. 
Our conviction is that because we care, 
we need to act. To ensure that more patients 
benefit from our advanced therapies now 
and in the future, and to align with the com-
pany’s ambitions for growth, we have iden-
tified five values: Care, Ambition, Urgency, 
Ownership and Partnership. These values 
help us develop the spirit of leadership and 
entrepreneurship that we need to be rec -
ognised as a leader in rare diseases. 
In 2018, we worked together within the 
organisation to define and implement these 
values across the company through a series 
of workshops. We subsequently identified 
areas and processes that can be improved to 
better correspond to our values. An internal 
campaign was launched to support the 
implementation. We have always included 
the values as important components when 
assessing employee performance.   59% women
 41% menGender distribution  
of employees
WE mAkE iT hAPPEN
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
37Gender equality analysis
Every employee is offered equal opportu-
nities regardless of ethnicity, age, gender, 
religion, sexual orientation or physical ability. 
Our guidelines clearly prohibit any sexual 
harassment. The Me Too movement at the 
end of 2017 initiated increased internal 
discussion at management level on potential 
challenges in the organisation as well as a 
raised general awareness of these matters. 
In Sweden, our annual salary surveys allow 
us to carry out a gender equality analysis, 
designed to prevent discrimination and 
promote equal rights and opportunities. We 
carefully evaluate the results in partnership 
with trade unions, and take action when 
needed. We also map roles and responsibil-
ities proactively to ensure that salaries and 
development opportunities are provided 
in an equitable manner.
Of the total number of people in 2018 
(2017), 41 per cent (41) were men and 59 
per cent (59) women. The corresponding 
figures for the Executive Committee and 
Board of Directors (excluding employee 
 representatives) were 74 per cent (73) were 
men and 26 per cent (27) were women. 
Competence leads innovation 
Along with good values, competence is 
one of the essentials that drive our business forward. The combination of rare-disease 
competencies and specific therapeutic 
knowledge has guided our professional 
development and recruitment processes. 
Professional development for all employ-
ees is essential for both development of our 
product portfolio and the organisation as a 
whole. We strive to promote a performance 
culture based on individual accountability, 
mandate and ownership. A critical factor is 
to set, and continuously support, individual 
goals linked to strategic business objectives 
as well as in line with the corporate values. 
All employees take part in relevant profes-
sional development that is supported and 
documented by a training matrix system. 
This system also meets regulatory require-
ments in the pharmaceutical field and serves 
as a comprehensive platform for ensuring 
individualised and specialised training as well 
as evidence of learning. 
In 2018, all employees underwent a 
regular performance and career develop-
ment review. Training in standard operating 
procedures (SOPs) and on-the-job training is 
a priority for Sobi, and an essential part of the 
development of every employee.
This type of training accounts for the largest 
proportion of Sobi employees’ training. It 
provides an opportunity for our employees 
to learn new skills and ensure compliance 19
935We have offices  
in 19 countries 
people employed worldwide  
on 31 December 2018Care
We are who we are because of our dedication, knowledge 
and passion. Care is the foundation upon which our strat-
egy, our business and our culture are built.
Ownership
It is our duty to act. We therefore encourage intrapreneur -
ship and learn from our experiences.
Urgency
We need to embrace a sense of urgency, while safeguard-
ing our standards, because patients cannot wait.
Partnership
We embrace partnerships and collaboration, both within 
Sobi and with external partners and  stakeholders.
Ambition
We set ourselves ambitious goals and do our utmost to 
achieve them. 
partnership
am
bitionownership
urgency
 careWE mAkE iT hAPPEN
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
38with established procedures and practice. 
During 2018, our employees also spent eight 
hours on e-learning on issues including 
compliance and data protection. To support 
cross-functional approaches and learning, 
we implemented a system of job rotation 
in 2018. This has been applied across the 
organisation at both global head office and 
affiliate level as an opportunity to develop 
people and teams while facilitating parental 
and vacational leave.
An agile approach is essential in respond-
ing successfully to our evolving require-
ments and to stimulate innovation. Building 
high-performing teams has been identified 
as a key success factor to meet our ambi-
tious strategic objectives. Across the com-
pany, we are working with a focused 
approach to high-performing teams and 
organisational efficiency to strengthen our 
ability to adapt and grow. Leadership development has focused on 
supporting high-performing teams as well 
as fostering mature and enabled leaders. 
Managers and employees at Sobi need to be 
courageous and prepared for change. The 
growth strategy deployed offers numerous 
opportunities for our employees to develop 
and grow with the company in new roles and 
expanding areas of responsibility. 
A safe and healthy workplace 
We are committed to providing a safe and 
healthy workplace for our 935 people 
around the world. Activities to protect labour 
rights are based on our responsibilities as an 
employer, and we also encourage suppliers 
and partners to adopt socially responsible 
labour practices. We respect the interna-
tional labour standards set forth by the 
International Labour Organization (ILO) and 
comply with national labour laws.Our policy and guidelines aim to promote 
a working culture where every employee 
engages in the creation of a safe and healthy 
workplace through preventive measures and 
regular training. Managers are responsible 
for working systematically with Environmen-
tal Health and Safety (EHS) in their opera-
tions. One important area is investigating 
and identifying the cause(s) of an accident, 
dangerous situation or near miss as this 
makes it possible to take action to prevent a 
similar occurrence in the future. All employ-
ees are required to report Environmental 
Health and Safety (EHS)-related incidents to 
their employer. In 2018, 28 accidents were 
reported, of which one led to sick leave. This 
incident was investigated and reported to 
the Swedish Work Environment Authority.
»Job rotation really is a fantastic 
 opportunity for those of us who are 
interested in trying a new role and 
developing our skills in new areas.  
It also creates a valuable exchange  
of skills between departments and an 
understanding for each other’s work.«
Susanne, who is working in Global Distribution for one year, 
rotated from a role in Accounting.
WE mAkE iT hAPPEN
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
39
Compliance Hotline
Our Compliance Hotline is a third-party 
whistle-blower service available to all Sobi 
employees, enabling anonymous reports 
of any possible violation of Sobi’s Code of 
Conduct & Ethics, any law, or any company 
policy. It is Sobi’s policy to prohibit any 
retaliatory action against any employee for 
making a report in good faith of a suspected 
violation even if a subsequent investigation 
proves the report to be unfounded. 
Sourcing future talent
To further improve the support we provide 
for patients, treaters and payers in our terri-
tories, we continued to expand our organ-
isation throughout 2018. As we become 
increasingly recognised as a leading player 
in the rare-disease landscape, we have 
been able to attract key talents to join our 
organisation at both local and global levels. These hires further strengthen a team that is 
already considered one of the market’s best. 
Competitive terms of employment are also 
a prerequisite for recruiting and retaining 
high-calibre people. We endeavour to offer 
competitive salaries and benefits, individually 
determined and adapted to the local labour 
market.
As we grow, we need to secure com-
petence not only for today, but also for 
tomorrow. Sobi’s business is dependent 
on specialist skills that are sometimes rare, 
such as pharmaceutical technicians with 
both development and industrialisation 
experience. In collaboration with other 
pharmaceutical companies, we support 
educational programmes for pharmaceutical 
technicians. 
To meet our recruitment needs, we recruit 
and offer vocational in-house training to 
chemists who have recently completed their graduate education or who come from 
outside Sweden. This has the added benefit 
of providing us with valuable perspectives on 
our activities from colleagues who join the 
business with new eyes.
Sobi also participates in several collabo-
rative projects within the framework of the 
Swedish Government’s life-science venture 
on the development of biological drugs. This 
collaboration has given us the opportunity to 
contribute to the development of emerging 
skills within the industry and to broaden 
our contact network with potential future 
employees. To recruit young talents, we also 
participate in business fairs. 
ouR REsPoNsibiLiT y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
40Build long-term trust
To achieve our vision of being recognised as a global leader in providing 
 access to innovative treatments, we need to build long-term trust and act 
responsibly across all parts of our business. Collaboration with different stake -
holders within the rare-disease community and in a variety of national and 
legal contexts requires us always to be trustworthy and transparent. 
We see several areas as forming the ethical 
and legal basis on which we run our busi-
ness. These have been identified as a part 
of our materiality analysis (read more on 
pages 123–125) and are what we call Our 
Responsibility. 
In general terms, we see responsibility as 
referring to the need to be in control of our 
processes, setting and meeting high ethical 
and environmental standards, both for our -
selves and our partners. Because our busi-
ness is strictly regulated under both national 
and international laws, we always need to be 
one step ahead in terms of compliance to be 
seen as a trustworthy partner in the pharma-
ceuticals market. 
The safety and integrity of our patients, 
customers and employees are of vital 
importance for the company. The quality of 
our products is of the highest priority, and 
to ensure the delivery of safe and effective 
treatments we follow the good practice 
(GxP) guidelines that guide all pharmaceuti-
cal companies. 
Our responsibility issues are described 
one by one. 
Regulatory and legal environment
The highly regulated environment in which 
we operate is constantly changing, and 
demands for transparency are increasing. 
There are also general trends towards greater awareness of liability issues and legal 
risk. All of our operations, from research 
and production to marketing, are affected 
by these expectations. This requires us to 
ensure the quality of both our research and 
production, as well as always observing all 
relevant precautionary principles and being 
transparent in our marketing and interac -
tions with healthcare stakeholders. 
Our internal processes and control 
measures involve scientific, regulatory and 
compliance training. In 2018, no incidents 
of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communications were identified or reported.
Ethical practices and partnerships
Partnerships and cooperation with stake-
holders are essential for us to share knowl-
edge and experiences within the rare-dis-
ease community. The stakeholders with 
whom we work span the entire value chain, 
from research and clinical programmes to 
patient access and pricing. All engagements 
are governed by our Code of Conduct and 
Ethics, while a majority are also covered by 
our more specific Healthcare Compliance 
guidelines. We also enforce ethical standards 
by supporting a corporate culture that pro-
motes open discussions of ethics both in our 
operations and among key stakeholders. 
It is of the utmost importance that all 
research involving humans, such as clinical studies, are built on rigorous, scientifically 
based evaluations by clinical experts in 
cooperation with regulatory authorities, 
independent ethics committees and 
stakeholders. We apply the Declaration of 
Hel sinki’s principles for medical research. 
For more information about the policies and 
directives we apply, refer to our risk manage-
ment section on pages 58–63. 
Patient and customer privacy
It is important that our customers, clinical 
trial subjects, employees and others we 
interact with can rely on Sobi managing and 
processing personal data in a responsible 
and secure manner. EU legislation, primarily 
the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) which became fully enforceable in 
2018, imposes additional requirements on 
how businesses process personal data. To 
comply with these new requirements, we 
have adopted a governance model that sup-
ports full compliance with GDPR and pro-
vides relevant training for the organisation. 
In 2018, four personal data breach inci-
dents were reported and managed. For more 
information about the policies and directives 
we apply based on a legal assessment of our 
framework, refer to our risk management 
section on pages 58–63.Anti-corruption and anti-competitive 
practices
Transparency and open dialogue about 
ethical issues form the foundation of strong 
collaborations for qualitative research, 
development and manufacturing. 
We procure materials, goods and 
services from more than 1,000 suppliers. 
Our authorisation and signoff procedures 
help ensure that we enter agreements and 
perform procurements in a transparent and 
responsible manner. We require all suppliers 
to meet standards aligned with our Code 
of Conduct and Ethics. We also work with 
due diligence, based on a risk assessment, 
to ensure that service providers comply 
with our anti-corruption standards. The 
screening process is currently conducted 
on a manual basis. We are investigating 
automated systems that would allow us to 
compile data showing the percentage of 
suppliers who have undergone screening. 
Procedures are in place to ensure that trade 
compliance checks are performed. We plan 
to create a Supplier Code of Conduct.
We work actively to prevent any form 
of corruption. The most apparent risk lies 
within our interactions with healthcare 
stakeholders. We have an established 
Healthcare Compliance (HCC) organisation 
and company-wide programme to minimise 
the risk of corruption; this function provides 
policies, training of our own employees in 
business ethics, as well as reporting and 
controls. Our zero-tolerance approach to 
bribery is formulated in our Code of Conduct 
and Ethics as well as our Policy on Anti- 
Corruption, which was expanded in 2018 
to include a global scope and third-party 
due diligence. 
All employees are required to undergo 
annual training in our Code of Conduct 
and Ethics. Topics covered in the Code of 
Conduct include product safety and quality, 
competition law, intellectual property, envi-
ronmental responsibility and employment 
principles, with additional opportunities to 
focus on specific areas. In 2018, data pro-
tection training was prioritised. This training 
is an eligibility requirement for incentive payments. In 2018, 90 per cent of our 
employees participated in the training. 
In 2018 we rolled out our adapted 
Healthcare Compliance Interaction Policy. It 
contains key principles and global minimum 
requirements, enabling a common global 
standard. The Policy is currently being 
implemented in Sobi’s affiliates, where it is 
supplemented to meet local requirements. 
As a next step, approval and training will be 
initiated, including corporate e-training with 
a focus on anti-corruption for the affiliates. 
No cases of corruption and no cases of 
non-compliance with laws and regulations 
within the economic and social area were 
reported during the year. For more infor -
mation about the policies and directives we 
apply, refer to our risk management section 
on pages 58–63.
Responsible tax
Sobi acts responsibly with regard to taxes. 
This means paying taxes where profits are 
earned in accordance with international 
transfer pricing rules. It also means having a 
balanced tax risk profile, not engaging in tax 
evasion and maintaining stable and predict-
able tax levels, insofar as prevailing business 
conditions permit.
Environmental impact
Our carbon footprint is limited and mainly 
due to the use of chemical substances in 
R&D and manufacturing, and to business 
travel emissions. 
Business travel is the main source of 
greenhouse gas emissions, and is regulated 
by our travel policy. We continuously evalu-
ate and implement measures to reduce the 
energy and water consumption of our pro-
duction facility, which is closely monitored.
We work actively to phase out chemicals 
that might have adverse effects on the 
environment and human health. Chemicals 
legislation is extensive and continuously 
expanding; all handling of chemicals in our 
R&D and manufacturing processes therefore 
follows strict instructions. We perform 
annual risk assessments and internal audits. Environmental considerations are integrated 
into all activities, operational controls 
and functions across the organisation. 
All employees are required to undergo 
annual environmental training, covering 
risk assessment, greenhouse gas emissions, 
and chemicals and waste management. We 
strive to comply with all environmental laws 
and regulations. We assess and evaluate 
our environmental risks continuously. Read 
more about our risk management, sustain-
ability risks and precautionary measures on 
pages 58–63. sobi's hisT oRy
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
42Long history of innovation
1930s 
Kabi founded as a subsidiary of Kärnbolaget 
Aktiebolag Biokemisk Industri. Name of 
company changed in 1951 to Kabi. 
1970s 
Kabi and Vitrum merge to become  
KabiVitrum. 
1980s
Trials begin 1981 for recombinant human 
growth hormone, developed by Sobi-prede-
cessor KabiVitrum and partner Genentech, 
using new recombinant DNA technology. 
Work begins in 1983 on developing recom-
binant factor under the auspices of Sobi 
predecessor KabiVitrum. The project aims 
to clone the gene for human coagulation 
factor VIII (FVIII). Genentech clones the 
gene (cDNA) for human FVIII in 1984. The 
expression of human recombinant FVIII in 
mammal cells is built up on a small scale 
1986–87. KabiVitrum is granted a patent for 
the B-domain delete forms of FVIII.
1990
Kabi Pharmacia was formed following the 
acquisition of a stake in Pharmacia.
2001
Biovitrum is formed through the merger of 
several units of the Swedish pharmaceutical 
company Pharmacia and spun off to a con-
sortium of investors led by Nordic Capital 
and MPM Capital Funds.2004
Biovitrum starts to manufacture the active 
 protein component for Wyeth’s (now Pfiz -
er’s) ReFacto and ReFacto AF/Xynta® drugs 
for the treatment of haemophilia A.
Marketing of specialty pharmaceuticals 
(ReFacto, Mimpara and Kineret) is initiated 
in the Nordic region.
2005
The research and development portfolio is 
expanded through the acquisition of Arexis, 
a Swedish biotech company, which includes 
the Kiobrina project.
2006
An agreement is signed with Syntonix (subse-
quently  Bioverativ, now Sanofi) covering the 
development and manufacture of an extended 
half-life recombinant factor IX Fc-concentrate, 
rFIXFc. This substance was later to become the 
product Alprolix. Any possible development 
within haemophilia A is also included in the 
agreement.
Biovitrum is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm.
2007
Collaboration starts with Syntonix/Biogen 
Idec on the development of an extended 
 half-life factor VIII Fc for the treatment of 
 haemophilia A, later to become Elocta. Sobi 
also manufactures the material for the first 
 in-human phase 1/2a rFIXFc trials for the 
treatment of haemophilia B.
2008
An agreement is signed with Amgen regard-
ing the acquisition of the product Kepivance 
and the global license for Kineret. 2009
A decision is taken to initiate final registration 
trials for rFIXFc after safety and efficacy in 
previously treated (PTPs) haemophilia B 
subjects is established in phase 1/2a clinical 
trials.
Investor AB acquires 21 per cent of the 
shares in Biovitrum.
2010
Swedish Orphan International, a pioneer in 
orphan drugs, is acquired and a new com-
pany, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.), 
Sobi, is created. With the acquisition comes 
Orfadin which later becomes an important 
drug for Sobi, as well as a portfolio of drugs 
under distribution agreements.
A decision is taken to advance both 
 haemophilia candidates into pivotal phase 3 
trials, A-LONG and B-LONG.
2011
Data from the rFVIIIFc haemophilia phase 
1/2 trial shows an approximately 1.7-fold 
increase in half-life compared with a 
 conventional factor treatment.
2012
The supply agreement with Pfizer for 
ReFacto AF/Xyntha is extended until 2020 
and Nordic commercial rights are sold to 
Pfizer.
Global paediatric clinical trials of rFIXFc 
and rFVIIIFc candidates are  initiated.
A collaboration is formed with the  Swedish 
biotech company Affibody AB within the 
interleukin-1 (IL-1) field.
Sobi establishes operations in the Middle 
East and the US. 
sobi's hisT oRy
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
43
2013
Sobi acquires full rights for Kineret and 
receives approval for the CAPS indication 
in the EU.
Data from the rFIXFc haemophilia phase 
3 trial shows an approximately 4.8-fold 
increase in half-life compared with a 
 conventional replacement factor. 
Sobi moves to the Large Cap segment 
on Nasdaq Stockholm, becoming the 
first pharmaceutical company to do so 
in  Sweden in eight years.
2014
Biogen launches Eloctate and Alprolix in the 
US market, marking the start of real-world 
data collection for extended half-life treat-
ments for haemophilia A and B.
Open-label trials to determine the safety 
and efficacy of Elocta and Alprolix in previ-
ously untreated males with severe haemo-
philia A and B commence (PUPs A-LONG/
PUPs B-LONG).
Sobi exercises an opt-in right to take 
over final development and commercial-
isation of Elocta in Sobi territories. Sobi also 
adds a potentially longer-acting haemophilia 
A candidate, rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN to the 
agreement with Biogen.
The Kiobrina project is terminated.
2015
Elocta is approved by the EMA for the treat-
ment of haemophilia A and is subsequently 
launched in Europe in January 2016. 
Sobi exercises an opt-in right to take over 
final development and commercialisation 
of Alprolix in Sobi territories.
Kineret is approved for the treatment of 
 systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) 
in Australia. 2016
Alprolix is approved by the EMA for the treat-
ment of haemophilia B and is subsequently 
launched in Europe.
The EMA grants Sobi’s development prod-
uct candidate SOBI003 orphan drug desig-
nation for the treatment of the rare disease 
MPS IIIA or Sanfilippo A syndrome. 
A licensing agreement is reached with 
Affibody AB for the development of novel 
treatments for inflammatory diseases where 
IL-1 is involved.
The supply agreement with Pfizer for 
ReFacto AF is extended until 2023.
Orfadin is developed to further meet 
patient needs with 20 mg capsules and an 
oral suspension.
The development pipeline is strengthened 
with two proprietary and in-house devel-
oped candidate drugs in early-stage devel-
opment, SOBI005 and SOBI006, as well as 
new planned clinical programmes.
Elocta is approved in Kuwait.
2017
Sobi expands its development portfolio by 
adding a potentially longer-acting haemo-
philia B treatment candidate, rFIXFc-XTEN, 
to its  collaboration agreement with Sanofi.
The first patients are recruited to the 
anaGO and anaSTILLs clinical trials with 
Kineret in acute gout and Still’s disease,  
and A-SURE and ReITIrate with Elocta in 
haemophilia A.
The US Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) grants SOBI003, which at this stage 
is being prepared for clinical trials, orphan 
designation.
Alprolix is approved in Kuwait and the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Elocta is approved 
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.2018
FDA accepts investigational new drug 
application and grants Fast Track status for 
SOBI003 for the treatment of MPS IIIA.
Kineret (anakinra) receives a positive 
 opinion from CHMP for the treatment of 
Still’s disease. 
Kineret (anakinra) approved in the EU 
for the treatment of Still’s disease. 
Sobi launches Ravicti in Europe and 
advances the care of patients with urea 
cycle disorders. 
Sobi strengthens immunology franchise 
by acquiring global rights to emapalumab 
from Novimmune. 
First patient dosed in phase 1/2 trial evalu-
ating SOBI003 for the treatment of MPS IIIA. 
Results from the anaGO trial – a phase 2 
trial with anakinra (Kineret) in patients with 
acute gout. 
Sobi acquires Synagis US rights from 
AstraZeneca, creating a platform for global 
growth (agreement finalised in January 
2019). 
FDA approves Gamifant (emapalumab), 
the first and only treatment for primary hae-
mophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). 
Data presented at ASH support emapa-
lumab as an innovative, targeted therapeutic 
option for primary HLH. 
At ASH, extended half-life therapies Elocta 
and Alprolix demonstrate proven efficacy 
and well-characterised safety over four years.ThE shARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
44The share as an investment
In 2018 the highest price paid was SEK 299.6 
on 3 September, and the lowest was SEK 110.6 
on 2 January. Sobi’s market capitalisation at 
year-end 2018 was SEK 52.8 billion. Over the 
past five years, the share price has risen 182 
per cent. 
Turnover and trading locations
The Sobi share is traded on several exchanges 
and trading platforms. In 2018, official trad-
ing accounted for 82 per cent of turnover in the share, of which the Nasdaq Stockholm 
accounted for 39.6 per cent. Off-book 
 represented 14.6 per cent and dark pools 
3.2 per cent of total trading in the share. The 
largest number of trades were on Cboe BXE.
Average daily total turnover in Sobi 
shares was 2,271,960 in official trading, 
with an average 900,760 traded on Nasdaq 
Stockholm. In 2018, a total of 567.9 million 
shares were traded, corresponding to a value 
of approximately SEK 110.9 billion.Share capital
At year-end, the total number of shares out-
standing in Sobi was 273,322,117. All issued 
shares are ordinary shares and carry one 
vote per share.
At year-end, the share capital was 
SEK 149,973,582, distributed between 
273,322,117 shares with a par value of 
approximately SEK 0.55.
Largest shareholders at 31 December 20181
SHAREHOLDERS Number of  
A sharesShare  
capital, % Share  
votes, %
Investor AB 107,594,165 39.37 39.37
BNY Mellon NA (former Mellon), W9 14,609,514 5.35 5.35
State Street Bank and Trust Co, W9 12,914,653 4.73 4.73
Swedbank Robur fonder 12,826,879 4.69 4.69
AMF – Försäkring och Fonder 7,052,649 2.58 2.58
BNY Mellon SA/NV (former BNY), W8IMY 7,017,360 2.57 2.57
BNY Mellon NA (former Mellon), W9 6,248,651 2.29 2.29
Cbny-Norges Bank 5,840,290 2.14 2.14
JPM Chase NA 5,826,092 2.13 2.13
Fjärde AP fonden 5,611,902 2.05 2.05
SEB Investment Management 3,720,912 1.36 1.36
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.) 3,423,726 1.25 1.25
Morgan Stanley and Co LLC, W9 3,328,172 1.22 1.22
Handelsbanken fonder 3,096,750 1.13 1.13
State Street Bank & Trust Com., Boston 2,560,704 0.94 0.94
Total 15 largest shareholders 201,672,419 73.80 73.80
Other 71,649,698 26.20 26.20
Total 273,322,117 100.00 100.00
1. The shareholders are presented as they appear in the shareholder register held by Euroclear Sweden AB. The list may therefore not show shareholders whose shares have been registered in the name of  
a nominee, through the trust department of a bank or similar institution.
 Source: EuroclearThe share ( sTo:sobi ) is listed on Nasdaq s tockholm, under the company 
name of swedish orphan b iovitrum. over the past five years, the share 
price has increased by more than 180 per cent.ThE shARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
45Average value of daily trading volume for the Sobi share
VOLUME ‘000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
A shares 869.0 1,391.5 2,263.6 1,502.3 2,272.0
In 2018, the average daily trading volume in number of shares for the Sobi share 
on Nasdaq Stockholm was 900,760 shares.
Source: Fidessa.
Shareholder categories
 
31 DECEMBER 2018 % of capital 
Foreign shareholders 35.2
Swedish shareholders 64.8
Institutions 96.2
Private persons 3.8
Source: Euroclear.
Key data per share
SEK 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Earnings/loss  
per share –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97
Equity per share 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1
Market price,  
Series A-share,  
31 Dec., last  
paid price 79.4 134.6 106.7 112.3 193.0
P/E ratio –78.6 434.2 35.7 26.3 21.5
Number of 
shares at 31 Dec. 270,785,950 271,822,806 272,010,948 272,507,708 273,322,117Analyst coverage during 2018
The following research analysts followed Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (Sobi) 
 during 2018. For a current list, visit sobi.com
 
ABG Sundal Collier Christopher W. Uhde
Carnegie Erik Hultgård
Deutsche Bank Richard Parkes
DNB Jon Berggren, Patrik Ling
Handelsbanken Peter Sehestedt
Jefferies Eun K. Yang
Nordea Hans Mähler
Pareto Securities Peter Östling
Recommendations from analysts, %
2016 2017 2018
Buy 73 56 50
Hold 9 33 25
Sell 18 11 25
Source: Based on analyst reports.
Brief facts, the Sobi share
LISTING Nasdaq Stockholm
Number of shares (A shares) 273,322,117
Market capitalisation, at year end SEK 52.8 billion
Ticker SOBI
ISIN SE0000872095
CUSIP 870321106Incentive programmes
Sobi has launched several share-based 
incentive programmes for senior executives 
and employees. Currently, there are five 
active share programmes, all vesting within 
three years. The programmes represent a 
total maximum of 1,883,574 shares, or 0.7 
per cent of the total number of shares in the 
company. For more information, see note 11. 
Shareholders
At year-end, the number of shareholders 
was 23,435 (22,938). The largest shareholder, 
Investor AB, held 39.4 per cent (39.5) of the 
shares. Swedish legal entities, including 
institutions and funds, held 61.0 per cent (75.9) 
of the shares.Shares held by Swedish Orphan  Biovitrum 
AB (publ) at year-end totalled 3,423,726 
common shares.
During the year, 640,553 shares were used 
for allotment under two performance-based 
long-term share programmes. 
Dividend
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid 
for 2018. For more information about Sobi’s 
dividend policy, please refer to the Corporate 
Governance Report.LONG-TERM VALUE 
CREATION
The long-term price trend for Sobi’s 
share depends on how successful we 
are in our efforts to create value, by: 
• Improving cash flow and profitabil-
ity in our  diversified commercial 
 port folio, 
• Launching new and innovative medi-
cations for rare disease patients, and 
• Focusing on our business model, 
with partnership in all areas, from 
early-stage biopharma ceutical 
research and development to 
the commercialisation of niche 
 medicines in Europe. ThE shARE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
46020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000
2018 2017 2016 2015 201450100150200250300SEK
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI 
Number of shares traded in thousands per month Nasdaq Biotech indexNumber of shares 
in thousandsSobi share price and trading volume 2014–2018 Stockholm, 46.9%
Chi-X, 11.8%BATS, 25.7%LSE, 4.0%
Other, 11.6%
Stockholm, 39.6%
Cboe1), 49.4%LSE, 4.8%
Other , 6.2%
Trading places 2018 Trading places 2017
1.  Cboe = previously BATS och Chi-x. 
Source: Fidessa.Source: Fidessa. 2017%
201864.8
20.981.2
11.4
6.42.7 1.51.4 0,60.9 0.90.75.01.9
020406080100
Sweden Switzer-
landFinland Other Luxem-
bourgUS UK
Source: Euroclear.Shareholders by country
Contact details
For more information about Sobi’s American Depositary  
Receipt (ADR), contact:
US Depositary  
BNY Mellon Shareowner services
P.O. Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842-3170, US
Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
Toll free in the US: +1 888 269 23 77
International dialling: +1 201 680 6825Communication with shareholders
For more up-to-date information about the Sobi share,  
please visit www.sobi.com or call +46 (0)8 697 20 00,  
to contact Paula Treutiger, Head of Investor Relations  
and Communications.fivE-yEAR summAR y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
47Five-year summary – Group development
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Income statement, SEK M 
Operating revenue 2,607 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139
Gross profit 1,548 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723
EBITDA1 –12 465 1,574 2,086 3,607
EBITA1 –44 433 1,543 2,053 3,571
EBIT (operating profit) –325 146 1,133 1,600 3,122
Profit/loss for the year –270 83 802 1,149 2,418
Capital, SEK M
Total assets 6,375 8,315 9,974 10,903 17,183
Capital employed1 5,326 5,508 5,880 6,716 9,048
Equity 4,497 4,678 5,365 6,701 9,040
Cash and cash equivalents 519 904 786 1,478 2,999
Net cash (–)/net debt (+)1 298 –82 –282 –1,472 –2,995
Cash flow, SEK M
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 299 411 642 1,431 2,341
Cash flow from operating activities 234 507 343 1,333 2,090
Cash flow from investing activities –184 –143 –158 –139 –575
Cash flow from financing activities 20 22 –308 –500 –1
Change in cash and cash equivalents 70 386 –123 694 1,514
Key figures, %
Gross margin1 59 62 70 72 74
Return on capital employed1 –6.1 2.6 19.3 23.8 34.5
Return on equity1 –5.8 1.8 16.0 19.0 30.7
Equity ratio1 71 56 54 61 53
Debt/equity ratio1 41 77 86 63 90
Share ratio, SEK
Earnings/loss per share –1.01 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97
Equity per share1 16.6 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1
Dividend — — — — —
Cash flow per share1 0.3 1.4 –0.5 2.5 5.5
Cash flow from operating activities per share1 0.9 1.9 1.3 4.9 7.6
1. Sobi presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS, so called alternative performance measures. These have been noted in the table above and further 
 information on why these are considered important, and how they are calculated, can be found in Definitions at the end of this report.48
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Directors’ Report  ................................................ 50
Consolidated financial statements
Statement of comprehensive income ............ 64
Balance sheet ....................................................... 65
Statement of changes in equity ....................... 66
Cash flow statement ........................................... 67
Parent Company financial statements
Income statement .............................................. 69
Statement of comprehensive income ............ 69
Balance sheet ....................................................... 70
Statement of changes in equity ........................ 72
Cash flow statement ........................................... 73
Notes
Note 1 General information ............................ 74
Note 2  Significant accounting policies and  
basis of preparation for the financial 
statements of the Parent Company 
and the Group ....................................... 74
Note 3 Financial risk management ................ 79
Note 4  Significant accounting  
judgements, estimates and 
assumptions .......................................... 81
Note 5 Distribution of operating revenue ..... 82
Note 6 Segment reporting ............................... 83
Note 7  Depreciation and amortisation 
of assets ................................................. 83
Note 8 Other operating income ..................... 83Note 9 Other operating expenses ................ 83
Note 10  Lease payments for 
operating leases ................................ 84
Note 11  Employees, personnel costs and  
remuneration of Board members 
and senior executives ........................ 85
Note 12 Remuneration of auditors ............... 90
Note 13  Costs according  
to type of cost .................................... 90
Note 14 Financial income ............................... 90
Note 15 Financial expenses ............................ 90
Note 16 Income tax .......................................... 91
Note 17  Intangible assets and 
impairment testing ............................92
Note 18 Property, plant and equipment ....... 95
Note 19  Participations in  
Group companies ............................. 96
Note 20  Financial assets ................................... 97
Note 21  Deferred tax assets and liabilities ....97
Note 22  Inventories .......................................... 99
Note 23  Trade and other receivables ............ 99
Note 24  Prepaid expenses and  
accrued income .............................. 100
Note 25  Cash and cash equivalents ............ 100
Note 26  Financial assets and liabilities  
per category (Group) ....................... 101Note 27  Other liabilities, current 
and non-current .............................. 102
Note 28  Post-employment benefits ............ 102
Note 29  Provisions ......................................... 104
Note 30  Accrued expenses and  
deferred income ............................. 104
Note 31  Pledged assets and  
contingent liabilities ........................ 105
Note 32 The share ........................................... 105
Note 33 Related-party transactions ............ 105
Note 34 Proposed appropriation of profit .. 105
Note 35  Events after the  
balance-sheet date .......................... 105
Letter from the Chairman ................................ 107
Corporate Governance Report  ...................... 108ContentsReporting
49
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Highlights 2018
Financial highlights 
• Total revenues of SEK 9,139 M (6,511), an 
increase of 40 per cent.
• Product sales amounted to SEK 7,362 M 
( 4,749), up 55 per cent.
• Gross margin was 74 per cent (72).
• EBITA was SEK 3,571 M (2,053). 
• Profit for the year was SEK 2,418 M 
(1,149), representing earnings per share 
of SEK 8,97 (4,27).
• Cash flow from operating activities was 
SEK 2,090 M (1,333). 
Business highlights 
• At year-end, drug reimbursement for 
Elocta® had been granted in 26 countries 
and for Alprolix® in 19 countries.
• Sobi appointed Torbjörn Hallberg as 
General Counsel and Head of Legal 
Affairs, Henrik Stenqvist as Chief Financial 
Officer, Fredrik Wetterlundh as Head of 
Human Resources and Anne Marie de 
Jonge Schuermans as Head of Technical 
Operations.
• Kineret® approved in the European Union 
for the treatment of Still’s disease.
• First patient dosed in phase 1/2 trial 
valuating SOBI003 for treatment of MPS 
(mucopolysaccharidosis) IIIA.• Results presented from the anaGO study, 
a phase 2 study with anakinra in patients 
with acute gout.
• Sobi strengthens Immunology franchise 
by acquiring the global rights for emapa-
lumab from Novimmune.
• The Food & Drug Administration (FDA) 
approves Gamifant® (emapalumab) in 
the US, the first approved treatment 
for primary HLH (haemophagocytic 
 lymphohistiocytosis).
• Sobi acquires US rights to Synagis from 
AstraZeneca, creating a platform for global 
growth. The acquisition was finalised in 
January 2019.
• BIVV001 phase 1/2a data presented 
at ASH, the 60th annual congress of 
the American Society of Hematology, 
underscore potential for once-weekly 
dosing with sustained high factor levels 
in haemophilia A.
• Data presented at ASH support emapa-
lumab as an innovative, targeted thera-
peutic option for primary HLH.
• Elocta and Alprolix data presented at 
ASH demonstrated proven efficacy and 
well-characterised safety over four years.Directors’ Report
Sobi’s operations 
At Sobi, we are transforming the lives of 
people affected by rare diseases. Sobi is an 
integrated biopharmaceutical company with 
in-house capabilities that encompass the 
entire value chain, from research, to pre-
clinical and clinical development, biologics 
manufacturing, to distribution and patient 
access. This integrated approach is a prereq-
uisite for providing proprietary drugs, and an 
enabler for partnerships, especially at early 
stages of drug development.
In 2018, revenues were generated by:
• Global sales of the proprietary products 
Kineret, Orfadin® and Kepivance®. Sales 
in Europe and MENAR1 of the proprietary 
products Elocta and Alprolix and royalty 
revenue from Bioverativ’s sales of Eloc -
tate® and Alprolix.
• Sales in Europe and MENAR of products 
for which Sobi holds distribution and/or 
licensing agreements.
• Sales of the drug substance for ReFacto 
AF®/Xyntha® to Pfizer.
Key figures
SEK M 2018 2017
Operating revenue 9,139 6,511
Gross profit 6,723 4,657
Gross margin, %1 74 72
EBITA1 3,571 2,053
EBIT (operating profit) 3,122 1,600
Profit for the year 2,418 1,149
Earnings per share, SEK 8.97 4.27
1. Alternative performance Measures, see Definitions page 135.
See page 49 for a five-year summary of revenues, 
expenses and earnings.Three-year revenue trend, SEK M Revenue by business area
SEK M 2018 2017
Haemophilia 6,012 3,682
Specialty Care 3,127 2,829
Total revenues 9,139 6,511
Total revenue Product revenue
Manufacturing revenue 16Q1
16Q2
16Q3
16Q4
18Q1
18Q2
18Q3
18Q417Q1
17Q2
17Q3
17Q405001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0001. Middle East, North Africa and Russia.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
50
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Operating revenue 
In 2018 revenues amounted to SEK 9,139 M 
(6,511), an increase of 40 per cent.
Revenues by business area
Haemophilia
Total Haemophilia revenues amounted to 
SEK 6,012 M (3,682), an increase of 63 per 
cent (57 per cent at CER). Full-year revenues 
for Elocta were positively affected by 
SEK 52 M, in Q3 2018, related to adjusted 
pharmaceutical taxes in France from 2017.
Product sales amounted to SEK 4,235 M 
(1,920) of which Elocta accounted for 
SEK 3,261 M (1,557) and Alprolix for 
SEK 974 M (363).
Royalty revenues amounted to 
SEK 1,341 M (1,203), of which SEK 1,340 M 
(1,168) was royalty revenues related to 
Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
At year-end, drug reimbursement for 
Elocta had been granted in 26 European 
countries, and in 19 countries for Alprolix.
ReFacto manufacturing revenues totalled 
SEK 436 M (559), down 22 per cent due to 
the lower year-on-year order pattern.
The current manufacturing agreement for 
ReFacto AF / Xyntha is valid until December 
31, 2023, with the possibility of further 
extension. Sobi’s royalty agreement for 
ReFacto ended after January 2018.
Specialty Care
Total revenues amounted to SEK 3,127 M 
(2,829), an increase of 11 per cent (7 per cent 
at CER).There was a strong performance across 
the Specialty Care portfolio. Solid growth 
for Kineret continued across all regions in 
2018. The commercial launch of Kineret 
for Still’s disease in the EU is ongoing. 
The Still’s indication has been launched 
in nine EU countries, and the pricing and 
reimbursement process throughout Europe 
is proceeding. For Orfadin, generics have 
entered certain markets and a first sign of 
price erosion has been observed. In 2018, 
however, patient support programmes and 
new formulations defended our market 
position, even though we saw some impact 
affecting mainly price. 
Kineret revenues were SEK 1,320 M (1,142), 
an increase of 16 per cent (12 per cent at CER).
Revenues for Orfadin were SEK 899 M 
(862), an increase of 4 per cent (1 per cent 
at CER).
Gross profit
Gross profit was SEK 6,723 M (4,657), 
representing a gross margin of 74 per cent 
(72). A favourable product mix, a positive 
one-time impact of pharmaceutical taxes in 
France and currency effects were the main 
contributors.
Expenses
Operating expenses increased to SEK 3,601 M 
(3,057). 
Sales and administrative expenses before 
amortisation and write-downs of intangible 
assets amounted to SEK 2,062 M (1,644). The 
increase reflects activities in the Haemophilia 
franchise in EMENAR, including marketing and personnel increases as well as invest-
ments in the North American region.
Research and development expenses 
amounted to SEK 1,090 M (908). The 
increased expenses reflect activities for 
programmes for Kineret, SOBI003, and 
Sobi’s 50 per cent share of (Sanofi’s) ongoing 
development costs for haemophilia, as well 
as development costs related to the acquisi -
tion of the global rights to emapalumab.
Operating expenses also included costs of 
SEK 113 M (84) for the long-term incentive 
programmes. Cash flow will not be affected 
by the share based programmes until they 
expire, and then in the form of social security 
contributions.
Other operating expenses amounted 
to SEK 0 M (–52). Operating revenue and 
expenses for 2018 and 2017 pertained to 
exchange-rate effects.
Operating profit
Profit before interest, taxes and amortisation 
(EBITA) amounted to SEK 3,571 M (2,053) 
corresponding to a margin of 39 (32) per cent. 
Amortisation and write-downs of intan-
gible assets amounted to SEK 449 M (453). 
Full-year 2017 included a write-down for 
one of the early-stage pipeline programmes 
amounting to SEK 12 M. Operating profit 
(EBIT) reached SEK 3,122 M (1 600), an 
increase of SEK 1,522 M.
Net financial items
Net financial items amounted to SEK –40 M 
(–68) distributed on finance income of 
SEK 19 M (1) and finance expenses of 
Sales and administrative expenses, SEK M Net sales (SEK M)  
and operating margin (%)Net cash (+)/net debt (–), SEK M1
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135.05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2018 2017 2016 2015 20141,0321,3451,7762,511
2,096
Net sales, SEK M Operating margin, %02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
2018 2017 2016 2015 20145060708090100
2,6073,2285,2046,5119,139
–50005001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014–298 822821,4722,995DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
51
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018SEK 60 M (69). The difference between 
the years was mainly attributable to lower 
interest expenses for the debt to Sanofi 
and higher exchange-rate gains. Interest 
expenses comprise of discounted interest 
on Sanofi liability of SEK –40 M (–50) 
and interest payments on external loans 
SEK –16 M (–14). Finance net also includes 
exchange-rate gains losses of SEK 17 M (–3). 
Taxes
Total tax recognised for the Group 
amounted to SEK –664 M (–384), wherof 
current tax amounted to SEK –767 M (–209) 
and deferred tax to SEK 103 M (–175) corre-
sponding to an effective tax rate of 21.5 (25) 
per cent. On 14 June 2018, the corporate tax 
rate in Sweden was reduced to 21.4 per cent 
effective 1 January 2019, and to 20.6 per 
cent effective 1 January 2021. The Group’s 
deferred tax was revalued in Q2, which 
resulted in a lower effective tax rate for 
full-year 2018 compared with full-year 2017. 
See also Notes 16 and 21.
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income amounted 
(net) to SEK –124 M (147) and comprised 
cash-flow hedges attributable to future 
inflows in USD, current tax on these, exchange 
differences, and revaluation of pension 
commitments and deferred tax on these.Cash flow and investments
Cash flow from operations before change 
in working capital amounted to SEK 2,341 M 
(1,431). Working capital had a negative 
impact of SEK –250 M (–98). 
Cash flow from investing activities was 
SEK –575 M (–139). The largest investment 
during the year was the acquisition of the 
global rights to emapalumab, of which cash 
flow impact amounted to SEK 497 M.
Financial position
At 31 December 2018, cash and cash equiv-
alents and current investments amounted to 
SEK 2,999 M (1,478). 
The long-term funding sources consist 
of a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M 
with Handelsbanken and Danske Bank, 
which matures on 27 June 2020, and a new 
credit facility of EUR 870 M raised in Novem-
ber with BNP Paribas FORTIS SA/NV, Danske 
Bank A/S, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB 
(publ) and Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). 
Both facilities were unutilised at year-end. 
The new liabilities have been raised to 
finance the acquisition of Synagis.
At 31 December 2018, net cash amounted 
to SEK 2,995 M (1,472). The debt to 
Novimmune is considered current and 
non-interest-bearing. The liability to Sanofi 
is also non-interest-bearing, but was raised 
at discounted value and must therefore be 
recognised as an interest expense. These lia-
bilities are not included in net debt/net cash. 
For contractual commitments regarding the 
above mentioned liabilities see Note 17. 
Five-year summary
SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Operating revenue 9,139 6,511 5,204 3,228 2,607
Cost of goods sold –2,415 –1,854 –1,554 –1,221 –1,059
Research and development costs –1,090 –908 –778 –513 –501
Operating profit (EBIT) 3,122 1,600 1,133 146 –325
Net financial items –40 –68 –85 –61 5
Profit for the year 2,418 1,149 802 83 –270
Earnings per share, SEK 8.97 4.27 2.99 0.31 –1.01
Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 8.93 4.25 2.98 0.31 –1.01
Number of shares, thousands 273,322 272,508 270,390 270,390 270,390
Equity ratio1, % 53 61 54 56 71
1. Alternative performance Measures, see Definitions page 135.Revenue by business area
SEK M 2018 2017
Elocta 3,261 1,557
Alprolix 974 363
Manufacturing 436 559
Royalty 1,341 1,203
Haemophilia 6,012 3,682
Orfadin 899 862
Kineret 1,320 1,142
Other 908 825
Specialty Care 3,127 2,829
Total revenues 9,139 6,511
Sales by region
(Excluding royalty revenue)
SEK M 2018 2017 Change
Europe 6,026 3,784 59%
MENAR1 381 272 40%
North America 1,309 1,168 12%
RoW2 81 84 –4%
Total 7,798 5,308 47%
1. Middle East, North Africa and Russia.
2. Rest of the world.
Source of revenue by business area
Haemophilia Specialty Care
Alprolix Ammonaps®
Elocta Ferriprox®
Royalty Kepivance
Manufacturing Kineret
Orfadin
Ravicti®
Ruconest®
Valeant portfolio
Xiapex®
Yondelis®
OtherDiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
52
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Equity
At 31 December 2018, consolidated equity 
amounted to SEK 9,040 M (6,701). In addition 
to profit for the year, the change comprises 
costs for share programmes, hedge 
accounting and translation differences.
Parent Company
The Parent Company’s business model is to 
develop, register, distribute and market drugs 
for rare diseases. In 2018, Parent Company 
revenues amounted to SEK 8,221 M (5,756). 
Operating profit totalled SEK 3,492 M (1,600). 
Profit for the year totalled SEK 2,382 M 
(–508), including excess depreciation 
of SEK –460 M and Group contributions 
received of SEK 63 M. At 31 December 2018, 
cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 2,762 M (1,381). At 31 December 2018, 
equity amounted to SEK 7,731 M (5,436). 
The change was attributable to profit for the 
year, costs related to the company’s share 
programmes, and hedge accounting.
Development 
Sobi’s pipeline projects include development 
programmes in the areas of haemophilia, 
immunology, genetic diseases and lyso-
somal disorders. Sobi is also conducting 
a number of projects to gather evidence 
regarding the company’s existing products.
In Haemophilia, R&D consists of expanded 
clinical trial activities to strengthen the 
already extensive scientific evidence related 
to Sobi’s approved haemophilia products. 
The ReITIrate trial is studying immune 
Revenues by business area, SEK M
Revenue by region (excluding royalty revenue), SEK Mtolerance induction with Elocta. Sobi also 
conducts pre-clinical and clinical devel-
opment with Sanofi in regard to the XTEN 
technology (BIVV001 and BIVV002), with the 
aim of producing next-generation therapies 
for haemophilia A and B. The phase 1/2 trial 
involving BIVV001 continued during 2018 
with preliminary data reported. 
Clinical programmes in the area of 
Immunology are ongoing, with the aim of 
studying new applications for Kineret and 
emapalumab, for which we acquired the 
global rights from Novimmune during 2018. 
SOBI003 is a product candidate for the 
treatment of MPS IIIA (mucopolysacchari-
dosis type IIIA) a lysosomal storage disorder, 
which entered phase 1/2 during 2018. 
A joint trial to study the use of nitisinone 
in patients with alkaptonuria (AKU) is under 
way. Surveillance trials to assess the efficacy 
and safety of long-term treatment with 
Orfadin in patients with HT-1 are ongoing.
Sobi also has early-stage development 
programmes for new potential candidates 
for the treatment of inflammatory conditions 
in which interleukin-1 (IL-1) is involved. 
SOBI006 is a product candidate in the 
immunology area. 
SOBI005 is a product candidate in the 
programme for complement-related 
disorders.
Regulatory approvals and decisions
• EMA approved Kineret for treatment  
of Still’s disease. 
• Orfadin approved in Canada for 
 once-daily dosing. 
• Orfadin capsules approved in Argentina 
and Jordan
• Orfadin oral suspension approved 
in Tunisia 
• FDA granted Fast Track Designation 
to SOBI003.
• FDA approved emapalumab (Gamifant)  
for treatment of primary HLH. 
FDA accepted investigational new  
drug application and grants Fast Track 
Design ation for drug candidate SOBI003 
for treatment of MPS IIIA
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
approved the investigational new drug (IND) 
application for the drug candidate SOBI003 
in the first in-human study. It also granted 
SOBI003 Fast Track Designation. 01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 
2017 Sales 
2018 Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 2017+1%+48%
+51%
+34%+10%
–5%
Sales 
2017Sales 
2018Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 201701,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Other
worldNorth
AmericaMENAR1Europe01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 
2017 Sales 
2018 Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 2017+1%+48%
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 
2017 Sales 
2018 Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 2017+1%+48%
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Specialty Care Haemophilia
Sales 
2017 Sales 
2018 Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 2017+1%+48%
1. Middle East, North Africa and Russia+51%
+34%+10%
–5%
Sales 
2017Sales 
2018Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 201701,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Other
worldNorth
AmericaMENAR1Europe+51%
+34%+10%
–5%
Sales 
2017Sales 
2018Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 201701,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Other
worldNorth
AmericaMENAR1Europe+51%
+34%+10%
–5%
Sales 
2017Sales 
2018Growth adjusted for currency 
eﬀects compared with 201701,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,000
Other
worldNorth
AmericaMENAR1EuropeDiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
53
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Kineret approved in EU for treatment  
of Still’s disease
The European Commission approved an 
extension of the indication for Kineret 
(ana kinra) to include treatment of Still’s 
disease, including systemic juvenile idio-
pathic arthritis (SJIA) and adult-onset Still’s 
disease (AOSD), in all 28 member states of 
the European Union. The approval came 
after a positive opinion from the Committee 
for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(CHMP).
First patient dosed in phase 1/2 study  
of SOBI003 for treatment of MPS IIIA
The first patient was dosed in the phase 
1/2 study SOBI003-001. This is an open, 
non-controlled multiple-dose study of nine 
children aged 1–6 years with MPS IIIA, also 
called Sanfilippo syndrome A. The aim of the 
study is to assess the safety, tolerability and 
efficacy of the drug candidate SOBI003.
Results published from anaGO –  
a phase 2 study with anakinra in  
patients with acute gout 
The primary endpoint, patient-assessed pain 
intensity in the most-affected joint, showed 
a clinically meaningful reduction from base-
line both after treatment with anakinra and 
the comparator triamcinolone. There was 
a meaningful pain reduction with anakinra of 
around 50 per cent, in line with expectations 
of IL-1 blockade in this disease. No statisti-
cally significant difference between the two 
treatments was obtained (primary endpoint). 
The study confirmed the well-established 
safety profile of anakinra.
FDA approved Gamifant as the first 
approved treatment for primary haemo-
phagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)
The FDA approved Gamifant® (emapalu  mab-
lzsg), an interferon gamma (IFN ) blocking 
antibody for the treatment of paediatric (newborn and older) and adult patients with 
primary haemophagocytic lymphohistio-
cytosis (HLH) with refractory, recurrent or 
progressive disease or intolerance to con-
ventional HLH therapy.
Data supporting emapalumab as an 
innovative, targeted therapeutic option  
for primary HLH presented at ASH
Data from the pivotal phase 2/3 study 
with emapalumab for the treatment of 
primary HLH showed that treatment with 
emapalumab induced rapid and sustained 
responses, helping fragile and often very 
young patients control HLH activity and 
reach stem cell transplant. 
Data demonstrating the well-established 
safety and efficacy of Elocta and Alprolix, 
extended half-life therapies for 
haemophilia A and B, at ASH
The ASPIRE and B-YOND extension studies 
show no inhibitor development and consis-
tently low annualised bleeding rates in study 
participants over four years with Elocta and 
Alprolix respectively.
New data from the phase 1/2a study  
of BIVV001 presented at ASH
New data from the EXTEN-A phase 1/2a trial 
of BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN) showed 
that a single 65 IU/kg dose of BIVV001 
extended the half-life of factor VIII to 44 
hours with high factor activity levels and was 
generally well tolerated. Seven days post- 
infusion, the factor activity level was 18.5 
per cent, which is an unprecedented level 
of protection in factor VIII therapy.Other information
Changes in Management
On 20 July 2018, Henrik Stenqvist was 
appointed as CFO. The following joined the 
Executive Committee during 2018: Torbjörn 
Hallberg as General Counsel and Head of 
Legal Affairs, Anne Marie De Jong Schuer -
mans as Head of Technical Operations and 
Fredrik Wetterlundh as Head of HR.
As of 31 December 2018, the Executive 
Committee comprised: 
CEO: Guido Oelkers 
CFO: Henrik Stenqvist
General Counsel and Head of Legal 
Affairs: Torbjörn Hallberg  
Head of Haemophilia: Philip Wood 
Head of Specialty Care: Norbert Oppitz 
Head of EMENAR: Hege Hellström
Head of North America: Rami Levin 
Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs:  
Armin Reininger
Head of Research & Development, 
Chief Medical Officer: Milan Zdravkovic
Head of Technical Operations:  
Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans 
Head of HR: Fredrik Wetterlundh
From the previous Executive Committee, 
Mats-Olof Wallin, formerly CFO, left the 
company during 2018. Hege Hellström left 
Sobi on 1 January 2019.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
54
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Sustainability Report
The statutory Sustainability Report can be 
found on pages 12–13, 15–17, 30–31, 34–41, 
58–63 and 123–133 of this Annual and 
Sustainability Report, and has been prepared 
using the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Corporate Governance Report
Under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, 
Sobi is required to prepare a Corporate 
Governance Report. In accordance with 
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 
6, Section 8, Sobi has decided to prepare 
a Corporate Governance Report that is 
separate from the Annual Report. It can be 
found on pages 108–113.
Environmental permits
Sobi’s production facility in Stockholm, 
Sweden, holds a permit for environmentally 
hazardous activities allowing the facility to 
produce a maximum of 1,000 tonnes of 
pharmaceuticals via industrial-scale chem-
ical or biological reaction, including inter -
mediates, per calendar year. Compliance 
with the permit conditions is disclosed in an 
environmental report to the local regulator. 
In Solna, Sweden, the company conducts 
activities that are notifiable under the condi-
tions for facilities that professionally produce 
organic or inorganic compounds via 
chemical or biological reactions in test, pilot 
or laboratory scale, or other non-industrial 
scale. The conditions for these are mainly 
related to water emissions and include a 
requirement to adjust the pH of the process 
water. In 2018, no breaches of the condi-
tions were reported by either of the facilities. 
The company also has an import permit for 
animal by-products from the Swedish Board 
of Agriculture, and a permit for handling 
flammable products. While adaptation to 
current regulations has not, to date, had any 
adverse impact on Sobi’s competitiveness or 
operations, the company cannot predict the 
impact of future regulations. Share capital and ownership
Sobi’s share capital at 31 December 
amounted to SEK 149,973,582, distributed 
between 273,322,117 shares, with a par value 
per share of about SEK 0.55. At 31 December 
2018, the total number of shares outstanding 
comprised 269,898,391 ordinary shares, 
each carrying one vote. At 31 December 
2018, Investor AB was Sobi’s largest single 
shareholder with a total of 107,594,165 
shares, representing 39.37 per cent of the 
votes and 39.37 per cent of the capital.
Share conversions
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 9 May 
2018 authorised Sobi’s Board to resolve on 
an issue of C shares and to repurchase all 
C shares issued in order to hedge the long-
term incentive programme. The AGM also 
resolved to approve the Board’s proposed 
transfer of shares. 
At 31 December 2018, Sobi held 3,423,726 
ordinary shares in treasury. All C shares 
issued in 2018 have been converted to 
ordinary shares during the year. For more 
detailed information about the total number 
of shares in the company, the number of 
different classes of shares and the votes 
carried by the company’s shares, refer to 
‘Shares’ on page 44.
Proposal regarding guidelines for 
remuneration for the Management  
The Board of Directors proposes that the 
Annual General Meeting 2019 resolves on 
guidelines for remuneration for the Manage-
ment as set forth below which shall apply 
until the Annual General Meeting 2020. 
The Management is defined as the managing 
director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ) and the executives who report to the 
managing director and are members of the 
senior management. Objective
The objective of the guidelines is to ensure 
that the company can attract and retain the 
best people in order to support the vision 
and strategy of the company. 
Remuneration for the Management is 
designed on a total remuneration approach. 
The position of total remuneration should be 
competitive without being leading relative 
to competitors in each local market. Market 
comparisons should be made against a set 
of peer group companies with comparable 
sizes, industries and complexity. The remu-
neration guidelines should enable interna-
tional hiring and should support diversity 
within the Management. 
The remuneration may consist of the 
 following components:
• A, Fixed base pay
• B, Variable pay – short-term incentives
• C, Long-term incentives
• D, Pensions
• E, Other benefits
To the extent a member of the Board of 
Directors carries out work for the company 
or for another group company, in addition to 
the board work, consulting fees and/or other 
remuneration for such work may be payable. 
Fixed base pay
The fixed base pay of the Management 
should be based on competence, responsi-
bility and performance. The company uses 
an international evaluation system in order 
to evaluate the scope and responsibility of 
the position. 
Variable pay
The annual short-term incentive plan is 
based on the achievement of annual perfor -
mance objectives (corporate and individual). 
Payment is based on achievement of the 
pre-determined objectives. The annual per -
formance objectives are defined in advance 
by the Compensation & Benefits Committee 
and approved by the Board of Directors.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
55
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018These objectives are determined for the 
promotion of the company’s long-term 
development, value creation and financial 
growth and shall be designed in a way that 
does not encourage excessive risk-taking. 
The short-term incentives are limited to 
100 per cent of the annual gross salary for 
the Managing director and 60 per cent of the 
fixed annual salary for the other members of 
the Management. 
Long-term incentives 
The company can introduce long-term 
incentive programmes for all or some of its 
employees. 
The objectives of such a programme 
should be to align the employees’ interests 
with those of the shareholders, to create a 
long-term commitment to the company, to 
be a tool to retain and attract executives and top talent, to allow participants to take part in 
the company’s long-term success and value 
creation, and to contribute to a competitive 
total remuneration.
For further information on the company’s 
current incentive programmes, see note 11.
Pensions
The preferred pension plan design is 
defined-contribution.1 If the operating 
environment requires the establishment of a 
defined- benefit pension plan by law or other 
regulations, such a plan may be established. 
The defined-benefit level should in such 
cases be limited to the mandatory level. 
Other benefits 
Fixed salary during notice periods and 
severance pay, including payments for any 
restrictions on competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent to the fixed 
base pay for two years. In addition to this 
restriction, the total severance payment shall 
be limited to the existing monthly salary for 
the remaining months up to the age of 65. 
Additional compensation may also be paid 
out in extraordinary circumstances, provided 
that such arrangement is of a one-time 
nature and is agreed on an individual basis 
for management recruitment or retention 
purposes or as compensation for extraordi-
nary efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary 
assignment. Such compensation shall be 
in line with market practice and may for 
example include a one-time cash payment, 
a support package including relocation 
and tax filing support, retention bonus or 
severance payment in case of a change of 
control, or similar. The compensation shall 
not exceed the amount of the fixed base pay 
Sobi’s values
Sobi promotes a good working environment. 
Sobi strives to comply with all health and 
safety-related laws and regulations and 
therefore conducts systematic health and 
safety efforts integrated with environmental 
and quality awareness. The company has 
also worked actively for several years to raise 
awareness of the company’s values among 
all employees throughout the organisation. Sobi’s values are: Care, Ambition, Urgency, 
Ownership and Partnership. Compliance 
with the company’s values is evaluated every 
year in Sobi’s performance appraisal process. 
Employees
At 31 December 2018 the number of 
employees (full-time equivalents) was 
902 (800), with 468 (451) based in Sweden. Salaries and other remuneration amounted 
to SEK 1,092 M (927), of which the Parent 
Company accounted for SEK 444 M (427).
Of the total number of employees  
in 2018, 59 per cent were women and  
41 per cent Men. All employees are treated 
equally and offered the same opportunities 
regardless of age, gender, religion, sexual 
orientation, functional disability or ethnicity.
Care 
We are who we are because 
of our dedication, our 
knowledge and our passion. 
Care is the foundation upon 
which our strategy, our 
business and our culture are 
built.
Ownership
It is our duty to act. We 
therefore encourage intra-
preneurship and learn from 
our experience.Urgency
We need to embrace a sense 
of urgency, while safeguard-
ing our standards, because 
patients cannot wait.
Partnership
We embrace partnerships 
and collaboration, both 
within Sobi and with external 
partners and stakeholders. Ambition
We will set ourselves 
ambitious goals and do our 
utmost to achieve them. 
partnership
am
bitionownership
urgency
 care1. In a defined-contribution plan, the contribution paid into the pension plan for each employee is determined.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
56
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018for three years and shall not be paid more 
than once a year per individual. 
Resolutions on such compensation shall 
be made by the Board of Directors based 
on a proposal from the Compensation & 
Benefits Committee.
Deviation from the guidelines 
The Board of Directors may resolve to 
deviate from the guidelines if the Board 
of Directors, in an individual case, is of the 
opinion that there are special circumstances 
justifying that.
Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the 
Annual General Meeting:
SEK
Share premium reserve 4,277,038,162
Retained earnings 121,508,296
Profit for the year 2,381,763,358
Total 6,780,309,816
The Board of Directors proposes that no 
dividend be distributed for the 2018 finan-
cial year. 
The Board proposes that the share 
premium reserve and retained earnings at 
their disposal, SEK 6,780,309,816, be carried 
forward.Events after the balance-sheet date,  
up to 27 March 2019
• Sobi completed the acquisition of the 
Synagis US rights from AstraZeneca and 
exercised authorisation to issue shares. 
The upfront consideration payable at 
closing of the acquisition, announced on 
24 January 2019, corresponds to approx -
imately USD 1.5 B (SEK 13.8 B) consisting 
of cash and 24,193,092 newly issued Sobi 
common shares.
• In connection to the acquisition from 
AstraZeneca of the rights to Synagis in 
the US, Sobi announced a new number 
of shares and votes due to the issue of 
24,193,092 new common shares. There-
after, the total number of shares and votes 
amounts to 297,515,209. At 31 January 
2019, the company held 3,423,726 com-
mon shares in treasury.
• The US Food and Drug Administration 
granted Breakthrough Therapy Designa-
tion (BTD) för MEDI8897.
• Christian Dreger (Head of Northern 
Europe, Middle East and Russia), Sofiane 
Fahmy (Head of Southern & Western 
Europe and North Africa) and Paula 
Treutiger (Head of Communications & 
Investor Relations) were appointed to the 
Executive Committee in January 2019. 
Hege Hellström (Head of EMENAR) left the 
Executive Committee and the company in 
January 2019.Outlook for 20191
Sobi expects revenue for the full year to be 
in the range of SEK 12,500 – to 13,000 M. 
Main drivers of revenue growth are: 
continued market share growth of our 
 haemophilia franchise with Elocta and 
Alprolix, the acquisition of Synagis and 
growth of this franchise in the US and the 
launch of Gamifant in the US.
EBITA for the full year is expected to be 
in the range of SEK 5,000 – to SEK 5,300 M.
In 2019, we will increase market invest-
ments in the haemophilia franchise and in 
the commercial launch of Gamifant. Fur -
thermore, we will expand clinical activities 
for emapalumab. 
For information about forward-looking 
statements, refer to the inside cover. 
1. At current exchange rates as of 20 February 2019
 The outlook was published on 20 February 2019. DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
57
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Risk Management
The Sobi Group risk management process 
is documented in Sobi Group Risk Manage-
ment Policy as well as in Sobi Group Risk 
Management Instruction. 
Sobi applies an integrated business 
 risk-management process that contributes 
to our ability to achieve set objectives, 
and to follow the strategy adopted for the 
operations. Each operational unit works 
actively to identify and address any uncer -
tainties related to our ability to achieve our 
set objectives. Identified risks are analysed 
against relevant values for the operations, 
enabling subsequent prioritisation on a 
commercial basis, whereby uncertainties and untapped opportunities around the 
company’s strategy can be identified and 
managed. Sobi’s Risk Manager reports the 
current risk status to the Executive Commit-
tee, and a review of this process is presented 
to the Board of Directors on a regular basis.
As part of the strategic risk management 
process, the company’s critical flows are 
identified and business continuity plans for 
these are implemented. 
Key risk areas
The discovery and development of novel 
drugs, and the regulations governing 
research and development, manufacturing, 
testing, and the marketing and sales of pharmaceutical products are complex 
and may change over time. The specialty 
pharmaceuticals market consists of highly 
qualified and resource-intensive companies 
and is characterised by rapid technological 
development, making competition a key 
area to monitor. A summary of the main 
operational risks is presented below. The 
risks are not ranked in any particular order, 
but they are categorised and described.
Policies guiding Sobi’s sustainability performance
Alcohol and Drug Policy
Annual Limits on Compensation for Healthcare professionals
Anti-Corruption Policy
Charitable Contributions and Sponsorships Policy
Chemical Management
Code of Conduct and Ethics
Communications Policy
Compensation for Healthcare Professionals Policy
Consultants and Speakers Policy
Corporate Car Policy
Discrimination Policy
Educational Grants Policy
Environmental Control Program
Environmental Health and Safety Policy
Fair Competition Policy
Information Security Policy
Insider Policy
Interactions with Patient Organisations Policy
IT Security Policy
Parental PolicyPatient Access Bridging Programmes Policy
Pension Policy
Policies on Health Care Interactions
Processing of Personal Data Policy
Procedure for Conducting Market Research Activities
Procurement Policy
Promotional and Scientific Material Review Policy
Publications Policy
Requirements and Approval Process for Non-Promotional Material
Requirements and Approval Process for Promotional Material
Research Agreements, Grants and Fellowships Policy
Risk Management Policy
Reporting Investigating and Responding to Compliance Issues Policy
Sobi Career with focus on personal and professional development
Sobi Quality Management System
Sobi’s Global HR Processes 
Tax Policy
Travel Policy
Treasury PolicyDiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
58
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Operational risks
Risk Risk description Management and comments
Product risks
Novel drug development Developing and bringing novel drugs to market is a costly, 
complex and risky process. The probability of reaching 
the market increases as the project advances through the 
development process. However, the risks remain substantial 
until phase III studies, while costs increase at a faster rate as the 
project moves through the final clinical phases.Sobi currently has a number of clinical and preclinical 
development projects. Sobi’s innovation model is used to 
determine how attractive a project is, and its risk profile.
Obtaining and maintaining 
authorisation for new 
productsFailure to demonstrate that drug candidates maintain high 
quality, or ascertain their expected safety and efficacy, in 
adequate and well-controlled preclinical and clinical studies, 
may result in delays or failure to launch. 
Preclinical and clinical development is a lengthy process that 
is impacted by a variety of factors, including those beyond the 
company’s control, such as changing regulatory requirements.
Before it can be launched, the drug must meet the rigorous 
quality, safety and efficacy requirements imposed by regulators 
in the countries or regions in which Sobi plans to market the 
drug.In order to make sure that the clinical studies meet the 
needs of regulators and society for evidence, relevant 
stakeholders are identified and consulted, which can result 
in faster development and availability, or the discovery of 
new opportunities.
Biologics manufacturing 
and qualityCompliance with current GMP regulations for manufacturing. 
The manufacture of Sobi’s products requires that all manufac -
turing processes, methods and equipment are compliant with 
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations. 
GMP regulations control all aspects of pharmaceutical 
production, including quality control and quality assurance, 
production processes and documentation. Sobi’s production 
facility may be inspected at any time by the regulators or the 
company’s customers.Sobi has been working with the Qase system (Quality Case 
management) since 2017. The system is used to address 
Non Conformances (NC) with Corrective and Preventive 
Actions (CAPAs). All GMP, GDP (distribution), GVP (pharma-
covigilance) and GCP (clinical)-related cases are registered 
and handled in the system, which is used for all inspections. 
Internal audits in respect of GxP (the relevant form of good 
practice) were carried out as planned for 2018, covering 
such areas as finished goods supply and production, Quality 
Assurance, Quality Control and IT systems. All actions 
resulting from the audit were monitored in the CAPA system.
GMP/GDP compliance for 
partner facilitiesRisk that partners are not GMP/GDP-compliant. In drug 
manufacturing, Sobi collaborates with other pharmaceutical 
companies as a customer and is dependent on the partner 
facilities being maintained and available. GMP/GDP regulations apply to Sobi and its distributors, 
contract laboratories and suppliers. Sobi conducts audits of 
its distributors, contract laboratories and suppliers. In Sobi’s 
external network, a total of 48 GMP/GDP audits were carried 
out in 2018. All audited parties were approved as a supplier.
Third-party risks
Collaborations and  
partnershipsThe strategy includes entering into collaboration agreements 
regarding, for example, joint development and/or authorisa-
tion with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies 
for the development and launch of some of Sobi’s products. 
Risk of low influence for Sobi, since these partners hold 
considerable discretion when it comes to defining the project’s 
processes and resources, depending on the nature of the 
agreement between the various parties. This could delay the 
development and launch of new products.A structured flow of information is essential for a successful 
partnership. The success of such collaborations will largely 
depend on the work carried out jointly with Sobi’s partners 
or licensees. Sobi forms a Joint Steering Committee in all 
partnership agreements to ensure continuous coordination 
and information sharing. 
Expertise, willingness and 
regulatory guidelinesCollaborations with patient organisations, academic institu-
tions, healthcare professionals and other relevant groups are 
dependent on the other party’s knowledge and willingness, 
and the regulatory guidelines governing these collaborations. 
Risk of our partners not abiding by Sobi’s internal guidelines 
and regulatory guidelines, which may have a negative impact 
on Sobi’s reputation.Sobi strives to uphold and maintain long-term commitment 
and collaboration. We support and collaborate with a wide 
range of patient organisations, both national and regional, 
to attain our joint objective of achieving the best possible 
outcome for patients with rare diseases. There are Group-
wide guidelines to ensure compliance with ethical standards 
and transparency in all of Sobi’s business areas.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
59
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Risk Risk description Management and comments
Intellectual property  
protection and patentsRisk of Sobi not being able to obtain/extend intellectual 
property protection and patents. The ability of the company, 
or its licensors, to obtain protection in the US, the EU and 
other countries or regions for the intellectual property rights 
covering the products that the company develops, manufac -
tures, markets and sells, is of great importance. Sobi’s success 
will largely depend on the protection of intellectual property. Sobi has a number of patents and patent applications 
which are managed by experienced and established patent 
representatives. Sobi has a number of patents which are very 
important for the business. The patent licence rights are 
managed through regular meetings with licence issuers. In 
addition to patented products and technologies, Sobi has 
its own technology, processes and know-how that are not 
protected by patents. The company strives to protect such 
information by entering into, for example, confidentiality 
agreements with employees, consultants and partners.
Competition and external risks
Pricing of drugs for rare 
diseasesThe market is increasingly affected by cost-awareness due to 
the growing cost of healthcare in many countries. 
Market approval of drugs in the product portfolio does not 
guarantee that these products will be granted reimbursement 
and pricing approval by the national or regional healthcare 
systems. 
A significant decline in revenues from Sobi’s key products 
could have a material adverse effect on Sobi’s operations, 
earnings and financial position – regardless of whether this 
is due to reduced demand, increased competition or other 
reasons, such as policy changes for a national drug reimburse-
ment scheme.Sobi’s way of working with most stakeholders throughout 
the entire development process is designed to anticipate 
market needs and the demands that will be imposed on the 
product by payers in the event of an approval.
Use and recommendation  
of Sobi’s drugs The use of drugs may be impacted by the treatment guidelines, 
recommendations and studies published by regulators and 
other bodies. The products must achieve market acceptance 
among physicians, patients and procurement organisations. 
The degree of market acceptance for each of the company’s 
products is therefore dependent on several factors. Many of 
these are beyond the company’s control and dependent on 
external decision-making procedures and policy-making 
bodies.Sobi’s way of working with regulators throughout the entire 
development process is designed to anticipate market 
needs and the demands that will be imposed on the product 
by regulators and prescribers in the event of an approval, 
with the aim of ensuring that patients receive rapid and 
sustained access to these new and approved therapies, and 
that they meet the demands that arise over time.
Competition The market for specialty pharmaceuticals is characterised by 
intense competition and rapid technological development. 
Sobi’s competitors include international pharmaceutical, 
biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies. Some 
competitors have considerable financial, technical and human 
resources, as well as substantial manufacturing, distribution, 
sales and marketing capabilities.To secure a leading position in terms of technological 
development, Sobi collaborates with a wide range of 
groups, for example, within the framework of the Swedish 
strategic cooperation programme in life science to support 
the future development and production of biologics. 
Product counterfeiting Risk of Sobi’s drugs being exposed to competition from 
illegally produced pharmaceutical products and the availability 
of pirated products in some distribution channels.Sobi’s products have not yet been exposed to pirating. 
Sobi participates in global efforts initiated to improve drug 
traceability. To minimise the risk of counterfeiting, all of 
Sobi’s distribution processes comply with Good Distribution 
Practice. 
Sobi has been using the TraceLink system to record the 
serial numbers of all products that require serialisation since 
2017. This system complies with the regulatory require-
ments of all markets in which we operate. In 2019, all of 
Sobi’s products that are required to have a unique identifier 
will have one.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
60
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Risk Risk description Management and comments
Financial risks
Currency risks The company’s operations are exposed to foreign-exchange 
risk. Most of the company’s expenses are incurred in SEK, 
while a considerable amount of revenue is generated in other 
currencies. Due to the company’s international expansion, 
lower exchange rates for the EUR in particular, but also for 
other currencies in which revenue is generated, could have an 
adverse effect on Sobi’s earnings and financial position.More information about financial risks  
can be found in Note 3.
Tax risks Sobi is a multinational group and thus subject to complex 
and changing international and local tax laws and guidelines. 
Sobi is affected by changes in, e.g., corporate tax rates, 
interest deduction possibilities and transfer pricing principles. 
The current global focus on transfer pricing, along with 
international initiatives such as BEPS (base erosion and price 
shifting), specifically entail an increased risk of transfer pricing 
exposures.Sobi is proactively working on managing tax risks by:
• having processes for tax compliance in place;
•  ensuring that the group tax function closely collaborates 
with both local affiliates, accounting, treasury and legal 
functions; and
•  engaging external tax advisors for analysis of complex tax 
issues.
Environmental risk 
CO₂ emissions Sobi’s business activities involve business trips that give rise to 
greenhouse gas emissions.Our Travel Policy emphasises the importance of considering 
travel carefully, to minimise the need and also improve 
work-life balance. The policy also emphasises the need 
to consider virtual meetings and Sobi provides tools to 
facilitate them.
Energy and  
water consumption The consumption of energy, water, products and services have 
an environmental impact.Sobi monitors legislation in the environmental field and 
integrates requirements into controlling procedures for the 
business activity concerned. 
A control programme for the manufacturing facility has 
been coordinated with compliance authorities. 
We reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by improving the 
energy efficiency of our facilities and monitor the opera-
tional expenses for our facilities. By implementing an energy 
management plan for the production facility in Stockholm 
we have reduced energy and water consumption relative to 
production capacity.
Chemical handling The handling of chemicals in the manufacturing facility could 
have an environmental impact.The handling of chemicals in our R&D and manufacturing 
processes is covered by annual risk assessments in order to 
avoid any impact on the future ability to deliver as agreed.
Environmental impact  
of productsSobi’s products could have an environmental impact in 
production, distribution and consumption. Sobi products are mainly biologics and the environmental 
impact of these are seen as very low because they are bio-
degradable without permanent environmental impact. 
According to EU guidelines on the environmental risk 
assessment of medicinal products, some drugs are not 
expected to have any environmental impact, for example 
products composed of carbohydrates, amino acids, pep-
tides and proteins. A high percentage of our products are 
biopharmaceuticals composed of amino acids, proteins and 
peptides, and are therefore unlikely to pose any significant 
risk to the environment.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
61
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Risk Risk description Management and comments
Social risk 
Attract new  
employees and  
develop existing  
personnelSobi operates in a competitive market, where our employees 
form the basis of the company’s ability to develop special drugs 
to meet patients’ needs. If we cannot attract employees with 
different skills and experience to contribute to this process, we 
could become less effective and fail to produce the right drugs 
at the right price.Sobi is a learning organisation and involves employees in 
high-performance teams in order to achieve and deliver  
in a competitive market. 
Patient and  
customer privacyRisk that personal data processed in the course of Sobi’s 
business is not protected.
Sobi is committed to protecting the personal rights of any 
individual whose personal data it processes – including its 
employees, customers, suppliers and other contractual 
partners, stakeholders, subjects and patients in clinical trials. The pharmaceutical business is highly regulated, meaning 
that Sobi as a company is very well prepared to adjust to 
new compliance requirements. 
Sobi initiated its GDPR compliance work early in 2016, and 
after two and a half years, we can see good results. 
The policy on processing of personal data has been 
updated. Relevant data flows have been analysed in order to 
close potential gaps under the new legislation. An updated 
data privacy governance structure to facilitate compliance 
was introduced during 2018.
Patient safety  
and ethicsRisk of poor patient safety and ethical values in research.
For all research involving humans, such as clinical trials, it is of 
the utmost importance that these are built on rigorous, sci-
entifically based evaluations by clinical experts in cooperation 
with regulatory authorities, independent ethics committees 
and stakeholders.Sobi applies the Declaration of Helsinki’s principles for 
medical researchers. All Sobi-sponsored clinical trials are 
conducted and reported in accordance with applicable law 
and the international Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standard.
To a substantial extent we collaborate with contract 
research organisations (CROs). These collaborations are 
governed by mutual high standards and procedures. Sobi 
follows the European Medicines Agency’s (EMA) policy on 
the publication of clinical trial data.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
62
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Risk Risk description Management and comments
Governance risk 
Legal risks Risk of not acting in compliance with changes in regulations. 
Sobi operates in a strictly regulated environment and we must 
comply with laws and regulations governing not only produc -
tion, but also research and marketing. 
Changes in legislation and regulations can have a direct impact 
on Sobi by limiting access to the market, manufacturing 
opportunities or development strategies. Therefore it is also 
highly important for Sobi to be aware of and ahead of upcom-
ing legislation.Sobi’s Risk and Regulatory Compliance Committee con-
tinuously monitors the development and implementation 
of Sobi’s regulatory compliance programme, which aims 
to reduce the company’s risk of non-compliance with 
laws and regulations. The most important elements of the 
compliance programme include identifying risks, promoting 
clear messages, establishing clear guidelines and processes, 
training and continuous monitoring. 
In cases where legislation concerns requirements for the 
approval of drugs, we adopt an agile approach to adapt 
development processes rapidly in order to meet the new 
requirements and thereby not risk extending the time it 
takes for the drug to reach the patient.
Anti-corruption, anti- 
competitive behaviour,  
ethical approach  
and collaborationCollaborations with stakeholders are essential for us to share 
knowledge and experience within the rare disease community. 
The risk of corruption is greatest in activities in which Sobi 
interacts with the healthcare sector.Sobi has a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery, supported 
by the Sobi Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Sobi Global 
Policy on Anti-Corruption. Both have been translated into 
relevant business processes, such as those governing inter -
actions with healthcare professionals and organisations. 
To mitigate corruption risks, Sobi has for several years 
had a Health Care Compliance (“HCC”) program in place. 
Health Care Compliance within Sobi is defined as the 
ethical business standard for transparent promotional and 
non-promotional activities and interactions with healthcare 
professionals, providers, payers and patient organisations. 
The program includes processes and controls that aim to 
mitigate the risks of, for example, corruption. 
Sobi supports transparency initiatives, including the 
 European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and 
Associations (EFPIA), Disclosure Code in Europe and the 
Physician, Payments Sunshine Act in the US. We have 
implemented the EFPIA Disclosure Code and made all 
payments and transfers of value to healthcare professionals 
and healthcare organisations in Europe publicly available on 
www.sobi.com, including sponsorships to attend meetings, 
grants and donations, speaker fees, consultancies and 
advisory board postings.DiRECT oRs’ REPoRT
63
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
SEK 000S Note 2018 2017
1–4
Operating revenue 5–6 9,138,892 6,510,831
Cost of goods sold –2,415,426 –1,853,998
Gross profit 6,723,466 4,656,833
Sales and administrative expenses 12 –2,510,740 –2,096,470
Research and development costs –1,090,416 –907,721
Other operating income 8 6,144 471
Other operating expenses 9 –6,486 –52,748
Operating profit7, 10, 11, 13,  
17, 18, 28 3,121,968 1,600,365
Financial income 14 19,426 1,219
Financial expenses 15 –59,659 –69,161
Net financial items –40,233 –67,942
Profit before tax 3,081,735 1,532,423
Tax on profit for the year 16 –663,940 –383,811
Profit for the year1 2,417,795 1,148,612
Other comprehensive income2
Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss
Actuarial gains/losses on defined-benefit plan –85 –1,042
Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss
Translation differences 9,463 –1,258
Cash flow hedges –170,920 191,856
Tax effect of cash flow hedges 37,628 –42,208
Other comprehensive income –123,914 147,348
Comprehensive income for the year2 2,294,051 1,295,960
Earnings per share, SEK 32 8.97 4.27
Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 32 8.93 4.25
Number of shares (ordinary) 273,322,117 272,507,708
Average number of shares 269,523,784 269,020,363
Number of ordinary shares held in treasury 3,423,726 3,249,870
Number of shares after dilution 270,522,788 269,975,826
Average number of shares after dilution 270,603,665 270,003,546
1. Everything attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 
2.  Under the revised version of IAS 1, all changes in equity not arising from transactions with owners are recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income. Translation differences are wholly related to shares in foreign subsidiaries.Operating revenue, SEK M
EBITA1, SEK MOperating revenue
Revenues for the full-year amounted to  
SEK 9,139 M (6,511), up 40 per cent. 
EBITA
EBITA for the year rose 74 per cent to  
SEK 3,571 M compared with 2017.
Earnings/share1, SEK
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135.02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
2018 2017 2016 2015 20142,6073,2285,2046,5119,139
–50005001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000
2018 2017 2016 2015 20144331,5432,0533,571
–44
–20246810
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014−1.01 0.312.998.97
4.27fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
64
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Consolidated balance sheet
Equity/ratio1, %
Net cash1 (+) / net debt (–), SEK MSEK 000S Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 17 10,158,676 6,445,071
Property, plant and equipment 18 136,299 134,182
Financial assets 20 55,440 35,155
Deferred tax assets 21 230,834 131,429
Total non-current assets 10,581,249 6,745,837
Current assets
Inventories 22 1,284,112 1,053,268
Trade receivables 23, 26 1,665,208 1,129,016
Other receivables 23 92,736 63,964
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 561,110 432,326
Cash and cash equivalents 25, 26 2,998,742 1,478,496
Total current assets 6,601,908 4,157,070
TOTAL ASSETS 17,183,157 10,902,907
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 149,974 149,527
Other contributed capital 5,069,248 5,023,557
Other reserves –144,299 –20,386
Retained earnings 1,547,379 399,214
Profit for the year 2,417,795 1,148,612
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 9,040,097 6,700,524
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 21 663,821 667,733
Liability to Sanofi 27 427,699 1,066,833
Liabilities to credit institutions 2,991 5,044
Provisions 28, 29 97,479 97,955
Total non-current liabilities 1,191,990 1,837,565
Current liabilities
Trade payables 26 486,972 358,449
Tax liabilities 394,501 225,579
Liability to Sanofi 27 676,778 579,895
Other liabilities 27 3,782,524 82,217
Accrued expenses and deferred income 30 1,610,295 1,118,678
Total current liabilities 6,951,070 2,364,818
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,183,157 10,902,907
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 31.Net cash
During the year, net cash increased from  
SEK 1,472 M to SEK 2,995 M.
Net cash (+)/net debt (–)
SEK M 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Cash and 
cash equiva-
lents 519 904 786 1,478 2,999
Interest-
bearing  
liabilities 818 822 504 7 4
Net cash  
(+)/net 
debt (–) –298 82 282 1,472 2,995
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135.020406080
2018 2017 2016 2015 201471
565461
53
–50005001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014−298 822821,4722,995fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
65
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Equity per share1, SEK
Return on equity1, %
Cash flow hedges
SEK 000S 2018 2017
Opening balance, cash-flow hedges 27,543 –122,105
Change in value for the year,  
hedging  instruments –133,293 149,648
Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –105,750 27,543
Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK 27,850 K (12,662) was  transferred to 
profit or loss. The cash flow hedge is included in other income and 
expenses in profit and loss. The reversal to profit and loss has been made 
solely because the hedged item has been recognised in profit and loss. 
The hedging reserve consists solely of ongoing hedges.Return on equity
Return on equity increased from 19.0 to  
30.7 per cent year-on-year.
1Other reserves
SEK 000S 2018 2017
Exchange differences –11,990 –21,453
Pensions in accordance with IAS 19 –26,358 –26,273
Cash flow hedges –105,750 27,543
Other –201 –203
Closing balance, 31 Dec 2018 –144,299 –20,3861. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135.–10–505101520253035
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014−5.81.816.030.7
19.005101520253035
2018 2017 2016 2015 201416.617.319.824.633.1SEK 000S Share capitalOther 
contributed 
capitalOther  
reservesRetained 
earningsTotal  
equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2017 149,254 4,983,959 –167,734 399,487 5,364,966
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — 1,148,612 1,148,612
Other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges — — 191,856 — 157,417
Tax cash flow hedges — — –42,209 — –7,769
Actuarial loss/gain — — –1,042 — –1,042
Exchange differences — — –1,258 — –1,258
Total comprehensive income — — 147,348 1,148,612 1,295,960
Shareholder transactions
Issue/repurchase of shares 273 — — –273 —
Share programmes — 39,598 — — 39,598
Total shareholder transactions 273 39,598 — –273 39,598
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2017 149,527 5,023,557 –20,386 1,547,826 6,700,524
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2018 149,527 5,023,557 –20,386 1,547,826 6,700,524
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — 2,417,795 2,417,795
Other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges — — –170,920 — –170,920
Tax cash flow hedges — — 37,628 — 37,628
Actuarial loss/gain — — –85 — –85
Exchange differences — — 9,463 — 9,463
Total comprehensive income — — –123,914 2,417,795 2,293,881
Shareholder transactions
Issue/repurchase of shares 447 — — –447 —
Share programmes — 45,691 — — 45,691
Total shareholder  
transactions 447 45,691 — –447 45,691
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 149,974 5,069,248 –144,2991 3,965,174 9,040,097fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
66
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Consolidated cash flow statement
SEK 000S Note 2018 2017
Operating activities
Profit for the year 2,417,795 1,148,612
Adjustments for non-cash items –77,051 282,377
Cash flow from operating activities before  
changes in working capital 2,340,744 1,430,989
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –230,844 –183,222
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –678,931 –369,889
Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 659,307 455,064
Cash flow from operating activities 2,090,276 1,332,942
Investing activities
Acquisition of intangible assets1 17 –537,365 –91,922
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 18 –40,512 –47,523
Acquisition of financial assets 20 –700 –737
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 18 3,220 1,204
Cash flow from investing activities –575,537 –138,978
Financing activities
Repayment of loans2 –2,053 –500,000
Cash flow from financing activities –2,053 –500,000
Change in cash and cash equivalents 1,512,866 693,964
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,478,496 785,790
Exchange differences in cash flow 7,380 –1,258
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,998,742 1,478,496
1.  The largest investments during the year affecting cash flow was to the aqusition of Emapalumab, totalling CHF 50 M,  
and further aqusition costs of CHF 2.6 M, SEK 497 M and investments within IT, see Note 17.
2.  Repayment of loans refers to the settlement of a loan of SEK 500 M from Handelsbanken and Danske Bank.Cash flow per share1, SEK M
Cash flow from operations, SEK M
Cash flow for the year
Cash flow for the year totalled SEK 1,513 M.
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 135.–10123456
2018 2017 2016 2015 20141.4
–0.52.55.5
0.3
05001,0001,5002,0002,500
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014234507
3432,090
1,333fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
67
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Consolidated cash flow statement, cont.
Supplemental disclosures to the consolidated cash flow statement
SEK 000S Note 2018 2017
Interest paid and received
Interest received 2,742 1,219
Interest paid –18,259 –13,886
Income tax paid 506,542 28,421
Adjustments for non-cash items
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of non-current assets 7, 17, 18 484,575 485,977
Pensions 28 –85 –1,042
Cost of share programmes1 45,691 39,598
Deferred tax 21 –103,317 174,683
Elocta and Alprolix2 –485,261 –437,660
Other items –18,654 20,821
Total –77,051 282,377
1. IFRS 2 expense associated with the share programmes that is recognised in equity.
2.  Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled and interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi.fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
68
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Parent Company income statement
Parent Company statement of  
comprehensive incomeSEK 000S Note 2018 2017
1–4
Operating revenue 5–6 8,221,227 5,756,370
Cost of goods sold –2,349,466 –1,861,398
Gross profit 5,871,761 3,894,972
Selling and administrative expenses 12 –1,445,001 –1,400,380
Research and development costs –932,394 –854,862
Other operating income 8 5,181 120
Other operating expenses 9 –7,575 –39,824
Operating profit 7, 10, 11, 13, 17, 18 3,491,972 1,600,026
Profit/loss from participations in Group companies 19 — –1,000,000
Financial income 14 34,812 11,656
Financial expenses 15 –69,478 –76,299
Net financial items –34,666 –1,064,643
Profit after financial items 3,457,306 535,383
Group contributions 62,670 58,956
Excess depreciation –460,000 –970,000
Appropriations –397,730 –911,044
Profit/Loss before tax 3,059,976 –375,661
Tax on profit for the year 16 –678,212 –132,175
Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836
SEK 000S 2018 2017
Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836
Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss
Cash flow hedges –170,920 191,856
Tax effect of cash flow hedges 37,628 –42,208
Other comprehensive income –133,292 149,648
Comprehensive income for the year 2,248,472 –358,188fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
69
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Parent Company balance sheet
SEK 000S Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 17
Patents, licenses, trademarks and similar rights 3,800,629 4,057,718
Property, plant and equipment 18
Plant and machinery 87,099 72,441
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 16,197 20,579
Construction in progress 8,567 21,041
Financial assets
Participations in Group companies 19 3,474,608 2,882,333
Other financial assets 20 51,979 32,392
Deferred tax asset 21 10,519 —
Total non-current assets 7,449,598 7,086,504
Current assets
Inventories 22
Raw materials and consumables 17,165 20,905
Work in progress 581,185 536,603
Finished goods and goods for resale 472,462 336,166
Current receivables
Trade receivables 23 589,596 405,702
Other receivables 23 56,989 53,092
Receivables from Group companies 1,465,003 901,936
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 531,782 418,194
Cash and cash equivalents 25 2,761,759 1,381,369
Total current assets 6,475,941 4,053,967
TOTAL ASSETS 13,925,539 11,140,471fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
70
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018SEK 000S Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Restricted equity
Share capital 149,974 149,527
Statutory reserve 800,257 800,257
Total restricted equity 950,231 949,784
Unrestricted equity
Share premium reserve 4,277,038 4,231,347
Retained earnings 121,507 763,083
Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836
Total unrestricted equity 6,780,309 4,486,594
Total equity 7,730,540 5,436,378
Untaxed reserves
Excess depreciation 2,584,000 2,124,000
Total untaxed reserves 2,584,000 2,124,000
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 21 — 10,196
Liability to Sanofi 27 427,699 1,066,833
Provisions 29 80,122 82,443
Total non-current liabilities 507,821 1,159,472
Current liabilities
Trade payables 376,350 312,771
Liabilities to Group companies 644,458 628,848
Tax liabilities 381,580 189,064
Liability to Sanofi 27 676,778 579,895
Other liabilities 27 54,550 27,213
Accrued expenses and deferred income 30 969,462 682,830
Total current liabilities 3,103,178 2,420,621
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,925,539 11,140,471
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 31.fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
71
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Restricted equity Unrestricted equity
SEK 000S Share capital Statutory reserveShare premium 
reserveRetained 
earnings 
 and profit/loss 
for the yearTotal  
equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2017 149,254 800,257 4,191,749 613,708 5,754,968
Cash flow hedges — — — 191,856 191,856
Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — –42,208 –42,208
Issue/repurchase of shares 273 — — –273 —
Share programmes — — 39,598 — 39,598
Profit/loss for the year — — — –507,836 –507,836
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2017 149,527 800,257 4,231,347 255,2471 5,436,378
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2018 149,527 800,257 4,231,347 255,247 5,436,378
Cash flow hedges — — — –170,921 –170,921
Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — 37,628 37,628
Issue/repurchase of shares 447 — — –447 —
Share programmes — — 45,691 — 45,691
Profit/loss for the year — — — 2,381,764 2,381,764
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 149,974 800,257 4,277,038 2,503,271 7,730,540
1Cash flow hedges
SEK 000S 2018 2017
Opening balance, cash-flow hedges 27,543 –122,105
Change in value for the year, hedging 
instruments –133,293 149,648
Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –105,750 27,543
Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK 27,850 K (12,662) was transferred to profit  
or loss. The cash flow hedge is included in other income and expenses in profit 
and loss. The reversal to profit and loss has been made solely because the 
hedged item has been recognised in profit and loss. The hedging reserve 
 consists solely of ongoing hedges.
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to SEK 149,973,582 distributed 
between 273,322,117 ordinary shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55 and 
one voting right. The company held 3,423,726 ordinary shares in treasury at  
the balance-sheet date. The Equity item corresponds to 1.3 per cent of the  
total number of shares in the company.fiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
72
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Parent Company cash flow statement
SEK 000S Note 2018 2017
Operating activities
Profit/Loss for the year 2,381,764 –507,836
Adjustments for non-cash items 301,454 1,897,033
Cash flow from operating activities before changes  
in working capital 2,683,218 1,389,197
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –177,138 –127,290
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –864,446 –319,144
Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 400,152 406,024
Cash flow from operating activities 2,041,786 1,348,787
Investing activities
Investment in subsidiaries –592,274 –195
Acquisition of intangible assets1 17 –42,628 –91,922
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 18 –26,494 –37,411
Cash flow from investing activities –661,396 –129,528
Financing activities
Repayment of loan2 — –500,000
Cash flow from financing activities — –500,000
Change in cash and cash equivalents 1,380,390 719,259
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,381,369 662,110
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,761,759 1,381,369
1.  The largest investment during the year was primarly investments within IT, see Note 17. 
2.   Repayment of loans in 2017 refers to the repayment of a loan of SEK 500 M from Handelsbanken and Danske Bank.
SEK 000S Note 2018 2017
Interest paid and received
Interest received 21,412 11,656
Interest paid –28,691 –22,831
Income tax paid 433,973 —
Adjustments for non-cash items
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets 7, 17, 18 320,816 322,750
Impairment of participations in subsidiaries 19 — 1,000,000
Deferred tax 21 –20,715 –14,616
Cost of share programmes1 45,691 39,598
Excess depreciation 460,000 970,000
Elocta and Alprolix2 –485,261 –437,690
Other items –19,077 16,991
301,454 1,897,033
1. IFRS 2 expense associated with the share programmes that is recognised in equity.
2.  Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled and interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi.Supplemental disclosures to cash flow statement – Parent CompanyfiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs
73
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Notes
1 General information
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 
556038-9321, the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, collectively the Group, 
is a publicly listed international pharmaceutical company dedicated to rare 
diseases. 
The Parent Company is a limited liability company headquartered in 
 Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the head office is Tomtebodavägen 23A, 
Solna, Sweden.
The company has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange (now 
 Nasdaq Stockholm) since 15 September 2006, and as a Large Cap company 
since 2 January 2014.
2  Significant accounting policies and basis  
of preparation for the financial statements  
of the Parent Company and the Group
Summary of significant accounting policies for Groups 
The most significant accounting policies for the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. The 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommenda-
tion RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the EU. The 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the cost method, 
except for financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that 
are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
For the Parent Company’s accounting principles, where these deviate from 
the Group’s, see below.
New and amended standards applied by the Group
The new reporting standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Reve-
nues from Contracts with Customers have been applied since 1 January 2018. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement and includes requirements for the classification 
and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial 
instruments and rules for hedge accounting. One of the changes pertains to 
liabilities measured at fair value. The part of the fair value change that is due to 
changes in own credit risk is to be recognised in other comprehensive income 
rather than profit or loss, unless this causes inconsistencies in the accounts. 
Sobi has no liabilities measured at fair value and is not therefore affected by the 
change. Another change relates to hedge accounting, which requires more 
detailed disclosures on risk management and the effect of hedge accounting. 
Sobi’s hedge accounting will comply with IAS 39 until further notice, with 
disclosures according to IFRS 7. The new hedge accounting requirements will 
have no material impact on current hedging activities. Finally, new policies 
have been introduced for the impairment of financial assets, where the model 
is based on expected losses. Sobi has applied the full retrospective approach 
for the transition, which had no material impact on either earnings or financial 
position. In accordance with IFRS 9, Sobi has chosen not to restate the com-
parative figures.
IFRS 15 contains a comprehensive revenue model for all contracts with 
customers and supersedes existing standards for revenue recognition, includ-
ing IAS 18. Sobi has made a thorough analysis of the effect of IFRS 15 on the 
Group’s financial statements and does not believe that this standard will have 
any material impact on either earnings or financial position. This conclusion 
is based on a review of contracts and transactions, and testing them against 
the standard’s five-step model for revenue recognition. Revenue recognition 
is now fully compliant with IFRS 15 and remains unchanged compared with 
the current standard. Receivables relating to royalty income, which are 
classified in the balance sheet as accrued income, are the assets Sobi classifies as contractual assets. Otherwise, Sobi has no commitments that classify as 
contractual liabilities related to future commitments. Sobi has chosen to apply 
the retrospective approach for the transition.
Otherwise, the same accounting policies were applied as in the preceding 
year. IFRS changes applied as of 2018 have had no material impact on the 
Group’s financial statements. For more information about to the Group’s 
accounting policies for revenue, refer to “Revenues” further down in this Note. 
New standards, interpretations and amendments  
not yet adopted by the Group
The new reporting standard IFRS 16 Leasing comes into effect on 1 January 
2019 and supersedes IAS 17 Leases. The standard establishes new accounting 
requirements for lessees and stipulates that all leases are to be recognised in the 
lessee’s balance sheet as a right of use asset and the associated liability. Previous 
lease payments will be replaced with depreciations and interest expense. 
Sobi has chosen to apply the modified retrospective approach, with no 
effect on equity at 1 January 2019. The modified retrospective approach entails 
that right of use assets, mainly comprising leases for premises and vehicles, 
are consistent with the leasing liability on the transition date of 1 January 2019. 
In connection with the transition, Sobi has chosen to apply the exemption for 
short-term leases and low-value assets. Short-term leases are defined as leases 
with a duration of 12 months or less, and mainly relate to leased vehicles. Low-
value assets essentially relate to computers, printers and copying machines. 
As an effect of the transition, the total value of the Group’s assets on the 
transition date rose by SEK 397 M, corresponding to 2 per cent of the balance 
sheet. The Group’s financial liabilities rose by SEK 397 M, corresponding to 2 
per cent of the balance sheet. The effect of the transition on the key figures 
presented in the Annual Report that contained these parameters is considered 
insignificant. The main effect arises in the alternative performance measure of 
EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation). Refer also to 
Note 10 for lease payments related to operating leases for the 2018 financial year.
Changes in standards and interpretations from IASB and statements from 
IFRIC that came into effect during the 2018 calendar year have not had any 
material impact on the Group.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
General information
The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and 
its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the acqui-
sition method. A business combination is therefore considered a transaction 
in which the Group directly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its 
liab ilities. The consolidated income statement and balance sheet include all 
com panies over which the company directly or indirectly exercise a controlling 
 influence. A controlling influence exists when the company has control over a 
company, is exposed to, or has the right to a variable returns from its involvement 
in the company and can influence returns through its controlling influence. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the controlling influ-
ence is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date on 
which the controlling influence ceases. 
All contingent payments are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. 
Subsequent changes to the fair value of a contingent consideration classified 
as a provision are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. All 
transaction costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed. Identifiable assets 
acquired, as well as liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed through a 
business combination, are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. 
The difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value of the Group’s 
share of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised 
as goodwill. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined on the acquisition 
date when the controlling influence is obtained, and not in connection with 
previous acquisitions. To determine goodwill in step acquisitions, the previous 
holding of equity interests in the acquired company are included, measured at 
fair value, and any gains or losses arising from the revaluation are recognised 
NOTES
74
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20181
2in profit or loss. In every acquisition, the Group determines whether non-con-
trolling interests in the acquiree are measured at fair value, or at the holding’s 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Goodwill is not amortised 
according to plan, but tested annually for impairment. If the net fair value of 
the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds 
the cost, the excess (negative goodwill) is recognised directly in profit or loss. 
Intra-group transactions, balance-sheet items and unrealised gains and 
losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Any losses 
are considered an indication that the transferred asset may be impaired.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are presented from a management perspective, which 
means they are presented on the same basis used for internal reporting. The basis 
for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting, whereby the reporting 
is received and monitored by the chief operating decision-maker. The Group has 
identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. In the internal reporting 
to the CEO, only one segment is used. For more information, see Note 6. 
Currency
Functional and reporting currency
Items included in the financial statements for each of the Group’s entities are 
measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated financial statements 
are presented in Swedish crowns (SEK) which is the Parent Company’s func -
tional and reporting currency.
Transactions and balance-sheet items
Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency 
using the applicable exchange rate on the transaction date. Exchange 
differences arising from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency 
at the closing day rate, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income. Operating items are recognised in operating profit, while other items 
are recognised as financial income or expense.
Translation of foreign subsidiaries
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are established in the respective 
functional currency, meaning the primary economic environment in which 
the company operates. For Sobi’s foreign subsidiaries, all assets, provisions 
and other liabilities are translated into the Group’s presentation currency (SEK) 
at the closing day rate and any exchange differences arising are recognised in 
other comprehensive income. All items in the income statement are translated 
using the average rate for the year. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the 
 closing day rate.
Revenues
Group revenue consists mainly of own products and products where Sobi 
holds the distributions and/or licensing agreements, revenues from manufac -
turing and from royalty agreements.
Revenues include invoiced gross revenue for contracted goods sold 
excluding VAT, discounts, pharmaceutical taxes and returns due to product or 
quality warranties or transport damage, and after the elimination of intra-Group 
sales. Revenues are recognised as follows:
Operating revenue
Revenue from product sales is recognised when Sobi has satisfied its 
performance obligations, which means that the customer has taken control 
over the product. In practice this arises when his normally arises when the 
products have been delivered from the company’s consignment stock to the 
end customer. The commitments associated with the contracts between 
Sobi and the customers consist mainly of distinct goods that are delivered to 
the customer against payment. The products are not customized and are of 
benefit to the customers in the condition they are delivered. The products 
are thus considered to be distinct and separately identifiable. Upon delivery, 
the customer  normally takes over the responsibility for the goods, depending 
on the shipping terms, and then receives an unconditional obligation to pay. 
The Group applies standardised payment terms that vary between countries. 
Usually, payment conditions of 30 to 90 days are applied.The price of the goods is identified in contract. The benefits are partly variable 
before deductions are made for discounts under agreements and for phar -
maceutical taxes. Where these cannot be reliably estimated, an assessment is 
made and the amounts are reserved in the balance sheet.
Contract manufacturing revenue (ReFacto) is recognised when the products 
have been delivered to the customer, meaning the customer has taken control 
over the products. Payment terms are 90 days.
Returns from customers do not generally arise within Sobi, since the return 
of expired products does not constitute a reason for return. There are product 
and quality warranties for any defective products, and a transport warranty 
if the product is damaged during transport, provided that Sobi has been 
responsible for the transport. Should the latter arise, a claim is made against the 
insurance company.
Royalty revenue is recognised according to agreement. Revenue is recog-
nized monthly over time, with quarterly reconciliation and invoicing. ding to 
agreement, Sobi is entitled to royalties on sold goods. Accrued royalties, which 
are also classified as contractual assets according to IFRS 15, are recognised in 
the balance sheet under prepaid expenses and accrued income. Standardised 
payment terms are 45 days after the end of the quarter.
Sobi has no contractual agreements where performance obligations extend 
beyond 12 months after balance-sheet date.
Revenues may also include revenue from licensing agreements, including 
out-licensing revenue and milestone payments. Milestone payments refer to 
partial payments received from partners triggered by the achievement of a 
 specific part of a partnering agreement, such as regulatory approval of a jointly 
developed product. This type of revenue is recognised when the contracted 
event has taken place and the revenue is certain to materialise.Due to various 
agreement formulations, the initial license fee can be recognised in two ways. 
The revenue is either recognised directly when the license fee is received, or 
allocated over its estimated duration. In 2017 and 2018, Sobi did not recognise 
any licence fees or milestone payments.
Service fees are remuneration for sales and marketing services related to 
some Partner Products during a contractual term. Revenue is recognised 
over time. 
When the Group has undertaken to carry out research and development 
assignments and receives payment for services provided by the Group, this is 
recognised over time as the assignments are carried out. Revenue from research 
collaborations is recognised in the period in which the work is performed.
Government grants
Government grants are recognised when the company fulfils the requirements 
associated with the grant and when it can be established with certainty that the 
subsidy will be received. Grants received are recognised in the balance sheet 
as deferred income and recognised in the period in which the cost associated 
with the grant is recognised. 
Sobi mainly receives government grants in the form of reduced employer’s 
contributions for research for commercial purposes, which is fully utilised, and 
research grants from the EU. A minor share of Sobi projects is financed with 
government grants.
Other operating income/expenses
Other operating income and expenses are revenues and costs arising from 
activities outside the normal operations. These items include exchange-rate 
effects on operating receivables and liabilities. Accumulated gains or losses 
on cash-flow hedges in equity are reclassified to other operating income/
expenses in the period in which the hedged item impacts earnings. For more 
information, see Notes 8 and 9.
Classifications
Within the Group, assets and liabilities are classified as either current or non-  
current. Current receivables and liabilities fall due within one year of the balance-  
sheet date. Non-current receivables and liabilities essentially consist of amounts 
expected to be settled later than one year from the balance-sheet date.
Intangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of product rights, licenses, patents and acquired R&D is charged 
to selling and administrative expenses. Amortisation of capitalised costs, etc, is 
also charged to selling and administrative expenses. For more information, see 
Note 7. Note 2, cont.
NOTES
75
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182Goodwill
Goodwill consists of the amount by which the cost exceeds the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the acquired subsidiary/associated company’s net identifiable 
assets on the acquisition date. Goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is recogn-
ised as an intangible asset. When associated companies are acquired, goodwill 
is included in the value of the holding in the associated company. Goodwill is 
tested annually for impairment and recognised at cost less any accumulated 
impairment. Gains or losses on the disposal of an entity include the remaining 
carrying amount of goodwill attributable to the discontinued unit. 
Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights are recognised at cost less accumulated amor -
tisation. They have a limited useful life and are amortised to spread the cost 
over this period (5 to 20 years). Straight-line amortisation is carried out over 
the useful life, based on the expected earnings of each product and marketing 
right. Amortisation is classified as selling expenses. For more information, 
see Note 4.
Licenses och patent
The cost and amortisation of licenses are treated in the same way as product 
and marketing rights above. Patents are expensed directly.
Research and development costs
Costs for development projects are recognised as intangible assets if the 
company can demonstrate that it is technically possible to complete and 
profitably commercialise the results, and only if the costs for the project can be 
measured reliably. In practice, this means that the costs cannot be capitalised 
until the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the European Commission 
have granted approval. Acquired development projects are capitalised on the 
acquisition date. Amortisation is carried out to allocate the cost of develop-
ment projects over their estimated useful lives, and does not commence until 
the project begins to generate revenue. Other research and development costs 
that do not meet the relevant recognition criteria of IAS 38 are recognised 
when incurred.
Capitalised costs
Software and IT projects in progress
Acquired software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred 
when the relevant software is acquired and available for use. These costs are 
amortised over the estimated useful life of the software. 
Costs associated with developing or maintaining software are recognised as 
an expense when incurred. Costs directly associated with identifiable software 
products developed specifically for Sobi that are controlled by the company 
and will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one 
year, are recognised as intangible assets. Direct costs include expenses for 
employees working on software development and a reasonable proportion 
of overhead costs.
Costs to enhance the performance of software or extend its useful life 
(development costs) beyond the original plan are capitalised and added to 
the initial cost of the software. 
Amortisation according to plan for software recognised as an asset is 
performed using the straight-line method over its useful life up to a maximum 
of three years.
Manufacturing relocation costs 
Costs are capitalised when the manufacturing of Sobi’s products is relocated. 
Amortisation commences when the asset is available for use. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if 
it is probable that future economic rewards will accrue to the company and the 
cost of the asset at acquisition can be measured reliably. 
All property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less depreciation. 
The cost includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. 
Additional costs are added to the carrying amount of the asset or recognised as 
a separate asset, depending on which is appropriate, only when it is probable 
that the future economic rewards associated with the asset will accrue to the 
Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. All other forms of 
repair and maintenance are recognised as costs in profit or loss as incurred.Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated according to plan over their 
estimated useful life. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the 
asset’s estimated useful life, with consideration for residual value. The following 
depreciation periods are applied:
Plant and machinery
• Laboratory equipment and other investments 3–7 years
• Other major investments, such as property refurbishment 5–20 years
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings
• Servers and other large computer hardware 3–5 years
• Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5–10 years
Land and buildings
• Buildings  20 years
• Land indefinite useful life
The residual value and useful life of the assets are assessed at each balance- 
sheet date and adjusted if necessary. 
An asset’s carrying amount is immediately depreciated to its recoverable 
amount if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated recoverable 
amount. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of property, plant and 
equipment is determined by the difference between the selling price and the 
carrying amount less direct selling costs. The profit/loss item is recognised as 
other operating income or other operating expenses. 
Leased assets are classified in the consolidated financial statements as either 
finance or operating leases. Leased non-current assets where Sobi is responsi-
ble for the same risks and rewards as direct ownership are classified as finance 
leases. The asset is recognised as a non-current asset in the balance sheet. 
Corresponding obligations for future lease payments are recognised as current 
or non-current liabilities. The leased assets are depreciated according to plan, 
while the lease payments are recognised as interest and repayment of debts. 
Leased assets where the lessor essentially retains ownership of the asset are 
classified as operating leases and the lease payment is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the term of the lease. For more information, see Note 10.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
Goodwill, which has an indeterminable useful life, and intangible assets not 
yet available for use, are not depreciated but tested annually for impairment 
or when there is any indication that the value of an asset has declined. 
Product and marketing rights that are depreciated are also tested annually for 
impairment since the carrying amount is significant for the Group. Other assets 
that are depreciated are tested for impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An asset is impaired if its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
An impairment is thus the difference between the carrying amount and the 
recoverable amount where the recoverable amount is defined as the higher of 
an asset’s net realisable value and value in use. When calculating the value in 
use, future cash flows that the asset is expected to generated are discounted 
at a rate equivalent to Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC). 
When assessing goodwill impairment, this is grouped at the lowest levels 
for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Sobi has made the 
assessment that the Group’s operations as a whole comprise a cash-generating 
unit. Any impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairments of assets other 
than goodwill are reversed if there has been any change in the conditions 
used to determine the recoverable amount. Reversal amounts do not exceed 
the  carrying amount that would have been recognised, less depreciation, if 
no impairment had been performed. Impairment testing of goodwill, product 
and marketing rights, and development projects is described in Note 17.
Financial instruments
A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in a 
company and a financial liability or an equity instrument in another company. 
Financial instruments include contract-based rights to receive cash, such as 
trade receivables.Note 2, cont.
NOTES
76
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories:
1. Assets measured at amortised cost
2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost
4. Derivatives
The classification depends on the purpose for which the instruments were 
acquired and the type of financial instrument. Management determines how 
the instruments will be classified in connection with initial recognition and 
reviews this decision on each reporting date. Assets expected to mature or be 
sold within twelve months, and liabilities with no unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance-sheet date, 
are classified as current assets or current liabilities. Other assets and liabilities 
are classified as non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss are 
measured at fair value on the transaction date, including transaction costs in 
the balance sheet. Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit 
or loss are initially measured at fair value, while related transaction costs are 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include such assets as 
cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and endowment policies. Financial 
liabilities mainly include trade payables, liabilities to Sanofi and Novimmune, 
the latter recognised under other liabilities, and loans.
1. Assets measured at amortised cost
Assets are classified in this category if both of the following criteria can be met:
1. The business model objective for the financial asset is to collect its 
contractual cash flows
2. The terms of the financial asset give rise to fixed or determinable pay-
ments and these are solely payments of interest and principal amounts
The Group’s assets in this category consist of trade and other receivables and 
cash and cash equivalents. These are measured at amortised cost less any 
impairment. The maturities of trade receivables are mainly short, which is 
why the value is initially recognised at nominal amounts without discounting. 
Any impairment of trade receivables in the Group will use a model based on 
expected future losses, which have been calculated using historical losses 
and forward-looking estimates. Any impairment of trade receivables based on 
expected future losses, which are assessed individually like trade receivables, 
is recognised in operating expenses. 
2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss  
(excluding derivatives)
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial 
assets that are not derivatives or that do not meet the requirements for being 
measured at amortised cost (see above). This category includes the Group’s 
endowment policies. 
3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost 
This category includes financial liabilities not available for sale including loans, 
trade payables and lease liabilities. Liabilities in this category are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. Borrowings are initially 
measured at fair value, net after transactions costs. Borrowings are subse-
quently measured at amortised cost and any difference between the amount 
received and the repayment amount is recognised in profit or loss over the 
term of the loan, using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified 
as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement 
of the liability until twelve months after the balance-sheet date.
4. Derivatives 
Derivatives are only used as financial security, not for speculative purposes. 
Sobi differentiates between derivatives included in a effective hedging relation-
ship and other derivatives held for sale. Derivatives are measured at fair value in 
the balance sheet, both initially and in subsequent revaluations, and recognised 
as either an asset or a liability, depending on whether their fair value is positive 
or negative. 
Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are recognised 
in profit or loss. Derivatives held to manage risk in the financial operations are 
recognised in net financial items, while derivatives held to manage risk in the 
operational results are recognised in other income/expenses. See below for the 
recognition of derivatives that meet the criteria for hedge accounting.Hedge accounting
The Group applies hedge accounting for currency risk and uses derivative 
instruments and loans in this hedging relationships. The method for recognis-
ing the resulting gains or losses from the revaluation of loans or derivatives in 
hedge accounting depends on whether the instrument has been identified as 
a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, or as a hedge of the fair value. 
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in fair value of a derivative instrument 
identified as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The gain or loss pertaining to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in profit or loss. Accumulated gains or losses in equity are reclassified to profit 
or loss in the periods in which the hedged item affects the results. If a hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting and there are accumulated gains or losses from hedging 
in equity, these gains or losses remain in equity and are recognised in profit or 
loss when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. If a loan is designated 
as a hedging instrument for foreign-exchange risk, the effective portion of the 
revaluation effect pertaining to exchange rate fluctuations is recognised in the 
same way as for derivatives, while other parts of the loan are recognised as a 
loan not included in a hedge.
Fair value hedges
Fair value hedges are only made with derivative instruments. When hedging fair 
value, derivatives are recognised in profit or loss together with changes in the 
fair value of the hedged item pertaining to the portion that is exposed to the 
hedged risk and included in the hedging relationship. 
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calcu -
lated using the first in, first out principle (FIFO). Net realisable value is the expected 
selling price in operating activities less selling expenses. Obsolescence risk and 
established obsolescence have been taken into account in the measurement.
Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents of the Parent Company and the Group include 
the balances of the consolidated accounts and other bank accounts, and 
investments with a maturity of less than three months from the acquisition date. 
Equity
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction costs directly attributable 
to the issue of new shares or options are recognised in equity, net after tax,  
as a deduction from the proceeds.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when Sobi has a legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and where 
it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation. It must also be possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount. 
Provisions are recognised in the amount corresponding to the best estimate 
of the payment required to settle the obligation. If the outflow of resources is 
expected to take place at a point far in the future, the expected future cash flow 
is discounted and the provision is recognised at its present value. The discount 
rate corresponds with the market rate before tax, and the risks associated with 
the liability. Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet under other current 
and non-current liabilities. 
Provisions for restructuring which substantially change the way in which 
Sobi works are recognised when a detailed and formal restructuring plan has 
been established and publicly announced, at which point clear expectations 
are created that the plan will be implemented. Provisions for restructuring often 
include benefits at termination, which can be either voluntary or involuntary. 
Termination benefits are recognised as described above, except in those cases 
in which a requirement for service is linked to the benefit, in which case costs 
are distributed over the period in which the services are carried out. Restructur -
ing provisions entail estimates of the time and cost of planned future activities. 
The most significant estimates relate to those costs required for severance pay 
or other obligations in connection with termination of employment, as well as 
costs for the termination of agreements and other costs for withdrawal. Such 
estimates are based on the actual situation in negotiations with the affected 
parties and/or their representatives. Salaries relating to periods following the Note 2, cont.
NOTES
77
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182termination of duty to work are expensed when the decision is made and 
communicated.
Sobi recognises endowment policies gross in the balance sheet as a financial 
asset and a provision. Refer to the section on direct pensions under Remuner -
ation of employees.
Sobi has a provision for site restoration related to restoration of the leased 
property Paradiset 14 when the lease expires. The company recognises this 
item as a provision in the balance sheet.
Cash-based programmes for employees are treated as a provision until the 
programme expires.
Taxes
Taxes in the statement of comprehensive income comprise current and 
deferred tax. Current tax is tax that will be paid or received in the current year, 
and current tax attributable to previous years. Deferred tax is calculated using 
the liability method, based on temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred tax 
is measured using the tax rates and tax rules enacted or substantively enacted 
on the balance-sheet date. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences in consolidated 
goodwill, nor for temporary differences attributable to participations in subsid-
iaries, since it is unlikely that such a reversal will take place in the foreseeable 
future. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are divided 
between deferred tax liabilities and equity. Deferred tax assets for deductible 
temporary differences and loss carry-forwards are only recognised to the extent 
it is probable they will be utilised. Tax is recognised under Tax on profit/loss for the 
year in the statement of comprehensive income except for those items recognised 
under other comprehensive income or equity. See also Notes 16 and 21.
Employee benefits
Pensions
Sobi has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans, 
and the vast majority of employees are covered by and recognised in the 
defined-contribution pension plans. At 31 December 2018, five people in the 
Norwegian subsidiary and two people in the Swedish Parent Company were 
covered by defined-benefit plans, while other employees are covered by 
defined-contribution plans.
Recognition of defined-contribution pension plans and management by Alecta
The CEO and management are mainly covered by defined-contribution plans. 
A defined-contribution pension plan provides a contribution to a pension plan, 
determined as a percentage of the pensionable salary. The level of pension 
benefits at retirement is determined by premiums paid and the return on 
investments, less management costs.
Pension costs for the defined-contribution plans are charged to earnings 
as they are earned. Pension commitments are calculated without discounting, 
since the payments for these plans fall due within 12 months. 
Commitments for retirement pensions and family pensions for white-collar 
employees in Sweden are insured through Alecta. According to the Financial 
Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for ITP 2 plans financed by 
insurance in Alecta, this is a defined-benefit plan covering multiple employers. 
For the financial years of 2005–2018, the company did not have access to 
the information required to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan, 
which is why the ITP pension plan insured through Alecta is recognised as a 
defined-contribution plan. 
A special employer’s contribution is calculated on pension premiums.
Recognition of defined-benefit pension plans
In defined benefit plans, the pension is determined as a percentage of the 
pensionable final salary, based on the employee’s length of service and average 
final salary. The Group is responsible for ensuring that the established benefits 
are paid out. 
The defined-benefit pension commitments are recognised in the balance 
sheet as the net total of the estimated present value of the commitments 
and the fair value of the plan assets, which are recognised as a provision or a 
non-current financial receivable. 
For defined-benefit plans, pension costs and commitments are calculated 
according to the applicable principles of IAS 19. This calculation is performed 
annually by independent actuaries. The company’s commitments are measured at the present value of expected 
future payments. When discounting commitments in Sweden, a discount rate 
equal to the interest on mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the 
relevant commitments is applied. The most important actuarial assumptions 
are described in Note 28. 
Actuarial gains and losses may arise in connection with the determination 
of the present value of the commitments and the fair value of plan assets. 
These arise either because the fair value differs from the previous assumption, 
or the assumptions change. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Interest expense, less the estimated return on plan assets, is classified as a 
financial expense. Other expense items in the pension costs are charged to 
operating profit. 
The accounting principle for defined benefit pension plans described above 
applies only to the consolidated financial statements.
Direct pensions 
For some senior executives, their pension plan has been supplemented with 
direct pension commitments. In these cases, the Parent Company, over time, 
has taken out endowment policies pledged to the employee as collateral for 
the agreement. Endowment policies taken out by the Parent Company are 
classified as a financial asset in the balance sheet, since they are a long-term 
holding, and measured at fair value, while the pension commitment to the 
employee is recognised under provisions for pensions. A provision for special 
payroll tax is also recognised for the endowment policies. Premiums paid into 
the endowment policies are not deductible. However, the payment to the 
beneficiary is deductible. 
Long-term incentive programmes
Sobi currently has five active share programmes. The fair value of the allotted 
share programmes is estimated on the issue date using a generally accepted 
modelling technique, the Monte Carlo simulation model, whereby market-re-
lated conditions are taken into account. The 2018 share programme, which 
covers the CEO, senior executives and managers, includes a revenue compo-
nent whereby the fair value of the allotted shares may fluctuate, depending on 
the assumptions of target achievement. The total amount to be expensed is 
based on the fair value of the shares allotted. 
The total amount is recognised as a personnel cost in profit or loss, 
distributed over the vesting period, and corresponding adjustments are made 
in equity. At the end of every quarter, the Group reviews its assessments of how 
many shares are expected to be vested based on the service requirement. The 
shares are delivered to the employee when vested under the framework of the 
programmes. 
The Group also has four long-term cash-based incentive programmes 
that do not constitute share-based remuneration. Three of these comprise all 
employees in the US and one of them relates to a number of senior executives 
in Sweden. Since remuneration under these programmes is contingent on 
continued employment at the company, the costs are recognised continuously 
over the vesting period. A liability is calculated on each balance-sheet date 
based on the market value, renewed assessments of target achievement 
and how much has been earned. The net of these effects is recognised as a 
personnel cost in consolidated profit or loss. 
The social security costs are revalued at the end of every quarter until settle-
ment takes place, and allocated using the same principles as the cost for shares. 
A more detailed description of the long-term incentive programmes can be 
found in Note 11.
Compensation for termination
A provision for the termination of employees is only recognised if the company 
is demonstrably obliged to terminate a position before the normal period 
of service has ended, or if compensation is offered to encourage voluntary 
resignation, such as a retirement package. In cases where the company 
terminates employment, a detailed plan is prepared that, at a minimum, 
contains information about the workplace, positions and approximate number 
of individuals concerned, as well as the compensation for each employee 
category or position and the schedule for the plan’s implementation.Note 2, cont.
NOTES
78
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible commitment 
arising from past events and whose existence is confirmed by only one or more 
uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised 
as a liability or a provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will 
be required.
Parent Company’s accounting policies
The Annual report for Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), the Parent Company, 
has been prepared according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish 
Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities 
and statements from the Financial Reporting Board. The Parent Company applies 
the same accounting policies as the Group with the following exceptions:
Employee benefits/defined benefit plans
The Parent Company applies the provisions of the Swedish pension commit-
ments Vesting Act when calculating defined-benefit pension plans, which is a 
prerequisite for tax deductibility. The most significant differences compared 
with the requirements under IAS 19 are how the discount rate is established, 
that the calculation of the defined-benefit commitment is based on current 
salary levels without assumptions on future salary increases, and that all 
actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income as 
they arise. Refer to Note 29 for more information.
Leased assets
All of the Parent Company’s leases are recognised according to the rules for 
operating leases.
Taxes
Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal 
entities.
Subsidiaries
Participations in subsidiaries are recognised using the cost method. The 
value of subsidiaries is tested when there is an indication of a decline in value. 
Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised as revenue. Transaction 
costs associated with the acquisition of companies are expensed. Contingent 
considerations are recognised as part of the cost if it is probable that they will 
materialise. If, in subsequent periods, the initial assessment needs to be revised, 
the acquisition cost must be adjusted.
Group contributions
Sobi applies the alternative rule and, consequently, reports all group contribu-
tions received/provided as appropriations.
Accounting principles of the Parent Company
The Parent Company´s financial statements are prepared in accordance with 
the Swedish Financial Reporting Board´s recommendations RFR 2, Reporting 
by legal Entities, and the Annual Accounts Act.
The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which 
is also the presentation currency for the Parent Company and the Group. The 
financial statements are consequently presented in SEK. 
All amounts are stated in thousands of Swedish kronor (SEK thousands) unless 
otherwise stated. Assets and liabilities are measured at historical cost, except for 
certain financial assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value. 
In order to prepare the financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, the Board of Directors and management make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the company’s earnings and financial 
position, as well as other information disclosed. These estimates and assump-
tions are based on historical experience and are regularly revised. 
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have a 
significant impact on the financial statements and estimates made have not 
resulted in any material adjustments to the financial statements of subsequent 
years. The accounting policies stated above are applied consistently in the 
financial statements that are published, and are based on IFRS. 
The figures for previous years in the tables and notes have been adjusted 
due to changes in the current and deferred tax for previous years, but that were 
identified during the year. 
The amounts and figures in parenthesis are comparative figures for 2017. 
See also Note 4.3 Financial risk management
Financial risks and risk management
Through its operations, Sobi is exposed to various kinds of risks that may 
impact the company’s earnings and financial position. The risks can be divided 
into operational risks and financial risks. Financial risks refer to a potentially 
negative impact on the financial position resulting from changes in the financial 
risk factors. Below is a description of the financial risk factors deemed most 
significant for Sobi, and how they are managed. Operational risks are also 
described in a separate section of the Directors’ Report.
Financial risk is managed at central level by Sobi’s treasury function, which is 
also responsible for the Group’s financing, ensuring that solutions are in place 
for liquidity monitoring and payments, continuously monitoring financial risk 
and supporting the business operations in finance-related issues.
The finance policy, which is adopted by the Board, establishes the division of 
responsibilities and control of financial matters between the Board, CEO, CFO 
and the treasury function. The Board has appointed an Audit Committee tasked 
with, among other things, monitoring the structure of the finance policy and, if 
necessary, suggesting changes to the Board. The main objective of the finance 
policy is to maintain a low level of financial risk and to manage risk safely.
Financial risk factors
Currency risk – Commercial transaction risk
Commercial transaction risk is the risk that changes in exchange rates will 
have a negative impact on operating profit during the period until a transaction 
is settled. Since the subsidiaries largely have commercial flows in their local 
currencies, this risk is limited. This risk is significant for the Parent Company 
since the Parent Company has considerable commercial flows in foreign 
currencies, mainly EUR and USD, which are not naturally matched with Sobi’s 
functional currency (SEK). The Parent Company mainly purchases in EUR 
and USD and invoices the internal distribution companies in their domestic 
currency. The most significant currency surplus is EUR, and arises because 
most of Sobi’s subsidiaries have EUR as their functional currency. This risk 
is managed by limiting the net exposure, meaning the net of all positive and 
negative exposures in each currency, and by investing in financial instruments, 
such as currency futures. 
Some of this transaction risk is managed by applying hedge accounting, 
using cash-flow hedges of highly probable inflows in USD, mainly in relation 
to Elocta and Alprolix. This means that the effect of the remeasurement 
of liabilities related to Elocta and Alprolix to Sanofi are recognised in other 
comprehensive income, and accumulated profit or loss from these remeasure-
ments are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged inflows affect profit or 
loss. See Notes 17 and 27 for more information about these liabilities.
The currencies with the largest net exposures are shown in the diagram 
below. The amounts shown in the diagram correspond to the Group’s net 
annual volumes.
Commercial transaction exposure
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
Other USD EUR2018 average
2017 average9042,969
510643
224 297SEK MKommersiell transaktionsexponering
Currency risk – Financial transaction risk
Financial transaction risk refers to the risk of changes in exchange rates having 
a negative impact on net financial items. Financial transaction risk is managed 
at central level by the treasury function of the Parent Company. This is carried 
out by generally denominating the loans and investments of subsidiaries in 
their local currencies with the Parent Company, and that external loans and 
investments are mainly made by the Parent Company.Note 2, cont.
NOTES
79
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182
3This risk is managed by matching all transactions in their respective currencies, 
including receivables, liabilities and other items that are restated in net finan-
cial items, and by limiting any net exposure of a sufficiently large amount, 
compared with a fixed measure according to the finance policy, by investing 
in financial instruments, such as currency futures. The currencies with the 
largest net exposures are shown in the diagram below. The amounts shown 
in the diagram correspond to the net amounts (including derivatives) that, in 
average over the year, were restated in net financial items, and net amounts 
on the balance-sheet date. Total exposure amounted to SEK 644 M (271). An 
instantaneous and permanent change of +/– 10 per cent in all rates against the 
SEK would have an impact of +/–  SEK 64 M (27) on financial profit before tax. 
The high exposure towards CHF at year-end 2018 was temporary and 
resulted from the acquisition of the rights for emapalumab. The derivatives 
outstanding on the balance-sheet date are presented in the table below. 
The increase of the derivatives in USD and EUR is attributable to hedging of 
future transactions related to the acquisition of Synagis.
Financial transaction exposure
–300–200–1000100200
Other USD EUR CHF16174159
106 10176
–5
–288
20172018 SEK MFinansiell transaktionsexponering
Outstanding derivatives (nominal amounts in millions, local currency)
2018 2017
USD 880 –30
EUR –417 –29
CHF –29 —
GBP — –1
CAD –5 –5
Currency risk – translation exposure
Translation risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will have a negative 
impact on equity when the balance sheets and income statements of foreign 
subsidiaries are translated into SEK. The currency risk in equity is controlled by 
ensuring that the subsidiaries’ equity is kept at a reasonable level. The diagram 
of translation risk shows the company’s sensitivity to this risk. The diagram 
shows how the translation effect on the Group’s equity would be positive if the 
SEK weakened, and vice versa. If the SEK, for example, were to weaken 2 per 
cent against all currencies, the translation effect on consolidated equity would 
be SEK 18.4 M (3.4).
Translation risk
Currency change in SEK, %
SEK M, 
Eﬀect on 
equity–5–4–3–2–1012345
45.9 36.7 27.5 18.4 9.2 0 –9.2 –18.4 –27.5 –36.7 –45.9Interest rate risk
Interest-rate risk is the risk that Sobi would be adversely impacted by changes 
in interest rates, both on profits through changes in general interest rates and 
on instruments with fixed interest rates through changes in market values. 
Changes in market values are considered acceptable since Sobi’s general 
principle is to minimise its earnings volatility. Sobi’s exposure to interest-rate 
risk mainly occurs through external loans and cash.
Sobi’s financing sources primarily consist of equity, cash flow from operating 
activities and borrowings. In the case of interest-bearing borrowings, the 
Group is exposed to interest-rate risk. Sobi’s long-term interest-bearing 
financing comprises an undrawn revolving credit facility of SEK 1,000 M with 
Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) and Danske Bank A/S, Denmark, Swedish 
branch. The original term of this facility was three years, but has now been 
extended to 27 June 2020. In November 2018, Sobi raised a new credit facility 
of EUR 870 M with BNP Paribas FORTIS SA/NV, Danske Bank A/S, Skandinaviska 
Enskilda Banken AB (publ) and Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). This facility 
is divided into three tranches with maturities ranging from three to five years. 
One of the tranches is a four-year revolving credit facility of EUR 335 M and the 
other two tranches are credit facilities of five years and EUR 335 M, and three 
years and EUR 200 M, respectively.
There were no outstanding interest-rate derivatives on the balance-sheet 
date. The liability to Bioverativ is non-interest bearing by agreement, but 
is discounted in the financial statements and therefore recognised as an 
interest expense.
The sensitivity to interest-rate changes on earnings is measured by assuming 
a sustained interest-rate change of 1 percentage point. At 31 December 2018, 
such a change would have had an annual impact of SEK 0 M (0) on net financial 
items. At 31 December 2018, Sobi’s interest-bearing liabilities amounted to 
SEK 4 M (7).
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if a counterparty does not meet its obli-
gations. Credit risk can be divided up into credit risk in trade receivables, and 
financial credit risk.
Sobi’s credit risk is mainly related to trade receivables. On the balance-sheet 
date, these amounted to SEK 1,665 M (1,129), of which SEK 518 M (290) was 
past due, see Note 23 for information about overdue trade receivables. Sobi’s 
customers are mainly hospitals and government administrations, which means 
that these are largely funded by the government of each respective country. If 
Sobi deems that a claim will not be honoured, provisions for expected credit 
losses must be made in accordance with the principles described in Note 2. 
At 31 December 2018, these amounted to SEK 70 M (35). Normally there is no 
collateral for the credit risk associated with trade receivables.
Credit rating reports are obtained for both distribution agreements and 
individual transactions, when the customer is not previously known or when 
other circumstances give rise to uncertainty regarding creditworthiness. Credit 
reports must be obtained from a market-recognised rating agency. A credit limit 
is established for every customer, and continuously monitored and evaluated. 
In its finance policy, Sobi has established principles that limit the amount 
of exposure to financial credit risk per counterparty. To further limit financial 
credit risk, financial transactions are mainly conducted with banks with a high 
official credit rating. Investment of any surplus liquidity are made in instruments 
with a low level of credit risk and a high level of liquidity. Investments are 
only permitted in instruments issued by the Swedish Government and banks, 
financial institutions and enterprises with a minimum credit rating of A from 
Standard & Poor’s, or an equivalent rating from another rating agency. A high 
level of liquidity means that the investments can be converted into liquid funds 
at any given time.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Sobi cannot raise financing on acceptable terms, 
or meet its payment obligations due to factors beyond Sobi’s control. How 
the liquidity risk should be managed is described in the finance policy. Both 
short and long-term forecasts of the Group’s liquidity are regularly compiled to 
ensure there is sufficient cash and undrawn credit facilities to meet the needs 
of the day-to-day operations. According to the policy, there must also be a 
liquidity reserve the size of which should be based on a proportion of annual 
sales. The liquidity reserve comprises bank balances, current investments and 
the undrawn amount of the granted credit facilities. At 31 December 2018, the 
company’s undrawn granted credit facilities totalled SEK 10,075 M (1,135).Note 3, cont.
NOTES
80
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20183The long-term financing sources comprise a revolving credit facility of 
SEK 1,000 M with Handelsbanken and Danske Bank that expires on 27 June 
2020, and a new credit facility of EUR 870 M that Sobi raised in November with 
BNP Paribas FORTIS SA/NV, Danske Bank A/S, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken 
AB (publ) and Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). See more above, under the 
section on interest-rate risk.The credit agreements contains customary terms 
regarding limitations on the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio and interest cov-
erage ratio. The credit agreements also contain limitations with regard to any 
significant changes in the company’s ownership structure (change of control). 
These credit conditions have been met. Sobi also has a SEK 135 M overdraft 
facility with Handelsbanken, with a term of more than three months. The 
facilities, as well as the overdraft facility, were undrawn on the balance-sheet 
date. The new liabilities have been raised to finance the acquisition of Synagis.
The following table shows the contractual, non-discounted cash flows from 
the Group’s financial liabilities, divided according to the time remaining on the 
balance-sheet date until the contractual maturity date.
Maturity analysis
AT 31 DECEMBER 2018Less than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Derivatives 8,181 — — —
Trade payables 486,972 — — —
Other liabilities1 3,639,695 1,130,357 599 —
Total 4,135,843 1,130,357 599 —
AT 31 DECEMBER 2017Less than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Loans payable 2,624 — — —
Trade payables 358,449 — — —
Other liabilities1 1,624 3,700 1,707,761 —
Total 362,967 3,700 1,707,761 —
1. Other liabilities mainly pertain to the liability to Sanofi. The liability to Sanofi is recorded at the 
nominal amount according to the contract. Repayment of the liability to Sanofi in USD will mainly 
take place via royalty revenue in USD, see Note 17.
Capital risk
The goal of Sobi’s capital structure is to generate high shareholder returns, 
value for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure in 
order to keep capital costs at a reasonable level. The capital structure can be 
adapted to the needs arising by changing the dividend to shareholders, repay-
ing capital to shareholders, issuing new shares or selling assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s equity/assets ratio forms the basis of the Group’s capital 
structure assessment. The company’s target is an equity/assets ratio of at least 
40 per cent. At 31 December 2018, the equity/assets ratio was as follows:
2018 2017
Equity 9,040,097 6,700,524
Total assets 17,183,157 10,902,907
Equity/assets ratio, % 52.6 61.5
4  Significant accounting judgements, estimates  
and assumptions
The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future, and accounting 
judgements. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
entailing a considerable risk of material adjustments in the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities in the upcoming financial year are presented below.
ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS 
Revenues
The Group assesses the likelihood of future economic rewards accruing to the 
Group on the basis of several factors, including a customer’s payment history 
and credit rating. If the Group makes the assessment that a receivable will not paid, a provision for expected credit loss will be made in accordance with 
principles described in Note 2. When revenue is recognised, each agreement is 
interpreted separately and the company makes an assessment if any remining 
commitments exists.
Revenue is recognised when control has been transferred to the buyer, 
depending on the shipping terms. Revenues are calculated as invoiced gross 
revenue according to agreement less variable remuneration corresponding 
to actual and estimated discounts to public and private customers, pharma-
ceutical taxes, and adjustments for deliveries where control has not yet been 
transferred to the buyer. 
Since actual and final conditions for discounts and pharmaceutical taxes on 
sales in the current period are not always known on the balance-sheet date, 
some of the deductions from gross revenue are based on estimates. See also 
Note 2 on revenue recognition of license fees and milestone revenue.
Inventories
Production costs
Costs for production consist of direct production costs, such as raw materials, 
consumables, media and manpower, as well as indirect costs, such as person-
nel costs, depreciation and maintenance. 
Calculation of indirect production costs is based on a method for calculating 
standard costs. This method is regularly revised in order to ensure reasonable 
calculation of the utilisation rate, lead times and other relevant factors. 
Changes in the method of calculating indirect production costs, including the 
utilisation rate, lead times etc., may have an impact on gross margins and the 
overall valuation of inventories.
Research and development costs
The company conducts research and development as internal projects and 
with external partners. In cases where the company carries out projects with an 
external partner and both parties share certain costs, the costs are estimated 
when the project commences. This cost is then used as a basis for settlement 
with the external partner. The calculation is assessed and updated regularly. 
In some collaborative agreements, the company agrees to make milestone 
payments. These payments are capitalised as research and development, and 
amortisation does not commence until the project has reached the commer -
cialisation phase and meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Evalu-
ation of a project’s progress and impairment testing are performed regularly, at 
least annually. There has been no write-down of intangible assets in 2018.
Costs for internal development and payments for projects and substances 
under agreement with third parties are expensed continuously if they do not 
meet the requirements of IAS 38. Rules and uncertainty usually mean that the 
criteria are not fulfilled. However, in cases where the requirements are met, 
intangible assets are capitalised and amortised according to plan. Capitalisation 
commences when the company can demonstrate that it is technically feasible 
and profitable to commercialise the results. For a sensitivity analysis, see Note 17.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Intangible assets
The Group’s intangible assets are essentially attributable to goodwill, devel-
opment projects, licence, product and marketing rights. Goodwill arose on 
the acquisition of Swedish Orphan. Annual impairment testing of goodwill, 
development projects, product rights and marketing rights is based on their 
recoverable amounts, including essential assumptions such as sales growth, 
margins and discount rates. See below and Note 17.
Goodwill
The Group conducts regular goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with 
the policy described in Note 2. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is determined by calculating the value in use. This calculation requires 
certain estimates to be made, see Note 17. At 31 Decmber 2018, Sobi’s goodwill 
amounted to SEK 1,554 M (1,554). The testing did not indicate any impairment.
Acquired development projects 
The Group makes annual impairment assessments of acquired development 
projects in accordance with the principle described in Note 2. When testing 
for impairment, a number of assumptions are made. These assumptions are 
specified in Note 17.Note 3, cont.
NOTES
81
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20183
4Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights have a limited useful life and amortisation is used 
to spread the cost over this period. The amortisation period ranges from 5 to 20 
years, and is adapted to the expected earnings of each product right. 
As the carrying amounts of these product and marketing rights are highly 
significant for the Group, they are tested annually for impairment. The 
company has determined that most of the amortisation is attributable to selling 
expenses, as the intangible assets classified as product rights are primarily 
related to marketing rights. The product and licensing rights are not related to 
any inventory cycle or production, nor is it necessary to otherwise bring the 
product to its current location and condition. The rights enable Sobi to market 
and sell certain products. Use of rights is not consumed in a manufacturing 
process but rather over a useful life which corresponds to the related product’s 
length of relevance on the market. 
The assumption that has the greatest impact on the future value is projected 
sales growth. It is based on assumptions about underlying growth and future 
product development, and expansion of the applicable areas for the pharma-
ceutical. If the company’s assumptions regarding product development and 
expansion of the applicable areas for a pharmaceutical prove to be incorrect, 
this may indicate that the product right is impaired. The other assumptions 
made when testing product rights for impairment are presented in Note 17.
Taxes
Deferred tax is estimated and measured according to the principles described 
in Note 2. It is currently possible in Sweden to use any future tax losses for an 
unlimited period of time. Deferred tax assets on losses in countries other than 
Sweden that arose in 2018 are recognised when it is likely that they can be 
deducted against future gains. Foreign tax rates were used for measurement.
Assumptions for the calculation of pension benefits
The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension costs is based 
on the actuarial assumptions specified in Notes 2 and 29.
Inventories
Obsolescence
Inventories consist of raw materials for production, manufactured semi-fin-
ished and finished products of Alprolix, Ammonaps, Elocta, Kepivance, Kineret, 
Orfadin and Xiapex, and inventories of finished goods for other products. There 
is no obsolescence provision for these inventories. Stock levels for Kepivance 
are expected to last for several years. The stocked product durability can vary 
over time. This could lead to an increased risk of obsolescence when a signifi-
cant change in demand for a product, or a change in durability, could result in 
impairment. Products not approved at quality inspection are directly expensed. 
Other stock mainly consists of ReFacto. Production of ReFacto has two 
components: cultivation and purification. If a certain portion of the stock is not 
approved by Sobi’s and/or Pfizer’s quality department, the material is immedi-
ately expensed. The obsolescence assessment is regularly updated based on 
historical obsolescence or sales forecasts. Sobi is part of the pharmaceutical 
industry, which is regulated and controlled by several authorities in and outside 
Sweden. The company collaborates with external partners, both Swedish and 
foreign, who control and evaluate the business. All finished stock is measured 
continuously with respect to the shelf life limits of drugs.
5  Distribution of operating revenue
GROUP 2018 2017
Operating revenue by major revenue type
Product sales 7,361,979 4,746,175
Manufacturing 435,846 559,295
Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660
Service fee — 2,701
Total 9,138,892 6,510,831GROUP 2018 2017
Revenues by geographic market1
Europe 2 6,026,271 3,784,036
MENAR3 381,249 271,806
North America 1,309,099 1,168,279
RoW 81,206 84,050
Total 7,797,825 5,308,171
Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660
Total 9,138,892 6,510,831
The Group’s and Parent Company’s financial accounts do not include revenues 
for 2018 or 2017 relating to performance obligations made in previous years. 
Furthermore, there are no customer agreements with performance obligations 
reported in the balance sheet. 
In 2018, revenues for the Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ), amounted to SEK 8,221 M (5,756) of which SEK 4,554 M (2,732) pertained 
to sales to Group companies.
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Operating revenue by major revenue type
Product sales 6,444,314 3,991,714
Manufacturing 435,846 559,295
Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660
Service fee — 2,701
Total 8,221,227 5,756,370
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Revenues by geographic market1
Europe 2 8,518,162 3,453,619
MENAR3 259,604 157,498
North America 1,021,189 857,941
RoW 81,206 84,652
Total 6,880,160 4,553,710
Royalty4 1,341,067 1,202,660
Total 8,221,227 5,756,370
1. The geographic distribution is based on where end-customers are located.
2. Sales in Sweden amounted to SEK 199 M (165). 
3. Middle East, North Africa and Russia.
4. Royalty revenue includes royalties related to our haemophilia products that are not attributable 
to a specific region according to the distribution above; royalty on Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and 
Alprolix amounted to SEK 1,340 M (1,168). Royalty revenue from Pfizer’s sales of ReFacto amounted 
to SEK 1 M (34). Estimated non-invoiced accrued royalty income is to be classify as contractual 
assets in accordance with IFRS 15. The balance as of December 31 2018 is included in the balance 
sheet in prepaid expenses and accrued liabilities and specified in note 24. See also note 2 section 
revenue. 
Revenue per business area (Group) 
SEK 000S 2018 2017
Elocta 3,261,126 1,557,476
Alprolix 973,782 362,798
Manufacturing 435,846 559,295
Royalty 1,341,067 1,202,660
Haemophilia 6,011,821 3,682,229
Orfadin 899,404 861,866
Kineret 1,319,735 1,141,938
Other 907,932 824,798
Specialty Care 3,127,071 2,828,602
Total revenues 9,138,892 6,510,831Note 4, cont.
NOTES
82
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20184
56  Segment reporting
The Group reports one operating segment, sales of pharmaceuticals. The 
basis for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting, whereby the 
reporting is received and monitored by the chief operating decision-maker. 
The Group has identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. Sobi 
reports revenue by geographic area. See Note 5 for more information about 
the distribution of revenues per revenue type and geographic area.
In 2018 Sobi’s largest customers were Sanofi, with sales of SEK 825 M (691), 
and Pfizer, with sales of SEK 446 M (594), corresponding to 9 and 5 per cent 
respectively of the company’s total revenue for 2018. Most of the non-current 
assets are in Sweden.
7  Depreciation and amortisation of assets1
GROUP 2018 2017
Depreciation/amortisation according  
to plan by type of asset
Licenses and patents –38,571 –38,766
Product and marketing rights –386,596 –386,594
Capitalised expenditures –23,447 –15,492
Plant and machinery –18,878 –15,001
Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –14,759 –15,599
Other non-current assets –2,351 –2,525
Total –484,602 –473,977
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by 
type of function
Cost of goods –12,819 –14,412
Selling and administrative expenses –462,921 –453,538
Development costs –8,834 –6,027
Total –484,574 –473,977
Impairment by type of asset1
Licenses and patents — –12,000
Total — –12,000
Impairment by type of function1
Selling and administrative expenses — –12,000
Total — –12,000
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by 
type of asset
Licenses and patents –6,484 –6,669
Product and marketing rights –262,216 –262,213
Capitalised expenditures –23,447 –15,321
Plant and machinery –18,509 –14,652
Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –9,636 –11,371
Other non-current assets –524 –524
Total –320,816 –310,750PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by 
type of function
Cost of goods –12,762 –14,355
Selling and administrative expenses –299,407 –290,553
Development costs –8,647 –5,842
Total –320,816 –310,750
Impairment by type of asset1
Licenses and patents — –12,000
Total — –12,000
Impairment by type of function
Selling and administrative expenses — –12,000
Total — –12,000
1.  See Note 17 for further information. 
8  Other operating income
GROUP 2018 2017
Re-invoiced costs to partners 5,212 —
Exchange-rate gains1 — —
Other 932 471
Total 6,144 471
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Re-invoiced costs to partners 5,181 —
Exchange-rate gains1 — —
Other — 120
Total 5,181 120
1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2018 constituted a gain, see Note 9.
9  Other operating expenses
GROUP 2018 2017
Exchange-rate losses on operating  
receivables/liabilities1 –2,473 –52,541
Utrangerar/avyttring av anläggningstillgångar –3,983 —
Other –30 –207
Total –6,486 –52,748
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Exchange-rate losses on operating  
receivables/liabilities1 –4,717 –39,824
Utrangerar/avyttring av anläggningstillgångar –2,858 —
Total –7,575 –39,824
1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2018 they generated a loss as they also did in 
2017, hence appearing under note 9. 
NOTES
83
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20186
7
8
910  Lease payments for operating leases
Contracted future rental payments for premises related to  
non-terminable contracts fall due:
Group Parent Company
2018 2017 2018 2017
Within 1 year 81,160 69,395 60,644 59,144
Between 1–5 years 293,046 251,080 222,145 224,121
Later than 5 years 24,493 64,492 14,914 64,492
Total 398,699 384,967 297,703 347,757
Rental costs for the 
year 75,558 72,530 59,441 58,120
Other contracted future minimum lease payments related to  
non-terminable contracts fall due:
Group Parent Company
2018 2017 2018 2017
Within 1 year 12,099 6,082 318 318
Between 1–5 years 14,974 8,898 159 477
Later than 5 years — — — —
Total 27,073 14,980 477 795
Lease payments for 
the year 11,018 11,565 318 323
The decisive factor in the classification of leases is to what extent the economic 
risks and benefits associated with ownership of the leased object are retained 
by the lessor or transferred to the lessee. For property, assessments of the lease 
contract must be made both for the building and the land. Sobi mainly bases 
its position on the fact that the present value of the minimum lease payments 
does not represent a significant portion of the fair value of the property and that 
there is no compelling evidence of a financial lease. 
As set out in Note 2 Accounting policies, the new reporting standard IFRS 
16 Leasing will come into effect on 1 January 2019 and supersede IAS 17 
Leases. The standard establishes new accounting requirements for lessees and 
stipulates that all lease contracts are to be recognised in the lessee’s balance 
sheet as a lease liability and a corresponding right-of-use asset. Previous lease 
payments will be replaced with depreciations and interest expense. For more 
information about the new standard, including the choice of transition method 
and the effects of the transition on the Group's financial statements and key 
figures, see Note 2 Accounting policies. 
The Group’s balance sheet with the closing balances at 31 December 2018, 
transition effect/IFRS adjustment and opening balances on 1 January 2019 is 
presented below.  
Amounts in SEK M 31 Dec 2018IFRS 
adjustment 1 Jan 2019
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10,159 10,159
Tangible assets 136 412 548
Financial assets 286 286
Total non-current assets 10,581 412 10,993
Current assets
Current assets 6,602 –15 6,587
Total current assets 6,602 –15 6,587
Total assets 17,183 397 17,580
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Shareholders’ equity  9,040 9,040
Long-term liabilities
Long-term liabilities 3 320 323
Long-term liabilities,  
non-interest bearing 1,189 –2 1,187
Total long-term liabilities 1,192 318 1,510
Current liabilities
Current liabilities 1 81 82
Current liabilities,  
non-interest bearing 6,950 –2 6,948
Total current liabilities 6,951 79 7,030
Total equity and liabilities 17,183 397 17,580
NOTES
84
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20181011  Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of Board members and senior executives
Number of employees1
GROUP 2018of whom 
 women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
% 2017of whom 
 women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
%
Sweden 468 64 36 451 64 36
Denmark 15 60 40 14 59 41
Finland/Baltics 9 56 44 9 57 43
Norway 5 80 20 7 71 29
The UK 45 56 44 51 47 53
France 54 61 39 38 63 37
Germany 45 64 36 35 66 34
Italy 44 55 45 36 47 53
Greece2 4 75 25 2 100 0
Spain 35 60 40 29 52 48
Belgium 22 45 55 16 38 62
Russia 5 60 40 6 83 17
Switzerland 13 48 52 9 42 58
Austria 6 67 33 4 71 29
Central and 
 Eastern Europe 21 52 48 16 50 50
The US 80 54 46 48 54 46
Canada 5 40 60 6 33 67
United Arab 
 Emirates 26 15 85 23 17 83
Total 902 59 41 800 59 41
1. At 31 December 2018, the number of full-time employees was 902, while the number of persons 
employed on the same date was 935.
2. The Greek company was formed on 20 April 2017.
Gender composition of the Board and management
The information in the table does not include the employee representatives. 
The information refers to conditions on the balance-sheet date.
GROUP 2018 2017
Board
Men 5 4
Women 3 2
Total 8 6
CEO and senior executives
Men 9 7
Women 2 2
Total 11 9
59% 41%GENDER COMPOSITION EMPLOYEESSalaries, other remuneration and social security costs
2018 2017
GROUP AND  
PARENT COMPANYSalaries and 
remunera-
tionSocial secu-
rity costsSalaries and 
remunera-
tionSocial secu-
rity costs
Parent Company 444,204 280,780 427,440 243,525
(of which pension cost) — (89,426) (78,864)
Subsidiaries 647,450 125,341 500,024 91,861
(of which pension cost) — (30,044) (24,050)
Group, total 1,091,654 406,121 927,464 335,386
(of which pension cost) — (119,470) (102,914)
Salaries and other remuneration divided between Board members,  
the CEO and other employees
2018 2017
Board  
and CEOOther 
employeesBoard  
and CEOOther 
employees
Parent Company
Salaries and other 
 remuneration 20,489 423,715 16,5731 410,867
(of which bonus) (6,278) (69,197) (4,065)1 (52,312)
Subsidiaries
Salaries and other 
 remuneration — 647,450 14,7321 485,292
(of which bonus) — (144,734) (1,841)1 (84,261)
Group, total 20,489 1,071,165 31,305 896,159
(of which bonus) (6,278) (213,931) (5,906) (136,573)
1. 2017 includes both former CEO Geoffrey McDonough and current CEO Guido Oelkers. The 
former CEO’s salary, bonus and severance pay were mostly paid by the US subsidiary, where the 
former CEO also has his domicile. 
Guidelines and remuneration 2018
The Annual General Meeting 2018 resolved on guidelines for remuneration 
for the Management as set forth below which shall apply until the annual 
general meeting 2019. The Management is defined as the managing director 
of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) and the executives who report to the 
managing director and are members of the senior management. 
Objective
The objective of the guidelines is to ensure that the company can attract and 
retain the best people in order to support the vision and strategy of the com-
pany. Remuneration for the Management is designed on a total remuneration 
approach. The position of total remuneration should be market competitive 
without being leading relative to competitors in each local market. The market 
comparisons should be made against a set of peer group companies with 
comparable sizes, industries and complexity. The remuneration guidelines 
should enable international hiring and should support diversity within the 
Management. The remuneration may consist of the following components:
• A, Fixed Base Pay
• B, Variable Pay – so-called Short Term Incentives 
• C, Long Term Incentives
• D, Pensions
• E, Other Benefits
To the extent a member of the Board of Directors carries out work for the 
company or for another group company, in addition to the board work, 
consulting fees and/or other remuneration for such work may be payable. 
NOTES
85
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201811Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1
2018 Basic salary/fees Bonus Pension cost Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chairman of the Board
Håkan Björklund 1,388 1,388
Other Board members 
David Allsop 2 367 367
Annette Clancy 592 592
Matthew Gantz 610 610
Lennart Johansson 577 577
Helena Saxon 567 567
Hans GCP Schikan 627 627
Elisabeth Svanberg2 377 377
Group Management, 2018 
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,107 6,278 2,516 0 7,8143 25,714
Other senior executives (10 people)3 31,6034 16,519 3,235 1,7014 3,5813 56,639
Total 45,815 22,797 5,751 1,701 11,395 87,458
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, comprising ten individuals in addition to the CEO, at December 2018. The tabel shows the Company’s costs (excluding social security costs). 
For more information about the Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report. 
2. At the AGM 2018, David Allsop and Elisabeth Svanberg were elected as new Board members. 
3. See also allotment and fulfillment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2015 share programme.
4. Base pay and benefits include an agreed severence pay of SEK 4,463 K.
2017 Basic salary/fees Bonus Pension cost Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chairman of the Board
Håkan Björklund2 1,327 1,327
Other Board members 
Helena Saxon  513 513
Hans GCP Schikan  553 553
Lennart Johansson 522 522
Matthew Gantz 502 502
Annette Clancy3 510 510
Jeffrey Jonas4 145 145
Theresa Heggie5 110 110
Group Management, 2017 
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer from 22 May 2017 5,126 3,585 1,497 171 2,772 13,151
Other senior executives (8 people)6 7,765 3,953 1,069 901 3,777 17,465 
Former Chief Executive Officer and other  
senior executives
Geoffrey McDonough, Chief Executive Officer until 
21 May 2017 15,1418 2,321 144 780 5,7857 24,171
Other former senior executives (7 people)6 16,7639 5,046 7,4149 546 3,6327 33,402
Total 48,977 14,905 10,124 2,398 15,966 92,370
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, comprising eight individuals in addition to the CEO, at December 2017. The table shows the company’s costs (excluding social security costs). 
For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report. 
2. The fee comprises the Board Chairman fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Chairman’s company was SEK 1,744,000, including compensation for social security costs. 
3. The fee comprises the Board fee excluding social security costs. The gross payment to the Board member’s company was SEK 670,000, including compensation for social security costs. 
4. Board member Jeffrey Jonas stepped down from the Board in connection with the AGM in May 2017.
5. Board member Theresa Heggie left the Board on 7 April 2017. 
6. In 2017, Sobi established a new management structure: an Executive Committee to replace the former Executive Leadership Team in its existing form. The Executive Committee is Sobi’s decision-making 
body. Remuneration to senior executives in 2017 includes members of the Executive Leadership Team, up to and including the date on which the new management structure was established, and members 
of the Executive Committee for the period thereafter until the end of the year.
7. See also allotment and fulfilment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2014 share programme.
8. Base pay includes an agreed severance payment of SEK 11,757 K.
9. Base pay and pension cost include an agreed severance payment of SEK 10,066 KNote 11, cont.
NOTES
86
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201811Fixed base pay
The fixed base pay of the Management should be based on competence, 
responsibility and performance. The company uses an international evaluation 
system in order to evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position. . 
Variable pay
The annual short-term incentive plan is based on the achievement of annual 
performance objectives (corporate and individual). Payment is based on 
achievement of the pre-determined objectives. The annual performance 
objectives are defined in advance by the Compensation & Benefits Committee 
and approved by the Board of Directors.
These objectives are determined for the promotion of the company’s long-
term development, value creation and financial growth and shall be designed 
in a way that does not encourage an excessive risk-taking. The Short-Term 
Incentives are limited to 75 per cent of the annual gross salary for the managing 
director and 60 per cent of the fixed annual salary for the other members of the 
management.
Long-term incentives 
The company can introduce long-term incentive programmes for all or some 
of its employees. The objectives of such a programme should be to align the 
employees’ interests with those of the shareholders, to create a long-term 
commitment to the company, to be a tool to retain and attract executives and 
top talent, to offer participants to take part in the company’s long-term success 
and value creation, and to contribute to a competitive total remuneration.
Pensions
The preferred pension plan design is defined contribution . If the operating 
environment requires the establishment of a defined benefit pension plan by 
law or other regulations, such a plan may be established. The defined benefit 
level should in such cases be limited to the mandatory level. 
Other benefits
Fixed salary during notice periods and severance pay, including payments for 
any restrictions on competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent 
to the fixed base pay for two years. In addition to this restriction, the total 
severance payment shall be limited to the existing monthly salary for the 
remaining months up to the age of 65. 
Additional compensation may also be paid out in extraordinary circum-
stances, provided that such arrangement is made for management recruitment 
or retention purposes and is agreed on an individual basis. Such extraordinary 
arrangements shall be in line with market practice and may for example include 
a one-time cash payment, a support package including relocation and tax filing 
support, retention bonus or severance payment in case of a change of control, 
or similar. 
Deviations from the guidelines 
The Board of Directors may resolve to deviate from the guidelines if the Board 
of Directors, in an individual case, is of the opinion that there are special 
circumstances justifying that. 
Senior executives’ employment conditions and remuneration
Sobi aims to offer market terms that enable the company to recruit and retain 
competent personnel (for complete proposal regarding Guidelines for remu-
neration for the Management 2019, see the Director’s report).
Remuneration to Directors elected by the AGM is paid in accordance with 
the decision of the AGM of 2018. No pensions are paid to the Board. 
The CEO’s remuneration is reviewed and proposed by the Chairman of the 
Board together with the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board. 
Remuneration to other members of Group Management is proposed by the 
CEO in close cooperation with the Remuneration Committee and approved 
by the Board. Remuneration to the CEO and other senior executives consists 
of fixed salary, variable remuneration in the short and long term, other benefits 
and pensions. Other senior executives refer to those persons who together 
form the Group Management. Fixed salary
Each senior executive’s areas of responsibility, experience and performance 
have been taken into account in determining the fixed salary. Fixed salary is 
reviewed every year.
Short-term variable remuneration
For the CEO and former CEO, short-term variable remuneration in 2018 was 
capped at 75 per cent of the annual gross salary. Variable remuneration is 
based on Group targets and individual targets defined by the Board. For other 
senior executives, short-term variable remuneration is capped at 60 per cent 
of the fixed salary and is based on targets at Group and individual targets. There 
are regular status reviews of the expected outcome throughout the year and 
reserves are adjusted monthly. An assessment of the variable salary is made on 
each reporting date.
Retirement benefits
The CEO is entitled to a defined contribution pension amounting to 30 per cent 
of the basic salary. Sobi has paid out a premium of SEK 2,516 K for 2018. The 
retirement age is 65 years.
Other senior executives employed in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan 
with a retirement age at 65. They are also covered by a supplementary defined 
contribution pension commitment of 27 per cent of the pensionable salary, 
including ITP. 
In connection with the transition from the defined benefit pension to 
defined contribution pension, some individual agreements have been made 
with former senior management members with percentages higher than 
27 per cent. Members of Group Management who are employed in other 
countries receive pension terms according to market practice in the country 
of employment. 
Incentive programmes
At the balance-sheet date, Sobi had five active share programmes. To partic -
ipate in the share programmes, employees must be permanently employed. 
All programmes run for three years. The company also has three active 
cash-based programmes for employees in the US. The programmes have a 
four-year vesting period. 
Long-term incentive programmes 
The 2015–2018 Annual General Meetings adopted the Board’s proposals 
to establish long-term incentive programmes. The aim has been to create 
long-term commitment to Sobi, to offer participants the opportunity to share 
in Sobi’s long-term success and value creation, and to enable the company 
to attract and retain senior executives and senior managers. The company’s 
long-term share-based remuneration programmes are described below.
The performance share programmes for 2015–2018 are structured accord-
ing to similar principles. 
• The programmes have a three-year vesting period.
• These programmes require a personal investment in Sobi shares, although 
not in the 2017 and 2018 Management Programmes, which requires no 
personal investment in Sobi shares. 
• Employees are entitled to matching shares free of consideration. Some 
employees may also be entitled to performance shares if the performance 
criteria are met. The number of performance shares that employees are 
entitled to receive differs according to the organisational level.
• The employee must be permanently employed during the entire vesting 
period and not sell the investment shares during this period in order to 
receive matching and potential performance shares. 
• The performance targets are that the share price will increase by a certain 
percentage over a three-year period, and for the 2017 and 2018 manage-
ment programme that actual annual revenue during the vesting period will 
meet or exceed the budget for annual revenue. 
• Employee eligibility differs between the programmes, as does the formula-
tion of the performance target. Note 11, cont.
NOTES
87
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018112015 Share Programme (paid in 2018)
The 2015 share programmes expired in 2018. For 2015, the Board resolved 
that the following performance conditions and other vesting terms were fully 
met when the 2015 share programme was redeemed on 19 August 2018. In 
the management programme for senior executives and managers, 356,200 
shares with a market value of SEK 94.8 M were allotted. In the employee 
programme, 48,586 shares with a market value of SEK 13 M were allotted. 
The performance target was a 15–75 per cent increase in the share price from 
the volume-weighted share price ten days prior to roll-out of the programme. 
The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a 
straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. 
The Board also resolved that the following performance conditions and 
other vesting terms were fully met when the share programme for former 
CEOs was redeemed on 24 September 2018. 235,767 shares with a market 
value of SEK 61.7 M were allotted to former CEO, based on the length of service 
during the programme period. The performance target was that the share 
price, adjusted for any dividends, must exceed the threshold of 20 per cent. 
If the share price increased between 20–100 per cent, a proportional number 
of performance shares would be allotted.
2015 Cash-Based Programme (paid in 2018)
The 2015 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employ-
ees in the US. The performance target was a 15–75 per cent increase in the 
share price from the volume-weighted share price ten days prior to roll-out 
of the programme. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 
15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. In addition, sales 
must be 95–105 per cent relative to the average budget over a three-year 
period. The programme expired in 2018 and the outcome related to the share 
price performance was 50 per cent, the outcome related to sales was achieved 
in full. 
2016 Share Programme
The 2016 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering former 
CEO, senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. 
Participation requires personal investment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred 
to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management pro-
gramme are allotted one matching share for each saving share, plus additional 
performance shares contingent on the achievement of a certain share price 
performance. For maximum allotment of performance shares, the price of 
Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by at least 
75 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased by 
15–75 per cent, programme participants will receive straight-line allotment 
of performance shares. 
Participants in the employee programme are allotted two matching shares 
for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching shares, pro-
gramme participants must have retained the saving shares they have acquired. 
The maximum allotment possible in the management and employee pro-
gramme is 179,853 performance shares and 94,999 matching shares.
When Sobi’s 2016 Share Programme was introduced, a number of 
employees, including former CEO and other senior executives in the Group, 
were legally prohibited from participating in the programme as they were in 
possession of insider information at that time. In view of the legal obstacles 
and to safeguard Sobi’s ability to attract and retain senior executives, the 
Board decided to establish a long-term cash-based incentive programme 
instead, effective from 1 January 2017. For more information, refer to the 2016 
Annual Report.2016 Cash-Based Programme
In 2016, the design of the cash-based programme covering all employees 
in the US and Canada was adjusted. The programme consists of two com-
ponents: a time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based 
component (50 per cent) based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perfor -
mance target (50 per cent) is that North America’s annual sales must be at least 
95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period.
2016 Share Programme
Number of 
performance 
sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue 
 in SEK
Other senior executives  
in the Group (0) 0 0 0
Total 0 0 0
2017 Share Programme
The 2017 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. 
Participation in the programme for other employees requires personal invest-
ment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management pro-
gramme are allotted performance shares contingent on a certain share price 
performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, 
the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 
at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased 
by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line 
allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 
40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting 
period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenue. The performance 
target was achieved for 2017 and 2018. The maximum possible allotment of 
shares is 776,075. Participants in the employee programme are allotted two 
matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching 
shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have 
acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 45,030.
2017 Cash-Based Programme
The 2017 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all 
employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in 
the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based 
component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) 
based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perfor -
mance target (50 per cent) is that North America’s annual sales must be at least 
95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period.Note 11, cont.
NOTES
88
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201811Expensing of the 2016–2018 Share Programmes is calculated using the following parameters:
Start date End dateNumber of 
matching 
sharesNumber of  
perfor-
mance 
sharesService, 
in monthsFair value of  
matching 
shareFair value of  
performance 
share1Fair value of  
performance 
share2Expected  
employee 
turnover, %Max. 
allotment  
of sharesForfeited 
shares 
2018
2016 Share Programme 28 Oct 2016 28 Oct 2019 94,999 179,853 36 94.05 33.34 n/a 5 274,852 29,180
2017:1 Share Programme, 
All employees 9 May 2017 9 May 2020 45,030 n/a 36 136.85 n/a n/a 5 45,030 1,900
2017:2 Share Programme, 
Management 9 May 2017 9 May 2020 n/a 776,075 36 n/a 54.95 136.85 6 776,075 136,464
2018:1 Share Programme, 
All employees 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 41,054 n/a  36 184.32 n/a n/a 7 41,054 272
2018:2 Share Pro-
gramme, Management 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 n/a 746,563 36 n/a 79.75 184.32 7 746,563 26,686
1. Fair value of performance shares linked to share price development, see section 2017 and 2018 Share Programme above.
2. Fair value of performance share associated with income, see section 2017 and 2018 Share Programme above.
Volatility is measured as the standard deviation of the expected return on the share price, based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices for Sobi’s ordinary share 
over the last three years. 2018 Share Programme
The 2018 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. 
Participation in the programme for other employees requires personal invest-
ment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management 
programme are allotted performance shares contingent on a certain share 
price performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance 
shares, the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must 
increase by at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, 
has increased by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a 
straight-line allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the 
remaining 40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during 
the vesting period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenue. The 
performance target for 2018 was achieved. The maximum possible allotment 
of shares is 746,563. Participants in the employee programme are allotted two 
matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching 
shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they 
have acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 41,054. During the 
roll-out of the 2018 share programme, a number of employees were insiders 
and not therefore able to participate in the programme. In light of this, the 
Board approved the roll-out of LTI 2018B for these employees, and for new 
employees since the roll-out of LTI 2018A. 
2018 Cash-Based Programme
The 2018 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all 
employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in 
the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based 
component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) 
based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perfor -
mance target (50 per cent) is that North America’s annual sales must be at least 
95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period.2017 Share Programme
Number of 
performance 
sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue 
 in SEK
CEO and other senior executives  
in the Group, (5) 223,357 — 7,364,080
Total 223,357 — 7,364,080
2018 Share Programme
Number of 
performance 
sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue 
 in SEK
CEO and other senior executives  
in the Group, (9) 247,030 —11,820,401
Total 247,030 —11,820,401Note 11, cont.
NOTES
89
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20181112  Remuneration of auditors
GROUP 2018 2017
EY
Auditing assignments1 –4,972 –4,782
Audit activities in addition to  
the auditing  assignment –1,428 –681
Tax consultancy –94 –81
Other services –625 –332
Total EY –7,119 –5,876
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
EY
Auditing assignments1 –2,242 –1,921
Audit activities in addition to  
the auditing  assignment –1,332 –593
Tax consultancy –59 –81
Other services –625 –332
Total EY –4,257 –2,927
1. Auditing assignment refers to the statutory audit in order to submit an auditor’s report and provide 
audit advice. 
13  Costs according to type of cost
GROUP 2018 2017
Raw materials and consumables –2,056,110 –1,509,077
Other external costs –1,860,260 –1,499,690
Costs for remuneration of employees –1,615,638 –1,363,445
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –484,574 –485,977
Other operating expenses –199,868 –145,226
Total –6,216,450 –5,003,415
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Raw materials and consumables –1,995,014 –1,516,485
Other external costs –1,645,936 –1,565,730
Costs for remuneration of employees –765,095 –711,675
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –320,816 –322,750
Other operating expenses –193,577 –133,824
Total –4,920,438 –4,250,464
1. 2017 includes an impairment of SEK 12 M related to one of the early-phase  
clinical  programmes, no similair impairment occurred during 2018. 
The above costs correspond to: Cost of goods sold, selling and administrative 
expenses, research and development costs and other operating expenses 
in the income statement classified by function of expense.14  Financial income
GROUP 2018 2017
Interest income1 2,742 1,219
Exchange-rate gains2 16,684 —
Total 19,426 1,219
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Interest income, Group companies 20,016 11,258
Interest income, other 1,396 398
Exchange-rate gains2 13,400 —
Total 34,812 11,656
1. According to effective interest method. 
2. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and comprised a gain in 2018, but a loss in 2017, 
see Note 15. SEK –48 M (0) is attributable to derivatives valued at fair value through profit and loss. 
Other items are valued at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
15  Financial expenses
GROUP 2018 2017
Interest expense, borrowings1 –16,086 –13,886
Interest expense1,2 –40,377 –50,085
Exchange-rate losses3 — –3,389
Management costs1 –2,173 –1,277
Other –1,023 –524
Total –59,659 –69,161
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Interest expense, Group companies –10,557 –8,945
Interest expense, borrowings1 –15,960 –13,886
Interest expense, other1,2 –40,192 –50,085
Exchange-rate losses3 — –1,588
Management costs1 –2,173 –1,277
Other –596 –518
Total –69,478 –76,299
1. According to effective interest method.
2. Pertains to interest expense on loans from Sanofi.
3. The figures include realised and unrealised currency effects of SEK 0 M (8) from derivatives. 
For 2018, SEK 0 M (8) attributable to derivatives, is measured at fair value through profit and loss. 
Other items are valued at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
NOTES
90
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201812
13
14
1516  Income tax
Current tax expense (–) / tax income (+) in earnings
GROUP 2018 2017
Current tax
Tax expense/income for the period1 –765,090 –209,067
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,465 –61
Total current tax reported for the Group –766,555 –209,128
Deferred tax
Excess depreciation –65,024 –213,400
Change in depreciation method 19,729 19,729
Inventory 64,961 –4,331
Acquired product rights 48,976 38,148
Other intangible assets –7,584 –3,720
Trade receivables 12,374 1,671
Provision for pensions 2,553 8,299
Tax loss carry-forward 25,650 –15,447
Pharmaceutical tax 3,139 1,233
Other –2,159 –6,865
Total deferred tax reported for the Group 102,615 –174,683
Total tax reported for the Group –663,940 –383,811
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Current tax
Tax expense/income for the period1 –698,446 –146,855
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,402 64
Total current tax reported for  
the Parent Company –699,848 –146,791
Deferred tax
Change in depreciation method 19,729 19,729
Provision for pensions 2,863 9,094
Tax loss carry-forward — –15,447
Other –957 1,240
Total deferred tax reported for  
the Parent Company 21,635 14,616
Total tax reported for the Parent Company –678,213 –132,175Reconciliation of effective tax
GROUP 2018 2017
Profit before tax 3,081,735 1,532,423
Tax at applicable tax rate for  
the Parent Company2 –677,982 –337,133
Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden3 41,455 —
Effect of changed tax rate in the US — –28,424
Effect of foreign tax rates –11,496 –12,141
Trade receivables 4,555 —
Provision for pensions 4,494 6,608
Non-deductible expenses –24,364 –19,318
Non-taxable income — 2,241
Deductible costs, not recognised  
in profit or loss 433 1,710
Taxable income, not recognised  
in profit or loss — –19
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,465 –61
Other 430 2,726
Recognised effective tax for the Group –663,940 –383,811
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Profit before tax 3,059,976 –375,662
Tax at applicable tax rate for  
the Parent Company2 –673,195 82,646
Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden3 –843 —
Write-down of shares in subsidiaries — –220,000
Provision for pensions 4,494 6,608
Controlled Foreign Company taxation –1,845 —
Non-deductible expenses –5,423 –1,897
Non-taxable income — 1
Deductible costs, not recognised  
in profit or loss — 404
Adjustment of tax attributable to prior years –1,402 64
Recognised effective tax for  
the Parent Company –678,213 –132,175
1. In addition to current tax recognised in earnings, tax on the Parent Company’s cash-flow hedges in 
other comprehensive income reduced the current tax liability by SEK 39 M (–42).
2. Applicable tax rate for the Swedish Parent Company is 22 per cent (22).
3. In 2018, a decision was made in Sweden to lower the tax rate to 21.4% from 2019, and to 20.6% 
from 2021. The entire effect of the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities and tax assets was rec -
ognised during the year.
NOTES
91
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20181617  Intangible assets and impairment testing
GROUP GoodwillLicenses  
and patentsProduct and  
marketing-rights Capitalised  
expenditures4Ongoing  
capitalised 
expenditures4 Total
1 January–31 December 2017
Opening accumulated cost 1,554,158 573,097 6,738,415 126,426 30,072 9,022,168
Acquisitions1 — — 59,017 12,414 20,491 91,922
Impairments3 — –12,000 — — — –12,000
Exchange differences — 15 — –69 — –54
Closing cost 1,554,158 561,112 6,797,432 138,771 50,563 9,102,036
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –349,033 –1,785,651 –81,474 — –2,216,158
Amortisation — –38,766 –386,594 –15,492 — –440,852
Exchange differences — –13 — 58 — 45
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — –387,812 –2,172,245 –96,908 — –2,656,965
Closing carrying amount 1,554,158 173,300 4,625,187 41,863 50,563 6,445,071
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 1,554,158 561,112 6,797,432 138,771 50,563 9,102,036
Acquisitions2 — — 4,186,179 15,861 26,767 4,228,807
Scrapping3 — –10,988 — — — –10,988
Reclassification — — –75,069 72,130 –1,797 –4,736
Exchange differences — 9 –59,019 59 — –58,951
Closing cost 1,554,158 550,133 10,849,523 226,821 75,533 13,256,168
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –387,812 –2,172,245 , –96,908 — –2,656,965
Amortisation — –38,571 –386,596 –23,447 — –448,614
Scrapping3 — 8,154 — — — 8,154
Exchange differences — –8 — –59 — –67
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — 418,237 –2,558,841 –120,414 — –3,097,492
Closing carrying amount 1,554,158 131,896 8,290,682 106,407 75,533 10,158,676
1. In 2017, acquisitions relate to the right to participate in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme SEK 56 M, LMS (training system) for SEK 7 M and other minor investments totalling  
SEK 29 M divided between the various intangible items.
2. In 2018, acquisitions relate mainly to the investment of CHF 450 M in Emapalumab, additional acquisition costs of CHF 2.6 M, and investments primarily in IT. Se vidare under Avtal med Novimmune.
3. 2018: Refers to scrapping of completed distribution agreements. 2017: Pertains to impairment of one of the early-phase clinical programmes.
4. Capitalised expenditures comprises IT projects and costs to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised expenditures are amortised according to plan.
NOTES
92
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201817PARENT COMPANY Licenses  
and patentsProduct and  
marketing 
rights Capitalised  
expenditures4Ongoing  
capitalised 
expenditures4 Total
1 January–31 December 2017
Opening accumulated cost 76,785 4,792,343 119,517 29,988 5,018,633
Acquisitions1 — 59,017 12,414 20,491 91,922
Impairments3 –12,000 — — — –12,000
Closing cost 64,785 4,851,360 131,931 50,479 5,098,555
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –18,448 –660,558 –77,628 — –756,634
Amortisation –6,669 –262,213 –15,321 — –284,203
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –25,117 –922,771 –92,949 — –1,040,837
Closing carrying amount 39,668 3,928,589 38,982 50,479 4,057,718
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 64,785 4,851,360 131,931 50,479 5,098,555
Acquisitions2 — — 15,861 26,767 42,628
Scrapping3 –10,988 — — — –10,988
Reclassification — –75,069 72,130 –1,797 –4,736
Closing cost 53,797 4,776,291 219,922 75,449 5,125,459
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –25,117 –922,771 –92,949 — –1,040,837
Amortisation –6,484 –262,216 –23,447 — –292,247
Scrapping3 8,154 — — — 8,154
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –23,447 –1,184,987 –116,396 — –1,324,830
Closing carrying amount 30,350 3,591,304 103,526 75,449 3,800,629
1. In 2017, acquisitions relate to the right to participate in the rFIXFc-XTEN programme SEK 56 M, LMS (training system) for SEK 7 M and other minor investments totalling SEK 29 M divided between 
the various intangible items. 
2. In 2018, acquisitions relate to investments, mainly in IT. 
3. 2018: Refers to scrapping of completed contracts. 2017: Pertains to impairment/scrapping of one of the early-phase clinical programmes.
4. Capitalised expenditures comprises IT projects and expenditures for transfer of technology in manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised expenditures are amortised according to plan.
Impairment testing of intangible assets
Goodwill
The assessment of the value of the Group’s goodwill is based on value in use for 
the smallest cash-generating unit, which for Sobi is deemed to be the Group 
(excluding ReFacto).
Cash flows are based on financial plans that have been established by man-
agement covering a four-year period. The financial plans have been drawn up 
based on past performance, experiences and market expectations. The plans 
includes assumptions about the current product development and future prod-
uct launches. The financial planning also includes assumptions of price trends, 
sales performance and cost trends. Cash flows beyond a four-year period have 
been extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2 per cent. On 31 Decem-
ber 2018, Sobi’s goodwill amounted toSEK 1,554 M (1,554). There is no indica-
tion of goodwill impairment at Group level.
The following table shows the growth rate and discount rate used before 
and after tax:
PARAMETER, % 2018 2017
Growth rate beyond the initial five-year period 2 2
Discount rate before tax 11.5 11.9
Discount rate after tax 9.0 9.2
Assumptions regarding Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC):
• Risk-free interest rate: ten-year treasury bills or comparable financial 
 investment with the lowest possible risk.
• Market risk premium: 6.4 per cent (6.3). 
• Beta coefficient: Sobi’s beta coefficient is calculated at 1.31 (1.31).
• Interest expense: according to Sobi’s borrowing costs.
• Tax rate: according to tax rates in Sweden. 
Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following variables in the 
impairment testing of goodwill: the discount rate, margin, sales volume and 
eternal growth rate. The sensitivity analysis indicates that there are good 
 margins in the calculation.Development projects and product rights
Development projects and product rights are tested annually for impairment. 
Separate impairment testing has been carried out for each product and project. 
The assessment of the value of development projects and product rights is 
based on the value in use for each asset. The value in use is based on cash 
flows that are expected to be generated over the remaining life of the asset. 
When discounting future cash flows, the discount rate is used as described 
in the table.
Key parameters for impairment testing of development projects are future 
cash flows from the individual asset, the probability of achieving positive out-
comes in clinical trials, and assumptions of the best commercial outcome. 
Future cash flows are estimated with regard to project development in the 
short and long-term and adjusted for the likelihood of the project being com-
mercialised. The earlier in the chain of development the project is, the higher 
the risk. As it passes through the defined development phases, the likelihood of 
reaching the market increases. The likelihood of a project successfully coming 
through the relevant development phase is assessed on the basis of the proj-
ect’s scientific potential to have a positive outcome in the individual phase of 
the development process. A best-case assumption is made on the basis of the 
parameters that have the greatest effect on whether the project will develop 
into a drug with the highest commercial potential, and on the basis of what is 
reasonable to assume about the project’s scientific profile using the informa-
tion currently available. The forecast period is based on the product’s estimated 
market life.
In the impairment testing of product and marketing rights, a number of 
assumptions are made. The assumptions are forecasts of future sales revenue, 
costs attributable to each product, product life and the discount rate. In cases 
where the contract for product and marketing rights exceed four years, the 
term of contract is used as the remaining life. The impairment testing of 
 product and marketing rights did not indicate any impairment.Note 17, cont.
NOTES
93
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201817Impairment in 2018
There has been no write down of intangible assets 2018.
In 2017, Sobi’s assessment of the value of one of the early-phase clinical pro-
grammes indicated an impairment of SEK 12 M. The impairment had a negative 
impact on intangible assets.
CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS RELATED TO INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Sobi has undertaken to make additional payments under certain acquisition 
and licensing agreements (often referred to as milestone payments) linked to 
the achievement of certain defined targets. The most significant agreements 
are listed below. 
AGREEMENT WITH SANOFI, PREVIOUS BIOVERATIV
Bioverativ was created as a spin-off from Biogen’s haemophilia business and 
separated from Biogen on 1 February 2017. Bioverativ is a Sanofi company 
located in Massachusetts, US. Sanofy has during 2018 acquired Bioverativ. 
Sanofi will continue to collaborate with Sobi in our joint development pro-
grammes.
Under the agreement between Sobi and Sanofi regarding the development 
and commercialisation of Elocta and Alprolix, Sanofi took full responsibility for 
development and production, plus associated costs, until Sobi exercised its 
opt-in right to the programmes. There are similar arrangements with Sanofi in 
place for the XTEN-programmes5 BIVV001 and BIVV002.
Under Sobi’s opt-in rights to the development and commercialisation of the 
programmes, Sobi obtained the commercial rights for Europe, North Africa, 
Russia and certain countries in the Middle East (Sobi’s territory). Sanofi has 
commercialisation rights for North America (Sanofi’s North American territory) 
and for the rest of the world excluding Sobi’s territory (Sanofi’s direct territory 
and Sanofi’s distribution territory). Sobi and Sanofi receive a royalty on each 
other’s sales of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix in the respective company’s terri-
tory according to the royalty rates set out in the table on the next page.
Sobi opted to assume responsibility for the final regulatory process and 
other commercialisation activities in Sobi’s territory by paying a deposit of USD 
10 M per programme – for Elocta in 2014, and Alprolix in 2015.
Liability arising from development programmes
On taking over commercialisation and the regulatory process, Sobi became lia-
ble to reimburse Sanofi for 50 per cent of the development and production 
costs arising for each programme from 1 October 2009. Reimbursement of 
development activities that only benefited Sobi’s territory was 100 per cent.
Debt settlement
Sobi’s reimbursement to Sanofi for each development programme takes the 
following three forms:
• When regulatory approval was granted in the EU, a deposit of USD 10 M per 
product was transferred to Sanofi and offset against Sobi’s liability.
• With the first commercial sales of each of its products, Sobi was able to 
credit retroactive royalty revenue corresponding to the difference between the base rate and the 2 per cent Sobi had already received on Sanofi’s sales. 
This amount was offset against the liability and generated non-recurring 
revenue which did not affect cash flow.
• From Sobi’s first commercial sales, the royalty rates between the companies 
are adjusted until the liability has been repaid in full (see the table).
• If full payment has not been made within six years of Sanofi’s first commer -
cial sales for each programme, Sanofi is entitled to request that Sobi pay the 
remaining amount within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of the date of 
Sanofi’s first commercial sales.
Elocta
The total liability for the development and commercialisation of Elocta is 
USD 211 M. On 24 November 2015, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the Euro-
pean Commission had approved Elocta for the treatment of haemophilia A in 
all 28 EU member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In connec -
tion with the approval, the deposit was transferred to Sanofi and offset against 
the liability. In connection with its first commercial sales in January 2016, Sobi 
credited retroactive royalty revenue of SEK 322 M against the liability. At 31 
December 2018, the remaining liability was SEK 412 M (USD 46 M), corre-
sponding to the discounted value of the nominal liability, which amounted to 
USD 46 M.
Alprolix
The total liability for the development and commercialisation of Alprolix is 
USD 185 M. On 13 May 2016, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the European 
Commission had approved Alprolix for the treatment of haemophilia B in all 28 
EU member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In connection with 
the approval, the deposit was transferred to Sanofi and offset against the liabil-
ity. In connection with its first commercial sales in June 2016, Sobi credited ret-
roactive royalty revenue of SEK 386 M against the liability. At 31 December 
2018, the remaining liability was SEK 692 M (USD 77 M), corresponding to the 
discounted value of the nominal liability, which amounted to USD 79 M.
BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN)
In September 2014, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development pro-
gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia A treatment BIVV001 
(rFVII-IFc-VWF-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement 
between Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to 
the programme, and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s 
territory according to the principles described above.
BIVV002 (rFIXFc-XTEN)
In February 2017, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development pro-
gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia B treatment BIVV002 
(rFIXFc-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement between 
Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the pro-
gramme, and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s 
 territory according to the principles described above.
Percentage rates for royalties and reimbursement between the companiesPercentage rates after the first commercial sales in  
Sobi’s territory if Sobi exercises its opt-in right3
Method Base rate, %3Adjusted  
royalty rate during 
 repayment period3Net royalty 
 payment during 
 repayment period4, %
From Sobi to Sanofi based on 
net sales in Sobi’s territoryRoyalty on sales 
12 Base rate plus 5% 17
Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales  
in North AmericaRoyalty on sales 
12 Base rate minus 5% 7
Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales  
in Sanofi’s territories outside North AmericaRoyalty on sales 
17 Base rate minus 5% 12
Sanofi to Sobi based on net profit1  
from Sanofi’s distribution territory 2Royalty on net profit 
50 Base rate minus 15% 35
1. Net profit relates to Sanofi’s revenue before tax from distributors (third parties), less costs incurred by Sanofi for supporting this sale.
2. Sanofi’s distribution territory pertains to the territory in which sales are conducted through a third party.
3. Base rate impacts earnings. Repayment of the liability comprises the difference between the base rate and the adjusted royalty.
4. Actual payments that impact cash flow.
5. XTEN is Sanofi’s development programme. Sobi has chosen to add this programme to the collaboration agreement, but has not yet exercised its opt-in right.Note 17, cont.
NOTES
94
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20181718  Property, plant and equipment
GROUPPlant and 
machineryEquipment,  
tools, fixtures  
and fittingsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction 
in progress Total
1 January–31 December 2017
Opening accumulated cost 435,449 225,281 15,361 14,770 690,861
Acquisitions 28,636 9,854 2,762 6,271 47,523
Reclassification — 542 — — 542
Write-offs –922 –1,752 –2,886 — –5,560
Exchange differences 36 9 — — 45
Closing cost 463,199 233,934 15,237 21,041 733,411
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –377,473 –187,929 –4,436 — –569,838
Amortisation –15,001 –15,599 –2,525 — –33,125
Reclassification — –542 — — –542
Write-offs 922 1,713 1,721 — 4,356
Exchange differences –13 –67 — — –80
Closing accumulated amortisation  
and impairment –391,565 –202,424 –5,240 — –599,229
Closing carrying amount 71,634 31,510 9,997 21,041 134,182
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 463,199 233,934 15,237 21,041 733,411
Acquisitions 2,476 9,629 1,913 26,494 40,512
Reclassification 33,191 6,343 — –38,968 566
Write-offs –33,312 –6,439 –5,520 — –45,271
Exchange differences 73 1,372 –13 — 1,432
Closing cost 465,627 244,839 11,617 8,567 730,650
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –391,565 –202,424 –5,240 — –599,229
Amortisation –18,878 –14,759 –2,351 — –35,988
Reclassification — –565 — — –565
Write-offs 33,288 6,069 2,694 — 42,051
Exchange differences –39 –658 77 — –620
Closing accumulated amortisation  
and impairment –377,194 –212,337 –4,820 — –594,351
Closing carrying amount 88,433 32,502 6,797 8,567 136,299AGREEMENT WITH NOVIMMUNE 
Emapalumab
Sobi has acquired the global rights to emapalumab from Novimmune. 
On 20 November 2018, emapalumab was approved by the US Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA). The agreement stipulates an initial cash pay-
ment CHF 50 M (SEK 450 M) (paid in Q3 2018), with additional payments of 
CHF 400 M (SEK 3,600 M) up to an eight-year period. The agreement includes 
milestone payments for approval in the US and the EMA, respectively, of 
USD 1 M per milestone. In addition, minor amounts will be payable provided that certain  criteria are met. Sobi holds assets of approximately SEK 4,127 M 
and liabilities of SEK 3,649 M in  relation to emapalumab.
Upon the completion of all payments, Sobi will acquire the intellectual 
property rights for emapalumab, including patents, data and know-how. Either 
party has the option of bringing forward the date of the additional payments to 
any time after 1 July 2019. A non-binding letter of intent regarding a possible 
subsequent acquisition of emapalumab has also been signed.Note 17, cont.
NOTES
95
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201817
18PARENT COMPANYPlant and 
machineryEquipment,  
tools, fixtures 
 and fittingsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction  
in progress Total
1 January–31 December 2017
Opening accumulated cost 430,119 199,766 5,210 14,770 649,865
Acquisitions 28,557 2,583 — 6,271 37,411
Disposals –922 — — — –922
Closing cost 457,754 202,349 5,210 21,041 686,354
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –371,582 –173,525 –1,560 — –546,667
Amortisation –14,653 –11,371 –524 — –26,548
Disposals 922 — — — 922
Closing accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –385,313 –184,896 –2,084 — –572,293
Closing carrying amount 72,441 17,453 3,126 21,041 114,061
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 457,754 202,349 5,210 21,041 686,354
Acquisitions — — — 26,494 26,494
Reclassification 33,191 5,778 — –38,968 1
Disposals –33,312 –5,668 — — –39,580
Closing cost 457,633 202,459 5,210 8,567 674,169
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –385,313 –184,896 –2,084 — —572,293
Amortisation –18,509 9,636 –524 — –28,669
Disposals 33,288 5,668 — — 38,956
Closing accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –370,534 –188,864 –2,608 — –562,006
Closing carrying amount 87,099 13,595 2,602 8,567 111,863
19  Participations in Group companies
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Accumulated cost
At beginning of year  4,059,768 4,059,573
Investment1 592,273 195
Total 4,652,041 4,059,768
Accumulated impairment
At beginning of year –1,177,435 –177,435
Impairment for the year — –1,000,000
Total –1,177,435 –1,177,435
Carrying amount at end of period 3,474,606 2,882,333
1. Investment for the year relates to the acquisition of the perpetual rights to emapalumab from Novimmune SA, 
which was conducted by the subsidiary in Switzerland.Note 18, cont.
NOTES
96
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201818
19Specification of Parent Company and Group holdings of participations in Group companies
SUBSIDIARY/CORP. REG. NO./REGISTERED OFFICENumber of  
participations Participations, %1 Carrying amount
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, 556329–5624, Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 2,655,588
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S, 19179079, Copenhagen, Denmark
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum SARL, 490259405, Paris, France
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic
 Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, 1024811, Turku, Finland
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.l, 5288990962, Parma, Italy
 OOO Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 5087746194520, Moscow, Russia
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS, 976313682, Trollåsen, Norway
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum S.L., B84710623, Madrid, Spain
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ltd, 4369760, Cambridgeshire, UK
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, HRB 226770, Martinsried, Germany
SOBI Middle East FZ-LLC, 91193, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 1,000 100 132
Arexis AB, 556573-5130, Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 225,137
Sobi, Inc EIN 68-0682244, Delaware, USA 1,000 100 7
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic2 1 1 8
BVBA Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 0536.217.087, Brussels, Belgium 100 100 165
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AG, 284,917,678, Lucerne, Switzerland 100 100 592,996
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, 416986, Vienna, Austria 100 100 313
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI) Canada, Inc. 949375-1, Oakville, Canada 10,000 100 65
Sobi Single Member I.K.E, 142300401000, Athens, Greece 20,000 100 195
Total 3,474,606
1. The participation refers to the ownership of capital, which also corresponds to the proportion of the votes.
2. The remaining portion is owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB.
20  Financial assets
GROUP 2018 2017
Accumulated cost
At beginning of year 35,155 1,956
Endowment insurance1 14,320 32,391
Financial receivables 2,036 1,356
Returned deposit –1,339 –619
Derivatives 5,268 —
Other — 71
Accumulated cost 55,440 35,155
Carrying amount at end of period 55,440 35,155
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Accumulated cost
At beginning of year 32,392 1
Endowment insurance1 14,320 32,391
Derivatives 5,268 —
Accumulated cost 51,979 32,392
Carrying amount at end of period 51,979 32,39221  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
GROUP 2018Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax  
liabilities Net
Excess depreciation — –532,304 –532,304
Inventory 180,890 — 180,890
Acquired product rights — –202,930 –202,930
Other intangible assets 61,029 — 61,029
Trade receivables 14,045 — 14,045
Provision for pensions 13,969 –135 13,834
Pharmaceutical tax 5,929 — 5,929
Tax loss carry-forward1 26,379 — 26,379
Other 3,248 –3,107 141
Total 305,489 –738,476 –432,987
Offsetting –74,655 74,655 —
Tax assets/liabilities, net 230,834 –663,821 –432,987
1. Deferred tax on loss carry-forward for the year relates to losses accumulated during the year that 
are expected to be utilized before they expire, see also Note 4.Note 19, cont.
NOTES
97
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201819
20
21GROUP 2017Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax  
liabilities Net
Excess depreciation — –467,280 –467,280
Change in depreciation method — –19,729 –19,729
Inventory 115,929 — 115,929
Acquired product rights — –251,906 –251,906
Other intangible assets 68,613 — 68,613
Trade receivables 1,671 — 1,671
Provision for pensions 11,390 — 11,390
Pharmaceutical tax 2,669 — 2,669
Other 3,573 –1,233 2,340
Total 203,845 –740,149 –536,303
Offsetting –72,416 72,416 —
Tax assets/liabilities, net 131,429 –667,733 –536,303
The Parent Company’s total deferred tax assets/liabilities amounted to SEK 11 M 
(–10), comprising a deferred tax liability of SEK 12 M (9) related to pension 
 provisions, a deferred tax asset of SEK 2 M (2) related to trade receivables, a 
deferred tax liability of SEK –3 M (–1) related to derivatives and a deferred tax 
liability of SEK –1 M (–1) related to restoration reserve. Deferred tax was cal-
culated using the new tax rates introduced in Sweden during the year, see 
Notes 2 and 16. 
Change in deferred tax on temporary differences and loss carry-forward
GROUP 2018Amount at  
beginning of yearRecognised  
in profit or lossRecognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
incomeAmount at 
end of year
Excess depreciation –467,280 –65,024 — –532,304
Change in depreciation method –19,729 19,729 — —
Inventory 115,929 64,961 — 180,890
Acquired product rights –251,906 48,976 — –202,930
Other intangible assets 68,613 –7,584 — 61,029
Trade receivables 1,671 12,374 — 14,045
Provision for pensions 11,390 2,553 –109 13,834
Tax loss carry-forward1 — 25,650 729 26,379
Pharmaceutical tax 2,669 3,139 121 5,929
Other 2,340 –2,159 –40 141
Total 536,303 102,615 701 –432,987
1. Deferred tax on loss carry-forward for the year relates to losses accumulated during the year that are expected to be utilized before they expire, see also Note 4.
GROUP 2017Amount at  
beginning of yearRecognised  
in profit or lossRecognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
incomeAmount at 
end of year
Excess depreciation –253,880 –213,400 — –467,280
Change in depreciation method –39,458 19,729 — –19,729
Inventory 120,260 –4,331 — 115,929
Acquired product rights –290,054 38,148 — –251,906
Other intangible assets 72,333 –3,720 — 68,613
Trade receivables — 1,671 — 1,671
Provision for pensions 2,805 8,299 286 11,390
Tax loss carry-forward 15,368 –15,447 79 —
Pharmaceutical tax 1,358 1,233 78 2,669
Other 9,607 –6,864 –404 2,340
Total –361,661 –174,683 39 –536,303Note 21, cont.
NOTES
98
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182122  Inventories
GROUP 2018 2017
Raw materials and consumables 17,165 20,905
Work in progress 581,185 536,603
Finished goods and goods for resale 685,762 495,760
Total 1,284,112 1,053,268
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods 
sold and amounted to SEK 2,056,110 K (1,516,822). 2017 included a one-off 
adjustment of stock of SEK 59 M in connection with the delayed release of the 
pharmaceutical substance for Kineret manufactured in 2016.
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Raw materials and consumables 17,165 20,905
Work in progress 581,185 536,603
Finished goods and goods for resale 472,462 336,166
Total 1,070,812 893,674
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods 
sold and amounted to SEK 1,995,014 K (1,516,485). 2017 included a one-off 
adjustment of stock of SEK 59 M in connection with the delayed release of the 
pharmaceutical substance for Kineret manufactured in 2016.23   Trade and other receivables
GROUP 2018 2017
Trade receivables 1,734,990 1,164,054
Minus:  
Provision for expected credit losses –69,782 –35,038
Trade receivables, net 1,665,208 1,129,016
Tax assets 14,817 25,232
Other receivables 77,919 38,732
Total other receivables 92,736 63,964
Total trade and other receivables 1,757,944 1,192,980
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Trade receivables 597,693 413,296
Minus:  
Provision for expected credit losses –8,097 –7,594
Trade receivables, net 589,596 405,702
Tax assets 670 22,261
Other receivables 56,319 30,831
Total other receivables 56,989 53,092
Total trade and other receivables 646,585 458,794
Sobi’s clients are primarily hospitals and government authorities. The large 
 client base has a wide geographic spread, with no specific concentration of 
receivables. The Group’s exposure to future credit losses is continuously moni-
tored by country and by type of counterparty. If Sobi judges that a receivable 
will not be paid, a provision for an expected credit loss shall be made in accord-
ance with the principles described in Note 2. This note also includes informa-
tion on client’s payment conditions.
At 31 December 2018, overdue customer receivables for the Group 
amounted to SEK 518 M (291), on which SEK 70 M (35) are included in the provi-
sion for future credit losses. The year’s profit has been affected by confirmed 
credit losses of SEK 2.525 M, of which SEK 1.015 M are attributed to the parent 
company. 
The new accounting standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments came into effect 
on 1 January 2018. New accounting principles for expected credit losses are 
applied to trade receivables and contract assets when IFRS 15 is applied.
Sobi has analysed the effects of the introduction of IFRS 9 on the Group’s 
financial statements, and this did not result in any material impact on the open-
ing balances in 2018.
Changes in the provision for expected credit losses are as follows:
Provision for expected credit losses
GROUP 2018 2017
At beginning of year –35,038 –49,279
Provision for expected credit losses –40,805 –10,566
Reversed provisions 6,061 24,807
At end of year –69,782 –35,038
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
At beginning of year –7,594 –12,799
Provision for expected credit losses –2,258 –2,296
Reversed provisions 1,755 7,501
At end of year –8,097 –7,594
NOTES
99
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201822
23Past due trade receivables
GROUP 2018 2017
Not past due 1,147,113 838,737
Past due 1–30 days 371,251 183,050
Past due 31–90 days 80,146 68,366
Past due 91–120 days 10,283 11,954
Past due > 121 days 56,415 27,273
Total 1,665,208 1,129,016
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Not past due 439,469 335,870
Past due 1–30 days 142,159 62,111
Past due 31–90 days 5,630 5,754
Past due 91–120 days 1,718 —
Past due > 121 days 620 1,967
Total 589,596 405,702
Recognised amount per currency for trade and other receivables
GROUP 2018 2017
AUD 3,461 10,459
CHF 44,405 20,333
CZK 1,639 2,088
DKK 34,338 24,786
EUR 1,134,478 661,603
GBP 122,402 101,106
NOK 37,947 35,945
PLN 3,957 5,129
RON 9,677 10,248
SEK 191,285 167,292
USD 161,938 150,155
Other currencies 12,417 3,834
Total 1,757,944 1,192,980
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
AUD 3,461 10,459
CHF 38,400 20,333
CZK 1,283 1,799
DKK 33,763 24,619
EUR 294,391 172,013
GBP — —
NOK 37,835 35,404
PLN 3,957 5,129
RON 9,677 10,248
SEK 191,751 167,292
USD 25,838 9,631
Other currencies 6,229 1,865
Total 646,585 458,79424   Prepaid expenses and accrued income
GROUP 2018 2017
Accrued royalty revenue1 364,250 327,390
Prepaid lease payments 172 176
Prepaid rents 21,743 16,174
Prepaid insurance expenses 854 14,469
Accrued interest income 42,969 2,884
Prepaid IT licenses 18,394 11,229
Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities 18,987 16,975
Other accrued income1 — 179
Other prepaid expenses 93,741 42,850
Total 561,110 432,326
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Accrued royalty revenue1 364,250 327,390
Prepaid rents 15,693 15,012
Prepaid insurance expenses — 13,343
Accrued interest income 42,969 2,884
Prepaid IT licenses 18,394 11,229
Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities 18,987 16,975
Other prepaid expenses 71,489 31,361
Total 531,782 418,194
1. These are classified as contract assets according to IFRS 15. 
25  Cash and cash equivalents
2018 2017
GROUP Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 2,998,742 2,998,742 1,478,496 1,478,496
Total 2,998,742 2,998,742 1,478,496 1,478,496
2018 2017
PARENT COMPANY Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 2,761,759 2,761,759 1,381,369 1,381,369
Total 2,761,759 2,761,759 1,381,369 1,381,369
Cash and cash equivalents relate to the holding of funds in bank accounts.Note 23, cont.
NOTES
100
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201823
24
2526  Financial assets and liabilities per category (Group)
Assets measured at 
amortised costAssets measured at 
fair value through 
profit or loss Derivatives Total
31 December 2018
Assets in the balance sheet
Trade receivables 1,665,208 — — 1,665,208
Endowment insurance — 46,711 — 46,711
Derivatives1 — — 14,924 14,924
Fair value hedges — 5,268 — 5,267
Cash and cash equivalents 2,998,742 — — 2,998,742
Total 4,663,950 51,978 14,924 4,730,852
31 December 2017
Assets in the balance sheet
Trade receivables 1,129,016 — — 1,129,016
Endowment insurance — 32,391 — 32,391
Derivatives — — 5,095 5,095
Cash and cash equivalents 1,478,496 — — 1,478,496
Total 2,607,512 32,391 5,095 2,644,998
Liabilities measured  
at amortised costOther financial  
liabilities Derivatives Total
31 December 2018
Liabilities in the balance sheet
Finance leases 3,986 — — 3,986
Derivatives2 — — 8,181 8,181
Trade payables 486,972 — — 486,972
Other liabilities 4,887,001 — — 4,887,001
Total 5,377,959 — 8,181 5,386,140
31 December 2017
Liabilities in the balance sheet
Finance leases — 6,668 — 6,668
Derivatives — — 2,624 2,624
Trade payables — 358,449 — 358,449
Other liabilities — 1,646,728 — 1,646,728
Total — 2,011,845 2,624 2,014,469
See Note 2 for more information about what is included in the various categories. 
1. Of the 2018 derivatives, SEK 8 M (5) is measured at fair value through profit and loss, SEK 7 M (0) is included in cash flow hedges.
2. Derivatives on the liability side consist of SEK 5 M (0) hedged at fair value and SEK 3 M (0) included in cash flow hedges.
Financial instruments measured at fair value
The following table shows financial instruments measured at fair value, based on their classification in the fair value hierarchy.  
The different levels are defined as follows:
•  Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2: Observable data for the asset or liability other than the quoted prices included in Level 1.
• Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss
Derivatives held for sale 2,445 2,445
Derivative instruments used for  
hedging purposes 4,298 4,298
Total assets 6,743 6,743
NOTES
101
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20181
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
11
13
14
15
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
25
26
26
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss
Derivatives held for trading — 2,471 — 2,471
Total assets — 2,471 — 2,471
All derivatives are measured at fair value based on market data in accordance 
with IFRS. At 31 December 2018, the carrying amount of derivatives in the bal-
ance sheet was SEK 7 M (2), see also Note 26.
27  Other liabilities, current and non-current
GROUP 2018 2017
Current
Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 676,778 579,895
Liability to Novimmune 3,639,695 —
Non-invoiced goods received 28,826 14,678
Other 114,003 67,539
Total 4,459,302 662,112
Non-current
Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 427,699 1,066,833
Total 427,699 1,066,833
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Current
Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 676,778 579,895
Non-invoiced goods received 28,826 14,678
Other 25,724 12,535
Total 731,328 607,108
Non-current
Liability to Sanofi Genzyme 427,699 1,066,833
Total 427,699 1,066,833
Following EU approval of Elocta and Alprolix, Sobi acquired the rights to market 
the products in certain markets. The cost of marketing rights corresponds to 50 
per cent of Sanofi Genzyme’s development costs for each product. After revi-
sion, the original nominal amounts were USD 211 M for Elocta and USD 185 M 
for Alprolix. As these liabilities will be repaid over a number of years, it is the dis-
counted values after the repayments that are reflected in the balance sheet 
(USD 46 M for Elocta and USD 77 M for Alprolix). The right to market the prod-
ucts in certain markets, recorded as intangible assets, is initially recognised at 
the same value as the liabilities. The costs correspond to the discounted liabil-
ity, and the difference compared with nominal amounts gives rise to deferred 
tax in the financial statements. The risk associated with currency effects on 
these liabilities is reduced by applying hedge accounting. This is done by hedg-
ing highly probable future inflows in USD using cash flow hedges, and the 
effect of the remeasurements of the liabilities is reflected in other comprehen-
sive income. If full payment has not been made within six years of the first com-
mercial sale of each product, Sanofi Genzyme is entitled to request that Sobi 
pay the remaining amount within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of Sanofi 
Genzyme’s first commercial sale. Liability of CHF 450 M to Novimmune per -
tains to the acquisition of the license agreement for Emapalumab. The liability 
is classified as current, since additional payments may be accelerated by either 
party at any time after 1 July 2019. The liability is non-interest-bearing.28  Post-employment benefits
Group employees have various forms of pension benefits, either defined- 
contribution or defined-benefit plans. In Sweden, post-employment benefits 
are mainly funded by defined-contribution plans. At 31 December 2018, five 
people in the Norwegian subsidiary and two people in the Swedish Parent 
Company were covered by defined-benefit plans, while other employees were 
 covered by defined-contribution plans.
Defined-contribution plan by Alecta and pension benefits
For white-collar employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pen-
sion commitments for retirement and family pensions are insured through 
Alecta. According to the Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 
Accounting for ITP 2 Plans Financed by Insurance with Alecta, this is a 
multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2018 financial year, the company 
did not have access to sufficient information to report its proportionate share 
of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and expenses, which meant that it has not 
been possible to report the plan as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension 
plan is therefore reported as a defined-contribution plan. The premium for the 
defined-benefit retirement and family pension is calculated individually, and is 
based on factors that include salary, previously earned pension and expected 
remaining period of service. In the next reporting period, expected contribu-
tions for ITP 2 plans insured through Alecta amount to SEK 25 M (25). The 
Group’s share of the total plan contributions and the Group’s share of the total 
number of active members in the plan are insignificant. 
The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a per -
centage of the insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actu-
arial methods and assumptions, which are not consistent with IAS 19. The col-
lective funding ratio is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. 
If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per 
cent, measures should be taken to create the right conditions for the ratio to 
return to the normal range. If the ratio is low, an appropriate measure could 
be to raise the agreed price for new policies and extensions of existing bene-
fits. If the ratio is high, premium reductions could be introduced. At the end 
of 2018, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 142 per 
cent (154).
Some current and former executives are not covered by the premium, so 
a direct pension is used for that part of the premium which is not deductible. 
A direct pension is secured by the company undertaking an endowment insur -
ance policy which is credited to the executive. 
Defined-benefit pension plan 
The defined-benefit pension commitments are calculated annually on the 
 balance-sheet date, based on actuarial principles. Sobi has a defined-benefit 
pension plan for the subsidiary in Norway and for two individuals in the Parent 
Company in Sweden.
The present value of the obligation includes special payroll tax, in accord-
ance with IAS 19, for the Swedish and Norwegian pension plans.
Pension costs are recognised under the items of selling expenses, adminis-
trative expenses and research and development costs. 
Risks connected to defined-benefit pension plans
Through its defined-benefit pension plans for post-employment benefits, the 
Group is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are:
Life expectancy assumptions:Most of the pension commitments entail that 
the employees covered by the plan will receive life-long benefits and, accord-
ingly, the longer life expectancy assumptions will result in higher pension liabil-
ities. This is most significant in the Swedish plan, in which inflation increases 
result in higher sensitivity to changes in the life expectancy assumptions.
Inflation risk:Some of the plan’s pension commitments are linked to inflation. 
Higher inflation leads to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, a ceiling has 
been set for the level of inflation to protect the plan against exceptional 
increases in inflation). Most of the plan assets are either unaffected by (fixed-
rate bonds), or weakly correlated with (shares) inflation, which means that an 
increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.Note 26, cont.
NOTES
102
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201826
27
28Discount rate:A decrease in the interest rate on corporate bonds will increase 
the liabilities of the plan, although this will partially be offset by an increase in 
the value of the bond holdings.
The Norwegian pension plan is covered by the Norwegian Corporate Pen-
sion Act (Foretagspenjonsloven) and the Swedish plan is covered by the Pen-
sion Obligations Vesting Act and the consortium agreement. Under the con-
sortium agreement, Sobi is required to allocate the funds required to ensure 
that the pension assets correspond to Sobi’s share of the pension liability.
Both the Swedish and Norwegian plans are based on final salary.
Changes in the defined-benefit pension commitments during  
the year are as follows: 
1 JANUARY– 
31 DECEMBER 2018Present value of 
commitmentsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –41,414 32,775 –8,639
Current service cost –2,267 — –2,267
Interest expense –990 — –990
Revaluations:
  Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts included in interest 
expense — 801 801
  Changed financial  
assumptions –449 –62 –511
  Experience-based  
assumptions 5,363 –1,613 3,750
Contributions:
 Employer 908 470 1,378
 Settlements — –170 –170
Exchange differences –422 238 –185
At end of year –39,271 32,439 –6,832
1 JANUARY– 
31 DECEMBER 2017Present value of 
commitmentsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –40,639 29,679 –10,960
Current service cost –1,859 — –1,859
Interest expense –983 — –983
Revaluations:
  Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts included in interest 
expense — 732 732
  Changed financial  
assumptions –1,251 20 –1,231
  Experience-based  
assumptions 1,447 1,362 2,808
Contributions:
 Employer 1,020 1,658 2,678
 Settlements — –219 –219
Exchange differences 852 –456 395
At end of year –41,414 32,775 –8,639
Net obligation per country
2018 2017
Sweden 614 –744
Norway –7,446 –7,895
Total –6,832 –8,639Actuarial assumptions on the balance-sheet date 
SWEDISH PENSION PLAN 2018 2017
Discount rate, % 2.3 2.5
Expected annual inflation, % 2.0 2.0
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, 
male, years 20.8 20.8
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, 
female, years 23.4 23.4
NORWEGIAN PENSION PLAN 2018 2017
Discount rate, % 2.6 2.3
Expected annual inflation, % 1.5 1.5
Remaining life expectancy  
after retirement age, male, years 21.3 21.3
Remaining life expectancy  
after retirement age, female, years 24.4 24.4
Demographic assumptions 
Mortality assumptions for the Swedish plans correspond to the Swedish Finan-
cial Supervisory Authority’s recommendations, which came into force on 31 
December 2007 for the Swedish pension plan, while assumptions for the Nor -
wegian plan are based on the K2013 BE mortality table. On the balance-sheet 
date, Norway had five active employees and Sweden had no active employees 
and two retired employees. The retirement age is set at 65 years. 
Distribution by asset class
2018  Quoted, % 2017  Quoted, %
Equity funds1 12,050 100 10,878 100
Interest-bearing securities 16,652 100 18,070 100
Properties 813 — 1,016 —
Other funds 2,844 — 2,669 —
Other 80 — 142 —
Total 32,439 32,775
1.  The pension and its assets are managed by Procordias Pensionsstiftelse. Some of their selected 
equity funds, such as AMF Aktiefond Sverige, have shareholdings in Sobi. 
Sensitivity analysis
2018 2017
Pension commitment under current assumptions 39,271 41,413
Discount rate –0.5% 43,025 45,870
Discount rate +0.5% 35,546 37,482
Inflation +0.5% 43,204 45,699
Inflation –0.5% 38,644 39,489
Life expectancy after retirement –1 year 36,415 38,867
Life expectancy after retirement +1 year 40,835 43,335
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption, with 
all other assumptions remaining constant. 
In practice, this is highly unlikely to occur and some of the changes in the 
assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the 
defined-benefit obligations to significant actuarial assumptions, the same 
method (present value of the defined-benefit obligation applying the projected 
unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when 
calculating the pension liability recognised in the balance sheet.
Other information
For the 2019 financial year, contributions to plans for post-employment bene-
fits are expected to be SEK 1,439 K (1,362). The weighted average maturity of 
the commitment is an estimated 30.2 years. Note 28, cont.
NOTES
103
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182829  Provisions
Group Parent Company
2018 2017 2018 2017
Provision at beginning of year 97,955 44,389 82,443 33,060
Endowment insurance1 14,320 32,391 14,320 32,391
Cash-based incentive  
programme2 –16,817 16,817 –16,817 16,817
Commitments, leases –455 2,725 — —
Restoration reserve3 176 171 176 175
Changes in pension  
commitments –1,806 –2,321 — —
Other 4,106 3,783 — —
Provisions at 31 December 97,479 97,955 80,122 82,443
1. On the balance-sheet date, endowment insurance amounted to SEK 47 M.
2. Cash-based incentive programme 2017 related to programme that will be vested during 2019 and 
hence has been reclassified during 2018. See Note 11.
3. Sobi will restore the rented property Paradiset 14 to an acceptable condition with consideration for 
the operations conducted by the company, in accordance with the Rental Agreement (IAS 16). At 
31 December 2018, the company recognised a provision of SEK 33 M in the balance sheet.
Group Parent Company
2018 2017 2018 2017
Non-current portion 95,643 94,172 80,122 82,443
Current portion 1,836 3,783 — —
Total provisions 97,479 97,955 80,122 82,44330  Accrued expenses and deferred income
GROUP 2018 2017
Provision for vacation pay and  
bonuses, incl. social security contributions 322,041 239,469
Accrued social security contributions 139,336 119,066
Accrued royalty expense 183,961 112,849
Accrued manufacturing costs 107,473 46,014
Accrued R&D costs 128,548 64,960
Accrued interest expense 3,996 175
Accrued consulting and travel costs 59,126 23,351
Accrued discounts 260,190 176,099
Pharmaceutical tax 139,777 111,261
Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report 3,187 4,700
Accrued costs of items sold 23,377 10,426
Co-Promotion 76,677 —
Other accrued expenses 162,606 210,308
Total 1,610,295 1,118,678
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Provision for vacation pay and bonuses, 
 incl. social security contributions 181,706 146,223
Accrued social security contributions 83,360 51,856
Accrued royalty expense 183,961 112,849
Accrued manufacturing costs 107,473 46,014
Accrued R&D costs 99,012 64,960
Accrued interest expense 3,996 175
Accrued consulting and travel costs 29,328 7,295
Accrued discounts 65,656 30,633
Pharmaceutical tax 52,714 14,517
Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report 1,164 2,756
Accrued costs of items sold 4,106 —
Co-Promotion 76,369 —
Other accrued expenses 80,616 205,552
Total 969,462 682,830Note 28, cont.
NOTES
104
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201828
29
3031  Pledged assets and contingent liabilities
GROUP 2018 2017
Pledged assets
Endowment insurance 46,711 32,391
Other pledged assets 739 686
Total 47,450 33,077
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Pledged assets
Endowment insurance 46,711 32,391
Other pledged assets 43 43
Total 46,754 32,434
PARENT COMPANY 2018 2017
Contingent liabilities
Guarantee commitment 96,127 36,835
Total 96,127 36,835
Guarantees for 2018 for the subsidiaries relate to general guarantees up to a 
specified amount and relate to all types of credit, such as rental guarantees, 
credit cards, etc., that the subsidiary in question may hold.
TAX AND LEGAL DISPUTES
Legal disputes
Sobi is involved in a number of disputes, a not-uncommon situation for phar -
maceutical companies. None of these is currently considered material.
32  The share
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to SEK 149,947 M distributed 
between 273,322,117 shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55. All shares issued 
on the balance-sheet date were ordinary shares. Ordinary shares carry one 
vote per share. At the balance-sheet date, the company held 3,423,726 ordinary 
shares in treasury. The Equity item corresponds to 1.3 per cent of the total 
number of shares in the company.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before dilution is calculated by dividing earnings attributable 
to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding during the period, excluding shares held in treasury.
To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential 
ordinary shares.
2018 2017
Earnings attributable to Parent Company 
 shareholders 2,417,795 1,148,612
Weighted average number of ordinary  
shares outstanding (000s) 269,524 269,020
Undiluted earnings per share  
(SEK per share) 8.97 4.27
Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 8.93 4.2533  Related-party transactions
Apart from what is stated in the Notes on remuneration of senior executives 
and intra-group transactions, there have been no related party transactions.
See Note 5 for internal transactions between the Group’s subsidiaries.
34  Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting:
SEK
Share premium reserve 4,277,038,162
Retained earnings 121,508,296
Profit for the year 2,381,763,358
Total 6,780,309,816
The Board of Directors proposes that no dividend be distributed for the 2018 
financial year. 
The Board proposes that the share premium reserve and retained earnings 
at their disposal, of SEK 6,780,309,816 be carried forward.
35  Events after the balance-sheet date  
up to 27 March 2019
• Sobi completed the acquisition of the Synagis US rights from AstraZeneca 
and exercised authorisation to issue shares. The upfront consideration 
 payable at closing of the acquisition, announced on 24 January 2019, 
 corresponds to approximately US 1.5 B (SEK 13.8 B) consisting of cash and 
24,193,092 newly issued Sobi common shares.
• In connection to the acquisition from AstraZeneca of the rights to Synagis in 
the US, Sobi announced a new number of shares and votes due to the issue 
of 24,193,092 new common shares. Thereafter, the total number of shares 
and votes amounts to 297,515,209. At 31 January 2019, the company held 
3,423,726 common shares in treasury.
• The US Food and Drug Administration granted Breakthrough Therapy Desig-
nation (BTD) for MEDI8897.
• Christian Dreger (Head of Northern Europe, Middle East and Russia), Sofiane 
Fahmy (Head of Southern & Western Europe and North Africa) and Paula 
Treutiger (Head of Communications & Investor Relations) were appointed to 
the Executive Committee in January 2019. Hege Hellström (Head of 
EMENAR) left the Executive Committee and the company in January 2019.
For more information, refer to the Directors’ Report.
NOTES
105
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201831
32
33
34
35The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards 
(IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s 
financial position and results. The Annual Report has been prepared in accor -
dance with generally accepted accounting principles and provides a true and 
fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results.The Directors’ Report for the Group and the Parent Company provides a fair 
view of the development of the Group and the Parent Company’s operations, 
financial position and results and describes the material risks and uncertainties 
faced by the Parent Company and the companies in the Group.
The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the Annual 
General Meeting on 9 May 2019 for adoption. 
Stockholm, 27 March 2019
 Håkan Björklund David Allsop Annette Clancy 
 Chairman Board member Board member
 Matthew Gantz Lennart Johansson Helena Saxon 
 Board member Board member Board member
 Hans GCP Schikan Elisabeth Svanberg
 Board member Board member
 Pia Axelson Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand
 Employee representative Employee representative
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Our auditor’s report was submitted on 12 April 2019
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorised Public Accountant
NOTES
106
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Letter from  
the Chairman
2018 was an extremely eventful year for Sobi. 
It was also an extremely successful year in 
two key ways.
Looking at Sobi’s success in both sales and 
in business development during 2018, it is 
clear that the company has delivered on its 
strategy. The progress so far bodes well for 
continued growth in the years ahead.
Product sales have matched or exceeded 
expectations across the board, with out-
standing growth in Haemophilia, increased 
sales for Kineret and a stable performance 
for Orfadin.
Just as importantly, Sobi has completed 
two business development deals. These are 
in line with the strategy adopted in Septem-
ber 2017. The acquisitions represent both the 
first stage in the realisation of Sobi’s growth 
strategy and an important diversification for 
the company.
We have seen a number of additional hires 
in the management team, making it more 
international and diversified. Diversity, in 
senior management, across the company 
and within the Board itself, is something we 
see as adding value to Sobi, and is something 
we will continue to work with over the 
coming years.
Contributing to society
Sobi’s overall objective from a sustainability 
perspective is tied to the vision of contrib-
uting to the societies in which it operates 
by improving access to treatment of rare 
diseases. This requires a commitment to 
responsibility for patients and employees, 
reduced environmental impact from oper -
ations and treatment, as well as long-term 
sustainable profitability.
The Board monitors and supports Sobi’s 
ongoing efforts to reduce the company’s 
impact on the environment. Sobi’s oper -
ations are not seen as having a significant 
environmental impact, but the company 
still looks continuously at how energy and 
water consumption can be reduced further. 
To reduce the impact of business travel, 
which accounts for our largest contribution 
to greenhouse gas emissions, the option 
of virtual meetings is both promoted 
and facilitated.Compliance remains a major issue for all 
companies today. As far as Sobi is concerned, 
there can be only one standard: to be com-
pletely compliant with all rules and regula-
tions in every jurisdiction where the company 
operates. Nothing else is acceptable.
There is also the question of how people 
behave towards each other. One example is 
sexual harassment, which is unacceptable in 
all its forms. To assist in ensuring compliance, 
Sobi provides a a third-party whistle-blower 
service available to all employees, enabling 
anonymous reports of any possible violation 
of the Code of Conduct & Ethics, any law, or 
any company policy.
These are all issues in which the Board 
will continue to work with Sobi’s senior 
management.
Looking forward
I see the acquisitions of 2018 as the first 
stage in the diversification of Sobi’s business 
base. Sobi has been incredibly successful in 
Haemophilia and we expect this to continue, 
with strong growth for current products 
and promising follow-up compounds. The 
business development activities last year will 
ensure a more diverse portfolio. 
I expect diversification efforts to continue, 
to create a broader yet still focused product 
portfolio. I also expect Sobi to add to the 
R&D pipeline, bringing in not only products 
that can be launched immediately but also 
late-stage products that can be brought to 
patients within a couple of years. We have 
not seen the end of business development 
activities.
Research and development remain very 
important, and Sobi will continue to develop 
its own products. But it is also obvious that 
you cannot do everything on your own. To be 
able to bring in successful projects or prod-
ucts from outside, you need to have strong 
in-house R&D. Otherwise you cannot evalu-
ate these projects adequately, nor contribute 
to the further development of them going 
forward. You cannot have your own R&D in 
one silo and in-licensing in another. These 
competences go together.
Partnership is a skill, a very important 
skill that you need to develop throughout the organisation. Throughout its history, 
Sobi has been very good at working with 
a variety of partners, to achieve good 
results for everyone.
Partnership is also one of Sobi’s values, 
together with Urgency, Ownership, Ambition 
and, of course, Care. These are values 
that I see truly as underpinning the way 
everyone at Sobi thinks and works. Values are 
significant only if they are an integral part of 
a company’s culture, and not just words in 
a presentation or on a piece of paper. Many 
companies have failed because they have 
not preserved and nurtured their culture 
throughout periods of great change. I have 
confidence in Sobi’s culture. It will provide 
guidance and support for everyone across 
the company during the challenges and 
opportunities ahead.
Board supporting growth journey
As well as providing oversight and gover -
nance, the Board is also here to support 
management in developing the company.
To enhance our abilities in these areas, we 
brought in two new Board members in 2018. 
David Allsop brings additional commercial 
competence, and Elisabeth Svanberg 
strengthens our medical expertise. Their 
talents help ensure we have a well-rounded, 
diverse and expert Board.
To wrap up, 2018 was a fantastic year for 
Sobi. On behalf of the Board, I’d like to thank 
everyone across Sobi for their commitment 
and hard work. But this is not the end. It is 
not even the end of the beginning. We will 
all need to work hard in 2019 and beyond 
for Sobi to develop as we know it can. This 
requires all of us to do our best, no matter 
where in the organisation we are.
Håkan Björklund
Chairman of the Board
Letter from the Chairman
107
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Corporate   
Governance report
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) “Sobi” 
is a Swedish public limited liability company 
with its registered office in Solna, Sweden. 
Sobi is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. In addi-
tion to the rules under laws or other regu-
lations, Sobi applies the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code (www.bolagsstyrning.se) 
without any deviations. This report for the 
2018 financial year is part of Sobi’s Directors’ 
Report and has been audited.
1. General meeting
Sobi’s highest decision-making body is the 
General Meeting through which shareholders 
have the right to make decisions on the com-
pany’s affairs. The Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) must be held within six months of the 
end of the financial year, and Extraordinary 
General Meetings (EGM) may be held if the 
Board of Directors deems it necessary, or at 
the request of Sobi’s auditors or shareholders 
holding at least 10 per cent of all shares in 
the company. The AGM adopts the income 
statement and balance sheet, resolves on 
the appropriation of profits and elects Board 
members, the Chairman and auditors.
The company does not apply any special 
arrangements with regard to the function of 
the general meeting, either on the basis of 
provisions in the Articles of Association or, to the extent they are known to the company, 
shareholder agreements.
The Articles of Association state that the 
AGM is to be held in Stockholm or Solna. 
Sobi has not found that the composition of 
shareholders justifies any special measures 
for shareholders being able to take part in 
the AGM remotely. Notice of the AGM is 
published in Post- och Inrikes Tidningar and 
on the company’s website. When this has 
been done, an announcement to this effect is 
published in Svenska Dagbladet.
2018 AGM
The AGM was held on 9 May 2018 in Stock -
holm. The Meeting was attended by 264 
shareholders (169), in person or by proxy. 
This represented 69.6 per cent (65.2) of the 
total number of votes. Lawyer Eva Hägg was 
elected to chair the Meeting.
The full minutes and information from 
the 2018 AGM are available at  
www.sobi.com.
2019 AGM
The Annual General Meeting will be held 
on Thursday, 9 May 2019 at Grand Hôtel, 
Stockholm. More information about the AGM 
can be found on page 134.Shareholders, share capital, the share  
and voting rights
At year-end, Sobi had a total of 23,435 
(22,938) shareholders. Investor AB was the 
largest shareholder, with 39.4 per cent (39.5) 
of the share capital and 39.4 per cent (39.5) 
of the votes. The 15 largest shareholders 
accounted for 73.8 per cent (72.7) of the 
share capital and 73.8 per cent (72.7) of the 
votes. No shareholder other than Investor 
AB has a direct or indirect shareholding that 
represents one-tenth or more of the votes 
for all shares in the company. Sobi’s Articles 
of Association do not contain any restrictions 
on how many votes each shareholder may 
cast at a general meeting.
Nor do they contain any specific provisions 
on the appointment and dismissal of Board 
members or on amendments to the Articles 
of Association.
Conversion of shares and authorisation  
to the Board of Directors
In order to secure commitments under long-
term incentive programmes, the AGM on 9 
May 2018 adopted (i) a private placement 
of redeemable and convertible C shares, 
(ii) authorisation of Sobi’s Board to make 
decisions regarding the repurchase of issued 
C shares, and (iii) the transfer of Sobi’s own 
shares to participants in the programme.
CHAIRMAN  
OF THE BOARD
AND THE BOARDANNUAL  
GENERAL MEETING1
PRESIDENT AND CEO
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEESCIENTIFIC 
COMMITTEENOMINATION  
COMMITTEEAUDITORS
COMPENSATION  
& BENEFITS  
COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE8 2
3 4 6
7 5CoRPoRATE govERNANCE REPoRT
108
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018The AGM also resolved to transfer a max -
imum of 144,808 of Sobi’s own shares in 
order to cover some expenses, mainly social 
security contributions, that may arise due to 
the 2015 Share Programme. The AGM also 
resolved to authorise the Board of Directors 
to make decisions regarding the issue of 
shares and/or convertibles and/or warrants. 
At 31 December 2018, Sobi held 3,423,726 
ordinary shares in treasury. In 2018, all 
previously issued C shares were converted 
into ordinary shares. For more detailed 
information about the total number of shares 
in the company, the number of different 
classes of shares and the votes carried by the 
company’s shares, refer to the section on 
shares on page 50.
Dividend policy
One of Sobi’s most important business 
objectives is to create long-term shareholder 
value. This can take the form of increased 
share value and dividends. Sobi’s Board bases 
its evaluation of future dividends on several 
factors, including:
• the company’s sustainable earnings trend;
• the company’s expansion potential and 
access to capital; 
• the company’s operational risk; 
• the dividend’s impact on liquidity; and
• the company’s equity ratio target. 
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid 
for 2018. In the short term, the company 
intends to use accrued profits to finance the 
continued development and expansion of its 
operations.
Important internal regulations
• Articles of Association
• Charter of the Board
• CEO Instructions
• Policy documents, including the Sobi 
Code of Conduct and Ethics
• Charters of the Board’s committeesImportant external regulations
• Swedish Companies Act
• Swedish and international accounting law
• Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulations
• Swedish Corporate Governance Code
2. Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee represents 
Sobi’s shareholders and is tasked with pre-
paring the AGM’s resolutions on election and 
remuneration matters.
According to the instructions and statutes 
adopted by the AGM on 26 April 2013, the 
Nomination Committee shall consist of 
four members: the Chairman of the Board, 
and one representative from each of the 
company’s three largest shareholders on 
the last banking day of August, based on the 
shareholder register maintained by Euroclear 
Sweden AB. The composition of the Nomina-
tion Committee is to be announced at least 
six months before the AGM. The Nomination 
Committee observes the rules on the inde-
pendence of Board members according to 
the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 
In the period up to the 2019 AGM, the 
Nomination Committee has had the follow-
ing composition: Petra Hedengran, Investor 
AB, Nomination Committee Chairperson, 
Lennart Francke, Swedbank Robur Fonder 
AB, Javiera Ragnartz, AMF & AMF Funds and 
Håkan Björklund, Chairman of the Board of 
Sobi. Prior to the 2019 AGM, the Nomination 
Committee held two minuted meetings with 
telephone contact between these meetings. 
As a basis for its work, the Nomination 
Committee has taken note of the Chairman’s 
account of the Board’s work. The Committee 
has also prepared recommendations to the 
AGM regarding Board members, the remu-
neration of Board and Committee members, 
the appointment of auditors and their fees, 
the Chairman of the AGM and changes to the 
Instructions and Statutes for the Nomination 
Committee.3. Board/Chairman of the Board
Sobi is a biopharmaceutical company with 
a focus on marketing, developing and 
producing pharmaceutical products to 
treat rare diseases. The product portfolio 
contains both marketed products and 
products in various phases of clinical and 
preclinical development. It is therefore 
crucial that Board members have extensive, 
in-depth experience of marketing and 
research in the pharmaceutical industry, as 
well as solid financial expertise. The Board 
is responsible for the Group’s organisation 
and management. The Board also decides 
on overall objectives, strategies, the financial 
structure, policies, appointment of the CEO, 
remuneration of management, acquisitions, 
divestments and major investments. The 
Board approves Annual and Interim Reports 
and proposes dividends to the AGM.
The Board’s work is based on its charter, 
the CEO instructions and the principles 
for the division of work between the CEO, 
Chairman of the Board, Board members and 
committees established by the Board. The 
Board Charter and the CEO instructions are 
revised and updated once a year. 
Composition of the Board
The company’s Board shall comprise a 
minimum of three and a maximum of twelve 
members. The Nomination Committee rep-
resents the shareholders and is responsible 
for preparing the AGM’s decisions on matters 
related to election and remuneration and, 
when applicable, procedural matters for the 
next Nomination Committee. The Nomina-
tion Committee has applied rule 4.1 of the 
Corporate Governance Code as a diversity 
policy. The objective of the policy is that the 
Board shall have an appropriate composition 
with regard to the company’s business, stage 
of development and situation in general, 
characterised by versatility and breadth in 
respect of the competence, experience and 
Nomination Committee prior to the 2019 AGM 
Name/RepresentingVotes 
31 Dec 2018, % Votes 
31 Aug 2018, %
Petra Hedengran (Chairperson of the Nomination Committee)  
Investor AB 39.4 39.4
Lennart Francke 
Swedbank Robur Fonder AB 4.7 4.6
Javiera Ragnartz 
AMF & AMF Funds 2.6 2.0
Håkan Björklund 
Chairman of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 0.0 0.0
Total 46.7 46.0CoRPoRATE govERNANCE REPoRT
109
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018background of members elected by the AGM, 
and that efforts shall be made to achieve 
an even gender distribution. As mentioned 
in the Nomination Committee’s motivated 
opinion to the 2018 AGM, the Nomination 
Committee has in its work considered the 
importance of an effective composition of 
the Board with regard to diversity, in respect 
of aspects such as gender, nationality and 
professional experiences, and considered 
that it is important to achieve and maintain 
an even gender distribution. The current 
composition of the Board of Directors is the 
result of the Nomination Committee’s work 
prior to the 2018 AGM.
The 2018 AGM resolved in accordance 
with the Nomination Committee’s revised 
proposal, to the effect that from the 2018 
AGM the Board has consisted of eight 
members elected by the AGM (six re-elected 
and two newly elected at the 2018 AGM) and 
two employee representatives appointed 
by the trade union organisations (plus two 
deputies for the employee representatives). 
Three of eight members elected by the AGM 
are women.
For more information about the Board, 
refer to pages 116–117.Resolutions 2018 AGM
The following resolutions were adopted by 
the 2018 AGM:
• Re-election of six Board members 
• New election of two Board members
• Re-election of the Chairman
• Re-election of EY as auditor
• Adoption of remuneration of the Board  
and auditors
• Adoption of proposed guidelines for 
 remuneration of senior executives
• Board and CEO discharged from liability 
for the 2017 financial year
Chairman of the Board
In addition to leading the Board’s work, 
the Chairman of the Board’s duties include 
monitoring the company’s performance and 
ensuring that important matters that arise 
are dealt with in addition to those already on 
the agenda. The Chairman shall consult with 
the CEO on strategic matters, participate 
in important external relationships and 
represent the company in ownership issues. 
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring 
that the Board’s work is regularly evaluated 
and that new Board members receive ade-
quate training. Independent
The company fulfils the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code’s independence require-
ments in that a majority of the AGM-elected 
Board members are independent of the 
company and its management, and at least 
two of them are independent of major 
shareholders. The table on page 111 shows 
the independence of the Board members on 
the publication date of this report.
Number of meetings
The Board shall meet at least four to six 
times a year, usually in connection with 
the publication of interim, year-end and 
annual financial statements and the AGM. 
Additional meetings or teleconferences are 
convened as necessary. The Board conducts 
an in-depth strategic review of operations 
during at least one of the Board meetings 
each year. In 2019, the Board has scheduled 
a total of 10 meetings.
The Board’s work in 2018
In 2018, the Board held a total of 19 meetings, 
of which ten were scheduled and nine extra 
meetings. Sobi’s CEO and President attends 
Board meetings, as does Sobi’s  General 
Counsel, who has served as  secretary at 
Important events in Board work in 2018
2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Business development discussions
•  Adoption of Q4 interim report  
and 2017 year-end report
•  Adoption of 2018 STI programme and 
remuneration guidelines for Sobi’s senior 
executives
3 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Adoption of Q2 interim report for 
2018
•  Approval of issue and  
repurchase of own shares  
for the LTI programme
•  Approval of the agreement  
related to global rights  
to emapalumabBOARD MEETING
•  Business develop -
ment discussionsBOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of Q3 interim 
report for 2018
 BOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of the 2019 budget 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
•  Review of Q1 interim report  
for 2018
• Financial report
• 2018 audit planAUDIT COMMITTEE  
•  Review of Sobi’s financial 
policies, and statutes and 
instructions for the Audit 
Committee
• 2017 Annual Report
• Financial report3 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Business development  
discussions
•  Adoption of  
2017 Annual Report
2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Business development  
discussions
• Annual General Meeting
BOARD MEETING  
•  Business development  
discussions2 BOARD MEETING 
•  Business development  
discussions
•  Adoption of Q1 interim report 
for 2018
AUDIT COMMITTEE
• Tax matters
•  Review of Q2 interim report  
for 2018AUDIT COMMITTEE  
• Tax matters
•  Review of Q3 interim 
report for 2018
• Financial report
•  Preliminary audit report 
for the third quarter BOARD MEETING
•  Business development discussions
AUDIT COMMITTEE
• 2017 year-end report
• Audit report
• Financial report
• Annual Report planningAUDIT COMMITTEE
•  Final audit report  
for third quarter, 2018
•  Review of internal control 
and impairment testing2 BOARD MEETINGS
•  Approval of the agreement 
to acquire the rights to 
 Synagis in the US from 
AstraZeneca and take a 
 certain percentage of 
potential future returns 
on the drug candidate 
MEDI8897CoRPoRATE govERNANCE REPoRT
110
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018the meetings. Other Sobi employees have 
attended in a reporting capacity. The number 
of extra Board meetings was motivated by 
discussions concerning strategic projects. 
The agenda items are shown in the illustra-
tion on page 110.
Board fees 
At the AGM on 9 May 2018, the Board 
resolved that for the period until the next 
AGM, a fee of SEK 465 K would be paid to 
each of the AGM-elected Board members 
except for the Chairman, who would be paid 
a fee of SEK 1,325 K. Fees for Audit Commit-
tee work were adopted as follows: SEK 125 K 
to the Chairman and SEK 75 K to each of the 
other members. Fees for the Compensation 
& Benefits Committee’s work were adopted 
as follows: SEK 80 K to the Chairman and 
SEK 40 K to each of the other members. Fees 
for Scientific Committee work were adopted 
as follows: SEK 80 K to the Chairman and 
SEK 40 K to each of the other members. In 
2018, Board fees of SEK 5,105 K were paid, 
including remuneration for committee work. 
It was further resolved that for each physical 
Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K would be 
paid to Board members residing in Europe 
but outside the Nordic region, and USD 3 K 
to Board members residing outside Europe.
For more information about the remuner -
ation of Board members, refer to Note 11 and 
the table below. 
Evaluation of the Board’s work 
The Board conducts an annual evaluation 
of its work. The evaluation covers working 
methods and climate, and the main focus 
of the Board’s work. This evaluation also focuses on access to, and the need for, 
specific skills on the Board. The evaluation 
is used as a tool for developing the Board’s 
work, and serves as input for the Nomination 
Committee’s work. Every year, the Chairman 
initiates and leads the evaluation of the 
Board’s work. The evaluation includes 
questionnaires and discussions. In 2018, the 
Board members answered written question-
naires. As part of the evaluation process, the 
Chairman also held individual discussions 
with individual Board members. The evalu-
ations were discussed at a Board meeting. 
The Chairman presented the results of the 
evaluations for the Nomination Committee.
4. Audit Committee
The Committee’s main task is to deal with 
issues related to the company’s accounting, 
auditing and financial reporting, and matters 
related to internal governance and control. 
Sobi’s Audit Committee consists of three 
members, all of whom are independent of 
management:
• Lennart Johansson (Chairman)
• Hans GCP Schikan
• Helena Saxon
Sobi’s CFO serves as secretary to the 
Committee, but is not a member. Sobi’s CEO 
attended the meetings but is not a formal 
member. The Committee held six meetings 
during the year. Sobi’s elected auditors 
attended five of the meetings. The agenda 
items are shown in the illustration on page 
110. The Committee reports regularly to the 
Board about its work. The Board members’ 
attendance and remuneration for Committee 
meetings is presented in the table below. 5. Compensation & Benefits 
 Committee
The Compensation & Benefits Committee’s 
task is to recommend guidelines and prin-
ciples for Sobi’s remuneration programmes. 
This includes review and proposals on remu-
neration of senior executives and recom-
mendations concerning long-term incentive 
programmes, pension plans and other issues 
related to remuneration of the company’s 
employees. Sobi’s Compensation & Benefits 
Committee consists of four members who 
are all independent of management:
• Håkan Björklund (Chairman)
• Helena Saxon
• David Allsop
• Matthew Gantz
David Allsop and Matthew Gantz were 
elected to the Compensation & Benefits 
Committee on 9 May 2018. 
Sobi’s Head of HR serves as secretary to 
the Committee, but is not a member. The 
Compensation & Benefits Committee met 
five times during the year. At these meetings, 
the Committee discussed and followed up 
annual salary revisions and bonus outcome 
for the CEO and senior executives, and 
proposed guidelines and allocations for the 
long-term incentive programme. The Com-
mittee reports regularly to the Board about its 
work. The proposed remuneration guidelines 
for the CEO and senior executives will be 
presented at the AGM in May 2019 for adop-
tion by shareholders. The Board members’ 
attendance and remuneration for Committee 
meetings is presented in the table below.
Remuneration, (SEK 000s) Attendance1
Inde- 
pendent FeesAudit  
CommitteeCompen-
sation & 
Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee Other6 Total BoardAudit  
CommitteeCompen-
sation & 
Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee
David Allsop4 x 310 — 27 — 30 367 8/10 — 2/5 —
Håkan Björklund x 1,308 — 80 — — 1,388 19/19 — 4/5 —
Annette Clancy x 452 — — 80 60 592 19/19 — — 3/3
Matthew Gantz x 452 — 27 — 132 610 18/19 — 2/5 —
Lennart Johansson2 452 125 — — — 577 16/195 6/6 — —
Helena Saxon2 452 75 40 — — 567 16/195 6/6 5/5 —
Hans GCP Schikan x 452 75 — 40 60 627 19/19 6/6 — 3/3
Elisabeth Svanberg4 x 310 — — 27 40 377 10/10 — — 2/3
Pia Axelson3 — — — — — — 18/19 — — —
Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand 3 — — — — — — 19/19 — — —
1.  The figures in the table show the totals for attendance/meetings. In 2018, the Board held a total of 19 meetings, of which ten were scheduled and nine were extra meetings. 
In 2018, the Audit Committee held six meetings, the Compensation & Benefits Committee held five meetings and the Scientific Committee held three meetings.
2. Board member does not qualify as independent in relation to major shareholders.
3. Employee representative. 
4. David Allsop and Elisabeth Svanberg were elected as new, ordinary Board members at the AGM on 9 May 2018. 
5. The members have full attendance, but were not permitted to attend three meetings because they are not independent members. 
6. For each physical Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K is paid to members who live in Europe but outside the Nordic region, and of USD 3 K to each member who lives outside Europe. CoRPoRATE govERNANCE REPoRT
111
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018For information about salaries and remuner -
ation of the CEO and senior executives, see 
Note 11.
6. Scientific Committee
The Scientific Committee’s task is to provide 
advice on scientific matters, to evaluate 
the company’s research strategies and 
to follow up and report to the Board on 
scientific trends and new fields of research. 
The Scientific Committee consists of three 
members who are all independent in relation 
to management:
• Annette Clancy (Chairman)
• Hans GCP Schikan
• Elisabeth Svanberg
Elisabeth Svanberg was elected to the 
Scientific Committee on 9 May 2018.
Sobi’s CEO and the Head of Research and 
Development/Chief Medical Officer took part 
in the meetings, but are not formal members. 
The Head of RD/CMO serves as Secretary to 
the Committee but is not a member.
In 2018, the Committee held three meet-
ings. The following issues were discussed at 
these meetings:
• Development of the company’s R&D 
pipeline
• R&D organisation
• Review of individual projects
• Review and follow-up of the organisation’s 
objectives
• Budget
• Business development opportunities
The Committee reports regularly to the 
Board about its work. The Board members’ 
attendance and remuneration for Committee 
meetings is presented on page 111.7. CEO/Executive Committee
Sobi’s Executive Committee consists of the 
CEO and managers of the most important 
functions and regions. The Executive 
Committee has a broad composition of 
members with extensive experience in R&D, 
the markets in which Sobi operates and the 
production and sale of drugs. In addition, 
members of the Executive Committee hold 
the required competence in accounting, 
finance, law and HR. In 2018, the Executive 
Committee held one meeting every month 
For more detailed information about the 
Executive Committee, refer to pages 
118–119.
Each year, the Board defines the division 
of work between the Board, the Chairman 
and the CEO. Operational management is 
based on the decision-making procedure 
adopted by the Board, which is reflected 
in the organisational form and governance 
model according to which Sobi works and 
is managed. 
Remuneration of senior executives 
To attract and retain talented and motivated 
employees, Sobi has established long-term 
incentive programmes. All employees receive 
fixed and variable pay. The variable compo-
nent, derived from a system adopted by the 
Board, is based on both company goals and 
individual goals. The maximum outcome of 
the variable salary component for the CEO 
is 75 per cent of the annual salary, and 60 
per cent for the other senior executives. For 
more information, see Note 11.8. Auditors
Sobi’s auditor is the auditing firm Ernst & 
Young (EY), with Authorised Public Accoun-
tant Björn Ohlsson as chief auditor. EY was 
elected as Sobi’s auditor until the end of the 
2019 AGM and has been Sobi’s auditor since 
the 2014 AGM. The external auditors discuss 
the external audit plan and risk management 
with the Audit Committee. The auditor con-
ducts a review of the Q3 interim report and 
an audit of the annual accounts and consol-
idated financial statements. The auditor also 
expresses an opinion on whether this Corpo-
rate Governance Report has been prepared, 
and whether certain disclosures herein are 
consistent with the annual accounts and 
consolidated financial statements. The 
auditor reports the results of their audit of the 
annual accounts and consolidated financial 
statements and their review of the Corporate 
Governance Report in the auditor’s report, 
with a separate opinion on the Corporate 
Governance Report, which they present to 
the AGM. In addition, the auditor presents 
detailed findings from their reviews to the 
Audit Committee three times a year, and to 
the full Board once a year. 
For information about remuneration of 
the company’s auditors, see Note 12.
Internal control and risk management in 
relation to financial reporting
The Board is responsible for internal control 
in accordance with the Swedish Companies 
Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board presents the most import-
ant elements of Sobi’s internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to the 
financial reporting process below. 
Sobi has had one employee with respon-
sibility for strengthening the Group’s internal 
control since 2017. The function reports to 
the CFO and prepares an annual internal 
control plan, which is approved and moni-
tored by the CFO. 
Björn Ohlsson 
Authorised Public 
Accountant
CoRPoRATE govERNANCE REPoRT
112
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018COSO framework
Sobi’s internal control environment follows 
the established COSO1 framework, compris-
ing the following five components:
1. Control environment
2. Risk assessment
3. Control activities
4. Information and communication
5.  Supervision including monitoring and 
evaluation
The description below shows how the five 
components of the COSO model work 
together to improve the operations’ ability to 
achieve set targets.
1. Control environment
The control environment constitutes the 
basis of Sobi’s internal control. The control 
environment mainly comprises the culture 
on which the Board and management base 
their work and communication. It is the 
foundation for all other internal governance 
and control components, bringing order and 
structure in the form of manuals, processes 
and policies.The basis for internal control over financial 
reporting consists of a clear organisational 
structure, decision-making channels, powers 
and responsibilities that are documented and 
communicated in governing documents.
The guidelines for Sobi’s business activities 
have been compiled on the company’s 
intranet and include the following:
• The Group’s mission, vision, strategies, 
objectives and values.
• Sobi’s Code of Conduct and Ethics.
• Organisational structure and descriptions 
of positions.
• Administrative processes, guidelines and 
instructions such as authorities, authori-
sation instructions, risk management 
policy, purchasing and investment policy, 
workplace health and safety policy, and 
accounting and reporting instructions.
• Information about the company’s ethics 
and core values, expertise matters and 
the regulatory environment in which the 
company operates.2. Risk assessment
Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s 
business opportunities and profits with 
shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ 
demands for stable, long-term value growth 
and control. Sobi’s risk management process 
aims to help the company’s operations 
create profitable business opportunities 
combined with good evaluation of risk, and 
to ensure and strengthen stakeholders’ faith 
in Sobi, in order to support the operations in 
executing the defined business strategy. The 
risk management process contributes with 
structures and systems to proactively identify 
and manage risks which could have a nega-
tive effect on the business’s ability to achieve 
its set targets. Material risks identified by Sobi 
are described on pages 58–63 
Risk assessment, as part of risk manage-
ment, is carried out to identify and analyse 
risks so that decisions can be taken on 
actions to ensure good control of identified 
risks and, if required, actions to reduce 
risk. In terms of this report, the operational 
units carry out risk assessments together 
with the responsible controllers, to identify, 
analyse and ensure a correct evaluation of 
risks within the accounting and reporting 
processes. 
Corporate culture 
Tone at the top is important,  
i.e. management’s behaviourGoverning documents
Overall framework and policies 
are in place and implemented
Evaluation, monitoring and follow-up
1.  Implement a process for ongoing follow-up
2.  Evaluation and reporting  
of identified deviations
Internal
Clearly functioning two-way communication 
between management and operations 
External
Correct information to external  
stakeholders within the prescribed time1.  Identify and analyse risks that  
may impede target achievement
2.  Identify the risks with a material 
effect on operations
3.  Decide on measures and the  
people responsible
Implement control activities that  
reduce, eliminate or monitor significant 
identified risks.Control environment
Risk assessment Monitoring
Information and  
communicationControl activitiesAdopted objectives1
2
3 45Sobi’s COSO framework
1 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations.CoRPoRATE govERNANCE REPoRT
113
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20183. Control activities
The aim of the control activities is to 
prevent and detect errors and deviations, 
and to propose corrective measures for 
identified deficiencies. Activities include 
analytical monitoring and comparison of 
financial results, reconciliation of accounts, 
monitoring, reconciliation of Board deci-
sions, approval and reporting of business 
transactions and partnership agreements, 
mandate and authorisation instructions, and 
accounting and valuation principles. 
The controls are carried out manually or 
are incorporated into the systems used (IFS, 
Cognos, Business Intelligence etc.).
Controllers are responsible for maintaining 
internal control in each area and ensuring 
that this is developed as necessary. They 
follow up activities through a variety of 
control measures, including the monitoring 
of forecasts and budgets, earnings and 
balance-sheet analyses, reconciliations, as 
well as trend analysis and market intelligence. 
The results of this work are reported to the 
management of each business area, and to 
management and the Board.
4. Information and communication
Sobi has internal information and communi-
cation channels aimed at ensuring effective 
and accurate information disclosure with 
respect to financial reporting. Effective com-
munication is important for all the company’s 
employees. Guidelines for financial reporting 
are set out in the communication policy, 
which are communicated to employees and 
are available on the company’s intranet.
Meetings are held within the company at 
management level, then at the level that each 
department head considers appropriate. 
There are also a number of large meetings 
which all employees attend.
The Board receives regular financial 
updates on the Group’s financial position and 
performance.Procedures for external information disclo-
sure aim to provide the market with relevant, 
reliable and correct information about Sobi’s 
performance and financial position. Sobi 
has a communication policy that meets the 
requirements for a listed company.
Financial information is presented regularly 
in the form of:
• Year-end and interim reports. 
• Annual report.
• Press releases about important news and 
events that could significantly affect the 
valuation of the company and the share 
price.
• Presentations and telephone conferences 
for financial analysts, investors and media 
representatives on the publication date 
for year-end and interim reports and in 
connection with the release of other 
important information.
• Meetings with investors and financial 
analysts. 
All reports, presentations and press releases 
are simultaneously published on the Group’s 
website www.sobi.com when communi-
cated to the market.
5. Supervision including monitoring 
and evaluation
Forms of supervision of internal control are 
determined by the Board and the Audit Com-
mittee. Sobi’s CFO is responsible for ensuring 
internal control is conducted in accordance 
with the Board’s decisions. Group-wide 
monitoring takes place at various levels.
The Board deals with all interim reports 
and annual report prior to publication, and 
monitors the review of internal control 
through the Audit Committee. The infor -
mation provided is evaluated regularly. The 
company’s external auditor reports their 
observations and their assessment of internal 
control to the Audit Committee.Activities in 2018 to strengthen  
internal control 
• Developed and launched a digital 
accounting manual for the Group  
(Finansportalen).
• Local visits by the internal control function 
to different chosen subsidiaries.
• Implementation of a new budget system.
• Creation of Group-wide policies.
• Identification of key processes for the 
finance function.
• Preparation of a new risk-management 
process for the Group.
Activities in focus for 2019 to further 
strengthen internal control
• Implementation of the new risk-manage-
ment process for the Group.
• Monitor and support the Group’s account-
ing functions. 
• Continued work to conduct process 
analyses within the financial function.
• Implement control activities that reduce, 
eliminate or monitor identified material 
risks.
Internal Audit
Sobi does not have a separate internal 
audit function, but has chosen to conduct 
monitoring and the annual evaluation of 
compliance with the internal control and risk 
management related to financial reporting 
through the existing organisation. The Board 
and the Audit Committee regularly examine 
the issue of whether an internal audit func -
tion should be established.
Breaches
Sobi did not breach any rules of the stock 
exchange on which its shares are traded, or 
generally accepted practices on the share 
market.CoRPoRATE govERNANCE REPoRT
114
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance  statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2018 on pages 108-114 and that it has 
been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate 
governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in 
scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in 
Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 
2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and 
the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Stockholm, April 12, 2019
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorised Public Accountant AuDiT oR’s REPoRT oN ThE CoRPoRATE govERNANCE  sTATEmENT
115
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018The board
Lennart Johansson
Born 1955. 
Board member since 2010. 
MBA from Stockholm School of 
 Economics. 
Other appointments: Member of 
the management team and Senior 
Advisor at Patricia Industries (division 
of Investor AB). Chairman of the board 
of Fastighets AB Tingshuset 13, board 
member of Vectura Fastigheter AB, 
HI3G, Chalmers Ventures, Atlas 
 Antibodies AB,  Bonesupport AB, 
and deputy board member of 
 Mölnlycke Health Care.
Previous appointments: Chairman of 
the Board of Vectura Fastigheter AB, 
CEO in b-business partners and 
 Emerging Technologies AB. Board 
member of SAAB AB, IBX Group AB 
and Gambro Holding AB.
Shares: 20,000
Helena Saxon
Born 1970. 
Board member since 2011.
MSc from Stockholm School of 
 Economics. 
Other appointments: CFO at Investor 
AB. Board member of SEB. 
Previous appointments: CFO of 
 Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Vice President 
at Investor AB and financial analyst at 
Goldman Sachs. Board member of 
Aleris and Mölnlycke Health Care.
Shares: 15,500
Pia Axelson
Born 1962. 
Board member since 2017. 
 Deputy board member since 2009. 
Representative of the council for 
negotiation and cooperation. 
Employee Representative. 
Laboratory engineer.
Shares: 6,935Hans GCP Schikan
Born 1958. 
Board member since 2011.
Pharm D, Utrecht University. 
Other appointments: Chairman of the 
Board of Directors of Interna, The 
Netherlands and Complix, Belgium. 
Member of the Board of Directors of 
Vicore Pharma, Sweden, Therachon, 
Switzerland as well as of the Dutch 
Top Sector Life Sciences & Health, 
The Netherlands. Advisor to various 
organisations in Life Sciences & 
Health. 
Previous appointments: CEO of Pro -
sensa, Director of the Supervisory 
Board of Prosensa, Member of the 
Board of Directors of Hansa Medical, 
Wilson Therapeutics and Asceneuron. 
Various senior management positions 
within former Organon and Genzyme. 
Shares: 4,000Bo-Gunnar  Rosenbrand
Born 1963. 
Board member since 2006. 
 Deputy board member 2001–2005.
 Representative of the council for 
negotiation and cooperation. 
Employee Representative. 
Laboratory engineer.
Shares: 9,759 (including share-
holdings of related physicals)Annette Clancy
Born 1954. 
Board member since 2014.
BSc Hons Pharmacology from Bath 
University UK. 
Other appointments: Non executive 
Chairman of the Board, Enyo SA and 
Lysogene SA. Member of the Board of 
Directors, Obseva SA.
Previous appointments: Senior 
 Advisor, Biopharmaceutical Team 
of Frazier Healthcare. Chair of 
the Board of Directors, Genable 
 Therapeutics. Non-Executive Board 
Director, Silence Therapeutics plc. 
and Clavis Pharma. Head of Trans-
action and Alliance Management 
at  GlaxoSmithKline (GSK).
Shares: 3,414Håkan Björklund 
Born 1956.
Chairman. Board member since 2016.
Ph.D., Associate Professor from 
 Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm.
Other appointments: Industry 
 Executive at Avista Capital Partners.
Previous appointments: CEO of 
Nycomed. Member of the Board of 
Directors of several international life 
science companies including Alere, 
Coloplast, Danisco, and Lundbeck. 
Between 2001 and 2007, Håkan 
Björklund also served as member of 
the Board of Directors for Biovitrum.
Shares: 15,800Matthew Gantz
Born 1965. 
Board member since 2012.
BA Princeton University and MBA from 
Harvard Business School. 
Other appointments: CEO of  OxThera 
AB. Member of the board for Pennsyl -
vania Life Sciences Association and 
Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation.
Previous appointments: Executive 
Vice President of BTG Plc, Founder 
and previously CEO of Acureon 
 Pharmaceuticals, President and 
CEO of Hydrabiosciences Inc., VP 
Europe for Chiron’s Biopharmaceutical 
Division and General Manager for 
 PathoGenesis Europe. Prior to  Chiron/
PathoGenesis a variety of US sales and 
marketing roles at Abbott Laboratories 
Diagnostic Division.
Shares: 0Elisabeth Svanberg
Born 1961
Board member since 2018.
MD and PhD from the University 
of Gothenburg, Sweden, Associate 
 Professor of surgery.
Other appointments: Chief Develop -
ment Officer at Ixaltis SA in France 
since 2016. Member of the Board of 
Directors of PledPharma AB.
Previous appointments: Board mem -
ber of Follicum AB and of the Swedish 
American Chamber of Commerce 
New York. Head of the Established 
Products Group at Janssen Pharma -
ceuticals 2014–2016. Head of Medical 
Affairs for the Intercontinental region 
at Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) in the 
US 2007–20014. Leading roles in R&D 
for metabolic diseases at Serono 
International, Switzerland, 2000–2007.
Shares: 260David Allsop
Born 1963
Board member since 2018. 
BSc Hons Chemistry from Coventry 
University, UK. 
Other appointments: Director and 
sole employee in U-R-NOT Ltd., 
through which Mr Allsop offers advi -
sory services to the pharma industry.
Previous appointments: More than 30 
years’ of experience from research as 
well as marketing within the pharma -
ceuticals and health care industries. 
International experience from the 
pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
industry and a commercial and gene -
ral management background. Until 
January 2018, Head of International in 
Amicus Therapeutics Ltd. A number of 
senior positions in Biogen 1998–2015.
Shares: 0Executive committee
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Born 1965
Employed since 2017
PhD in Strategic Management,  University of South 
Australia, Master of Economics, South Bank Univer -
sity, London, Complementary  studies in Economics, 
London School of Economics and Political Science.
Other appointments: Chairman of the Advisory 
Committee of Zentiva Group, Industrial Advisor EQT
Previous positions: CEO BSN Medical, President & 
CEO Gambro, EVP Commercial Operations Nyco -
med, CEO Invida, Global Head of Healthcare DKSH, 
previous managerial roles at Aventis and preceding 
entities, member of the Board of Directors at Meda 
and Sartorius AG.
Shares: 49,000Torbjörn  Hallberg
General Counsel and  
Head of Legal Affairs
Born 1969 
Employed since 2018
Master of Laws from  University of Lund, Sweden.
Previous positions: VP, General Counsel, Emerging 
Markets, Takeda Pharmaceuticals. Senior Director 
and Senior Corporate  Counsel, Takeda Pharma-
ceuticals. Corporate Counsel, Nycomed Pharma. 
Corporate Counsel, Ferring Pharmaceuticals. 
Senior Associate/Lawyer, Advokatfirman Lindahl.
Shares: 3,500
Hege Hellström1
Head of EMENAR
Born 1965 
Employed since 2013
BSc in Bioengineering, Oslo, Norway.
Previous positions: Global Head Cardiovascular, 
Sanofi, VP Renal Europe and Head of Regional 
 Liaisons, Sanofi. VP Renal and Endocrine Europe, 
Genzyme. General Manager Benelux, Genzyme. 
13 years at Baxter in different leadership roles.
Shares: 60,767Anne Marie de Jonge Schuermans
Head of Technical Operations
Born 1972
Employed since 2018
PhD from Swiss Federal Institute of Technology 
Zurich (ETHZ); M.Sc. degrees in Agriculture & Natural 
Environment from Wageningen Agricultural Univer -
sity in the Netherlands and in Environmental Mana -
gement & Technology from the Ecole Polytechnique 
Féderale Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland.
Previous positions: Biogen, VP for Global Supply 
Chain Operations & Strategic Partnerships, and 
 Executive Board Member of Biogen International 
GmbH; more than 15 years of experience in the 
health care industry from Biogen, Stryker and Novartis. 
Shares: 0
Rami Levin
Head of North America
Born 1969 
Employed since 2014
MBA from Rekanati Business School, Tel-Aviv 
 Uni versity, Israel. BSc in Biology,  Tel-Aviv University, 
Israel.
Other assignments: Board of advisors of “Life Science 
Cares”, Corporate alliance member for Global Genes, 
Corporate council member for the National Organi -
zation for Rare Disorders (NORD), Regional chamber 
representative for the Swedish American Chamber 
of Commerce.
Previous positions: Various senior roles within Merck 
since 1998, most recently as VP of Marketing (US). 
Managing Director Scandinavia, Global Marketing 
Head, Business Unit Manager. Product Manager, 
Schering AG.
Shares: 0
GUIDO OELKERSANNE MARIE DE JONGE SCHUERMANS
HEGE HELLSTRÖMTORBJÖRN HALLBERG
RAMI LEVIN
1.  Christian Dreger (head of Northern Europe, Middle East & Russia), Sofiane Fahmy (Head of Southern and Western 
Europe & North Africa) and Paula Treutiger (Head of Communications & Investor Relations) was appointed to be part 
of Sobi’s Executive Committee in January 2019. Hege Hellström (Head of EMENAR) resigned from the Executive 
Committee in January 2019.ExECuTivE C ommiTTEE
118
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Norbert Oppitz
Head of Specialty Care
Born 1967 
Employed since 2017
Business Administration, FH Rhenania Palatina/Mainz, 
 Germany.
Previous positions: Executive Committee member 
in charge of Latin America, BSN Medical. Executive 
Committee member Emerging Markets, Endo 
 Pharmaceuticals. Head of Latin America, Takeda/
Nycomed. Country management roles at Roche 
Pharmaceuticals and Aventis Pharma.
Shares: 10,000
Armin Reininger
Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs
Born 1957 
Employed since 2017
MD, PhD, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, 
Germany; certified specialist in Trans fusion  Medicine.
Previous positions: Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Hemophilia, Baxter. Head of Global Medical Affairs 
Hematology, Baxalta. Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Hematology, Baxalta/Shire. Senior Physician Univer -
sity Clinic Munich. Harvard Medical School & Mass. 
General Hospital,  Boston, MA. The Scripps Research 
Institute, La Jolla, CA. Professor of  Anatomy at the 
Ludwig Maximilians-University Munich, Germany.
Shares: 0Henrik Stenqvist
Chief Financial Officer
Born 1967
Employed since 2018
Degree in Finance and Business Administration from 
the University of Linköping, Sweden.
Other assignments: Board member of Midsona AB 
and MedCap AB. 
Previous positions: CFO Recipharm, CFO Meda, CFO 
Pharmalink, Regional Finance Director AstraZeneca, 
Finance Director Astra Export &Trading, Financial 
Manager, Astra Hungary.
Shares: 13,000
Fredrik Wetterlundh
Head of Human Resources
Born 1966
Employed since 2018
Degree in HR Management from the University 
of Lund, Sweden.
Previous positions: Global Human Resources Lead 
at Pfizer. Senior HR roles in AstraZeneca, Kraft Foods 
as well as Codan Group.
Shares: 7,000Philip Wood
Head of Haemophilia
Born 1968
Employed since 2012
BSc Joint Honours degree in  Geology and Physical 
 Geo graphy, Chartered Institute of Marketing 
 certification, UK.
Previous positions: Head of European Strategic Asset 
team, Haemophilia, and Business Unit Head 
 Haemophilia, UK, Pfizer.
Shares: 29,014
Milan Zdravkovic
Head of Research & Development,  
Chief Medical Officer
Born 1970 
Employed since 2016 
MD, PhD University of Aarhus, Denmark, MSc 
 Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Surrey, UK.
Other assignments: Board member of Selma 
 Diagnostics Aps.
Previous positions: Corporate Vice President, 
Novo Nordisk. 18 years in R&D organisation, Novo 
Nordisk, responsible for diabetes, devices, growth 
hormone deficiency, obesity and immunology. 
Shares: 8,820
PHILIP WOOD
FREDRIK WETTERLUNDH ARMIN REININGERNORBERT OPPITZ HENRIK STENQVIST
MILAN ZDRAVKOVICExECuTivE C ommiTTEE
119
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Auditor’s report
TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SWEDISH ORPHAN BIOVITRUM AB, CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556038-9321 
Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
Opinions
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2018. The annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on 
pages 50–106 in this document.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accor -
dance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 decem -
ber 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then 
ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated 
accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts 
Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
the group as of 31 december 2018 and their financial performance and 
cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the 
Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent 
with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders 
adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent  
company and the group.Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report 
that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in 
accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the 
parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics 
for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes 
that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited 
services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have 
been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent 
company or its controlled companies within the EU.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient  
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. 
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profes -
sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the 
matter is provided in that context. 
 We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s respon -
sibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, 
including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included 
the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The 
results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to 
address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on 
the accompanying financial statements. 
Valuation of product and market rights and goodwill  
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
Per 31 December 2018 the majority of (57 per cent or SEK 9,485 M) the Group’s 
(below referred to as the Company) total assets consist of product- and market-
ing rights as well as goodwill (hereafter referred to as “the assets”). The Company 
performs an impairment test of the assets on an annual basis or when events or 
changes in conditions indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may fall 
below the recoverable amount. Testing of impairment for the assets involve a 
number of significant assumptions and assessments, among other assessing the 
value in use through identifying cash generating units, estimating expected 
future cash flows including the growth rate and calculating weighted average 
cost of capital (“WACC”) used to discount future cash flows. The Company’s 
process for assessing impairment requirements also includes the use of man-
agement’s and the board of director’s business plans and forecasts.
For additional information refer to the Group’s accounting principles in 
note 2, significant assessments and assumptions in note 4 as well as information 
about the product and marketing rights and goodwill in note 17.
We focused on this area as the book value of the assets are significant and 
the impairment test is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Therefore, we 
 considered this a key audit matter in our audit.Our audit was conducted together with our valuation specialists and included 
but was not limited to the following audit procedures:
•  obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for identifying 
 indicators of impairment
•  evaluation of methods used by management when performing the 
 impairment test including the sensitivity analysis and 
•  review of the assessments made by the Company when testing the 
 impairment with our focus on assumptions for which the result of 
 impairment  testing is most sensitive to.
•  we have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.AuDiT oR's REPoRT
120
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Revenue – Claw back tax and discount adjustments
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
The Group (below referred to as the Company) operates in a number of countries 
where sales to customers take place under various commercial and governmen-
tal contracts and regulations where claw back taxes and discounts exist as condi-
tions for certain products. Net sales are reported after deductions from claw back 
taxes and discounts. Therefore, an estimate of the unsettled revenue adjustments 
for claw back taxes and discounts needs to be made at year end.
The unsettled revenue adjustments recorded at 31 December 2018 are based 
on the Company’s best assessment of the expected outcome of future settlement 
of the commitments at year end. The assessment is complex and often requires 
access to both internal and external market and sales data that may be limited at 
the time of assessment.
Refer to note 2, 4 and 30 in the annual report for a detailed description of the 
revenue adjustments and the liabilities reported.
Due to the significant amount that the revenue adjustments represent in rela-
tion to the Company’s comprehensive income for the period and the complex 
assessments, revenue adjustments is a key audit matter in our audit.We have in our audit obtained an understanding of the Company’s process to 
identify and assess the unsettled revenue adjustments. We have also evaluated 
the Company’s previous accuracy in preparing forecasts and the Company’s 
calculation of liabilities for the revenue adjustment and assessed the reason-
ableness of the assumptions and data that the Company used in its assessment. 
In certain countries we have also been supported by our internal specialists in 
our audit.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
Other Information than the annual accounts  
and consolidated accounts 
This document also contains other information than the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages [A-B]. The 
Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this 
other information. 
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
does not cover this other information and we do not express any form 
of assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
 In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoli -
dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified 
above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent 
with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure 
we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the 
audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informa -
tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 
this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for 
the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accor -
dance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the 
Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they 
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts 
and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The 
Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the 
assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direc -
tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee 
the company’s financial reporting process.Auditor’s responsibility
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a 
high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards 
in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and 
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material mis -
statement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant 
to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the 
Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We 
also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the 
group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts 
and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or AuDiT oR's REPoRT
121
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to continue 
as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and 
whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent 
the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.
• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities within the 
group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of 
significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant 
deficiencies in internal control that we identified.
We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that 
we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding inde -
pendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most 
important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements  
Opinions
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the 
company’s profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit 
be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory admin -
istration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the 
Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year.
Basis for opinions
We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted audit -
ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards 
are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are 
independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with 
professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise ful -
filled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropria -
tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this 
includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable consid -
ering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of 
operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and 
the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position 
in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization 
and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among 
other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s 
financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization 
is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the 
company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring 
manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing adminis -
tration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions 
and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill 
the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the 
management of assets in a reassuring manner.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby 
our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to 
assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of 
the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect:• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can 
give rise to liability to the company, or
• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, 
the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of 
the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to 
assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is 
in accordance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guar -
antee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions 
that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed 
appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance 
with the Companies Act.
As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the 
administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s 
profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional 
audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment 
with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the 
examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material 
for the operations and where deviations and violations would have 
particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test 
decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other 
circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge 
from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ 
proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined 
whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act.
Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Björn Ohlsson as 
auditor in charge was appointed auditor of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 9th of May 
2018 and has been the company’s auditor since the 8th of May 2014.
Stockholm, April 12, 2019
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorized Public AccountantAuDiT oR's REPoRT
122
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Sustainability   
management
Stakeholders and materiality analysis 
In 2016 we performed a comprehensive materiality analysis 
including web surveys and targeted interviews with internal and 
external stakeholders to identify and prioritise our most important 
sustainability issues. Based on input from external stakeholders and 
an internal analysis of the revised corporate strategy, the materiality 
analysis was updated in both 2017 and 2018. For 2019 our ambition 
is to do a more comprehensive update of our materiality analysis, 
including external stakeholders. Important external stakeholders that we are listening to: 
• Patient organisations
• Families and carers
• Pharmaceutical companies
• Governments and government  agencies
• Regulatory authorities 
• Healthcare systems
• Budget holders and insurers 
• Academic researchers 
• Centres of expertise
• Specialist physicians and nurses 
• Investors and analysts
• Shareholders
Stakeholders engaging with Sobi discuss the following sustainability areas:
Internal stakeholders External stakeholders
• Access to healthcare and medicine
• Product safety and quality
• Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials
• Engagement with patient organisations
• Anti-corruption
• Responsible marketing and sales activities
• Research and development
• Sustainable supply chain
• Diversity and equal opportunity
• Employee recruitment, development, retention• Access to healthcare and medicine
• Sustainable supply chain
• Ethics, safety, transparency in clinical trials
• Regulatory and legal environment
• Responsible marketing and sales activities
• Product safety and quality
• Pharmaceuticals in the environment
• Engagement with patient organisations
• Anti-corruption
• Research and developmentOur sustainability work and programme are based on a number of material 
 sustainability issues. These are divided into two focus areas: Value creation  
and Our responsibility. These were defined in a materiality analysis we performed  
in 2016 and updated in 2017 and 2018. susTAiNAbiLiT y  mANA gEmENT
123
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Sobi’s overall objective from a sustainability perspective is tied to the 
overall mission: to contribute to the societies in which Sobi operates 
by improving access to treatment for rare diseases. True availability 
and access to treatment for patients is what brings long-term value to 
the patients we serve, our employees, partners and shareholders. In 2017 we started to develop a sustainability programme based on 
Sobi’s material sustainability issues. Our ambition is to further develop 
the programme, include activities and follow-up on our key perfor -
mance indicators in 2019. The sustainability programme will make it 
possible for Sobi to follow progress towards the overall sustainability 
objectives and vision. 
Value creation 
Read more on our strategic sustainability issues on page 15–17, 30–31 and 34–35. 
Material issue Description Sustainability objectives Key performance indicator 
Improving global access to 
treatments for rare diseasesOur aim is to make our treatments accessible  
to an increasing number of people around the 
world, as well as shorten the time it takes for 
products to reach patients. This requires a 
strong focus on patient and medical needs, 
responsible pricing, adaptive regulatory path-
ways, partners for manufacturing, and an 
extensive and efficient distribution network. Ensure that Sobi’s products  
are made available to patients 
through local healthcare 
 budgets.Products receiving  regulatory 
approval, pricing and reimburse-
ment in new markets.
Strategic research and 
 developmentResearch and development are of high stra-
tegic importance in order to improve our 
 treatments. We strive to maintain the highest 
ethical, technical and scientific standards. Our 
approach is holistic and we work closely with 
patients throughout their lives, and collaborate 
with academia, partners and governments to 
find new solutions and technologies. We secure 
intellectual property rights and reinvest in the 
development of new innovative treatments.Invest in R&D to build pipeline. Amount of investment in R&D in 
relation to revenue.
Development of pipeline e.g. 
number of projects moving into 
clinical phase during 2019.
Quality and supply chain 
 managementThe quality and supply of our products are 
essential to enable global access to treatments. 
Since Sobi market and sell products in more 
than 70 countries, typically in small volumes 
aimed for a small number of patients, patient 
safety as in both quality and access is funda-
mental. We have built a robust supply and 
 distribution processes covering all our markets 
to ensure that patients never risk being without 
their medication, which in some cases can be 
life-threating. Our products are to improve 
the lives of rare disease patients 
and their families.Number of suppliers subject 
of audits applying under the  
GMP/GDP guidelines.
Percentage of significant product 
and service categories for which 
drug safety impacts are assessed 
for improvement.
We make it happen Sobi’s employees are the enablers that allow us 
to achieve our mission of transforming the lives 
of people with rare diseases and delivering on a 
strategy for increasing growth. It is our every-
day behaviour and achievements that matter 
the most in shaping the future of our company. 
In the organi sation we focus on developing 
strong leadership, culture-supported perfor -
mance, equal opportunities and pro  fessional 
development for everyone, and a safe and 
healthy workplace. Engaged and skilled people 
who are offered a safe and 
developing workplace free 
from discrimination.Employee turnover in percentage.
Average hours of training per 
year per employee.Sustainability programmesusTAiNAbiLiT y  mANA gEmENT
124
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Sustainability governance and organisation 
Sobi’s Board of Directors holds the overall responsibility for Sobi’s 
sustainability performance, which is reported each year in the Annual 
and Sustainability Report. The CEO and the Executive Committee 
approves Sobi’s sustainability programme, ensures compliance, and 
decides on overall objectives and implementation of the sustainability 
programme. 
All sustainability activities are guided by the Code of Conduct and 
Ethics and the other sustainability related policies. The Head of Com-
munications and Investor Relations is responsible for communication 
and operationalisation of the programme in close collaboration with 
the business units. Compliance risks and management 
Compliance risks and the assessment of their impact are an integral 
element of Sobi’s risk management process. In the compliance risk 
table, material risks are identified in relation to our responsibility 
issues in the sustainability strategy. For a description of our general 
Sustainability risks and the areas of our compliance risks that coincide 
with operational risks, see pages 58–63.Our responsibility 
Read more on our responsibility issues on pages 40–41. 
Material issue Sustainability objectives Key performance indicator
Regulatory and legal environment Always be compliant with laws  
and regulation.
Percentage of employees who have 
completed education in Sobi’s Code  
of Conduct and Ethics. Ethical practices and collaborations Always be compliant with Code of Conduct  
and Ethics.
Patient and customer privacy Always secure patient privacy.
Anti-corruption and fair competition Always be compliant with laws, regulations 
Code of Conduct and Ethics.
Responsible tax Paying taxes where profits are earned. Margin where profit is earned.
Environmental impact Reduce Sobi’s environmental impact. Reduced water and power consumption in 
 relation to production.susTAiNAbiLiT y  mANA gEmENT
125
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Sustainability performance 2018
Sustainability notes
Economic Performance
Direct Economic Value Generated 
SEK 000s 2018
Revenues 9,138,892
Operating costs 3,601,156
Employee wages & benefits 1,091,654
Payments to providers of capital 14,577
Payments to government1 20,185
Community investments2 3,732
Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive  
income 2018. 
1 Costs to governmental health care agencies whereof the largest i FDA and EMA. 
2. Community investments is based on costs to  support to Patients  Organisations during 2018, the 
three largest ones consists of European Haemophilia Consortium (EHC), Irish Haemophilia society 
and EURORDIS, Rare Disease Europe.
Indirect economic impact
NUMBER 2018 2017 2016
Total MIUs delivered 362 262 146
Total patients treated 16,885 15,072 12,311
Acute bleeds treated 37,896 40,557 33,876
Surgeries 461 709 719
Paediatric patients, % 39 39 28
Sobi and Sanofi have pledged to donate up to 1 billion IUs of coagulation factor 
to humanitarian aid between 2015–2025. 
500 million IUs have been allocated in support of the World Federation of 
Hemophilia’s (WFH) humanitarian aid work. Sobi’s indirect economic impact is 
reported in accordance with the WFH:s progress report for this programme. 
The impacts are the result of Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution to the programme. 
In developing countries and growth markets, Sobi works in collaboration 
with regulators and international patient organisations to meet humanitarian 
needs. Sobi donates drugs to patients with rare diseases in cases where human-
itarian aid has been considered necessary. Environmental Performance
Carbon dioxide emissions (CO 2) 
METRIC TONNES 2018 2017 2016
Indirect emissions from energy 213 221 222
Emissions from travel 1,110 983 1,112
Reported emissions reflects only operations in Sweden, comprising just over 
half of Sobi employees. Travelling emissions include emissions from business 
travel and company cars. 
Waste
METRIC TONNES 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Recycled waste 24 50 46 68 52
Hazardous waste 18 22 16 13 13
Landfill 0.1 0.1 0.0 1.6 0.1
Total waste 42 72 62 82 65
Waste reporting is based on Sobi’s facilities in Solna and Stockholm, Sweden. 
Waste data does not include waste from marketing and sales offices. Sobi is committed to report on progress regarding material issues 
related to economic, social and environmental performance. The 
 sustainability notes found below complement the performance 
reporting found in the Sustainability section of this report. Reported 
data covers all Sobi’s business operations unless otherwise stated.susTAiNAbiLiT y  mANA gEmENT
126
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Social performance
Employees per region 2018
REGION New employee hires Female Male Employees 2018
Sweden 77 324 172 496
EMENAR (Europe, Middle East, North Africa, Russia) (excluding Sweden) 93 196 158 354
North America (USA & Canada) 44 45 40 85
Total 214 565 370 9351
1. Per year-end 2018, the number of full-time equivalent employees was 902, while the number of persons employed at the same date was 935.
New hires
Female Male
REGIONUnder 30 
years old30–49  
years old50 years  
and olderFemale 
TotalUnder 30 
years old30–49  
years old50 years  
and olderMale 
Total Total
Sweden 7 33 11 51 3 14 9 26 77
EMENAR (Europe, Middle East, North 
Africa, Russia) (excluding Sweden) 7 38 10 55 3 29 6 38 93
North America (USA & Canada) 1 16 6 23 1 16 4 21 44
Total 15 87 27 129 7 59 19 85 214
Turnover 2018
EMPLOYEES 2018 2017
Number of employees1 935 812
Departures 109 90
Turnover 11.6% 11.1%
1. Mean number of employees during the year, including only permanent contracts.
Employees and contract type 2018
EMPLOYEES Male Female Total
Permanent contract 363 549 912
Temporary contract 7 16 23
EMPLOYEES Sweden Other region Total
Permanent contract 482 430 912
Temporary contract 14 9 23
Employee numbers are expressed as head count. Sobi has no employees 
working part-time. Some employees have been granted a part-time equivalent 
employment type due to issues such as child care.
All employees in the Swedish operations (representing approximately 
57 per cent of all employees) are covered by collective bargaining agreements.susTAiNAbiLiT y  mANA gEmENT
127
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Regulatory approval and availability of Sobi products
Approval (A), Pricing (P) and Reimbursement (R) 
Region Alprolix Elocta Kineret Gamifant Orfadin capsulesOrfadin  
oral suspension
EU and EFTA states A A AMAA submitted to 
EMA August 2018 A A
Austria APR APR APR APR APR
Belgium APR APR APR APR APR
Bulgaria APR APR APR APR APR
Croatia A APR APR APR APR
Cyprus A A AR A A
Czech Republic A APR APR APR AP
Denmark APR APR APR APR APR
Estonia A A AR AR AR
Finland A APR APR APR APR
France APR APR APR APR APR
Germany APR APR APR APR APR
Greece APR APR APR APR APR
Hungary APR APR APR AR AR
Iceland A A APR APR APR
Ireland APR APR APR APR APR
Italy APR APR APR APR APR
Latvia A A AR A A
Liechtenstein APR APR APR APR APRThe regulatory approvals and indications for Sobi’s products vary 
depending on geographical region. As well as regulatory approval, 
local agreement must be reached on pricing and reimbursement.
Alprolix®
EU – indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in 
patients with haemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency). 
 Alprolix can be used for all age groups.
Elocta® 
EU – indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in 
patients with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). 
Elocta can be used for all age groups. 
Gamifant® 
US – (emapalumab-lzsg) is an interferon gamma (IFN )–blocking 
antibody indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric (newborn 
and older) patients with primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH) with refractory, recurrent, or progressive disease or intolerance 
with conventional HLH therapy.Kineret®
EU and Australia – indicated in adults for the treatment of the signs 
and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), in adults, adolescents, 
children and infants aged 8 months and older for the treatment of 
CAPS and in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months 
and older for the treatment of Still’s disease.
USA – indicated in adults for the treatment of the signs and 
symptoms of RA, and the treatment of neonatal-onset multisystem 
inflammatory disease (NOMID). 
Canada – indicated for the treatment of Neonatal-Onset Multisys-
tem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) in adults, adolescents, children 
and infants aged eight months and older and for active RA in patients 
18 years of age or older.
Orfadin®
EU and Canada – indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric 
(in any age range) patients with confirmed diagnosis of hereditary 
tyrosinemia type 1 (HT 1) in combination with dietary restriction of 
tyrosine and phenylalanine.
US and Australia – indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric 
patients with hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with 
dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine.susTAiNAbiLiT y  mANA gEmENT
128
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Approval (A), Pricing (P) and Reimbursement (R) 
Region Alprolix Elocta Kineret Gamifant Orfadin capsulesOrfadin  
oral suspension
Lithuania A A APR APR A
Luxembourg APR APR APR APR APR
Malta A A A A A
Netherlands APR APR APR APR APR
Norway APR APR APR APR APR
Poland A APR APR APR AP
Portugal A APR APR APR APR
Romania AP AP A APR A
Slovakia APR APR APR APR APR
Slovenia APR APR APR APR AP
Spain A APR APR APR APR
Sweden APR APR APR APR APR
UK APR APR APR APR APR
Europe – other
Russia APR APR
Switzerland APR APR APR APR APR
Turkey
Ukraine APR APR
North America
Canada APR APR
Mexico APR APR
US APR APR APR
Asia
Kuwait APR APR
Israel APR APR APR
Japan APR APR
Saudi Arabia APR APR APR APR
United Arab Emirates APR APR
Africa
Algeria APR
Jordan APR
Tunisia APR APR
South America
Argentina APR
Chile APR
Australia APR APRsusTAiNAbiLiT y  mANA gEmENT
129
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Sobi’s Sustainability Report 2018 is defined in the GRI Index below. Its 
main components are found in the following sections of the Annual 
and Sustainability Report 2018:
• Business Model is found in the section Sobi’s Value Creation, 
pages 12–13.
• Description of sustainability approach, activities and performance 
2018 are found on pages 15–17, 30–31 and 34–41.
• Information on objectives and targets on Sustainability issues 
is reported in the Sustainability management section and non- 
financial notes, on pages 123–129.
• Information on the structure of the Sustainability Report is found 
in the section Sustainability Management, on pages 123–129. This  sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core option. It also fulfils the requirements 
on  sustainability reporting in the Annual Accounts Act. The 2018 
 sustainability report was published in April 2019.
Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, 
as part of the Annual and Sustainability Report. The indicators 
below have been selected on the basis of a materiality analysis, 
which is  further described on pages 123–125. All page references 
below refer to pages in Sobi’s 2018 Annual and Sustainability Report 
or at www.sobi.com. Our sustainability report serves as our UN 
Global Compact Communication on Progress report. For questions 
regarding the Sustainability Report, please contact info@sobi.com.Global Reporting Initiative Index
 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global 
 Compact
STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Organisational Profile
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 74
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2–5, 10–14, 52
102-3 Location of headquarters 74
102-4 Location of operations 15–17, 34–35, 
82, 97 
102-5 Ownership and legal form  74 
102-6 Markets served 128–129
102-7 Scale of the organisation 2–5, 82 
102-8 Information on employees and  
other workers 
85 
Principle 6
102-9 Supply chain 34–35 
102-10 Significant changes to the organisation  
and its supply chain 
6–7
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 40–41, 58–63
102-12 External initiatives 40–41, 58–63
102-13 Membership of associations See www.sobi.com for  
current list of memberships.
Strategy
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-makers 6–7, 49
Ethics and Integrity
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behaviour  
36–37, 56 
Principle 10
Governance
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 108–113, 125
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 123 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 127
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 123–125 Principle 3
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 123–125 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 123–125gRi iNDEx
130
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global 
 Compact
Reporting Practice
GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statements 97
102-46 Defining report content and topic 
 boundaries 123–125, 130 
102-47 List of material topics 123–125
102-48 Restatements of information 97
102-49 Changes in reporting 123–125
102-50 Reporting period 123–125
102-51 Date of most recent report 123–125
102-52 Reporting cycle 123–125
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding  
the report 123–125
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  
with the GRI Standards 130
102-55 GRI content index 130
102-56 External assurance Sobi’s Sustainability Report  
has not been subject to  
external assurance.
MATERIAL TOPICS
Economic
Economic Performance
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 123–125
GRI 201:  Economic  
Performance 2016201-1 Direct economic value generated  
and distributed 126
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 123–125
GRI 203:  Indirect Economic 
Impacts 2016203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts
126
Anti-corruption
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41, 63, 123–125 Principle 10
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks  
related to  corruption 41, 63 
Principle 10
205-2 Communication and training about 
 anti- corruption policies and procedures 41 
Principle 10
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption  
and actions taken 41 
Principle 10
Anti-competitive Behaviour
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41, 123–125
GRI 206:  Anti-competitive 
 Behaviour 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive  
behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 41
Environmental
Emissions
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 61, 123–125 Principle 7, 8, 9
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 126 Principle 7, 8
Effluents and Waste
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 61, 123–125 Principle 8
GRI 306:  Effluents and  
Waste 2016306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 126 Principle 8gRi iNDEx
131
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global 
 Compact
Social
Employment
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 62,  
123–125 
Principle 6
GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and  
employee turnover 127 
Principle 6
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 123–125 Principle 1, 6
GRI 403:  Occupational Health 
and Safety 2016403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 
 occupational diseases, lost days, and absen teeism, 
and number of work-related fatalities 36–39
Training and Education
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 123–125 Principle 6
GRI 404:  Training and  
Education 2016404-1 Average hours of training per year  
per employee 36–39 
Principle 6
404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programmes 36–39
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews 36–39 
Principle 6
Non-discrimination
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 36–39, 123–125 Principle 6
GRI 406:  Non-discrimination 
2016406-1 Incidents of discrimination and  
corrective actions taken 36–39 
Principle 6
Local Communities
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 123–125 Principle 1
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community 
 engagement, impact assessments, and 
 development programmes 16–17 
 
Principle 1
Supplier Social Assessment 
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 41, 123–125 Principle 2
GRI 414:  Supplier Social 
 Assessment 2016414-1 New suppliers that were screened  
using social criteria 41 
Principle 2
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 34–35, 58–63, 
123–125 
Principle 7
GRI 416:  Customer Health  
and Safety 2016416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts 
of product and service categories 34–35, 58–63
Marketing and Labeling
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 34–35, 40, 60,  
123–125
GRI 417:  Marketing and  
Labeling 2016417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
product and  service information and labeling 34–35, 60
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing  communications 40
Customer Privacy
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 40, 62, 123–125
GRI 418:  Customer  
Privacy 2016418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses  
of customer data 40, 62
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 40–41, 63,  
123–125
GRI 419:  Socioeconomic 
 Compliance 2016419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 
the social and economic area 40–41, 63gRi iNDEx
132
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Auditor’s report on the statutory  
sustainability statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
The Board of Directors are responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2018 on pages 12–13, 15–17, 30–31, 
34–41, 58–63 and 123–133 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the 
statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and sub-
stantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted 
auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. 
Stockholm, April 12, 2019
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorized Public Accountant AuDiT oR’s REPoRT
133
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20182019 Annual General Meeting
2019 Annual General Meeting
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) will hold its Annual General 
Meeting on Thursday, 9 May 2019, in Grand Hôtel, S. Blasieholms-
hamnen 8, Stockholm, Sweden.
To participate
Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting must be 
recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB 
on Friday 3 May 2019. Shareholders must notify the company of their 
intention to participate no later than Friday, 3 May 2019 in one of the 
 following ways:
• On Sobi’s website: www.sobi.com 
• By phone: +46 (0)8-697 31 91, Monday to Friday 9:00–16:00
•  By mail: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ),  
Annual General Meeting, SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
The notification should include the shareholder’s:
• Name
• Personal/corporate identity 
• Address and telephone number (daytime)
• Number of shares held
• Where applicable, information about any  
representatives/advisors
Nominee shares
Shareholders who have registered their shares with a bank or another 
nominee must, to be entitled to participate in the Annual General 
Meeting, register their shares in their own name, so that the person 
concerned is recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear 
Sweden AB on Friday, 3 May 2019. Shareholders wishing to register 
their shares in their own name should inform the nominee in good 
time before this date. Such registration may be temporary.Proxy
Shareholders who intend to be represented by proxy must issue a 
written and dated power of attorney for the proxy. If the power of 
attorney is issued by a legal entity, a certified copy of the registration 
certificate or equivalent for the legal entity must be attached. The 
power of attorney is valid for one year from the date of issuance, or 
until the date of expiry shown on the power of attorney, but not later 
than five years. The registration certificate shall state the circum-
stances prevailing at the date of the meeting and should not be older 
than one year on the date of the meeting. The original power of 
attorney and any registration certificate should be sent to the com-
pany by mail at the address indicated below well in advance of the 
meeting. A proxy form is available on the company’s website,  
www.sobi.com, and can also be sent to shareholders upon request.
Financial calendar 2019
January–March Interim Report 25 April 
Annual General Meeting 9 May 
Capital markets day 14 May 
January–June Interim Report 17 July 
January–September Interim Report 31 October 
The Annual Report can be downloaded in PDF format from  
www.sobi.com, as well as previous annual reports, interim reports 
and press releases.
Contact details
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)  
SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Phone: +46 (0)8 697 20 00
Email: info@sobi.com
Website: www.sobi.comANNu AL gENERAL mEETiNg
134
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018CER
Constant exchange rate.
Earnings per share
Profit/loss divided by the average number of shares.
EBIT
Earnings before interest and tax (operating income).
Full-time equivalent (FTE)
A unit that indicates the number of hours worked by an employee on 
a full-time basis, used to make workloads comparable across various 
contexts.
Gross profit
Operating revenues less cost of goods and services sold.
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Alternative performance measures
Financial measures not defined according to IFRS
Sobi uses certain financial measures in the interim report that are  
not defined according to IFRS. The company considers that these 
measures provide valuable supplementary information for investors 
and company management, as they enable an assessment and 
benchmarking of the company’s reporting. Since not all companies 
calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always 
comparable to measures used by other companies. These financial 
measures should therefore not be regarded as substitutes for 
measures defined according to IFRS. The following key ratios are  
not defined according to IFRS. 
Capital employed
Total assets less non-interest-bearing  liabilities. 
Cash flow from operating activities per share
Cash flow from operating activities divided by the weighted average 
number of outstanding shares.
Cash flow per share
Changes in cash and cash equivalents divided by the weighted 
average number of outstanding shares.Debt-to equity ratio
Relative proportion of shareholders equity and debt used to finance 
the company’s assets.
EBITA
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Equity per share
Equity divided by the number of shares.
Equity ratio
Equity divided by total assets.
Gross margin
Gross profit as a percentage of sales.
Net cash (–)/debt (+)
Interest-bearing non-current and short-term liabilities minus cash 
and bank  balances.
Return on capital employed
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/ Capital Employed.
Return on equity
Profit/loss after tax as a percentage of  average equity.
Return on total capital
Profit/loss after financial items plus financial income as a percentage 
of average total assets.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)
Risk-free interest rate (0.66%) plus Beta (1.31) multiplied with a risk 
premium (6.36). The risk-free rate is an average of 10-year  Treasury 
bill over the last five years. Beta is the correlation between Sobis share 
and stock exchange index. Risk premium is calculated as an average 
over five years of the market expectations of growth and return. A flat 
rate tax of 22% has been used.DefinitionsDEfiNiTioNs
135
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Glossary
Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor IX therapy approved in the EU, 
Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland, 
as well as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United 
States and other countries, for the treatment of haemophilia B, which 
can be used by people of all ages.
Acute gout
An autoinflammatory disease and intensely painful and disabling 
inflammatory arthritis involving one or several joints. Gout is also 
a disease associated with multiple comorbidities, which may limit 
the use of some conventional treatment regimens. 
AnaGO
A randomised double-blind, multicentre phase 2 study conduc ted in 
North America which studied two dose levels of anakinra in compari-
son to intramuscular triamcinolone for the treatment of acute gout.
AnaSTILLS
A randomised, double-blind, multicentre study being conducted in 
North America studying two subcutaneous dose levels of anakinra, in 
comparison to placebo for the treatment of Still’s disease.
BIVV001
A novel, investigational factor VIII therapy designed to extend pro-
tection from bleeds with prophylaxis dosing of once weekly or longer 
for people with haemophilia A. Builds on the Fc fusion technology by 
adding a region of von Willebrand factor and XTEN polypeptides to 
potentially extend its time in circulation. 
CAPS
Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, constitutes a group of 
rare autoinflammatory diseases with an incidence estimated to 
be 1:1,000,000 worldwide. CAPS is characterised by uncontrolled 
 overproduction of interleukin-1 (IL-1) which induces a number of 
inflammatory responses such as fevers, rash, joint pain, headaches, 
conjunctivitis and many other symptoms.
CHMP
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use at the 
 European Medicines Agency.
EC
European Commission.
EHL
Extended half-life, which means that the circulation in the body is 
prolonged. Sobi’s haemophilia treatments, Elocta and Alprolix, are 
EHL products.Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor VIII therapy approved in the EU, 
Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland 
for the treatment of haemophilia A, which can be used by people of 
all ages. It is also approved in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, New 
Zealand, the United States and other countries, where it is known as 
ELOCTATE®.
EMA
European Medicines Agency.
EMENAR
Abbreviation for business region including Europe, Middle East, North 
Africa and Russia.
FDA
The US Food and Drug Administration.
Gamifant (emapalumab)
An anti-interferon-gamma (IFN- )monoclonal antibody (mAb), 
approved by the FDA and currently under EMA review for the 
treatment of primary haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), 
a life-threatening syndrome of immune activation. An application to 
the EMA was submitted in August 2018.
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)
A rare and life-threatening syndrome of extreme immune activation. 
The primary form (inherited) of the disease mainly occurs in infants 
and young children and the secondary form (acquired) of the disease 
is acquired from or associated with infection, autoimmune diseases 
or malignancy. 
Haemophilia
A rare, genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to clot 
is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male births 
annually, and haemophilia B occurs in about one in 25,000 male births 
annually. Both occur more rarely in females. People with haemophilia 
experience bleeding episodes that may cause pain, limited mobility, 
irreversible joint damage and life-threatening haemorrhages.
Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) 
People with HT-1 have problems breaking down an amino acid called 
tyrosine. Toxic by-products are formed and accumulate in the body, 
which can cause liver, renal and neurological complications.
IL-1
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of inflammation and driver of 
autoinflammatory diseases.
ITI – Immune tolerance induction 
A therapy used when haemophilia patients develop inhibitors to 
treatment. Factor concentrate is given regularly and at high doses 
over a period of time until the body is trained to recognise the treat-
ment product without reacting to it. gLossAR y
136
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018Kineret (anakinra)
A recombinant protein drug that blocks the biological activity of 
interleukin-1 a and b (IL-1  and IL -1 ) by binding to IL-1 type 1 recep-
tors (IL-R 1), expressed in a variety of tissues and organs, thereby 
blocking the IL-1 signalling. IL-1 is a key mediator of inflammation 
and a significant contributor to autoinflammatory diseases. 
LRTI 
Lower respiratory tract infections.
MAH – Marketing authorisation holder
The company in whose name the marketing authorisation has been 
granted and who is responsible for all aspects of the product.
MEDI8897
A single dose extended half-life anti-RSV F monoclonal antibody being 
developed for the prevention of lower respiratory tract infections 
(LRTI) caused by RSV in all infants entering their first RSV season1 
and children with chronic lung disease or congenital heart disease 
entering their first and second RSV season. Engineered to have a 
long half-life so that only one dose will be needed for the entire RSV 
season, MEDI8897 is being developed for passive immunisation of a 
broad infant population. 
Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type IIIA (Sanfilippo A syndrome) 
A progressive, life-threatening and rare inherited metabolic disorder 
affecting children from a young age. Belongs to a group of diseases 
called lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs). 
NOMID
Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease, the most severe 
form of CAPS, also associated with chronic meningitis, hearing loss, 
craniofacial abnormalities, bone lesions and increased mortality.
Orfadin (nitisinone)
A drug used to treat hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1). It blocks 
the breakdown of tyrosine, thereby reducing the amount of toxic 
tyrosine by-products in the body. Patients must maintain a special 
diet in combination with Orfadin treatment as tyrosine is not 
 adequately broken down.
Orphan drugs
Medicinal products targeting rare, life-threatening diseases or dis-
orders in very small patient populations. They are called “orphan 
drugs” because, under normal market conditions, there is little 
incentive for the pharmaceutical industry to develop a treatment for 
such a small patient population. Revenues would not be expected to 
meet the extremely high costs of bringing such a treatment to market. 
Governments often provide economic incentives to encourage 
companies to develop and market medicines for rare diseases.Real world evidence
Real world evidence is gained by examining how approved medicines 
and treatments are working in the healthcare system. Real-world 
evidence studies use observational data such as electronic medical 
records, insurance claims information and patient surveys. Real- 
world analyses can assess how various treatments impact actual 
patient outcomes.
ReITIrate
An open-label, multicentre study designed to investigate the ITI 
potential of Elocta in patients with haemophilia A who have devel-
oped inhibitors which have failed to be resolved with other therapies.
RSV
Respiratory syncytial virus. A common virus and the most common 
cause of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) in young children.
SOBI003 
A product candidate and a chemically modified variant of a recombi-
nant human sulfamidase, using Sobi’s proprietary glycan modification 
technology Modifa™, intended as an enzyme-replacement therapy 
in the lysosomal storage disease MPS IIIA, aimed at reducing heparan 
sulfate storage materials in affected cells. 
Still’s disease 
An autoinflammatory disease that affects both children and adults, 
characterised by persistent high spiking fevers, recurring rashes 
and arthritis. Still’s disease is also known as systemic-onset juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) or adult-onset Still’s disease (AOSD). 
Synagis (palivizumab)
Indicated for the prevention of serious LRTI caused by RSV in infants 
and young children at high risk of RSV disease. RSV is the most 
prevalent cause of LRTI among infants and young children. Synagis is 
a RSV F protein inhibitor monoclonal antibody that acts as a prophy-
laxis against serious RSV disease. It is the only medicine approved for 
the prevention of serious RSV disease. 
UCD
Urea cycle disorders are a group of serious conditions in which 
patients suffer from deficiencies in the enzymes required to remove 
ammonia from the blood stream.
XTEN
XTEN is a technique used to extend the half-life of  proteins.
WFH
World Federation of Hemophilia, an international not-for-profit 
organisation.
Sobi, Elocta, Alprolix, Kineret, Orfadin and Gamifant are  trademarks of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All third party trademarks 
are the property of their respective owners. ©2019 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All rights reserved.
Production: Sobi in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson.
Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet.
Photos: Martin Botvidsson, Morten Lasskogen/Kunde & Co, Thomas Nielsen, Jonathan Trace, Lacy Davillier, Sobi.1. The RSV season usually occurs from early fall until late spring and peaks during the winter. Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)
SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00
www.sobi.com
Email: info@sobi.com