Expanding  
opportunities
Annual and Sustainability Report 2020Contents
Introduction
This is Sobi 2
Year in brief 4
From the CEO 6
Market 8
Business overview
Business model 10
Strategy 11
Haematology 12
Immunology 15
Specialty Care 17
Geographical expansion 18
Research & Development 20
Sustainability 23
Investment case 28
The share 30
Five-year summary 32
Reporting
Directors’ report 34
Financial statements 44
Notes 54
Auditor’s report 92
Corporate governance
Letter from the Chairman 96
Corporate Governance Report 97
Auditor’s report on the Corporate 
Governance statement 103
The Board 104
Executive Committee 106
Sustainability
Sustainability report 108
Sustainability notes 122
GRI Index 129
Auditor’s report on the statutory 
 Sustainability statement 132
Additional information
2021 Annual General Meeting 133
Glossary 134
Definitions 136
This is Sobi’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2020. 
The audited Annual Report includes pages 34–91. 
The Sustainability Report is on pages 23–27 and  
108–131 and  consists of the Company and the Group’s 
legally  required  sustainability report according to the 
Annual Accounts Act. The report is also Sobi’s Commu-
nication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. Rare strength
Sobi is an international biopharmaceutical company specialising in rare diseases.
We bring something rare to rare diseases – a rare expertise and a strength in access 
that allows us to be a partner in care for those otherwise overlooked.This is Sobi
Specialising in rare diseases, we develop and provide access to 
innovative treatments in the areas of haematology, immunology 
and specialty care. 
Total revenue, SEK million
•  Two therapeutic areas – Haematology  
and Immunology – and products within  
Specialty Care 
•  Strong portfolios of on-market products 
and pre-market assets
•  Our extended half-life factor replacement 
treatments Elocta® and Alprolix® are the 
most prescribed extended half-life treat-
ments for haemophilia A and B respec -
tively in several markets • We focus on where we can have the 
greatest impact, on clinical research & 
development, and on patient access and 
commercialisation 
•  Global Head Office in Stockholm, Sweden, 
with offices in over 30 countries, delivering 
treatments to patients in more than 70 
countries
• Sobi share (STO:SOBI) listed in the Large 
Cap segment of Nasdaq Stockholm
Increase in haemophilia A and B patients 
respectively during 202010 & 25 %
15,261Immunology
Solid revenue and double-digit growth in both core areas
Full-year revenue up 8 per cent at CER
Total revenue and adjusted EBITA
SEK M
/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum
 Total revenue  Adjusted EBITARevenue per business area
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK M
 Haematology  Immunology
 Specialty CareNumber of 
employees (FTE)
1,509Adjusted EBITA,  
SEK million
6,301
Pre-marketBIVV001/efanesoctocog alfa1  
–  haemophilia A
Pegcetacoplan2 – PNHGamifant/emapalumab – sHLH
Gamifant/emapalumab – aGF
Nirsevimab3 – RSV
Pegcetacoplan – ALS 
SEL-2124 – chronic refractory gout 
On-marketElocta® – haemophilia A
Alprolix® – haemophilia B
Doptelet® – ITP, CLD
1. Developed and, if approved, will be commercialised in collaboration with Sanofi 2. In collaboration with Apellis. 
3. Financial interest only, in collaboration with AstraZeneca. 4 Strategic licensing agreement with Selecta.Haematology
Kineret® – several indications
Synagis® – RSV 
Gamifant® – pHLHStrong suite of pre-market assets and  
strong portfolio of on-market products
Revenue per geographic region
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK M
 Europe  North America
 Rest of the world  Royalty Year in brief
The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant effect on Sobi, and the rest 
of the world. Many stakeholder interactions moved online, operations 
adapted to the restrictions, and extraordinary efforts were made to get 
medicines to patients in lockdown. Despite these circumstances, Sobi 
made significant progress in all strategy areas.
Grow  
Immunology
Lead in  
HaematologyCapture the value  
of our pipelineGo globalBusiness strategy 
Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviourSustainability strategy
Continued solid patient growth was seen in the haemophilia area, although the pandemic affected sales,  
with fewer  surgeries and lower levels of patient activity leading to lower consumption of replacement factor.  
Read more, p 12
Doptelet was brought to Europe with the product launch for chronic liver disease (CLD) and approval for  
the treatment of chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP).  
Read more, p 12–13
Sobi signed a collaboration agreement with Apellis for the development and commercialisation of systemic 
pegcetacoplan, a targeted C3 therapy, outside the US. The companies will jointly advance systemic 
 pegcetacoplan in five parallel  registrational programmes. Read more, p 21–22
Sobi and Selecta signed a strategic licensing agreement for SEL-212, a phase 3-ready novel treatment  
for chronic refractory gout. SEL-212 subsequently entered the phase 3 study.  
Read more, p 20–21
Presence in the Asia-Pacific expanded beyond China with the establishment of offices in Japan and Australia.  
In Russia, the offering to patients was expanded with the launch of Elocta (to be sold as Eloctate).  
Read more, p 18–19
Sobi and Sanofi renewed their 2014 commitment to the World Federation of Hemophilia Humanitarian Aid 
 Program, and pledged a further 500 million international units (IU) of extended half-life replacement clotting 
factor therapy. Read more, p 14, p 23–25
Sobi launched a Responsible Sourcing Programme, including the introduction of a Partner Code of Conduct,  
and  sustainability screening and management.  
Read more, p 22–25
YeaR in bRief
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
4Key figures
SEK M 2016 2017  2018 2019 2020
Total revenue 5,204 6,511 9,139 14,248 15,261
Gross profit 3,651 4,657 6,723 10,913 12,036
Gross margin1, % 70 72 74 77 79
Operating expenses 2,518 3,057 3,601 6,430 7,575
EBITA1 1,543 2,053 3,571 5,933 6,700
Adjusted EBITA 1,21,543 2,053 3,571 6,145 6,301
EBIT 1,133 1,600 3,122 4,533 4,818
Profit/loss for the year 802 1,149 2,148 3,304 3,245
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29 11.01
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK adjusted 1,2,32.99 4.27 8.97 11.89 9.66
Cash flow from operations 343 1,333 2,090 3,634 5,214
Equity per share 1,2,3 SEK 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4 66.5
Equity assets ratio, % 54 61 53 37 42
No. of employees (full-time equivalents) 760 800 902 1,335 1,509
1. Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). 
2. EBITA 2020 excluding non-recurring item; other operating income related to the reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. EBITA 2019 excluding non-recurring items; transaction costs 
related to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of SOBI005 in of SEK 37 M. 
3. EPS 2020 excluding the reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. EPS 2019 excluding impairment of intangible assets of SEK 18 M related to restructuring.8%
Revenue growth at CER41%
Adjusted EBITA marginSignificant progress 
in all strategy areas. 
n Europe 50% n North America 36%
n Rest of the world 6% n Royalty 8%n Haematology 57% n Immunology 35%
n Specialty Care 8%n Haematology 64% n Immunology 28%
n Specialty Care 8%Revenue per geographic region Revenue per business area EBITA per business area
YeaR in bRief
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
5Thoughtful pathway  
to growth
Sobi is accelerating its growth trajectory and aims for revenue  
of SEK 25 billion by 2025.
In 2020, we continued to take major 
steps in the transformation of the 
company and expanded beyond our 
traditional  stronghold in haemophilia. 
We achieved solid growth during the 
year, and broadened the foundation of 
the company to align with our ambition 
of becoming a global leader in rare 
diseases.
Milestones
Our launch products are becoming 
meaningful contributors to the overall 
financials of the Group. We continue to 
increase the scale of absolute growth 
for Doptelet in a difficult launch envi-
ronment, and our market share in the 
chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
(ITP) market was around 7 per cent 
by the end of 2020.
With Gamifant, we experienced more 
than 50 per cent volume growth, while 
our sales growth was solid due to the 
positive impact of the previous year’s price 
decreases on access and affordability. 
We responded well to the ongoing 
COVID-19 crisis. We made certain that 
we could take care of patients by ensur -
ing supply and implemented the neces-
sary precautionary measures to protect 
our employees. Our global supply team 
avoided interruptions to supply for cus-
tomers of all our core products. 
Interest in Kineret remains strong, and 
we saw two publications in The Lancet 
Rheumatology on its utility. We expect to see more research into the 
effects of Kineret, particularly in the area 
of hyperinflammation. 
Alprolix, Kineret and Synagis performed 
well. The pandemic affected sales of 
Elocta, mainly due to restrictions on 
physical activity resulting in reduced indi-
vidualised consumption at patient level. 
On the other hand, Elocta proved very 
competitive against other therapies as we 
continued to gain significant patient num-
bers and increase our share of patients.
Not everything has gone according 
to plan. It is fair to say that our launch 
products were affected by the reduction 
in face-to-face interactions with health-
care professionals. The negative opinion 
on emapalumab for primary HLH in 
Europe and the phase 3 data for Doptelet 
in CIT surprised both us and key experts 
in the field.
Yet as an agile organisation, we 
were able to turn these setbacks into 
strengths. We see broader potential for 
emapalumab in other indications and 
outside Europe, and we are excited 
about Doptelet’s global sales potential 
in chronic liver disease (CLD) and ITP. 
We embraced a multi-channel approach 
to sales and marketing, and are placing 
more importance on the scientific 
dissemination of knowledge via our 
medical-scientific liaison officers. 
In addition, our licensing agreements 
with Selecta for SEL-212 and with Apellis 
for pegcetacoplan will open significant 
opportunities over the next three years.Strategy for growth
To maintain our strategy for growth, 
we are building on the foundation 
of pipeline development in our two 
core therapeutic areas and the further 
internationalisation of the company. This 
strategy will position Sobi well to achieve 
our ambition of SEK 25 billion in revenue 
by 2025. 
• We expect to achieve the primary 
growth from our launch products 
and late-stage pipeline in the US 
and Europe, mostly from Doptelet, 
Gamifant, pegcetacoplan, SEL 212 and 
BIVV001. Around 60–70 per cent of 
our future growth will come from this 
products.
• The second-largest growth driver will 
be our development in international 
markets. In particular, Russia, China, 
Japan, Central & Eastern Europe, and 
our Middle East-North Africa (MENA) 
region are expected to contribute 
20–30 per cent to our total growth.
• Our existing core business will gener -
ate the earning foundation that allows 
us to embark on this ambitious growth 
strategy. It is not expected to be the 
main source of business growth.
We believe that our increasingly global 
footprint will enable us to forge new 
strategic alliances with numerous small 
to mid-size partners. 
In the shorter term, we expect sig-
nifi cant progress in our pipeline during 
2021, including approval of pegceta-
coplan in PNH. History has taught us to 
fRom tHe Ceo
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
6»2021 will be a pivotal 
year as we build the 
company for mid-
term success and 
invest in our portfolio, 
especially in R&D, 
infrastructure and 
launches.«
be patient, and although we know that 
approvals are not always predictable, we 
are optimistic.
We will be stepping up our R&D invest-
ment to properly develop our 12 late-
stage projects in the years ahead, and 
maintaining our focus on late-stage 
assets which have a greater probability of 
success in the near to mid-term. And we 
will continue to broaden the company 
with acquisitions and partnerships, bring-
ing in both on-market assets and late-
stage projects.
Financial strength essential
In financial terms we are healthy, with 
strong earnings and topline, and a low 
leverage ratio. This financial health is vital 
for our transformation, and a prerequi-
site when pursuing acquisitions.
2021 will be a pivotal year as we build 
the company for mid- and long-term 
success and invest in our portfolio, 
especially in R&D, infrastructure and 
launches. The success that we hope 
2021 will build may not be immediately 
visible, but it will transform Sobi over the 
coming five years.
Sustainability core to our business
I see sustainability, directly linked to 
our vision of transforming lives, as a key 
factor for the company’s future. We have 
a great team working with a range of 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) issues that are high on the corpo-
rate agenda, and our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact 
remains firm. We have made great 
strides towards achieving our ambitions 
over the past two years, and I am glad 
to see the recognition we have received. 
We are in a unique position to improve 
health globally in our focus areas, and 
responsible practices throughout our 
business will help us grow stronger and 
become more sustainable.
Great pride
It became even more obvious during the 
COVID-19 pandemic: working at Sobi is 
more than just a job for my colleagues 
and for me.
It is an opportunity to make a differ -
ence for people living with rare diseases.
Our Global Engagement Survey, our 
first on this scale, provided important 
feedback on how we are performing as 
an employer. The overall results were 
positive but also identified areas for 
improvement.2020 was a year like no other. I have 
been deeply impressed by how the 
entire organisation stepped up across 
the board, from ensuring supply, to 
ensuring we get a fair share in very com-
petitive markets against new entrants. 
The individual efforts of every one of my 
1,500 colleagues make all the difference.
As we cannot influence the impact of 
the pandemic, we focus on what we can 
influence at Sobi.
We will further upgrade our com-
mercial effectiveness across the globe, 
strengthen our new entities in the Inter -
national area, and drive the development 
and launch of our pipeline products.
I am proud of the rare strength we 
have shown as we pursue our vision of 
leading the world in providing innovative 
treatments that transform the lives of 
people with rare diseases.
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
fRom tHe Ceo
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7Rare diseases 
While each rare disease may affect relatively few people, 
together the 6,0001 identified rare diseases are thought 
to affect 300 million people.
High unmet medical need 
Up to 70 per cent of identified rare 
diseases affect children and can have 
a devastating effect on life expectancy 
and quality of life. The severe nature of 
many rare diseases often leads to a great 
burden for patients and their families.
Rare challenges
Those living with rare diseases face 
specific challenges, including that of 
obtaining a correct diagnosis. Many phy-
sicians may never have seen a specific 
rare condition before, and cases can 
go undiagnosed for years. This is often 
a time of uncertainty, frustration and 
worry, of being sent from one specialist 
to another in search of an answer. Another challenge is the search for 
information and a community. Isolation, 
both physical and mental, is a major 
issue for people living with rare diseases, 
and contributes both to stress and dis-
ease burden. The effects of the COVID-
19 pandemic intensified the problems of 
isolation for many during 20202. 
Much focus has been placed on the 
high costs of treating rare diseases. 
However, leaving conditions untreated 
leads to higher costs for patients, health 
systems, social services and govern-
ments. A lack of appropriate treatment 
and care also leaves rare disease patients 
and carers unable to achieve their full 
potential in society.A lack of established clinical endpoints 
and expert knowledge about many 
conditions, as well as unclear compar -
ator treatments, also make orphan drug 
development and approval challenging. 
This uncertainty means there is a high 
level of risk associated with the devel-
opment of orphan medicinal products 
(OMP), and many drug candidates fail, 
even in late-stage development.
Incentives for investment
The term “orphan drugs” describes 
medicines designed to treat diseases so 
rare that companies would be reluctant 
to develop them under normal market 
conditions. 
1. www.nature.com/articles/s41431-019-0508-0
2. www.sobi.com/en/press-releases/rare-disease-day-2021-pandemic-illuminates-every-day-social-obstacles-living-rare
maRKet
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8
maRKetTo address the unique set of challenges, 
regulatory bodies such as the US Food 
& Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) have 
special programmes and regulations to 
encourage pharmaceutical companies 
to develop treatments for rare diseases. 
Sobi, together with pharmaceutical 
trade associations, is engaging with dif-
ferent stakeholders from the European 
Commission, EU Parliament and others 
as part of the Commission’s ongoing 
review of incentives for orphan medici-
nal product (OMP) and paediatric med-
icines. While the preliminary evaluation 
did not elaborate on any policy changes 
to come, it did highlight the fact neither 
of these regulations provides adequate 
support for development in areas with 
the greatest unmet medical needs. The 
review’s interim report further indicates that any future response to the short-
comings and challenges identified 
should strike a balance between incen-
tives for innovation on one hand, and 
availability and access for orphan and 
paediatric patients on the other.
Sobi believes that without the right 
incentives, or if current incentives are 
downgraded, there is a risk of decreased 
investment in R&D into rare disease ther -
apies, which could ultimately leave many 
patients without a treatment.
Growing market
In 2020, the size of the orphan drugs 
market was USD 130 billion (adjusted) 
and is projected to reach USD 257 billion 
by 2026, with a compound annual 
growth rate (CAGR) of 12 per cent1. This 
is double the growth forecast for the 
non-orphan market. Sobi established operations in China, 
Japan and Australia during 2020, and 
expanded in Russia, as part of its strategy 
for geographical expansion. Due to the 
extensive unmet medical needs in these 
countries, they represent significant 
growth potential. 
Raising rare voices
Sobi has important, long-standing 
relationships with EURORDIS (Rare 
Diseases Europe), NORD (the National 
Organization for Rare Diseases) and the 
rare disease community. Sobi’s partic -
ipation in the EURORDIS Round Table 
of Companies, the Black Pearl Awards, 
ECRD and further contributions towards 
NORD and EURORDIS events are helping 
to elevate the voice of the rare disease 
community.
Orphan drug market, USD Bn
/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum 12% CAGR
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum/six.tnum/two.tnum/six.tnum/two.tnum/eight.tnum
/one.tnum/five.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/five.tnum
/one.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum/seven.tnum
 US  Europe  International  
 Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) What is a rare disease?
In Europe, a rare disease is defined 
as one affecting fewer than one 
person per 2,000. In the US, the 
Orphan Drug Act of 1983 defines a 
rare disease as a condition affect-
ing fewer than 200,000 people. 
Source: EvaluatePharma®
* Source: ProfoundWorldwide orphan drug market growth
High unmet need: Approximately 6,000 
rare diseases globally – around 95 per 
cent have no approved treatment.
Great need outside EU and US: More than 
250 million people outside the US and EU 
are thought to be affected by rare dis-
eases. Of these, an estimated 60 per cent 
are children*.Attractive opportunity: Rare disease ther -
apeutic pricing reflects the investment 
needed and allows a return on capital to 
enable further investment in research and 
development of treatments.
Shorter time to market: Multiple ways to 
speed up R&D projects (including orphan 
drug designation, priority review by FDA 
and EMA, conditional approvals in case  
of unmet medical needs).Limited competition: Few companies 
active in orphan indications – translating 
to sustainable market share advantage for 
early entrants.
Limited generic threat: Orphan drugs are 
less likely to face generic competition 
because of their biological nature, and are 
less attractive targets for biosimilars 
because of the small patient population.maRKet
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
9Business model
Sobi’s business model spans from clinical research to 
patient access and  commercialisation.
An integrated, patient-centric model 
Across the entire value chain, Sobi works 
in close dialogue with stakeholders 
such as patient organisations, health-
care systems, government authorities, 
regulatory bodies and payers in order to 
transform the lives of people living with 
rare diseases. 
From clinical research to patient
Sobi’s value chain spans from clinical 
research and development to patient 
access and commercialisation. Our 
strengths include evaluating and devel-
oping clinical projects, commercialisa-
tion and bringing treatments to patients 
as quickly as possible. 
Partnership and cooperation
Our strengths combine with those of 
our collaboration partners to shape 
opportunities for value creation in the 
rare disease landscape. Partnership has 
long been a part of Sobi’s success, in areas as varied as licensing of medicines 
and acquisition of projects to contract 
research and contract manufacturing. 
We see partnership as essential in our 
efforts to build and expand our clinical 
pipeline into new indications and areas 
within haematology and immunology.
Patient access and commercialisation 
Cross-functional teams bring together 
our many disciplines. By bringing in 
patient access specialists as early as 
possible into development projects, 
approval applications and pricing nego-
tiations, for example, we are speeding up 
the delivery of treatments to patients. 
Our commercial, medical and R&D 
teams work with healthcare profes-
sionals, external researchers and other 
stakeholders to increase understanding 
of patients’ and healthcare professionals’ 
changing needs. This provides insight 
into needs that we continuously feed back into the system to improve our 
treatments and systems. 
Ensuring that patients never risk going 
without their medicine is of the utmost 
importance. That is why we have built up 
robust processes and systems for deliv-
ery and distribution in all of our markets. 
Responsible pricing is vital in ensuring 
access to treatment. It requires us to 
balance the roles of a sustainable com-
pany with being a sustainable part of a 
healthcare system. Through continuous 
dialogue with rare-disease stakeholders, 
we continue to provide treatments to 
patients efficiently and responsibly. 
In all price-setting and subsequent 
negotiations, we consider the following 
basic principles: medical need, the ben-
efits the innovation brings to patients, 
benefits for the healthcare system, sus-
tainability and affordability of access, and 
the cost required to continue innovation 
and meet future medical needs.
Patient and 
community value
Financial value 
(cash flow)Ongoing operational efficiency improvements
Partnerships and acquisitionsDeveloping and evaluating projects  
in clinical-stage assetsCommercialisation and  
making treatments  
available to patientsContinuous dialogue with patients, patient associations, healthcare  
providers, regulators and payers to make products and treatments  
available to patientsSobi’s business model
buSineSS modeL
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
10Strategy
The strategy we established in 2017 remains firm,  
with refinements reflecting the evolution of the company.
Vision
Our vision is to be recognised as a global 
leader in providing innovative treatments 
that transform life for people living with 
rare diseases. 
Our mission
Our mission is to develop and deliver 
innovative therapies and services to 
improve the lives of people living with 
rare diseases.
Growth and strength
We will continue to be a leading company 
within Haematology. We will continue to 
expand access to our extended half-life 
factor replacement treatments Elocta 
and Alprolix, reaching more people with 
haemophilia A and B in more countries. 
In 2021, we will launch Elocta (as 
Eloctate) in Russia. We see BIVV001 as a 
future growth driver, with the potential 
to change the treatment paradigm 
within haemophilia A. Within the larger 
scope of Haematology, we are expand-
ing access to Doptelet, taking it to new 
markets and new indications. We are 
planning for a launch of pegcetacoplan 
in PNH, expanding the non-haemophilia 
segment of our Haematology portfolio. 
We will continue to grow in Immu-
nology. Work will intensify in order to 
maximise the value of our existing prod-
ucts, for Kineret and Gamifant in new 
markets and new indications, and we will 
continue to seek promising candidate 
treatments. Research into pegcetaco-
plan in indications within neurology and 
nephrology will continue. 
We will continue our geographical 
expansion to become a global com-
pany. Following our expansion into the 
Asia-Pacific in 2020, with offices estab-
lished in China, Japan and Australia, and 
an increased presence in Russia, we are 
now examining other potential markets 
in South-East Asia and Latin America. 
Grow in  
Immunology
Lead in  
Haematology
Capture the value  
of our pipeline
Go global
Sustainability strategyBusiness strategy 
Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviourTransform lives within  
rare diseases
And we will continue to capture the 
value of our R&D pipeline by concen-
trating on late-stage assets that address 
unmet medical needs and have signifi-
cant market potential. With 12 planned 
programmes focused on six products, 
we expect to see more than 30 launches 
in key geographies over the coming 
years. We continue to seek additional 
attractive assets.
Sustainable access
Our sustainability strategy is closely 
linked to the business and based on two 
priorities – our commitment to patients 
and our responsible behaviour. 
By expanding our geographical reach, 
investing in the development of novel 
products and deepening our engage-ment in the areas of haematology and 
immunology, we can improve access 
to rare disease treatments for patients 
worldwide.
We see responsible behaviour as 
non-negotiable and expect the highest 
ethical standards from our employees 
and partners.
If we are successful in our operations, 
we will positively impact the 
communities we serve. StRate GY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
11Haematology
Haematology is now established as one of Sobi’s two  therapeutic 
areas, building on our success in haemophilia and creating a  platform 
for long-term growth.
Covering more than 100 benign and 
malignant disorders of the red and white 
blood cells, platelets and coagulation 
system, haematology includes the 
diagnosis, treatment and prevention of 
diseases of the blood and bone marrow 
as well as the immunological, hae-
mostatic (blood clotting) and vascular 
systems. The science of haematology 
profoundly affects the understanding 
of many diseases.
In 2020, the scope of this therapeutic 
area expanded from haemophilia to 
include Doptelet (avatrombopag), an 
orally administered, second-genera-
tion thrombopoietin receptor agonist 
(TPO-RA) used in the treatment of 
thrombocytopenia (low platelet count), 
which can be administered without 
dietary restrictions.
We are excited about the opportu-
nities this provides for increasing our 
presence across the haematology spectrum within rare diseases. Despite 
increased competition, challenges in 
access and additional pressure on prices, 
we see extensive potential for patients 
and physicians to use and benefit from 
our therapies in this area. 
Elocta and Alprolix
Elocta and Alprolix, our market-leading 
extended half-life factor replacement 
products for haemophilia A and B, 
continued to perform strongly. Replace-
ment therapy is fundamental in many 
treatment areas: the replacement of 
a missing hormone, enzyme, nutrient 
or protein allows patients to achieve a 
normalised state. Factor replacement 
remains the mainstay of treatment for 
haemophilia – by replacing the missing 
factor, people with haemophilia can 
take control of their condition, and their 
treatment can be individualised to suit 
their situations and lifestyles. 
Revenue per product, Haematology
SEK M 2019 2020 Change at CER
Elocta 4,508 4,585 3%
Alprolix 1,463 1,705 18%
Royalty1 1,373 1,301 –3%
Doptelet 34 587 >100%
Manufacturing2 376 481 28%
Total 7,755 8,660 13%
1. Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
2. Manufacturing of the drug substance for ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for Pfizer.Total revenue, Haematology
SEK M
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum
 Total revenueHaemophilia
A bleeding disorder in which the 
blood does not clot properly. More 
than 400,000  people globally are 
estimated to have haemophilia, 
while only around 25 per cent 
receive adequate treatment1. 
Haemophilia is caused by lack of 
a coagulation factor, factor VIII 
in haemophilia A and factor IX in 
haemophilia B.  Appropriate man-
agement aims to help people with 
haemophilia to live full, healthy and 
active lives.
1. www.hemophilia.org/About-Us/Fast-Facts
Thrombocytopenia
A condition resulting from low 
levels of blood platelets. It can 
arise from either decreased pro-
duction of platelets, for example 
due to chronic liver disease, or 
through increased destruction 
of platelets, as in the case of 
Immune thrombocytopenia. 57%
of total revenue4,377
EBITA, SEK M
HaematoL oGY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
12 
Doptelet picks up speed 
Doptelet is a thrombopoietin receptor 
agonist (TPO-RA) used to treat low blood 
platelet counts (thrombocytopenia) in 
adults. 
Doptelet has performed well in the US 
in its two approved indications: chronic 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and 
chronic liver disease (CLD). In ITP, Doptelet has a market share of around 
7 per cent, and the aim is to become a 
market leader. In CLD, adjustments to 
strategy increased the rate of growth, 
with teams successfully engaging 
with decision makers at key treatment 
centres regarding treatment protocols. 
The CLD market in the US is valued at 
USD 400–500 million, and the only real competition to Doptelet is platelet 
transfusions. 
In Europe, Doptelet was launched in 
CLD in the UK, Ireland, Austria and Den -
mark in Q4. Doptelet was approved for 
the treatment of ITP in the EU in  January 
2021 and is launching during 2021.
Log 
injections
Log 
bleeds
Log 
wellbeingLog 
pain
Capture 
activitiesManage 
stockSee 
estimated 
plasma 
factor l evel
Sobi’s subsidiary Florio develops 
next-generation digital products for 
patients and healthcare professionals 
that capture and visualise disease- 
and treatment-related data. Its first 
product florio HAEMO, designed to 
monitor haemophilia therapy, was 
co-created with patients and health-
care professionals to provide more 
insights into patient treatment based 
on real-time data. The CE-marked 
digital medical device consists of an app for people with haemophilia, 
and a dashboard for their treating 
physicians.
Florio HAEMO allows patients to 
easily document their treatment and 
strengthens the relationship between 
patients and doctors.
Since launching in April 2020, 
florio HAEMO has expanded to more 
than 20 countries and 20 languages. 
User feedback from both doctors 
and patients has been excellent.Florio continues to develop the 
app in co-creation with doctors 
and patients, adding functionality 
such as data export and analysis, 
a caregiver mode and many more 
useful features. An app for children 
with haemophilia was launched in 
late 2020.
Florio continues to develop digital 
products for patients and healthcare 
professionals in line with Sobi’s 
development portfolio.HaematoL oGY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
13COVID-19
The pandemic posed a challenge to 
sales growth. During lockdowns and 
restrictions, people with haemophilia 
reduced their levels of activity, which in 
turn reduced demand for factor. A fall 
in the number of surgical procedures 
also impacted sales for all treatments. 
However, we continued to see growth 
in patient numbers, particularly among 
people shifting from standard half-life 
treatments. 
Our multichannel approach to meet-
ing clients, including the use of virtual 
platforms, has proved successful. In the 
Middle East, a series of regular webinars 
provided an opportunity for healthcare 
professionals to discuss challenges and 
developments in a professional yet less 
formal manner. 
The use of virtual meetings in the 
 haemophilia community has also brought increased levels of participa-
tion albeit with fewer opportunities 
for informal discussions. In 2020, the 
World Federation of Hemophilia’s virtual 
conference attracted 8,551 participants, 
compared with the normal figure of 
around 5,000. 
Growth across Europe
Markets across Europe continued to 
show growth despite challenges from 
COVID-19. Changes to regulations 
and new tender rounds opened up 
new patient segments, and Elocta and 
Alprolix remained the market-leading 
factor replacement treatments in several 
countries. 
In the Middle East, some patient 
cohorts were switched from on-demand 
treatment to weekly prophylaxis with 
Elocta, reducing the treatment burden 
while improving protection. In Russia, Sobi is preparing for the launch 
of our haemophilia A treatment, which 
will be known there as Eloctate. 
In all markets, we see that COVID-19 
has placed additional pressure on 
healthcare budgets, and we expect 
increased price pressure in several 
markets. 
BIVV001/efanesoctocog alfa
Together with Sanofi, we are proud to 
see positive results from the clinical 
study programme assessing BIVV001 as 
a potential treatment for haemophilia A. 
We see potential for BIVV001 to advance 
the treatment of people with haemo-
philia A by normalising factor levels for a 
significant part of the treatment interval. 
Read more in R&D, page 20. In June 2020, we announced together 
with Sanofi that we would renew and 
extend our commitment to the WFH 
Humanitarian Aid Program, fulfilling our 
2015 pledge to donate up to 1  billion 
 international units (IU) of replacement 
factor for humanitarian use.  
Read more in Sustainability, page 24. 
HaematoL oGY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
14Our immune system protects us from 
disease. Yet sometimes it can malfunc -
tion, underreacting or over reacting to 
a real or perceived threat. Immunology 
has long been at the heart of what we 
do at Sobi, and over many years we have 
been building up extensive expertise and 
experience.
COVID-19
The therapeutic area, like much in 
society, was affected by the COVID-19 
pandemic.
The impact stretched across all Sobi 
regions, with a primary effect being a 
decline in activities at medical level. 
Many procedures and treatments were 
postponed or cancelled, and restrictions 
on interactions affected sales. The 
sales teams around the Sobi territories 
adapted by using a multi-channel digital 
approach to maintain contact with 
clients and stakeholders.
Addressing unmet medical need
We see our expansion into new territo-
ries where we can address unmet med-
ical needs as good news for patients, for 
physicians and for Sobi. And we continue to bring in pre-market assets such as 
SEL-212 to strengthen our portfolio as 
we prepare for launch in coming years. 
Read more in R&D, pages 20–21.
Kineret
Kineret (anakinra) grew strongly in 
both the EU and North America. With 
its long history in clinical practice, it is 
recognised as an effective treatment 
for several indications, with a strong 
safety profile. As the COVID-19 situation 
stabilises during 2021, we look forward 
to continuing our examination of future 
indications and markets. 
The drug has been well received by 
the market since its launch in 28 EU 
countries for the Still’s disease indication, 
covering adult onset Still’s disease and 
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
during 2019-2020.
In 2020, Kineret was also approved 
in the EU for treatment, in combination 
with colchicine if appropriate, of familial 
Mediterranean fever, a rare disease on a 
global scale but affecting up to one per -
son in 200 among certain ethnic groups 
with Mediterranean heritage. Strong interest in the potential of 
Kineret as a treatment for COVID-19- 
induced SARS (severe acute respiratory 
syndrome) and CSS (cytokine storm 
syndrome), as featured in prestigious 
publications such as The Lancet Rheu-
matology, has been gratifying to see. 
We will continue to support investiga-
tor-sponsored studies into the use of 
Kineret in this area. It is not often that 
products from a rare disease company 
Revenue per product, Immunology
SEK M 2019 2020 Change at CER
Kineret 1,571 2,079 35%
Synagis 2,594 2,726 5%
Gamifant 542 609 16%
Total 4,706 5,415 16%Immunology
With three on-market products, and strengthened by new licensing 
agreements for pre-market assets, Immunology has performed  
strongly during its first full year as a therapeutic area for Sobi.
Total revenue, Immunology
SEK M
/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum
  Total revenue35%
of total revenue
1,902
EBITA, SEK MimmunoL oGY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
15make headline news in the mainstream 
media, and we are honoured to be able 
to help in the fight against COVID-19. 
Read more in R&D, pages 20–21.
Synagis and RSV
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is 
a common and highly contagious 
seasonal virus contracted by nearly all 
babies by the age of two. In most, RSV 
causes only a mild respiratory infection, 
but can be much more serious for some, 
especially babies considered high risk. 
RSV is the leading cause of hospital 
admission in infants aged less than one 
year in the United States.
Synagis (palivizumab) is the only 
approved medicine for the prevention of 
serious lower respiratory tract infections 
caused by RSV in high-risk infants, and 
significantly reduces the risk of RSV 
hospitalisation. Sobi has the US rights 
to Synagis.
RSV is a highly seasonal virus, which 
has a major effect on sales of Synagis. 
The vast majority of sales take place 
during RSV season: the fourth and first 
quarters of each year.
Synagis performed well overall in 
2020 despite a low incidence of RSV in the fourth quarter as a consequence of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, with social 
distancing and reduced international 
travel affecting the RSV season. 
Outstanding efforts by the Synagis 
team in the US, including extensive 
public awareness and educational activ-
ities, were able to extract growth from a 
mature therapy.
In 2020, distribution of Synagis was 
transferred from a wholesaler model to 
a specialty distribution model; six new 
specialty pharmacies were contracted 
and a new patient-support hub partner 
was introduced. All these systematic 
changes were conducted smoothly 
ahead of the 2020–2021 season, putting 
Synagis in a better position for long-term 
success. Gamifant/emapalumab
Emapalumab, approved in the US 
under the name Gamifant as the only 
treatment for primary haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis, continued to see 
steady patient growth. Sales totalled 
SEK 609 M.
The European Commission’s Com-
mittee for Medicinal Products for Human 
Use (CHMP) confirmed its negative 
opinion of emapalumab as a treatment 
for primary HLH at a re-examination 
in November. Sobi remains convinced 
of the medicine’s safety and efficacy in 
this indication, and will seek approval in 
primary HLH in countries outside the EU; 
an application for approval in pHLH in 
China has been granted priority review 
there. We also continue to investigate 
emapalumab’s potential as a treatment 
for other forms of HLH. It is also under 
investigation for other indications, 
including graft failure after haemopoietic 
stem cell transplant. See more in R&D,  
pages 20–21.»RSV is the  leading 
cause of hospitalisation 
in infants aged less 
than one year in the 
United States.»
immunoL oGY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
161. Zatkova A, Ranganath LR, and Kadasi L. Alkaptonuria: Current Perspectives. Appl Clin Genet. 2020; 13: 37–47. doi: 10.2147/TACG.S186773Specialty Care
As well as playing a key role in the health of people living with HT-1, 
 Orfadin is now the first pharmacological treatment approved for people 
living with AKU.
Sobi continues as the market leader 
to support those living with hereditary 
tyrosinaemia (HT-1) and the healthcare 
professionals working to provide optimal 
management of this rare genetic disor -
der that can cause liver, renal and neuro-
logical complications. Orfadin has been 
approved in the US, the EU and several 
other markets for the treatment of HT-1, 
in combination with dietary restriction 
of tyrosine and phenylalanine. 
In scientific collaboration with experts 
and prescribers, Sobi completed a 
15-year follow-up study, the OPAL study, 
with 315 patients across 17 European 
countries and 77 sites studying the 
long-term outcomes during standard 
clinical practice. Over the study period, 
Orfadin treatment in HT-1 patients with a 
median treatment duration of 11.2 years 
(range 0.7–28.4 years) was shown to have 
a good safety profile and be well tolerated 
with sustained efficacy. The study adds 
insights to further ensure that optimal management of HT-1 patients with 
 Orfadin is maintained throughout life.
Generic competition has had an 
effect, with lower revenue mainly due to 
price decreases, but Orfadin has retained 
its role in the management of HT-1.
High unmet medical need
In 2020, the European Commission 
approved Orfadin as the first pharma-
cological treatment for adults with 
alkaptonuria (AKU). The unmet medical 
need is high as previous treatment 
options have been limited to treating the 
symptoms of the disease.
AKU is a serious, multifaceted, debil-
itating and slowly progressive disease 
affecting approximately 1 in every 
250,000 to 1 million people. Also known 
as black bone disease or black urine 
disease due to its characteristics, it is 
an extremely rare genetic condition 
that can cause significant damage to 
the bones, cartilage and tissue, and eventually lead to joint disease. The AKU 
Society in the UK has reported 777 iden-
tified patients in Europe1, but because 
many with this disease are undiagnosed 
or misdiagnosed, the number of people 
in need is expected to be higher.
Launch, pricing and access activities 
are ongoing: some markets already have 
full access and have launched Orfadin 
for the new indication. 
The development of Orfadin for the 
treatment of AKU was enabled by the 
work carried out within the Develop-
AKUre programme, an international 
research consortium, initiated by the 
AKU Society and clinical experts. The 
DevelopAKUre consortium received 
financial support through the European 
Commission’s 7th Framework Pro-
gramme. 
Sobi continues to work to ensure sus-
tainable access to Orfadin for patients 
with HT-1 and AKU. 564
EBITA, SEK M8%
of total revenueSpeCiaL tY CaRe
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
17Geographical 
 expansion
Sobi continues to expand into new geographies. We see significant 
unmet need in regions outside our current territories, and  
are  committed to reaching more patients with our medicines.
As a rare disease company, we serve 
a relatively small proportion of the 
population and concentrate on areas of 
high unmet medical need. Expanding 
our geographical presence allows more 
people living with rare diseases to access 
our therapies and takes Sobi into new 
markets with major growth potential. 
Our objective for 2025 is to reach twice 
as many patients with our medicines, with 
an established presence in selected new 
markets, and partnerships to serve others. 
We are planning at least 18 launches 
in markets outside the EU and North 
America within the same timeframe, 
and expect the International division to 
account for 15 per cent of Sobi’s revenue.
In the second half of 2020, operations 
were established in Japan and Australia, 
following expansion into China, and we 
increased our presence in Russia. 
In Europe, all countries have been 
brought under a single umbrella 
organisation. This allows Sobi to have 
three regional groupings: Europe, North 
America and International. The Inter -
national grouping includes all countries 
outside of North America and Europe.
In both China and Japan, devel-
opments in recent years have led to 
an increased focus on the needs of 
people living with rare diseases. These 
two countries are the second and 
third-largest pharmaceutical markets, 
respectively, in the world. 
As well as continuing to grow in 
Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, 
we have seen significant expansion in 
North America. Operations there have 
grown from 54 to 457 employees (FTE) 
in just over three years. This includes 446 
in the US, the single largest rare disease market in the world, and Sobi’s largest 
affiliate (including Dova).
Geographic expansion also requires 
extensive logistical infrastructure to 
maintain Sobi’s high standards for the 
production of biological pharmaceuticals, 
delivery, pharmacovigilance, quality 
assurance and serialisation. 
China
Sobi had 12 staff in China at the end of 
2020, in administration, regulatory and 
medical affairs.
The rare disease landscape in China 
is developing rapidly, with increasing 
attention and awareness from the gov-
ernment since 2018 and a major patient 
community drive to increase access to 
orphan medicines.
To address the unmet medical needs 
of roughly 17 million patients with rare 
diseases in China, the Chinese National 
Medical Products Administration has 
been carrying out reforms, including:
• Clinical study data from abroad can be 
submitted for the Chinese registry of 
rare disease drugs approved overseas
• Shortening the review and approval 
process
• Extension of clinical data exclusivity, 
ranging from six to 12 years.
Despite the relatively low number of 
patients with each rare disease, the 
“long tail” of the market provides major 
volumes that can be attractive for a 
company with the specialist expertise 
and infrastructure required.
Japan
In Japan, rare diseases have been largely 
neglected in the past, with healthcare focusing more on ‘lifestyle’ conditions 
such as diabetes, hypertension and 
high cholesterol. But awareness of rare 
diseases and orphan drugs has increased 
after recent approvals.
The birth ratio in Japan is only 1.36, 
so society places great importance on 
protecting children. This means that 
there is both momentum for addressing 
the unmet medical need, and opportuni-
ties for commercial growth.
The Japanese Ministry of Health, 
Labour and Welfare has requested that 
anakinra be developed and submitted 
for approval in the country, and Sobi is 
currently working on this request.
At 31 December 2020, Sobi had six staff 
in Japan.
Both China and Japan generally 
require that medicines submitted for 
approval have been studied in local 
 populations, contributing to greater 
scientific understanding of the challenges 
facing ethnic populations. In China, 
medicines with an urgent clinical need 
that have recently been approved 
overseas can be granted a waiver, but 
require post-market studies to confirm 
conditional approval.
Russia
Sobi has expanded its presence in Russia. 
Our extended half-life treatment for 
haemophilia A, to be sold there under 
the name Eloctate, has been approved, 
and Orfadin has been launched as a 
treatment for HT-1.
Elsewhere, Sobi opened a new subsid-
iary in Australia in Q4 and sees further 
potential for growth there. 
GeoGRapHiCaL expanSion
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
18Sobi’s markets 
USADoptelet Orfadin
Kepivance®Synagis
Gamifant 
Kineret
Europe
Middle East Elocta
Alprolix
Doptelet 
Elocta
Alprolix
Doptelet 
Doptelet 2 Orfadin KineretHaematology Immunology
Orfadin
Tegsedi®, Waylivra®
Partner Products Kineret
Orfadin
Tegsedi, WaylivraKineret
Gamifant (NPU) 1
Rest of the  
world
Specialty Care »Our objective for 
2025 is to reach 
twice as many 
patients, with an 
established pres-
ence in selected 
new markets, and  
partnerships to 
serve others.« 
See pages 127–128 for full details.
1. NPU – Named patient use. 
2. Outlicensed in China. We are expanding our market presence  
outside Europe and North America
 Sobi core markets
 Sobi new markets
 Sobi future marketsRussia 
Fully fledged 
organisation set up. 
Orfadin launched and 
Eloctate approved.
Middle East 
Alprolix and Elocta 
successfully launched.
Australia
Planned launches for 
avatrombopag (ITP), 
emapalumab and 
pegcetacoplan.Japan
Leadership team 
identified, organisational 
ramp-up ongoing.
China
Emapalumab and 
Nitisinone submitted.GeoGRapHiCaL expanSion
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
19Capturing the value 
of our pipeline
Sobi now has six products under development, with 12 programmes 
planned to allow more than 30 launches in coming years. 
R&D activities and the licensing agree-
ments reached in 2020 changed the 
pipeline in terms of both volume and 
nature, and created a nexus between the 
areas of haematology and immunology.
Sobi continues to invest strongly 
in R&D, adding studies in phase 2 and 
3. Several pipeline assets are being 
investigated in multiple indications, 
mitigating the risk inherent in orphan 
drug research.
A leadership transition took place in 
September, with Ravi Rao taking over as 
Chief Medical Officer and Head of R&D. 
The COVID-19 pandemic had a 
moderate impact on clinical studies, 
including recruitment. In response to a 
request from the investigating authority 
in Italy, Sobi launched the Immuno-101 
proof-of-concept study to evaluate 
the efficacy and safety of anakinra 
and emapalumab for the treatment of 
hyper-inflammatory syndrome, one 
of the most serious complications 
associated with severe COVID-19. The 
study expanded to the US, but was later 
terminated due to improvements in the 
standard of care for COVID patients and 
the impact this would have on study 
design. 
However, 18 external, randomised 
controlled trials of anakinra in moder -
ate-severe COVID-19 are ongoing or 
planned. Sobi is supporting 10 investi-
gator-sponsored studies across the US 
and EU. 
Haematology
BIVV001/efanesoctocog alfa
BIVV001 is an investigational factor VIII 
therapy – built on Fc-fusion technology with added von Willebrand factor domains 
and XTEN® polypeptides – designed to 
provide near-normal factor levels and 
higher bleed protection in a once-weekly 
prophylactic treatment regimen for 
 haemophilia A. 
Normal factor levels allow high levels 
of physical activity with low bleeding risk.
With two major phase 3 studies 
underway, BIVV001 is expected to be 
submitted for approval in the US in 2022. 
A study in pediatric patients is ongoing 
prior to submission in the EU. Sobi and 
Sanofi are collaborating on the develop-
ment and commercialisation of BIVV001.
Doptelet /avatrombopag
A second-generation oral thrombopoietin 
receptor agonist (TPO-RA), Doptelet 
has been approved in the US for the 
treatment of immune thrombocytopenia 
(ITP) and chronic liver disease (CLD) by 
increasing platelet numbers. It is the only 
once-daily oral TPO-RA approved for the 
treatment of ITP without dietary restric -
tions, and exhibits no hepatoxicity.
Launched in the EU for CLD in Q4, 
Doptelet was approved in the EU in Q1 
2021 for chronic ITP. It is also approved 
in China for CLD, and has been submit-
ted for approval in both indications in 
a further two countries outside the EU, 
Russia and Switzerland. 
The topline results from the phase 3 
study in solid tumour cancer patients 
with chemotherapy-induced thrombo-
cytopenia (CIT) were released in Octo-
ber. Although avatrombopag increased 
platelet counts relative to placebo as 
expected, the study did not meet the 
composite primary endpoint. The results 
continue to undergo examination.Immunology
Nirsevimab/MEDI8897
Nirsevimab, a single-dose monoclonal 
antibody (mAb) under development 
by AstraZeneca and Sanofi for passive 
immunisation of a broad infant popu-
lation against respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV), showed a significant reduction in 
medically-attended lower respiratory 
tract infections (LRTI) and hospitalisa-
tions caused by (RSV) in healthy preterm 
infants in a positive phase 2b study 
published in the New England Journal of 
Medicine. Sobi holds the rights to 50 per 
cent of US earnings, mitigating the risk of 
future potential revenue reductions for 
Synagis.
SEL-212
Under a strategic licensing agreement 
with Selecta, SEL-212 is under inves-
tigation as a potential once-monthly 
treatment option for patients with 
chronic refractory gout. Sobi is respon-
sible for development, regulatory and 
commercial activities in all markets with 
the exception of China. The phase 3 
programme for SEL-212 is being run by 
Selecta and funded by Sobi.
A novel product candidate combin-
ing Selecta’s tolerogenic ImmTOR™ 
immune tolerance platform and a ther -
apeutic uricase enzyme (pegadricase), 
SEL-212 has been designed to provide 
sustained control of serum uric acid 
levels in patients with chronic refractory 
gout and may be particularly beneficial 
in patients with gouty tophi. 
In the phase 2 COMPARE study, 
SEL-212 showed a numerically higher 
response rate than pegloticase on the 
ReSeaRCH and deVeL opment
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
20primary endpoint during months 3 and 6 
combined, but did not meet the primary 
endpoint of statistical superiority. The 
data supported the commencement of 
the phase 3 clinical programme involving 
two double-blind, placebo-controlled 
phase 3 clinical studies (DISSOLVE I and 
DISSOLVE II) of SEL-212 for the treatment 
of chronic refractory gout. Topline data 
is expected in the second half of 2022.
Kineret/anakinra
Sobi continues to study the potential 
of anakinra in several indications, and 
continues to see great external interest 
in the drug. 
Kineret was approved in the EU in April 
for the treatment of familial Mediterra-
nean fever. FMF is a rare genetic disorder 
that causes recurrent episodes of fever 
typically accompanied by pain in the 
abdomen, chest, or joints. Kineret has been approved in the US as a 
treatment for deficiency of interleukin-1 
receptor antagonist (DIRA), a rare and 
life-threatening autoinflammatory 
disease. 
Overlap between Haematology 
and Immunology
Gamifant/emapalumab
Emapalumab, marketed in the US 
as Gamifant, is the only treatment 
approved to target and neutralise 
interferon-gamma (IFNγ) – a major 
proinflammatory cytokine. Approved in 
the US as a treatment for primary HLH 
(haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis), 
emapalumab is under investigation for 
three further indications: secondary 
HLH, haemopoietic stem cell transplant 
(HSCT) graft failure, and graft versus host 
disease (GvHD).The European Commission’s Committee 
for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(CHMP) adopted a negative opinion 
for the use of emapalumab as a treat-
ment for primary HLH in Q4. Sobi sees 
significant unmet medical need in this 
indication and has therefore either 
submitted or will submit emapalumab 
for approval in primary HLH in several 
non-EU jurisdictions. We believe there is 
potential in other related indications on 
the spectrum between primary (genetic) 
and secondary (acquired) HLH, including 
rheumatological and infectious HLH. 
We also see potential in the area of 
precision medicine. HSCT graft failure 
can be detected within days of the 
procedure through raised levels of the 
biomarker CXCL9. Sobi has entered into 
a partnership with bioMérieux for the 
development of a companion diagnostic 
to rapidly measure CXCL9.
1. Shows studies that have started.
2. Financial interest only.
3. Developed in collaboration with Sanofi. 
The designation efanesoctocog alfa used from February 2021.
4. Financial interest only, in collaboration with AstraZeneca.
5. In collaboration with Apellis. 
6. Strategic licensing agreement with Selecta. Haematology
 Immunology Our innovation pipeline1
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration
NI-17012 
Anti-CD47/CD19 
R/R B cell lymphoma
Pegcetacoplan5 
Paroxysmal Nocturnal 
Hemoglobinuria (PNH)BIVV001/ 
efanesoctocog alfa3 
Haemophilia A
Pegcetacoplan5 
Paroxysmal Nocturnal 
Hemoglobinuria (PNH)MEDI8897/
nirsevimab4 
RSV prevention
SEL-2126 
Chronic  
refractory goutGamifant/emapalumab
Primary HLH (RoW)
Gamifant/emapalumab 
Graft failure
Pegcetacoplan5 
Amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS)Gamifant/emapalumab 
Secondary HLH adults
Gamifant/emapalumab 
Secondary HLH 
rheumatologyGamifant/emapalumab 
Primary HLH (Japan)ReSeaRCH and deVeL opment
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
21Pegcetacoplan 
Pegcetacoplan is an investigational, 
targeted C3 therapy designed to regulate 
excessive complement activation, which 
is involved in the pathology of a broad 
range of disorders including various 
autoimmune and immune diseases. By 
targeting C3, pegcetacoplan modulates 
a key component of the complement 
system. 
Under the licensing agreement with 
Apellis for ex-US development and com-
mercialisation rights to systemic peg-
cetacoplan, marketing applications for 
the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal 
haemoglobinuria (PNH) were submitted 
to the FDA and EMA based on positive 
results from the phase 3 PEGASUS 
study. Top-line results from the phase 3 
PRINCE study, evaluating pegcetacoplan 
in treatment-naïve patients with PNH, 
are expected in the first half of 2021. 
A file was also submitted for PNH in 
Australia.
Sobi will also lead development 
activities for cold agglutinin disease 
and for haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation-associated thrombotic 
microangiopathy (HSCT-TMA). Apellis 
is leading further studies in the areas 
of nephrology and neurology; the first 
patient was dosed in the potentially reg-
istrational study of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS) in November. 
Specialty Care
Orfadin/nitisinone
During 2020, the European Commission 
approved the indication extension of 
Orfadin for the treatment of alkaptonuria 
(AKU) in adult patients, making Orfadin 
the first pharmacological treatment 
approved for AKU, a rare disease with 
high unmet medical need.
The development of Orfadin for the 
treatment of AKU was enabled by the 
DevelopAKUre programme, an inter -
national research consortium including 
researchers, patient groups and Sobi. 
DevelopAKUre was initiated by the AKU 
Society and clinical experts, and received 
funding from the European Commission.
»Several pipeline 
assets are being 
investigated in 
multiple indica-
tions, mitigating 
the risk inherent 
in orphan drug 
research.« 
ReSeaRCH and deVeL opment
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
22Sustainability 
Our commitment to providing access to treatment for people with rare 
 diseases is not only our company vision but also our main contribution  
to sustainable development.
Sobi’s sustainability strategy is focused 
on two main areas, aimed at trans-
forming lives for people living with rare 
diseases: 
• Supporting the rare disease community 
through our commitment to patients, 
working actively by enabling connect-
edness, ensuring sustainable and secure 
access to care, and giving a voice to 
patients. A strong pipeline and expanded 
access through geographical growth are key elements of our commitment, which 
puts patient safety first by adhering to 
the highest pharmaceutical standards 
• Acting responsibly in everything we 
do, through high research standards, 
business ethics and policies aimed at 
creating a sustainable organisation with 
the purpose of serving the community. 
We show our commitment to sustain-
ability by measuring and mapping our 
emissions, setting ambitions and targets, and working together with our partners 
to reduce our environmental footprint.
Sobi is a signatory of the UN Global 
Compact, and we have integrated the 
ten principles of the Global Compact 
into our core business operations. Our 
sustainability strategy is based on our 
willingness to contribute to the real-
isation of Agenda 2030 and the Paris 
Agreement.Grow  
ImmunologyLead in 
 HaematologyCapture the value  
of our pipelineGo  
globalBusiness strategy 
Sustainability strategy
Commitment to Agenda 2030 and the Paris AgreementOur R&D is ethical and  
focused on medical need
We expand access to treatment
We are patient-centric and  
engage with our communities
We contribute to knowledge to  
enhance the practice of medicine 
We focus on patient safetyWe help our people develop and  
keep them safe and healthy 
We have no tolerance for corruption
We source responsibly
We reduce our environmental footprint Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviourTransform lives within  
rare diseasesSuStainabiLit Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
23Our business strategy reflects our ambi-
tion and commitment to reach more 
patients in more markets with novel and 
transformative treatments in areas of 
high unmet medical need. 
R&D focused on medical need
In 2020, our R&D portfolio was 
expanded to include more drug can-
didates and investigations in multiple 
indications, increasing the potential to 
make more treatments available to more 
patients.
To realise the potential of the portfolio, 
the R&D budget was increased to 13–15 
per cent of revenue for 2021–2022. 
Six products are currently involved 
in 12 development programmes; five 
medicines in the pipeline either have 
novel mechanisms of action or are first-
in-class. 
Where orphan drug regulations can 
shorten time to patient, they will be used, 
as was the case when the FDA granted a 
priority review designation for pegceta-
coplan for the treatment of paroxysmal 
nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). 
The development strategy also 
includes exploring innovative approaches 
that help optimise treatment outcomes. 
In the digital health area, Sobi’s subsidiary 
Florio launched the digital medical device 
florio HAEMO and the florio HAEMO 
kids app. Within precision medicine, 
Sobi’s partnership with bioMérieux aims 
to develop a  companion diagnostic Commitment to patients
17,330 people 
reported treated  
in 43 countries
Over 198,000 
acute bleeds 
treated
Over 2,960 surgeries, 
including  
limb-saving
538 million IU of 
factor donated
12
programmes in  
rare diseases 
5
novel mechanisms 
of action
to detect HSCT graft failure. We are 
also exploring the potential of genetic 
screening to gain deeper insights into 
patient care in HLH.
Patient access
In 2020, we expanded the potential 
for access to treatments in three new 
markets, by establishing and enlarging 
operations in China, Japan and Australia. 
We also took part in many events 
advocating for support for people living 
with rare diseases. At one such event, we 
joined EUCOPE (European Confedera-
tion of Pharmaceutical Entrepreneurs) at 
the World Pharma Pricing, Market Access 
& Evidence Congress 2020 to discuss 
how to evaluate innovation.
Humanitarian aid 
In 2020, we announced an extension 
of our support for the World Federation 
of Hemophilia (WFH) Humanitarian Aid 
Program with an additional donation of 
up to 500 million international units (IU) 
of factor therapy for humanitarian use, fulfilling the 2014 pledge to donate up 
to an unprecedented 1 billion IU over a 
10-year period. 
Since the initial pledge, more than 538 
million IU have been donated and over 
17,330 people with haemophilia have 
been treated with factor donated by Sobi 
and Sanofi. Both companies are recog-
nised by the WFH as Founding Visionary 
Partners of this programme.
By providing a more predictable and 
sustainable flow of treatment, the WFH 
programme allows patients to receive 
consistent and reliable access to therapy 
and care. In addition, educational pro-
grammes for treaters and patients are 
critical for developing domestic capaci-
ties to improve diagnosis and treatment 
monitoring, and enabling long-term 
sustainable change. 
Realising that donations do not 
provide sustainable or long-term access 
to treatment, we strive to transform 
donations to access within the regulated 
healthcare system where possible. 
Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution to the WFH Humanitarian Aid Program
SuStainabiLit Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
24Community engagement
At the 10th European Conference on 
Rare Disease & Orphan Products (ECRD) 
in May 2020, the rare disease community 
voiced the need to be included in efforts 
to achieve Universal Health Coverage 
(UN SDG3, Good health and Well-being), 
as well as efforts to ensure non-discrim-
ination on the basis of health or disability 
status (SDG 10, Reducing Inequalities). 
Sobi aims to support the achievement 
of these goals in collaboration with the 
patient community.
In 2020, Sobi supported several social 
media and online communities as well as 
networking events and patient summits 
specifically addressing the COVID-19 
 situation. Informational tools and materials 
for patient caregivers and healthcare 
personnel to facilitate knowledge 
 sharing were part of this support.
Knowledge sharing
Each rare disease is so uncommon that 
knowledge about the disease is also rare, often leading to delayed diagno-
sis. Understanding the experience of 
living with a rare disease can provide 
important information and increased 
knowledge about disease burden and 
treatment options. 
Sobi regularly attends scientific meet-
ings to share medical advancements and 
to take part in discussions to enhance 
the practice of medicine. We also 
arrange advisory boards to seek advisor 
input into key clinical and scientific 
questions, continuing to develop our 
medicines to meet unmet needs. The 
challenges of COVID-19 were met by the 
widespread adoption of virtual meetings 
and webinars, and online events. 
Sobi is a long-term supporter of 
patient organisations such as the Euro-
pean and North American rare disease 
organisations EURORDIS and NORD, 
respectively, the World Federation of 
Hemophilia (WFH) and the European 
Haemophilia Consortium. Sobi’s 
annual support to the WFH Corporate Partner Program has enabled country 
development programmes, educational 
resources, training for healthcare 
 professionals, capacity building and 
training for patients and patient organi-
sations as well as support for the World 
Bleeding Disorder Registry. 
Focus on patient safety 
The patients we serve are among the 
most vulnerable. Many are children with 
a rare disease they will have to live with 
for the rest of their lives. Working with 
rare diseases adds another dimension to 
patient safety, because less information 
is available than for more widespread 
illnesses, and skilled analytical thinking is 
required.
Patient safety is part of a medicine’s 
journey from development and into real-
world use. Our global safety organisation 
focuses on detection, assessment, 
understanding and the prevention of 
adverse effects. 
SuStainabiLit Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
25Geographical distribution 
n Europe 65% n North America 30%
n Rest of the world 5%Gender distribution
n Women 59%  
n Men 41%Number of employees
Number
/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum50% 
reduction of Sobi’s 
CO 2 emissions since 2016
>30
countriesWe aim always to act ethically and 
expect the highest standards of ethical 
behaviour from our employees. In 
return, we offer a healthy workplace with 
continuous professional development 
opportunities. 
Our five core values – Care, Owner -
ship, Urgency, Partnership and Ambition 
– aim to ensure that more patients 
benefit from our therapies, now and in 
the future.
Caring for our employees 
Our workforce is essential for our ability 
to deliver on our strategy. Over the 
course of 2020, we welcomed over 
400 individuals to Sobi, and finished the 
year with more than 1,500 highly skilled 
employees in more than 30 countries 
around the world. 
During the year, the COVID-19 
pandemic greatly impacted employees 
across the world. Sobi protected the 
health and safety of employees by pro-
moting working from home and allow-
ing only business-critical international 
travel. For employees who were needed 
physically in the workplace, necessary 
distancing and safety precautions, 
such as additional personal protection 
equipment (PPE), flexible working hours 
and office attendance planning were 
implemented.
To retain a high level of employee 
engagement during the pandemic, Sobi worked extensively to enhance the 
digital workplace and communication 
tools, and used surveys to understand 
perceived challenges and involve 
employees in Sobi’s future. 
Engagement survey
In 2020, a Global Engagement Survey 
was conducted with over 85 per cent 
of employees responding. Employee 
engagement was on par with the indus-
try, strongly correlated to high employee 
competence-fit and patient focus. 
Positive relationships with our 
employees support their development, 
wellbeing and job satisfaction, and we 
are proud to offer a safe, healthy and 
inclusive workplace with equal develop-
ment opportunities for all.
No tolerance for corruption
Responsible behaviour is promoted 
through the company values and Code 
of Conduct. In 2020, a new, updated 
Code of Conduct was launched and 
made available for internal as well as 
external stakeholders. The whistleblower 
hotline was also extended to include 
external parties.
In 2020, a geographic shift increased 
Sobi’s risk exposure to new markets in 
Asia and Russia. Organic growth also 
continued, with new employees joining 
the company. In line with these changes, 
policies, systems and training are con-Responsible behaviour
tinuously reviewed to ensure our high 
standards are maintained. 
97 per cent of Sobi’s employees 
completed the Code of Conduct training 
in 2020. 
Responsible sourcing
With a largely outsourced supply chain, 
we rely on sustainable and robust sup-
pliers to produce, package and distribute 
our products. Sobi’s application to join 
the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initia-
tive (PSCI) was approved in January 2020. 
The Responsible Sourcing Programme, 
introduced in 2019, was implemented 
across Sobi during 2020. This includes 
the Partner Code of Conduct, which is 
available in several languages on Sobi’s 
Employees
SuStainabiLit Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
26website, and risk-based screening of 
suppliers for compliance with man-
agement, labour, human rights, and 
environmental standards. 
Reducing our environmental footprint 
Sobi’s direct Scope 1 and indirect Scope 
2 emissions from our own operations 
are limited. In 2020, we expanded our 
reporting practice to include all global 
operations (leased premises and vehicles). 
We have most control over our own 
operations, and by avoiding, reducing 
and substituting we are aiming to 
achieve net zero emissions from our 
sites and ground fleet by 2030. 
The direct emissions derived from the 
Parent Company’s operations have been reduced by 50 per cent since 2016. All 
electricity consumed at the Stockholm 
facility was produced from a mix of 
certified renewable energy sources. 
The impact of our offices, laboratory 
and manufacturing facility is described 
in detail on pages 123–124. 
Due to our business model, we can 
assume that most of our impact on the 
environment is a result of the activities 
we source from our contract manufac -
turers, and the logistics in our supply 
chain and for the distribution of our 
products. The greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions derived from sourced activ-
ities are classified as indirect Scope 3 
emissions.While the reduction of indirect Scope 3 
emissions could have a significant 
impact, this is also where we have the 
least control. By 2022, Sobi intends 
to fully map and calculate the indirect 
emissions from our supply chain and 
prioritise the most significant reduction 
opportunities with Scope 3 emission 
targets. 
We will focus on areas of producer 
responsibility. In 2021, as a part of our 
Responsible Sourcing Programme, we 
will start communicating our ambitions 
to suppliers, integrating emissions 
reporting in business follow-ups and 
working together with our partners to 
reduce emissions wherever we can. Sobi’s greenhouse gas emissions
1.7
Combustion Cars Contract 
manufacturing2Distribution & 
logistics2 597 To map & actTo map & act
97 1,359To map & act To map & actSobi’s total carbon emissions (CO 2 tonnes)
Sobi’s own carbon emissions Sobi’s value chain’s carbon emissions
Purchased  
electricity1 Business  
travelRaw material3 Capital goods  
& services3
Other indirect emissions (rest of Scope 3), in the value chain to be mapped by 2022.
2. Hybrid method based on supplier direct reporting will be used
3. GHG-protocol calculations based on spend will be usedDirect and indirect emissions (Scope 1, 2 and parts of Scope 3)
1. Calculation methods have been adjusted. See Sustainability notes p 122. SuStainabiLit Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
27With a solid financial position and significant potential in our portfolio of 
pre-market and on-market products, Sobi is well positioned for continued 
international expansion and profitable growth in an attractive market.Sobi investment case
Well positioned in a fundamentally attractive market
Strong pre-market pipeline 
Sobi has built a strong pre-market pipeline through the continued development of core assets, 
partnerships and by acquiring promising late-stage assets. External growth is essential for the 
strategy and Sobi continues to evaluate opportunities. The medium-term focus is on the cur -
rent pre- market portfolio which has potential to offer significant organic growth opportunities.
 Read more on page 20.Sobi is a global player in the 
rare-disease market, which is 
characterised by high unmet 
medical needs. The cost of 
developing a treatment for a rare 
disease is high in proportion to 
the number of patients; such a 
medicine therefore generally 
commands a higher price and 
has a shorter time to market 
than other pharmaceuticals. 
Rare disease therapies are also 
less likely to face generic com-
petition, limiting price pressure. 
 Read more on page 8.Worldwide orphan drug sales & share of prescription drug market (2020–2026). 
USD bn
/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/nine.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/three.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/two.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum+12.0% CAGR 2020–26Forecast
 Prescription excl. generics and orphan  Generics  Orphan drugs  
 Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) – orphan drug market
Source: EvaluatePharma
Immunology
Pre-marketBIVV001/efanesoctocog alfa1  
– haemophilia A 
Pegcetacoplan2 – PNHGamifant/emapalumab – sHLH
Gamifant/emapalumab – aGF
Nirsevimab3 – RSV
Pegcetacoplan – ALS 
SEL-2124 – chronic refactory goutHaematology
1. Developed and, if approved, will be commercialised in collaboration with Sanofi
2. In collaboration with Apellis 
3. Financial interest only, in collaboration with AstraZeneca 
4. Strategic licensing agreement with Selecta
inVeStment CaSe
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
28Geographical expansion 
Sobi is represented in more than 30 markets across Europe, 
North America, the Middle East, Russia and Asia. There is 
significant potential to expand our global position, with focus 
on the 15 largest markets representing a majority of the global 
market for rare diseases. With more late-stage candidates 
and more on-market products for which we hold the global 
rights, global expansion should allow us to maximise the 
growth potential of our portfolio. 
 Read more on page 18.
Commercial excellence is our core competence 
Our core competence is late-stage clinical development and commercialisation, which opens 
up for co-development opportunities. Commercial excellence refers to our skills and expe-
rience, competence and the networks required to launch innovative rare-disease and niche 
medicines for sustainable patient access.
 Read more on page 10.
Cash flow and financial position support growth 
Sobi has a strong cash conversion rate, which has enabled investments in on-market products 
and late-stage assets in the R&D portfolio as well as in focused acquisitions. The ambition is to 
further strengthen cash flow and profitability in the commercial portfolio, and to drive develop-
ment projects to market launch over the next five years. Sobi has good financial capacity based 
on a strong operational cash flow which enables debt-financed external growth followed by 
quick reduction of debt.Patient and 
community value
Financial value 
(cash flow)Ongoing operational efficiency improvements
Partnerships and acquisitionsDeveloping and evaluating projects  
in clinical-stage assetsCommercialisation and  
making treatments  
available to patientsA continuous dialogue with patients, patient associations, healthcare  
providers, regulators and payers to make products and treatments  
available to patientsinVeStment CaSe
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
29The share
In 2020 the highest price paid was 
SEK 240.8 on 23 September, and the 
lowest was SEK 127.8 on 17 March. Sobi’s 
market capitalisation at year-end 2020 
was SEK 50.5 billion. Over 2020, the 
share price increased by 7.1 per cent.
Turnover and trading locations
The Sobi share is traded on several 
exchanges and trading platforms, 
including Nasdaq Stockholm, Bats 
CXE and Bats BXE. In 2020, trading on 
 Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for over 
70 per cent of the total turnover. 
Average daily total turnover in Sobi 
shares was 987,486 on Nasdaq Stock -
holm. In 2020, a total of 248.8 million 
shares were traded, corresponding to a 
value of approximately SEK 45.5 billion.Share capital
At 31 December 2020, the total  number 
of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding 
shares in treasury, comprised 294,896,839. 
All issued shares are ordinary shares 
and carry one vote per share. 
At year-end, the share capital was 
SEK 166,710,655, distributed between 
303,815,511 shares with a par value of 
approximately SEK 0.55.
Incentive programmes
Sobi has launched several share-based 
incentive programmes for senior execu-
tives and employees. Currently, there are 
eight active share programmes, all vest-
ing within three years. The programmes 
represent a total maximum of 2,343,465 
shares, or 0.8 per cent of the total num-
ber of shares in the company. For more 
information, see Note 10.Shareholders
At year-end, the number of sharehold-
ers was 33,816 (25,226). The largest 
shareholder, Investor AB, held 35.4 
per cent (35.9) of the shares. Swedish 
legal entities, including institutions and 
funds, held 64.9 per cent (59.3) of the 
shares. Shares held by Swedish Orphan 
 Biovitrum AB (publ) at year-end totalled 
8,918,672 common shares.
During the year 599,530 shares 
were used for allotment under two 
performance-based long-term share 
programmes. See Note 10 for further 
information.
Dividend
The Board proposes that no dividend 
be paid for 2020. For more information 
about Sobi’s dividend policy, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report.
Largest shareholders at 31 December 20201
SHAREHOLDERS Number of  
A sharesShare  
capital, % Share  
votes, %
Investor AB 107,594,165 35.4 35.4
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, W9 24,196,377 8.0 8.0
Swedbank Robur Fonder 14,825,497 4.9 4.9
Fjärde AP-fonden 13,783,356 4.5 4.5
State Street Bank and Trust Co, W9 12,421,288 4.1 4.1
Handelsbanken fonder 9,278,636 3.0 3.0
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.) 8,918,672 2.9 2.9
AMF - Försäkring och Fonder 5,833,337 1.9 1.9
HSBC bank PLC, W8IMY 5,205,063 1.7 1.7
Cbny-Norges Bank 3,931,645 1.3 1.3
Lannebo fonder 3,870,000 1.3 1.3
JP Morgan Chase Bank NA 3,518,678 1.2 1.2
JP Morgan Bank Luxembourg S.A. 2,803,912 0.9 0.9
SEB Investment Management 2,798,301 0.9 0.9
BNY Mellon NA (former Mellon), W9 2,619,708 0.9 0.9
Total 15 largest shareholders 221,598,635 72.9 72.9
Other 82,216,876 27.1 27.1
Total 303,815,511 100.0 100.0
1. The shareholders are presented as they appear in the shareholder register held by Euroclear Sweden AB. The list may therefore not show shareholders whose shares have been registered 
in the name of a nominee, through the trust department of a bank or similar institution.
 Source: EuroclearThe share (STO:SOBI) is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, under the company 
name of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum. 
tHe SHaRe
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
30Average value of daily trading volume for the Sobi share on Nasdaq  Stockholm
VOLUME 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
A shares 1,240,305 784,589 900,760 778,920 987,486
Source: Nasdaq
Shareholder categories
31 DECEMBER 2020 % of capital 
Foreign shareholders 29.7
Swedish shareholders 70.3
whereof 
Institutions 64.9
Natural persons 5.3
Source: Euroclear.
Key data per share
SEK 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Earnings/loss  
per share 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29 11.01
Equity per share 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4 66.5
Market price,  
Series A-share,  
31 Dec., last  
paid price 106.7 112.3 193.0 154.5 166.1
P/E ratio 35.7 26.3 21.5 13.7 15.1
Number of 
shares at 31 Dec. 272,010,948 272,507,708 273,322,117 299,977,839 303,815,511
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000
2020 2019 2018 2017 201650100150200250300SEK
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI 
Number of shares traded in thousands per month Nasdaq Biotech IndexNumber of shares 
in thousandsSobi share price and trading volume 2016–2020 Shareholders by country
%
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
Other Switzer-
landLuxem-
bourgUK US Sweden/seven.tnum/zero.tnum./six.tnum
/two.tnum/five.tnum./seven.tnum/six.tnum/three.tnum./four.tnum
/seven.tnum./zero.tnum/one.tnum/four.tnum./nine.tnum
/one.tnum./nine.tnum/two.tnum./five.tnum /three.tnum./one.tnum/one.tnum./three.tnum/one.tnum./five.tnum/four.tnum./four.tnum/three.tnum./seven.tnum
 2019  2020
Source: Euroclear.tHe SHaRe
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
31Five-year summary – Group development
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Income statement, SEK M 
Operating revenue 5,204 6,511 9,139 14,248 15,261
Gross profit 3,651 4,657 6,723 10,913 12,036
EBITDA1 1,574 2,086 3,607 6,121 6,830
EBITA1 1,543 2,053 3,571 5,933 6,700
EBITA adjusted1,2 1,543 2,053 3,571 6,145 6,301
EBIT (operating profit) 1,133 1,600 3,122 4,533 4,818
Profit/loss for the year 802 1,149 2,418 3,304 3,245
Capital, SEK M
Total assets 9,974 10,903 17,183 45,658 48,283
Capital employed1 5,880 6,716 9,048 33,560 34,777
Equity 5,365 6,701 9,040 16,930 20,206
Cash and cash equivalents 786 1,478 2,999 737 404
Net debt (+)/net cash (–)1 –289 –1,478 –2,999 15,404 13,748
Cash flow, SEK M
Cash flow from operating activities  
before changes in working capital 642 1,431 2,341 5,300 5,398
Cash flow from operating activities 343 1,333 2,090 3,634 5,214
Cash flow from investing activities –158 –139 –575 –21,686 –3,964
Cash flow from financing activities –308 –500 –1 15,780 –1,570
Change in cash and cash equivalents –123 694 1,514 –2,271 –320
Key figures, %
Gross margin1 70 72 74 77 79
EBITA margin1 30 32 39 42 44
EBITA margin adjusted1,2 30 32 39 43 41
Return on capital employed1 19.3 23.8 34.5 13.5 14
Return on equity1 16.0 19.0 30.7 25.4 17
Equity ratio1 54 61 53 37 42
Debt/equity ratio1 86 63 90 170 139
Share ratio, SEK
Earnings/loss per share 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29 11.0
Equity per share1 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4 66.5
Cash flow per share1 –0.5 2.6 5.6 –7.8 –1.1
Cash flow from operating activities per share1 1.3 5.0 7.8 12.4 17.7
1. Sobi presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS, so-called alternative performance measures. These have been noted in the table above 
and further  information on why these are considered important, and how they are calculated, can be found in Definitions at the end of this report.
2. Year 2020 excluding non-recurring item: other operating income related to the reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. Year 2019 excluding non-recurring items: transaction costs related 
to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of SOBI005 of SEK 37 M.
fiVe-YeaR SummaRY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
32Directors’ Report  .................................................34
Consolidated financial statements
Statement of comprehensive income ............ 44
Balance sheet ......................................................  45
Statement of changes in equity ....................... 46
Cash flow statement ........................................... 47
Parent Company financial statements
Income statement and statement of  
comprehensive income .................................... 49
Balance sheet ...................................................... 50
Statement of changes in equity ........................ 52
Cash flow statement ........................................... 53
Notes
Note 1  General information ........................... 54
Note 2    Accounting policies ............................ 54
Note 3 Financial risk management ............... 59
Note 4   Significant accounting  
judgements, estimates and 
assumptions ......................................... 61
Note 5   Segment information and  
segment revenue......... ....................... 63
Note 6   Depreciation/amortisation  
and impairment of assets .................. 65
Note 7  Other operating income ................... 65
Note 8  Other operating expenses ............... 66Note 9   Leases .................................................. 66
Note 10  Employees, personnel costs and  
remuneration of Board members 
and senior executives ........................ 67
Note 11  Remuneration of auditors ................. 72
Note 12   Costs according to type of cost ....... 72
Note 13  Financial income ................................. 72
Note 14  Financial expenses .............................. 73
Note 15  Income tax ........................................... 73
Note 16   Intangible assets and  
impairment testing ............................. 74
Note 17  Tangible assets .................................... 77
Note 18  Participations in Group companies . 78
Note 19  Financial assets .................................... 79
Note 20   Deferred tax assets  
and deferred tax liabilities ................. 80
Note 21  Inventories ........................................... 81
Note 22  Accounts receivable and other 
receivables ........................................... 81
Note 23  Prepaid expenses and  
accrued income .................................. 82
Note 24   Cash and cash equivalents ................ 82
Note 25   Equity .................................................... 83
Note 26  Financial assets and liabilities  
per category ........................................ 84Note 27 Borrowings ........................................... 85
Note 28  Other liabilities, non-interest-  
bearing, current and non-current ... 85
Note 29  Post-employment benefits  ............. 86
Note 30  Provisions ............................................ 88
Note 31  Accrued expenses and  
deferred income ................................ 88
Note 32  Pledged assets and  
contingent liabilities .......................... 89
Note 33  Acquisitions ......................................... 89
Note 34 Related-party transactions .............. 90
Note 35 Proposed appropriation of profit .... 90
Note 36  Events after the balance- 
sheet date  ........................................... 90
Auditor’s report ....................................................92ContentsReportingdiRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
33Highlights 2020 
Financial highlights 
• Total revenue of SEK 15,261 M (14,248), an 
increase of 7 per cent. 
• The gross margin was 79 per cent (77).
• EBITA was SEK 6,700 M (5,933). 
• Adjusted EBITA was SEK 6,301 M (6,145), 
an increase of 3 per cent, corresponding 
to an adjusted EBITA margin of 41 per cent 
(43). Adjusted EBITA excludes a positive 
impact of SEK 399 M from reversal of the 
Contingent Value Right (CVR) liability. See 
page 36 under operating profit for more 
information.
• Profit for the year totalled SEK 3,245 M 
(3,304), representing earnings per share 
of SEK 11.01 (11.29), adjusted earnings per 
share amounted to SEK 9.66 (11.89).
• Cash flow from operating activities was 
SEK 5,214 M (3,634). Business highlights
• Sobi concluded the strategic licensing 
agreement with Selecta Biosciences, Inc. 
related to the product candidate SEL-212, 
a potential treatment for chronic gout.
• Sobi and Apellis entered into a collaboration, 
whereby Sobi has paid USD 250 M to Apellis, 
for global co-development and ex-US com-
mercialisation of systemic pegcetacoplan 
in rare diseases with an urgent need for new 
treatments. 
• Doptelet® (avatrombopag) was approved 
by the European Commission in January 
2021 for the treatment of ITP.
• Sobi launched Doptelet in Europe.
• Orfadin® (nitisinone) was approved by the 
European Commission in October 2020 
for the treatment of AKU.
• Sobi signed a new distribution agreement 
with Akcea regarding sales of the products 
Tegsedi® and Waylivra®.
• Sobi established operations in Japan and 
Australia.
• Emapalumab received a negative opinion 
from the CHMP in Europe for the treat-
ment of primary HLH.
• Results from the phase 3 study with 
Doptelet for the treatment of CIT were 
published. As expected, avatrombopag 
increased platelet counts compared with 
a placebo, but the study did not meet the 
combined primary endpoint of avoiding a 
platelet transfusion.Directors’ Report
Sobi’s operations 
Sobi specialises in rare diseases, devel-
oping and providing access to innovative 
treatments in the areas of haematology, 
immunology and speciality care. 
In 2020, revenue was generated by:
• Sales in Europe and rest of the world of 
the proprietary products Elocta® and 
Alprolix®, and royalty revenue from 
Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate® and Alprolix
• Global sales of the proprietary products 
Doptelet, Kineret® and Orfadin.
• Sales in the US of the proprietary products 
Gamifant® and Synagis®.
• Sales in Europe and rest of the world of 
products for which Sobi holds distribution 
and/or licensing agreements.
• Manufacturing of the drug substance for 
ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for Pfizer.
Key figures
SEK M 2020 2019
Total revenue 15,261 14,248
Gross profit 12,036 10,913
Gross margin1 79% 77%
EBITA1 6,700 5,933
EBITA adjusted1 6,301 6,145
EBITA margin1 44% 42%
EBITA margin adjusted1 41% 43%
Profit for the year 3,245 3,304
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK 11.01 11.29
Earnings per share, before dilution, adjusted SEK1 9.66 11.89
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on page 136. 
See page 32 for a five-year summary of revenue, expenses and earnings.Five-year revenue trend
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016SEK M
 Haematology  Immunology
 Specialty CareThe Board of Directors and the CEO of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.), organisation number 556038-9321, submit the 
following annual report and consolidated financial statements for financial year 2020. 
diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
34Revenue by business area
SEK M 2020 2019
Haematology 8,660 7,755
Immunology 5,415 4,706
Specialty Care 1,186 1,787
Total revenue 15,261 14,248Total revenue 
In 2020, total revenue amounted to 
SEK 15,261 M (14,248), an increase of 7 per 
cent (8 per cent at CER).
Revenue by business area
Haematology
Revenue for Haematology amounted to  
SEK 8,660 M (7,755), an increase of 12 per 
cent (13 per cent at CER). 
Sales of Elocta amounted to SEK 4,585 M 
(4,508), an increase of 2 per cent (3 per 
cent at CER). Patient growth continued, 
but sales were adversely impacted by lower 
consumption per patient due to the COVID-
19 pandemic, as well as unfavourable price 
adjustments and order patterns. 
Sales of Alprolix amounted to SEK 1,705 
M (1,463), an increase of 17 per cent (18 per 
cent at CER). The sales growth was driven 
by underlying patient growth, but this was 
adversely impacted by lower consumption 
per patient due to the prevailing pandemic. 
Sales of Doptelet amounted to SEK 587 M 
(34 for the 12 November–31 December 
period of 2019) including a milestone 
revenue of SEK 87 M related to marketing 
approval for the CLD indication in China.
Royalty revenue amounted to SEK 1,301 M 
(1,373), derived from Sanofi’s sales of Eloc -
tate and Alprolix. 
Manufacturing revenue for ReFacto 
amounted to SEK 481 M (376), an increase of 
28 per cent. The current manufacturing agreement for 
ReFacto AF/Xyntha is valid until 31 December 
2025. 
Immunology
Revenue for Immunology totalled SEK 
5,415 M (4,706), an increase of 15 per cent 
(16 per cent at CER). 
Sales of Kineret amounted to SEK 2,079 M 
(1,571), an increase of 32 per cent (35 per 
cent at CER). The strong trend for Kineret 
has continued, with double-digit growth, 
driven by strong underlying demand in all 
regions. Sales were also positively impacted 
by the use of Kineret for treating COVID-19 
patients.
Sales of Gamifant amounted to SEK 609 M 
(542), an increase of 12 per cent (16 per cent 
at CER). The number of patients continued 
to rise, but sales was offset by a slightly lower 
price.
Sales of Synagis amounted to SEK 2,726 M 
(2,594 for the 23 January–31 December 
period of 2019). The RSV season was very 
mild with almost no RSV reported across 
the US in the fourth quarter, largely thought 
to be a result of COVID-19 measures such 
as social distancing and travel restrictions, 
resulting in weak underlying demand for 
Synagis. However, previously implemented 
efficiency measures, improved dose adher -
ence and a new distribution system partly 
offset the negative effects of the milder RSV 
season. Specialty Care
Specialty Care revenue amounted to SEK 
1,186 M (1,787), a decrease of 34 per cent 
(–33 per cent at CER).
Annual sales of Orfadin amounted to SEK 
665 M (827). The decrease was attributable 
to generic competition for Orfadin and 
subsequent price erosion.
Revenue for other Specialty Care products 
amounted to SEK 521 M (959). The decrease 
is related to product divestment.
Gross profit
Gross profit totalled SEK 12,036 M (10,913), 
representing a gross margin of 79 per cent 
(77). The increase in gross margin was driven 
by a favourable product mix and ceased 
royalty obligations. 
Operating expenses
In 2020, operating expenses increased to 
SEK 7,575 M (6,430). 
Sales and administrative expenses 
excluding amortisation and write-downs, 
amounted to SEK 4,099 M (3,535). The 
expenses increased due to the inclusion of 
the Dova business, launch preparations for 
Doptelet and geographic expansion in Asia.
Research and development expenses 
amounted to SEK 1,594 M (1,495). The 
increase reflects spending related to pro-
grammes for emapalumab, avatrombopag, 
SEL-212 and pegcetacoplan.
Operating expenses also include expenses 
of SEK 114 M (80) for the long-term incentive 
programmes. Cash flow will not be affected 
Total revenue  
and adjusted EBITA margin1 
04,0008,00012,00016,00020,000
2020 2019 2018 2017 201601020304050SEK M
%
5,2046,5119,13914,24815,261
 Total revenue   Adjusted EBITA margin1
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on page 136. diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
35by the share-based programmes until they 
expire, and then in the form of social security 
contributions. 
Other operating income and expenses 
amounted to SEK 357 M (50). Operating 
revenue for the year mainly pertains to the 
reversal of SEK 399 M for the CVR liability, 
see also under Operating profit.
Operating profit
Operating profit before amortisations and 
write downs on intangible assets (EBITA) 
amounted to SEK 6,700 M (5,933), corre-
sponding to a margin of 44 per cent (42). 
Adjusted EBITA was SEK 6,301 M (6,145), 
corresponding to a margin of 41 per cent 
(43). Adjusted EBITA excludes a positive 
effect of SEK 399 M from reversal of the 
CVR liability. 
Following the completion of Sobi’s 
acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
(Dova) on 12 November 2019, Dova  
shareholders were provided one non-trans-
ferrable Contingent Value Right (CVR) to 
an additional USD 1.50 per share to be 
paid upon approval of Doptelet for use in 
chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia 
(CIT) by the FDA. On 9 October 2020, Sobi 
announced topline results for phase 3 CIT 
study of avatrombopag. The primary end-
points were not met and Sobi estimates that 
the conditions of the CVR will not be met. 
Consequently, the corresponding liability on 
the balance sheet was reversed, positively 
impacting other operating income by SEK 
399 M. Adjusted EBITA for 2019 excludes transaction costs of SEK 92 M related to the 
acquisition of Dova, restructuring costs of 
SEK 157 M and a gain of SEK 37 M from the 
divestment of SOBI005.
For operating profit by segment, see  
Note 5.
Amortisation and write-downs of intangi-
ble assets amounted to SEK 1,882 M (1,401). 
The increase was mainly attributable to 
amortisation of product and marketing rights 
related to Synagis, Gamifant and Doptelet. 
Operating profit (EBIT) totalled SEK 4,818 M 
(4,533), an increase of 6 per cent.
Net financial items
Net financial items totalled SEK –601 M 
(–286), including exchange rate losses of 
SEK –115 M (–31) driven by high volatility in 
currency rates. The year-on-year increase is 
mainly attributable to new borrowings and 
liabilities arising from acquisitions completed 
in 2019.
Tax
Total tax amounted to SEK –972 M (–942), 
of which SEK –1,125 M (–449) pertained to 
current tax and SEK 153 M (–494) to deferred 
tax. The Group’s effective tax rate was 23.1 
per cent (22.2). See also Note 15 and 20.
Profit
Profit for the year totalled SEK 3,245 M 
(3,304). Earnings per share, before dilution, 
amounted to SEK 11.01 (11.29).
Five-year summary
SEK M 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Total revenue 15,261 14,248 9,139 6,511 5,204
Cost of goods sold –3,225 –3,335 –2,415 –1,854 –1,554
Research and development expenses –1,594 –1,495 –1,090 –908 –778
Operating profit (EBIT) 4,818 4,533 3,122 1,600 1,133
Net financial items –601 –286 –40 –68 –85
Profit for the year 3,245 3,304 2,418 1,149 802
Earnings per share, SEK 11.01 11.29 8.97 4.27 2.99
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 10.90 11.22 8.93 4.25 2.98
Number of shares, 000s 303,816 299,978 273,322 272,508 270,390
Equity/assets ratio1 42% 37% 53% 61% 54%
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on page 136. Revenue by business area
SEK M 2020 2019 Change
Elocta 4,585 4,508 2%
Alprolix 1,705 1,463 17%
Royalties 1,301 1,373 –5%
Doptelet 587 34 >100%
Manufacturing 481 376 28%
Haematology 8,660 7,755 12%
Kineret  2,079 1,571 32%
Synagis 2,726 2,594 5%
Gamifant 609 542 12%
Immunology 5,415 4,706 15%
Specialty Care 1,186 1,787 –34%
Total revenue 15,261 14,248 7%
Revenue by region
SEK M 2020 2019 Change
Europe 7,620 7,468 2%
North America 5,483 4,586 20%
Rest of the 
world 857 821 4%
Other1 1,301 1,373 –5%
Total 15,261 14,248 7%
1. Refers to royalty on Sobi’s haemophilia products that are not 
attributable to a specific region according to the split above. All 
royalties refer to Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
36Cash flow and investments
Cash flow from operations before changes 
in working capital was SEK 5,398 M (5,300). 
Working capital affected cash flow by 
SEK –184 M (–1,666), driven by inventory 
build-up partially offset by sales related 
accruals. 
Cash flow from investing activities was 
SEK –3,964 M (–21,685) and includes the 
investments for pegcetacoplan of SEK 
–2,198 M and SEL-212 of SEK –977 M. The 
2019 figure includes the acquisition of 
Synagis and Dova.
Cash flow from financing activities 
amounted to SEK –1,570 M (15,780). During 
the year, repayments of loans were possible 
due to the strong cash flow from the day-to-
day operations. Financial position
At 31 December 2020, cash and cash equiv-
alents and amounted to SEK 404 M (737). 
At 31 December 2020, undrawn commit-
ted credit facilities amounted to SEK 4,320 
M (3,959) and drawn facilities totalled SEK 
14,234 M (16,243). These comprise total 
credit facilities of EUR 1,540 M and SEK 
3,000 M, and an overdraft of SEK 250 M. 
In 2020, the maturity of one credit facility 
of EUR 190 M was extended by one year to 
2022. During the year, one undrawn credit 
facility of SEK 1,000 M expired. See Note 3 
for more information about maturity struc -
ture. At 31 December 2020, net debt was 
SEK 13,748 M (15,404).
The Group also has other non-interest 
bearing financial liabilities that are rec -
ognised at discounted value and therefore 
generated interest expense. The liabilities are not included in net debt/net cash. For 
contractual obligations related to these 
liabilities, see Note 16 and 28.
Equity
At 31 December 2020, consolidated share-
holders’ equity was SEK 20,206 M (16,930). 
Parent Company
The Parent Company’s business model is 
to develop, register, distribute and market 
drugs for rare diseases. 
Total revenue amounted to SEK 13,968 
M (12,991) and operating profit totalled SEK 
5,833 M (4,536). Profit for the year totalled 
SEK 3,406 M (1,118), including excess depre-
ciation of SEK –107 M (–400) and Group 
contributions of SEK –1,583 M (–2,766). 
Investments in fixed assets amounted to 
SEK –3,760 M (–673) of which SEK –2,198 M 
pertained to pegcetacoplan and SEK –977 M 
to SEL-212.
At 31 December 2020, cash and cash 
equivalents amounted to SEK 240 M (431). 
At 31 December 2020, equity amounted to 
SEK 17,200 M (13,534). 
Development 
Sobi’s pipeline projects include development 
programmes, primarily in the areas of 
Haematology and Immunology. Sobi is 
also conducting a number of projects to 
gather evidence for the company’s existing 
products.
During the year, Sobi entered into 
agreements with Selecta and Apellis. Under 
the licensing agreement with Selecta for 
the product candidate SEL-212, Sobi is 
responsible for development as well as 
regulatory and commercial activities in all 
markets outside China, while Selecta will 
conduct the phase 3 study on behalf of 
Sobi. Under the agreement with Apellis, Sobi 
obtained the rights to global development 
and ex-US commercialisation of systemic 
pegcetacoplan. 
The development of BIVV001 (efanesoc -
tocog alfa), currently a phase 3 study con-
ducted jointly with Sanofi, continued during 
the year. BIVV001 is a factor haemophilia A 
therapy under development and is a new 
class of FVIII replacement therapy that has 
shown the potential to provide high sus-Revenue by business area
Revenue by region02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
Specialty Care Immunology Haematology–33%+16%+13%SEK M
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
Royalty Rest of
the worldNorth America Europe–5%SEK M
+7%+21%+3% Revenue 2019
 Revenue 2020
  Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2019
 Revenue 2019
 Revenue 2020
  Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2019diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
37tained levels of factor VIII (FVIII) activity for 
most of the week with once-weekly dosing. 
BIVV001 is the first von Willebrand-indepen-
dent FVIII therapy in clinical development 
and has the potential to transform replace-
ment therapy for people with haemophilia A. 
Clinical programmes with the aim of 
studying new applications for anakinra and 
emapalumab are also ongoing. 
Development events during the year 
Partnership with Apellis 
Under the agreement with Apellis, the 
companies will jointly advance systemic 
pegcetacoplan in five parallel registrational 
programmes, of which three are ongoing 
in haematology (PNH), nephrology (C3G/
IC-MPGN) and neurology (ALS). The remain-
ing two haematology studies (CAD and 
HSCT-TMA) are planned to start up in 2021.
Sobi and Apellis announced positive 
topline results from the phase 3 PEGASUS 
study at week 48. Patients with paroxysmal 
nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) who were 
treated with pegcetacoplan, a targeted C3 
therapy that is under development, showed 
sustained and clinical improvements. The 
safety profile of pegcetacoplan was consis-
tent with previously reported data and no 
new safety signals were identified.
Sobi and Apellis announced that the first 
patient had been dosed in the potentially 
registrational phase 2 MERIDIAN study. 
The study is evaluating pegcetacoplan in 
approximately 200 adults with sporadic 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
Doptelet approved in the EU for the 
treatment of ITP
Doptelet was approved by the European 
Commission in January 2021 for the 
treatment of primary chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP) in adult patients 
who are refractory to other treatments (such 
as corticosteroids and immunoglobulins). 
The CHMP adopted a negative opinion for 
emapalumab for the treatment of primary 
HLH in Europe
The European Medicines Agency's (EMA) 
Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use, the CHMP, adopted a negative opinion recommending the refusal of a 
marketing authorisation for emapalumab in 
Europe for the treatment of primary hae-
mophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) in 
children under 18 years of age. The decision 
confirms the initial opinion adopted by the 
CHMP in July 2020 that was re-examined at 
Sobi’s request.
Data from several studies presented at the 
American Society of Hematology (ASH) 
annual meeting 
Sobi’s commitment to people living with 
rare diseases was reflected in 12 congress 
presentations (oral/poster) related to five 
different therapies as follows: 
• Final results for efficacy and safety of 
Elocta and Alprolix in previously untreated 
patients (PUPs) with haemophilia A and B, 
respectively, were presented in partner -
ship with Sanofi
• An overview of the design of the phase 
3 study (XTEND-1) with BIVV001 was 
presented. BIVV001 is under development 
in partnership with Sanofi
• Efficacy and safety data for Doptelet in 
patients with chronic immune thrombo-
cytopenia (ITP) was presented
• Data for emapalumab was reported 
in three presentations, mostly data 
from the pivotal phase 2/3 study with 
analyses confirming the study’s primary 
endpoint, supporting flexible dosing and 
a favourable safety profile for the use of 
emapalumab in patients with primary 
hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH)
• Sobi’s partner Apellis presented data from 
eight congress presentations supporting 
the efficacy and safety of pegcetacoplan, a 
targeted C3 therapy for patients with parox -
ysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH).
SmPC for Alprolix updated following 
favourable efficacy and safety data in 
paediatric treatment
The European Commission approved an 
update of the Summary of Product Char -
acteristics (SmPC) for Alprolix to include 
additional information regarding use among 
previously untreated patients (PUPs) with 
haemophilia B. Alprolix is now the only extended half-life factor IX (FIX) product with 
safety and efficacy data in PUPs included 
in the SmPC. The data reinforces Alprolix’s 
favourable safety profile for use in all age 
groups.
Emapalumab’s efficacy confirmed by 
sensitivity analysis presented at the 
European Society of Immunodeficiencies 
(ESID) in 2020
Results from the sensitivity analysis from 
the pivotal phase 2/3 study (NCT01818492) 
with emapalumab in patients with primary 
HLH were presented at the 19th meeting 
of the European Society of Immunodefi-
ciencies (ESID). Analyses of the efficacy of 
emapalumab in primary HLH using various 
definitions of treatment response all support 
the study’s primary endpoint of a 63 per cent 
overall response rate (ORR) in patients with 
insufficient response to standard of care. The 
results from the pivotal study were published 
in the New England Journal of Medicine in 
May 2020.
Sobi presented topline results from the 
phase 3 study with avatrombopag in 
patients with chemotherapy-induced 
thrombocytopenia (CIT)
Sobi presented topline results from its 
phase 3 study with avatrombopag, an oral 
thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist, in 
solid tumour cancer patients with chemo-
therapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). 
Although platelet counts (thrombocytes) 
increased in avatrombopag-treated patients 
compared with placebo-treated patients as 
expected, the study did not meet the com-
bined primary endpoint in terms of avoiding 
a platelet transfusion, a 15 per cent or more 
chemotherapy dose reduction, and a four-
day or longer delay in the chemotherapy 
cycle. In the intention to treat (ITT) popu-
lation (complete analysis), 69.5 per cent of 
avatrombopag-treated patients and 72.5 per 
cent of placebo-treated patients responded 
to the primary endpoint (p=0.72). In the per 
protocol (PP) population, 85.0 per cent of 
avatrombopag-treated patients and 84.4 per 
cent of placebo-treated patients responded 
to the primary endpoint (p= 0.96).
diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
38Partnership with Selecta 
During the year, Sobi signed a strategic 
licensing agreement with Selecta under 
which Sobi is responsible for the develop-
ment, as well as regulatory and commercial 
activities in all markets outside China, of 
the product candidate SEL-212. Selecta will 
conduct the phase 3 study on behalf of Sobi. 
SEL-212 is a combination of Selecta's tolero-
genic ImmTOR immune tolerance platform 
and a therapeutic uricase enzyme (pegadri-
case), designed to reduce immunogenicity 
and treat chronic gout with monthly dosing. 
Topline data from the phase 2 COMPARE 
study with SEL-212 was announced in 2020. 
The study compared the efficacy of SEL-212 
with the uricase enzyme approved in the US, 
pegloticase (Krystexxa®), for the treatment 
of chronic gout. All data was consistent with 
stronger performance of SEL-212 versus 
pegloticase. Although the primary endpoint 
was not achieved, the underlying data is 
positive and supports the commencement 
of the phase 3 DISSOLVE programme. 
The first patient was randomised in the 
first phase 3 study with SEL-212. The phase 
3 clinical programme consists of two 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies 
with SEL-212: DISSOLVE I and II. Topline 
data is expected in the second half of 2022. 
A Biologics License Application (BLA) for 
SEL-212 is expected to be submitted to the 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 
the first quarter of 2023. 
Orfadin approved in the EU for the 
treatment of AKU 
Orfadin was approved by the European 
Commission for the treatment of adult 
patients with alkaptonuria (AKU).
The New England Journal of Medicine 
(NEJM) published positive final results from 
the phase 1/2a study of BIVV001 in patients 
with severe haemophilia A
NEJM published positive final results from 
a phase 1/2a study of BIVV001 in patients 
with severe haemophilia A. Results from the 
phase 1/2a study showed that a single dose 
of BIVV001 achieved high sustained factor 
activity and a three to four-fold increase in 
half-life compared with conventional factor 
VIII replacement therapies.Sobi presented data at the ISTH Virtual 
Congress to highlight the company’s 
commitment to advancing rare 
haematology treatments 
Sobi presented data at the ISTH Virtual  
Congress (International Society on Throm-
bosis and Haemostasis) in 2020 strength-
ening evidence for the efficacy and safety 
of Elocta and Alprolix for haemophilia A 
and B. In addition, pharmacokinetic data on 
BIVV001 and data for Doptelet in treatment 
for thrombocytopenia within chronic liver 
disease (CLD) and chronic immune throm-
bocytopenia (ITP) were presented.
Sobi’s subsidiary, Florio GmbH, launched a 
new digital platform to improve quality of 
life for people with haemophilia
In 2020, via its subsidiary Florio GmbH, 
Sobi launched Florio®, a digital medical 
device designed to improve quality of life 
for people with haemophilia. Florio consists 
of a smartphone app that can be combined 
with a wearable device and a web-based 
dashboard for physicians, allowing patients 
to track, monitor and share their health 
data in real-time with their healthcare 
teams to enable personalised care. The new 
technology is intended to enable meaningful 
discussions between physicians and people 
living with haemophilia, aimed at reducing 
the uncertainty around treatment so that 
patients with haemophilia can lead full and 
active lives. Florio is being developed with 
extensive input from both healthcare profes-
sionals and people with haemophilia, further 
supporting Sobi’s long term commitment to 
the community.
Other information
Changes in Management
In 2020, Ravi Rao was appointed as Head 
of Research & Development, Chief Medical 
Officer. At 31 December 2020, the Executive 
 Committee consisted of: 
CEO: Guido Oelkers 
CFO: Henrik Stenqvist
General Counsel and Head of Legal 
Affairs, Head of Human Resources: 
Torbjörn Hallberg 
Head of Haematology: Philip Wood 
Head of International: Norbert Oppitz 
Head of Europe: Sofiane Fahmy
Head of Medical & Scientific Affairs:  
Armin Reininger
Head of Research & Development,  
Chief Medical Officer: Ravi Rao
Head of Technical Operations:  
Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans
Head of Communication & Investor 
Relations: Paula Treutiger
During the year, Amy Pott and Milan 
Zdravkovic stepped down from the Executive 
Committee and left Sobi. In the first quarter 
2021, Duane H. Barnes, Head of North 
America, Mahmood Ladha, Head of Business 
Development and Daniel Rankin, Head 
of Global Portfolio and Product Strategy 
(GPPS), were appointed to the Executive 
Committee, and Philip Wood left. See pages 
106–107 for current Executive Committee.
Sustainability Report
Sobi has, in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section prepared 
the statutory sustainability report as a separate 
report which can be found on pages 23–27 
and 108–131. The Sustainability Report has 
been prepared using the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s (GRI) standards for sustainability 
reporting.
Corporate Governance Report
Under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, 
Sobi is required to prepare a Corporate Gover -
nance Report. In accordance with the Swed-
ish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section 
8, Sobi has elected to prepare a Corporate 
Governance Report that is separate from the 
Annual Report. The Corporate Governance 
Report can be found on pages 97–103.diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
39Environmental permits
Sobi’s production facility in Stockholm, 
Sweden, holds a permit for environmentally 
hazardous activities allowing the facility to 
produce a maximum of 1,000 tonnes of 
pharmaceuticals via industrial-scale chem-
ical or biological reaction, including inter -
mediates, per calendar year. Compliance 
with the permit conditions is disclosed in an 
environmental report to the local regulator. 
In Solna, Sweden, the company conducts 
activities that are notifiable under the condi-
tions for facilities that professionally produce 
organic or inorganic compounds via 
chemical or biological reactions in test, pilot 
or laboratory scale, or other non-industrial 
scale. The conditions for these are mainly 
related to effluents and include a require-
ment to adjust the pH of the process water. 
Sobi has been granted REACH authorisation 
for the use of Triton X-100 at the production 
site. In 2020, no breaches of the conditions 
were reported by either of the facilities. 
The company also has an import permit for 
animal by-products from the Swedish Board 
of Agriculture, and a permit for handling 
flammable products. While adaptation to 
current regulations has not, to date, had any 
adverse impact on Sobi’s competitiveness or 
operations, the company cannot predict the 
impact of future regulations. 
Share capital and ownership
At 31 December 2020, Sobi’s share capital 
amounted to SEK 166,710,655, distributed 
between 303,815,511 shares, with a par value 
per share of about SEK 0.55. At 31 December 
2020, the total number of ordinary shares 
outstanding, excluding shares in treasury, 
comprised 294,896,839, each carrying one 
vote. At 31 December 2020, Investor AB was 
Sobi’s largest single shareholder with a total 
of 107,594,165 shares, representing 35.4 
per cent of the votes and 35.4 per cent of 
the capital.
Share conversions
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 
13 May 2020 authorised Sobi’s Board to 
resolve on an issue of class-C shares, and to 
repurchase all class-C shares issued in order 
to hedge the long-term incentive pro-
grammes. The AGM also resolved to approve 
the Board’s proposed transfer of shares. At 31 December 2020, Sobi held 8,918,672 
ordinary shares in treasury, with a par value 
per share of about SEK 0.55, totalling SEK 
4.9 M. The shares represent about 2.9 per 
cent of the total share capital. The shares 
have been acquired through conversion 
of class-C shares for the purpose of being 
allotted to the employees covered by Sobi's 
share-based programmes. In accordance 
with the conditions for the programmes, 
599,530 treasury shares were distributed to 
the employees during 2020. The par value 
per share of these shares was about SEK 
0.55, totalling SEK 0.3 M and representing 
about 0.2 per cent of the total share capital. 
See Note 10 for more information about 
Sobi's outstanding share-based programmes 
at the end of 2020. 
All class-C shares issued in 2020 were 
converted to ordinary shares during the year. 
For more detailed information about the 
total number of shares in the company, the 
number of different classes of shares and the 
votes carried by the company’s shares, refer 
to the section on shares on page 30.
The Board’s proposed guidelines  
for senior executives
The 2020 AGM resolved on remuneration 
guidelines for the company’s senior 
executives that apply until the 2024 AGM. In 
accordance with the EU’s Shareholder Rights 
Directive (SRD II), a remuneration policy for 
2020 will be presented to the 2021 AGM for 
adoption and be available on the website 
www.sobi.com three weeks prior to the 
meeting. For a complete version of the 
current guidelines, refer to Note 10. 
Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the 
Annual General Meeting:
SEK K
Share premium reserve 9,023,392
Retained earnings 3,803,035
Profit for the year 3,406,312
Total 16,232,739The Board of Directors proposes no dividend 
for the 2020 financial year. 
The Board proposes that the share pre-
mium reserve, retained earnings and profit 
for the year, SEK 16,232,739 K to be carried 
forward.
Events after the balance-sheet date
Doptelet approved in the EU for the 
treatment of chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP)
Doptelet was approved in the EU for the 
treatment of chronic immune thrombocyto-
penia (ITP) in adult patients with insufficient 
response to previous treatment. Chronic ITP 
is a rare autoimmune disorder characterised 
by low blood platelet counts.
Kineret approved in Russia for the 
treatment of CAPS
Kineret was approved in Russia by the 
Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation 
for the treatment of Cryopyrin associated 
periodic syndromes (CAPS).
Financial outlook for 2021
The outlook for 2021 is expressed at January 
2021 closing exchange rates. The negative 
currency impact on 2021 performance is 
expected to be 5–7 per cent on revenues 
and 6–8 per cent on EBITA compared to 
average full year 2020 exchange rates. 
Revenue for 2021 is expected to be in the 
range of SEK 14,000–15,000 M. At constant 
exchange rates this range corresponds to a 
revenue growth between –2.5 and 4.5 per 
cent. 
EBITA margin is expected to be in the 
range of 30–35 per cent of revenue.
R&D expenses as a share of revenue 
are expected to grow to 13–15 per cent 
reflecting increased investments in SEL-212 
and pegcetacoplan, and support for our 12 
late-stage programmes.
diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
40Risk management
Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s 
business opportunities and profits with 
shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ 
demands for stable, long-term value growth 
and control. The aim of Sobi’s risk manage-
ment process is to support the company’s 
operations and create profitable business 
opportunities combined with good control 
over risk. The risk management process 
contributes with structures and systems to 
proactively identify and manage risks that could have a negative impact on the  
company’s ability to achieve its set targets. 
Sobi’s risk management process is 
integrated, bottom-up, and comprises the 
entire operations. Each operating unit works 
actively to identify and manage risks in order 
to achieve set targets and deliver on strate-
gies. Identified risks are analysed, measured 
and reported to Sobi’s risk management 
function. Sobi’s risk management function 
presents an aggregated risk scenario to the 
Executive Committee and the Board. Sobi’s risk management process is described 
in the Sobi Group Risk Management Policy 
and the Sobi Group Risk Management 
Instructions.
Key risk areas 
The main business-related risks are sum-
marised below. The risks are not ranked, but 
categorised and described.
Pandemics and other external events
External events such as pandemics, natural disasters, war and so forth affect Sobi and place demands on active and agile crisis and risk 
 management, something that Sobi further developed during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Risk Risk description Management and comments
Risk of inability to deliver Increased demand for Sobi’s products places higher 
demands on delivery capacity and logistics chains. Sobi works continuously to strengthen its partner relation-
ships with good communication and clear delivery plans. 
During the pandemic, Sobi strengthened its efforts to build 
up resources, and to secure delivery capacity and product 
availability. Risk of access to raw materials, 
manufacturing capacity and 
packaging materials Sobi is affected by change and obstructions to global  product 
flows. Increased vaccine manufacturing is competing with 
Sobi’s needs in terms of access to raw materials, 
 manufacturing capacity and packaging materials.
Risk of postponed non- 
essential health services  
and lower demand for  
Sobi’s drugsOverburdened hospitals have led to the postponement of 
other non-essential health services, which is affecting Sobi’s 
patients and demand for Sobi’s products, and making access 
to prescribing physicians difficult. 
Lockdowns make patient access to medicines difficult.  
Social distancing has reduced the incidence of other infec -
tious diseases, affecting demand for some of Sobi’s products. Sobi works closely with patient organisations to strengthen 
information, provide training and increase opportunities for 
home delivery. There is a strong focus on securing access to 
high-quality care during the pandemic. 
Sobi is exploring digital tools that could make contact  
with care services easier.
Strategic risks
Sobi’s ambition is to bring new products to market that meet major unmet medical needs and have strong commercial potential, and to 
 continue developing existing products. 
Risk Risk description Management and comments
Delays or failures in  
research pipeline Development of a new drug all the way to market launch is a 
capital-intensive, complex and risky process. The probability 
of reaching the market increases as the project advances 
through the development process.Sobi currently has a number of projects in clinical develop-
ment. New products/programmes were acquired following 
a proof of concept, which reduces the risk of late failure. 
The research portfolio is well-balanced, where a number  
of products are being studied for several indications, which 
increases the probability of approval.
Obtain approval for  
drug candidatesPrior to launch, a drug must meet the strict requirements on 
quality, safety and efficacy that are expected by the regula-
tors. Failure can lead to a delayed or cancelled launch. Clini-
cal evidence requirements are often beyond the company’s 
control.Sobi has strong relationships with stakeholders among 
patients and healthcare to identify medical needs with the 
aim of ensuring that clinical trials correspond to the needs 
of the regulators and the community for evidence. 
Intellectual property 
protection and patentsRisk that Sobi is not granted or can maintain intellectual 
property (IP) protection, including patents. Sobi’s success  
will largely depend on these types of protection.Sobi has a number of valuable patents and patent applications 
that are handled by recognised experienced and established 
patent attorneys. Sobi has a designated person to monitor 
patents in all markets. diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
41Operational risk
Sobi’s supply chain is largely outsourced, and contract manufacturing currently takes place in Europe and the US. The focus lies on meeting 
high standards for pharmaceuticals and ensuring that the size of our supplier network meets our needs.
Risk Risk description Management and comments
Ability to attract new  
employees and develop 
 existing personnelSobi operates in a competitive market where employees are 
the company’s most valuable asset. If we cannot attract 
employees who can contribute with a range of skills and 
experience, we could be at risk of losing efficiency.Sobi works to promote good working conditions, leadership 
and competitive terms of employment. 
Positive relationships with our employees support develop-
ment, well-being and job satisfaction, which in turn creates 
pride among employees and strengthens the Sobi brand.
Collaborations and 
 partnershipsThe strategy includes collaboration agreements with other
pharmaceutical companies regarding development and 
launch of some of Sobi’s products.
There is a risk of limited influence for Sobi, since these part-
ners have considerable decision-making power when it 
comes to determining the type of work and resources that 
will be invested in the projects. This could lead to delays in 
the development and launch of new products.Clear information flows are essential for successful  
partnerships. 
Sobi establishes Joint Steering Committees in all partnership 
agreements to ensure regular coordination and information 
sharing.
Quality and availability of 
contract manufacturingSobi’s supply chain is largely outsourced, and contract man-
ufacturing currently takes place in Europe and the US. Sobi is 
dependent on the Good Pharmaceutical Practice (GMP/
GDP) compliance of its partners’ facilities, and that they are 
maintained and available.The focus lies on ensuring that the size of our supplier net-
work meets our needs. Sobi applies a non-conformance 
management system, and corrective and preventive actions 
related to Good Pharmaceutical Practice (GxP). 
Good relationships, clear expectations and well-developed 
forecasts create opportunities for securing access  
and delivery. 
Violation of environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) 
criteriaSobi is responsible for ensuring compliance with basic sus-
tainability requirements. Non-compliance could cause sup-
ply chain disruptions and prevent Sobi from participating in 
 public tenders applying sustainability requirements.Sobi applies a responsible sourcing programme to ensure 
that suppliers comply with basic sustainability requirements. 
Sobi is a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initia-
tive (PSCI) to collaborate with and influence the pharma-
ceutical sector in a positive direction.
Commercialisation and business environment
The approval and subsidisation of medical treatments is completely dependent on external evaluations, which affects the possibility of gaining 
market access.
Risk Risk description Management and comments
Pricing of orphan drugs In many countries, the market is increasingly affected by 
cost-awareness in healthcare, which is pushing prices down.
Marketing authorisation does not guarantee that the prod-
ucts will be granted pricing or subsidisation approval in the 
national or regional healthcare systems.
A decline in revenue could have a considerable adverse 
effect on Sobi’s operations, earnings and financial position. Sobi applies a value-based pricing model based on the per -
ceived value of the product that shows clear benefits and 
the medical needs. In addition, Sobi applies country-specific 
strategies. 
By working with most stakeholders throughout the entire 
development process, we are aiming to anticipate market 
needs and the demands that will be imposed on the product 
by paying agencies in the event of authorisation.
Use and recommendation  
of Sobi’s drugsThe use of drugs is affected by regulatory guidelines, recom-
mendations, studies and market acceptance among physi-
cians, patients and procurement organisations.
The degree of market acceptance for the company’s prod-
ucts depends on a number of factors, of which the vast 
majority are beyond the company’s control.By working with stakeholders throughout the entire devel-
opment process, we are aiming to anticipate market needs 
and the demands that will be imposed on the product by 
regulators and prescribers in the event of authorisation, and 
that they will meet the demands that arise over time.
Competition Sobi’s competitors include international pharmaceutical, 
biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies. 
Some competitors have considerable financial, technical and 
human resources, as well as substantial manufacturing, dis-
tribution, sales and marketing capacity.Sobi has unique expertise in orphan drugs. Sobi’s operations 
have been adapted to meet market expectations and needs 
in such areas as medical expertise, geographic presence and 
community contacts. 
Product counterfeiting Risk of Sobi’s drugs meeting competition from illegally pro-
duced drugs and the availability of pirated products in some
distribution channels.Sobi’s products have not yet been exposed to pirating.
To minimise the risk of counterfeiting, all of Sobi’s distribution 
processes comply with Good Distribution Practice.
All of Sobi’s products are serialised and have a unique 
 identifier.
diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
42Financial and reporting risk
Sobi’s financial risk consists of risk areas that largely affect Sobi’s financial reporting. Financial and reporting risks includes financial risk, 
accounting risk, reporting risk and tax risk. 
Risk Risk description Management and comments
Financial risk Financial risks refers to the potentially negative impact of 
financial risk factors. Sobi’s main risk factors are currency, 
liquidity, re-financing, interest-rate, credit and capital risk.Financial risk management is presented in Note 3.
Accounting risk The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the 
future, as well as accounting judgements, which could result 
in accounting risks. Significant accounting judgements, and the estimates and 
assumptions entailing a considerable risk of material adjust-
ment to carrying amounts, are presented in Note 4.
Reporting risk As a growing multi-national group, Sobi may be faced by the 
challenge of providing a true and fair view in its financial 
reporting or that reporting is not submitted in time.The main task of Sobi’s Treasury function is to ensure cor -
rect and timely financial reporting. This is mainly achieved 
with clear and communicated accounting rules and report-
ing processes, joint accounting and reporting systems, as 
well as analysis and monitoring. 
Tax risk As a multi-national group, Sobi may be affected by changes 
in policy decisions, changes in local tax laws and other inter -
national agreements in all countries and jurisdictions in 
which the Group operates. These could include internal pric -
ing changes, taxes targeted at the industry or new regulations 
for local ownership.Sobi’s proactive efforts to manage tax risk  
include:
• Completed tax-compliance processes
•  Close collaboration between the Group’s tax function and 
subsidiaries
• Engaging external experts when required
Compliance risk
Sobi has 1,500 employees in more than 30 countries. Prioritised areas include a strong company culture, high standards of ethics and integrity, 
and good working conditions. 
Risk Risk description Management and comments
Patient and customer 
 integrityRisk that the personal data processed by Sobi’s business units 
is not protected could lead to personal data leaks and affect 
Sobi’s credibility.Sobi agrees to protect the personal integrity of every indi-
vidual whose personal data the company process. Sobi has a 
firmly established GDPR process with policies, an updated 
structure for personal data processing and a designated 
Data Protection Officer.
Cyber security As a global organisation, Sobi’s IT environment is subject to 
threats, such as virus and hacking attacks. Cyber attacks 
could lead to loss of data, regulatory sanctions and lack of 
trust in the company if sensitive data is leaked to the public.Stable IT environments, reliable protection and robust infra-
structure are essential for the company’s operations. 
Sobi applies a combination of modern security controls with 
policies, processes and recurring campaigns and training to 
ensure a stable environment. All processes are continuously 
developed and updated to ensure that Sobi’s IT can prevent, 
identify and respond to cyber threats and hacking attacks.
Patient safety and ethics There is a significant risk of poor patient safety and ethical 
values in research when large parts of the operations are out-
sourced.
It is vital that all research involving people, such as clinical 
studies, is based on precise, evidence-based evaluations by 
clinical experts in collaboration with regulators, independent 
ethical committees and stakeholders.
Monitoring and following up the safety profiles of all drugs is 
a prerequisite for keeping the products on the market. Sobi collaborates with contract research organisations 
(CROs) and these collaborations are characterised by mutu-
ally applied high standards and processes.
All of Sobi’s clinical studies are conducted and reported in 
accordance with applicable laws and Good Clinical Practice 
(GCP). Sobi complies with the European Medicines Agency’s 
(EMA) policy on the publication of data for medicinal products 
for human use.
Sobi manages a worldwide service for adverse reactions 
reporting and provides regular training for employees in 
patient safety.
Anti-corruption,  
anti-competition,  
an ethical approach  
and collaborationCollaborations with stakeholders are important for sharing of 
knowledge and experience of rare diseases.
A risk of corruption exists in activities where Sobi interacts 
with healthcare.Sobi takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery, which is 
supported by Sobi’s Code of Conduct and Global Anti- 
Corruption Policy. Both have been incorporated into appro-
priate business processes. See page 118 for a detailed 
description of Sobi’s anti-corruption efforts.diRe CtoRS' RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
43Consolidated statement of 
 comprehensive income
 SEK M Note 2020 2019
1–4
Total revenue 5 15,261 14,248
Cost of goods sold –3,225 –3,335
Gross profit 12,036 10,913
Selling and administrative expenses –5,981 –4,935
Research and development expenses –1,594 –1,495
Other operating income 7 401 68
Other operating expenses 8 –44 –18
Operating profit6, 9, 10, 11, 
12, 16, 17, 29 4,818 4,533
Financial income 13 1 5
Financial expenses 14 –602 –291
Net financial items –601 –286
Profit before tax 4,217 4,247
Income tax 15 –972 –942
Profit for the year1 3,245 3,304
Other comprehensive income2 25
Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss
Remeasurement on defined-benefit plan (net of tax) –3 –4
Fair value of financial investments (net of tax) 9 —
Total 6 –4
Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss
Translation differences –434 –97
Net investment hedges (net of tax) 246 —
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) 130 42
Total –58 –55
Other comprehensive income –52 –57
Comprehensive income for the year2 3,193 3,247
Earnings per share 25
Earnings per share, SEK 11.01 11.29
Earnings per share, SEK, adjusted3 9.66 11.89
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 10.90 11.22
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK, adjusted3 9.56 11.81
1. Everything attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 
2. Under the revised version of IAS 1, all changes in equity not arising from transactions with owners are recognised on the  
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Translation differences are entirely related to the consolidated net assets of 
subsidiaries in foreign currency.
3. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions on page 136.Total revenue
Revenue for the 2020 amounted to SEK 15,261 M 
(14,248), up 7 per cent. 
Adjusted EBITA for the year rose 3 per cent to  
SEK 6,301 M compared with 2019.Total revenue
/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK M
/five.tnum,/two.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum,/five.tnum/one.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum,/one.tnum/three.tnum/nine.tnum/one.tnum/four.tnum,/two.tnum/four.tnum/eight.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum,/two.tnum/six.tnum/one.tnum
Adjusted EBITA 3 
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK M
/three.tnum,/five.tnum/seven.tnum/one.tnum
/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/five.tnum/three.tnum
/one.tnum,/five.tnum/four.tnum/three.tnum/six.tnum,/one.tnum/four.tnum/five.tnum /six.tnum,/three.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum
Adjusted earnings/share3 
/zero.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum/eight.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK
/two.tnum./nine.tnum/nine.tnum/four.tnum./two.tnum/seven.tnum/eight.tnum./nine.tnum/seven.tnum/one.tnum/one.tnum./eight.tnum/nine.tnum
/nine.tnum./six.tnum/six.tnum
finanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
44Consolidated balance sheet
 SEK M Note 31 Dec 2020 31 Dec 2019
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 16 38,791 37,412
Tangible assets 17 534 518
Financial assets 19 179 50
Deferred tax assets 20 611 354
Total non-current assets 40,115 38,335
Current assets
Inventories 21 3,053 1,772
Accounts receivable 22 3,756 3,736
Other receivables 22 465 530
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 23 490 548
Cash and cash equivalents 24 404 737
Total current assets 26 8,168 7,323
TOTAL ASSETS 48,283 45,658
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 167 165
Other contributed capital 9,816 9,697
Other reserves 25 –253 –202
Retained earnings 7,232 3,965
Profit for the year 3,245 3,304
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 20,206 16,930
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 27 10,137 16,141
Deferred tax liabilities 20 3,464 3,726
Lease liabilities 9 308 320
Provisions 29, 30 252 179
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 3,473 2,620
Total non-current liabilities 26 17,634 22,987
Current liabilities
Borrowings 27 4,015 —
Accounts payable 569 681
Tax liabilities 518 281
Lease liabilities 9 111 99
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 1,302 1,641
Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 3,928 3,039
Total current liabilities 26 10,443 5,741
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 48,283 45,658
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities. See Note 32.Net debt (+)/net cash (–)
SEK M 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Borrowings 497 — —16,141 14,152
Cash  
and cash 
 equivalents 786 1,478 2,999 737 404
Net debt 
(+)/net 
cash (–) –289 –1,478 –2,999 15,404 13,748
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions on  
page 136.Equity/ratio1
/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum%
/five.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum/one.tnum
/five.tnum/three.tnum
/three.tnum/seven.tnum/four.tnum/two.tnumfinanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
45Consolidated statement of changes in equity
SEK MShare  
capitalOther 
 contributed 
capitalOther  
reserves1Retained 
 earningsTotal  
equity
Opening equity,  
1 Jan 2019 150 5,069 –144 3,965 9,040
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — 3,304 3,304
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement on defined-benefit 
plan (net of tax) — — –4 — —4
Translation differences — — –97 — –97
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) — — 42 — 42
Total comprehensive income — — –57 3,304 3,247
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 15 4,498 — — 4,513
Share-based compensation to 
employees — 80 — — 80
Share-based compensation to 
employees tax effect2 — 50 — — 50
Total shareholder  
transactions 15 4,628 — — 4,642
Closing equity,  
31 Dec 2019 165 9,697 –202 7,270 16,930
Opening equity,  
1 Jan 2020 165 9,697 –202 7,270 16,930
Adjusted opening balance for post 
employment-benefits from prior years3 — — — –45 –45
Tax on adjusted opening balance for 
post employment-benefits from prior 
years3 — — — 7 7
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — 3,245 3,245
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement on defined-benefit 
plan (net of tax) — — –3 — –3
Remeasurement of equity instruments 
(net of tax) — — 9 — 9
Translation differences — — –434 — –434
Net investment hedges (net of tax) — — 246 — 246
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) — — 130 — 130
Total comprehensive income — — –52 3,245 3,193
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 2 –2 — — —
Share-based compensation to 
employees — 114 — — 114
Share-based compensation to 
employees tax effect2 — 7 — — 7
Total shareholder  
transactions 2 119 — — 121
Closing equity,  
31 Dec 2020 167 9,816 –253 10,476 20,206
1. For a specification of other reserves, see Note 25.
2. During the period, the Parent Company was granted additional tax deductions for incentive programmes ending in 2013–2018.  
The additional deductions relate to the difference between the market value of allotted shares and recognised IFRS 2 expense.
3. Refers to post employment-benefits, mainly in Switzerland not previously included at Dec 2019.4. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions on  
page 136.Return on equity
Return on equity was 17.5 per cent.Equity/share 4
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK
/one.tnum/nine.tnum./eight.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum./six.tnum/three.tnum/three.tnum./one.tnum/five.tnum/six.tnum./four.tnum/six.tnum/six.tnum./five.tnum
Return on equity 4 
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum%
/one.tnum/six.tnum./zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum./zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum./seven.tnum
/two.tnum/five.tnum./four.tnum
/one.tnum/seven.tnum./five.tnum
finanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
46Consolidated cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2020 2019
Operating activities
Profit for the year 3,245 3,304
Adjustments for non-cash items 2,153 1,995
Cash flow from operating activities before  
changes in working capital 5,398 5,300
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories —1,306 –459
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables 175 –2,428
Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 947 1,221
Cash flow from operating activities 5,214 3,634
Investing activities
Business acquisitions1 16, 17 — –12,880
Investments in intangible assets2 16 —3,811 –9,709
Investments in tangible assets 17 —41 –37
Investments in financial assets3 19 —120 —
Disposal of intangible assets4 16 — 941
Disposal of tangible assets 17 8 —
Cash flow from investing activities –3,964 –21,685
Financing activities
Borrowings 27 13,575 19,422
Repayment of borrowings —15,027 —3,548
Repayment of leasing —118 –94
Cash flow from financing activities —1,570 15,780
Change in cash and cash equivalents —320 –2,271
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 737 2,999
Exchange difference in cash and cash equivalents —13 9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 404 737
1. Relates to the acquisition of Dova and emapalumab in 2019.
2. The largest investments during the year were pegcetacoplan of SEK –2,198 M and SEL-212 of SEK –977 M. The largest investments 
in 2019 were SEK 13,869 M related to Synagis, with a cash flow impact of SEK –9,051 M, and SEK 1,817 M related to acquisition of the 
development and commercial rights to BIVV001 in Sobi’s territory, with a cash flow impact of SEK –490 M.
3. Relates to shares in Selecta Biosciences, Inc.
4. 2019 relates to the sale of Priority Review Voucher (PRV), acquired in the business acquisition of emapalumab, and the divestment 
of SOBI005.5. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions on  
page 136.Cash flow from operating activities/share4
/zero.tnum/five.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK M
/one.tnum./three.tnum/five.tnum./zero.tnum/seven.tnum./eight.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum./four.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum./seven.tnum
Cash flow from operating activities5 
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnumSEK M
/three.tnum/four.tnum/three.tnum/one.tnum,/three.tnum/three.tnum/three.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/nine.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/six.tnum/three.tnum/four.tnum/five.tnum,/two.tnum/one.tnum/four.tnumfinanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
47Consolidated cash flow statement, cont.
Supplemental disclosures to the consolidated cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2020 2019
Interest paid and received
Interest received 1 5
Interest paid –333 –114
Income tax paid –918 –520
Adjustments for non-cash items
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 6, 16 1,882 1,401
Depreciation and impairment of tangible assets 6, 17 141 188
Cost of share programmes1 114 80
Deferred tax 20 –153 411
Elocta and Alprolix2 –101 –454
Currency effects 520 333
Reversal of the CVR liability3 –399 —
Interest expense4 122 53
Other items 27 –16
Total 2,153 1,995
1. IFRS 2 expense related to the share programmes that is recognised in equity.
2. Relates to royalty revenue used to settle the liability to Sanofi, and interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi.
3. For more information about the reversal of the CVR liability, see page 33.
4. Refers mainly to interest expenses related to additional purchase prices. 
finanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
48Parent Company income statement
SEK M Note 2020 2019
1–4
Total revenue 5 13,968 12,991
Cost of goods sold –3,134 –3,177
Gross profit 10,834 9,814
Selling and administrative expenses –4,174 –4,220
Research and development expenses –923 –1,110
Other operating income 7 96 62
Other operating expenses 8 – –10
Operating profit 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17 5,833 4,536
Financial income 13 663 348
Financial expenses 14 –469 –287
Net financial items 194 61
Profit/loss after financial items 6,027 4,597
Group contributions, net –1,583 –2,766
Excess depreciation –107 –400
Appropriations –1,690 –3,166
Profit before tax 4,337 1,431
Tax on profit for the year 15 –931 –313
Profit for the year 3,406 1,118
Parent Company statement of  
comprehensive income
SEK M 2020 2019
Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss
Remeasurement of equity instruments (net of tax) 9 –
Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) 130 44
Other comprehensive income 139 44
Comprehensive income for the year 3,545 1,161finanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
49Parent Company balance sheet
SEK M Note 31 Dec 2020 31 Dec 2019
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 16 10,205 5,572
Tangible assets 17 64 65
Financial assets
Participations in Group companies 18 7,676 7,676
Receivables from Group companies 15,312 18,389
Other financial assets 19 176 47
Deferred tax assets 20 24 22
Total non-current assets 33,457 31,772
Current assets
Inventories 21 2,527 1,533
Current receivables
Accounts receivable 22 731 2,402
Other receivables 22 405 449
Receivables from Group companies 3,947 1,286
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 23 430 499
Cash and cash equivalents 24 240 431
Total current assets 8,280 6,601
TOTAL ASSETS 41,737 38,373
 
finanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
50SEK M Note 31 Dec 2020 31 Dec 2019
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Restricted equity
Share capital 167 165
Statutory reserve 800 800
Total restricted equity 967 965
Unrestricted equity
Share premium reserve 9,024 8,905
Retained earnings 3,803 2,547
Profit for the year 3,406 1,118
Total unrestricted equity 16,233 12,569
Total equity 17,200 13,534
Untaxed reserves
Excess depreciation 3,091 2,984
Total untaxed reserves 3,091 2,984
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 27 10,137 16,141
Liabilities to Group companies 157 –
Provisions 30 82 84
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 2,475 1,273
Total non-current liabilities 12,851 17,499
Current liabilities
Borrowings 27 4,015 –
Accounts payable 398 574
Liabilities to Group companies 1,674 1,358
Tax liabilities 467 230
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 727 623
Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 1,314 1,570
Total current liabilities 8,595 4,356
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 41,737 38,373
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities. See Note 32.finanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
51Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Restricted equity Unrestricted equity
SEK MShare 
 capitalStatutory  
reserveShare premium 
reserveRetained  
earnings and  
profit/loss for 
the year1Total  
equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2019 150 800 4,277 2,503 7,731
Comprehensive income for the year — — — 1,161 1,161
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 15 — 4,498 — 4,513
Share-based compensation to employees — — 80 — 80
Share-based compensation to employees 
tax effect2 — — 50 — 50
Total shareholder transactions 15 — 4,628 — 4,643
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2019 165 800 8,905 3,665 13,534
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2020 165 800 8,905 3,665 13,534
Comprehensive income for the year — — — 3,545 3,545
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 2 — –2 — —
Share-based compensation to employees — — 114 — 114
Share-based compensation to employees 
tax effect2 — — 7 — 7
Total shareholder transactions 2 — 119 — 121
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2020 167 800 9,024 7,209 17,200
1. See specification of equity instruments measured at fair value.
2. During the period, the Parent Company was granted additional tax deductions for incentive programmes ending 2013–2018. The additional deductions relate 
to the difference between the market value of allotted shares and recognised IFRS 2 expense.
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to KSEK 166,711 distributed between 303,815,511 ordinary shares with a par value  
of about SEK 0.55 and one voting right. At the balance-sheet date, the company held 8,918,672 ordinary shares in treasury, 
corresponding to 2.9 per cent of the total number of shares in the company.
Other comprehensive incomeCash flow 
hedgesEquity 
instruments Total
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2019 –106 — –106
Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity –79 — –79
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity 17 — 17
Transferred to profit or loss for the period 135 — 135
Tax on transferred to profit or loss for the period –29 — –29
Closing balance, 31 Dec 2019 –62 — –62
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2020 –62 — –62
Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity 133 — 133
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity –29 — –29
Transferred to profit or loss for the period 34 — 34
Tax on transferred to profit or loss for the period –7 — –7
Gain/losses on remeasurements of equity instruments recognised in equity — 11 11
Tax effect on equity instruments — –2 –2
Closing balance, 31 Dec 2020 68 9 77
finanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
52Parent Company cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2020 2019
Operating activities
Profit for the year 3,406 1,118
Adjustments for non-cash items 1,550 3,201
Cash flow from operating activities before changes  
in working capital 4,957 4,318
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories —994 –462
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables 2,316 –15,758
Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities —1,258 –1,796
Cash flow from operating activities 5,021 –13,698
Investing activities
Acquisition in subsidiaries — –4,201
Investments in intangible assets1 16 —3,633 –658
Investments in tangible assets 17 —15 –15
Investments in financial assets 19 —120 –
Disposal of intangible assets 16 8 28
Cash flow from investing activities –3,760 –4,846
Financing activities 27
Borrowings 13,575 19,422
Repayment of borrowings —15,027 –3,208
Cash flow from financing activities –1,452 16,214
Change in cash and cash equivalents –191 –2,331
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 431 2,762
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 240 431
SEK M Note 2020 2019
Interest paid and received
Interest received 387 230
Interest paid –343 –128
Income tax paid –747 –435
Adjustments for non-cash items
Group contributions, unpaid 1,583 2,766
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets 6, 16, 17 347 381
Cost of share programmes1 68 54
Excess depreciation 107 400
Elocta and Alprolix2 –92 –454
Interest 60 30
Currency effects –565 10
Other items 35 14
1,550 3,201
1. IFRS 2 expense related to the share programmes that is recognised in equity.
2. Pertains to royalty revenue used to settle the liability to Sanofi, and interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi.Supplemental disclosures to cash flow statement – Parent CompanyfinanCiaL RepoRtS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
53Notes
1 General information
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 556038-
9321, the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, collectively the Group, is a 
 publicly listed international pharmaceutical company dedicated to rare diseases. 
The Parent Company is a limited liability company headquartered in 
 Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the head office is Tomtebodavägen 23A, 
Solna, Sweden.
The company has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 15 September 
2006 and on OMX Stockholm Large Cap segment since 2 January 2014.
2  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation of the financial statements 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s 
 recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, Interna-
tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and International Financial Report-
ing Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations as adopted by the EU. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the cost 
method, except for financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instru-
ments) which are measured at fair value through profit or loss, and other com-
prehensive incomes (for hedges and equity instruments, which are not held for 
trading). The most significant accounting policies applied for the preparation of 
these consolidated financial statements are presented below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
All amounts reported in the financial statements (in the comments, state-
ments, tables and notes) are presented in SEK M (millions of Swedish kronor), 
unless otherwise stated. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest million. 
All values in parentheses () are comparative figures for the year-earlier period, 
unless otherwise stated.
Within the Group, assets and liabilities are classified as either current or 
non-current. Current receivables and liabilities fall due within one year of the 
balance-sheet date. Non-current receivables and liabilities essentially consist of 
amounts expected to be settled later than one year from the balance-sheet date.
New and revised accounting policies 2020
The revised standards and interpretations applied by the Group as of 1 January 
2020 are described below. 
– IFRS 3 – Business combinations. The definition of business combinations 
has been changed. The criteria for classifying an acquisition as a business com-
bination are that it must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive pro-
cess that together significantly contribute to the creation of outputs. It is also 
clarified that this must be based on what has been acquired in its condition at 
the acquisition date and not on what can be paid by a market player. The 
changes also include an optional concentration test to simplify the assessment 
of whether an acquired set of activities is an asset or a business. The changes 
have not affected the consolidated financial statements, but may impact future 
periods in the event of acquisitions. 
– IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements, and IAS 8 – Accounting 
 Policies, Changes in Accounting estimates and Errors. The changes have been 
introduced to ensure that the definition of ‘material’ is consistent across all IFRS 
and to clarify some aspects of the definition. The new definition states that 
information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could reasonably 
be expected to influence the decisions that the primary users of general 
 purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements, 
which provide financial information about a specific reporting entity. The 
change specifically clarifies the concept of obscuring material information and 
the meaning of primary users of general purpose financial statements. In addi-
tion, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has updated other 
standards and guidance that contain a definition of material or that refer to 
material to ensure consistency.In 2020, Sobi adjusted the ingoing balance in equity – retained earnings, for 
non-included pension obligations from preceding years, mainly from Switzer -
land. The comparative periods in the consolidated financial statements have 
not been adjusted due to the size of the amount. Refer also to the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity and Note 29 for more information. 
No other new or revised standards and interpretations applied since 1 January 
2020 have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
New or revised accounting policies that will come into effect after 2020
No new or revised standards and interpretations that are not yet effective have 
been adopted in advance and are not expected to have any material effect on 
the consolidated financial statements.
Change in the external reporting
Segment reporting 
Sobis operations are organised into three business areas, Haematology, Immu-
nology and Speciality Care. As from 1 January 2020, these business areas form 
the basis for the Group’s segment reporting. Operating segments are presented 
in a manner consistent with the internal reporting submitted to the chief oper -
ating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the function 
responsible for decisions about overall resource allocation and for assessing 
the performance of the operating segment. Sobi has identified its chief operat-
ing decision-maker as the Group’s CEO. The internal reporting to the CEO uses 
three segments that represents Sobi’s three business areas. See Note 5. 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all companies in which the Parent Company holds a controlling 
influence, directly or indirectly. A controlling influence exists if the Parent Com-
pany, directly or indirectly has control over a company, is exposed to, or has the 
rights to variable returns from its involvement in the company, and the ability to 
affect those returns through its controlling influence, which normally means 
that Parent Company owns more than 50 per cent of the votes for all shares 
and participations. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the 
controlling influence is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from 
the date on which that control ceases. When preparing Sobi’s consolidated 
financial statements, intra-Group transactions and unrealised gains and losses 
on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the acquisition 
method. A business combination is therefore considered a transaction in which 
the Group acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities directly. 
The identified assets and acquired liabilities are measured at fair value at the 
acquisition date. 
Transaction costs arising from acquisitions are recognised as administrative 
expenses in the income statement. Contingent- and non-contingent consider -
ations are recognised as financial liabilities and measured at fair value at the 
acquisition date. These are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date 
where the interest component is recognised in profit or loss as a financial 
expense and the remining change of the remeasurement is recognised as 
other operating income/expense. 
The difference between the fair value of the purchase price and the fair value 
of the Group’s share of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is 
recognised as goodwill. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined at the 
acquisition date when the controlling influence is obtained, and not in connec -
tion with previous acquisitions. To determine goodwill in step acquisitions, the 
previous holding of equity interests in the acquired company are included, 
adjusted to fair value, and any gains or losses arising from the remeasurement 
are recognised in profit or loss. In every acquisition, the Group determines 
whether non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at fair value, or 
at the holding’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Goodwill is not 
amortised according to plan, but tested annually, or when there is an indication 
of impairment. If the aggregated fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost, any excess (negative good-
will) is recognised immediately in the income statement. Any losses are consid-
ered an indication that the transferred asset may be impaired.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
541
2Foreign currency
Functional and reporting currency
Items included in the financial statements for each of the Group’s entities are 
measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated financial statements 
are presented in Swedish krona (SEK), which is the Parent Company’s functional 
currency and the Group’s presentation currency.
Transactions and balance-sheet items
Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency 
using the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date, or on the date when 
the items are remeasured. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of 
such transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currency at the closing day rate, are recognised in 
profit or loss. Exceptions are when the transactions are hedges that meet all 
hedge accounting criteria, since these exchange differences are recognised in 
other comprehensive income. Operating items are recognised in operating 
profit, while other items are recognised as income or expense. 
Translation of foreign subsidiaries
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are measured in their respective 
functional currency, meaning in the primary economic environment in which 
the company operates. For Sobi’s foreign subsidiaries, all assets, provisions and 
other liabilities are translated into the Group’s reporting currency (SEK) using 
the closing day rate, and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in the separate component of 
equity – translation differences. All items in profit or loss are translated using 
the average rate for the year. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the operation and translated to 
the Group’s reporting currency using the closing rate.
Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of a foreign operation’s net 
investment and the associated effects of net investment hedging are rec -
ognised in a separate component of other comprehensive income. On the dis-
posal of a foreign operation, the accumulated amount of the exchange differ -
ences relating to that foreign operation, less any hedging, shall be reclassified 
from other comprehensive income to profit or loss as a component of capital 
gain or loss. 
OPERATING REVENUE
Operating revenue mainly comprises sales of proprietary products, products 
for which Sobi holds the distribution and/or licensing agreements, revenue 
from manufacturing and royalty revenue. Revenue comprises invoiced gross 
revenue according to agreement for goods sold excluding VAT, discounts, 
pharmaceutical taxes and returns. Intra-Group sales are eliminated. Sobi has no 
customer contracts where the performance obligations extend beyond 12 
months after the balance-sheet date. Revenue is recognised as follows:
Product sales
Revenue from product sales is recognised when Sobi has satisfied its perfor -
mance obligations, which means that the customer has taken control over the 
product. In practice, this arises when the goods have been delivered from the 
company’s consignment stock to the customer. The performance obligations 
associated with the contracts between Sobi and its customers consist mainly of 
distinct goods that are transferred to the customer against payment. The prod-
ucts are not customised and can be used by the customers in the condition 
they are delivered. The products are thus considered distinct and separately 
identifiable. Upon delivery, the customer normally assumes responsibility for 
the goods, depending on the shipping terms, and the obligation to pay 
becomes unconditional. Standard payment terms vary between 30 and 90 
days, which are recognised as accounts receivable.
The price of the goods is identified in contract. The considerations are vari-
able to some extent before deductions are made for agreed discounts and 
pharmaceutical taxes. Where the deductions cannot be estimated reliably, an 
assessment is made and the amounts are reserved on the balance sheet.
Returns are based on historical data for returns and include product and 
quality warranties for any defective goods and returns related to expired goods. 
For returns related to transport warranties, i.e. if the product is damaged during 
transportation, provided that Sobi has arranged the transport, the insurance 
company is required to pay compensation. Royalty revenue
Sobi is entitled to royalties on pre-sold goods, as per agreement. Revenue is 
recognised over time on a monthly basis and based on forecasts, which is 
based on estimates, of underlying sales at the licensee, with quarterly reconcili-
ation and invoicing. Accrued royalty revenue, which is also classified as con-
tract assets under IFRS 15, is recognised on the balance sheet under prepaid 
expenses and accrued income. The payment terms are normally 45 days after 
the end of the quarter. 
Contract manufacturing
Contract manufacturing revenue (ReFacto) is recognised when the goods have 
been delivered to the customer, meaning control of the goods has been trans-
ferred to the customer. The revenue is based on a volume-based price step, 
which is based on the customer’s estimated annual volume. The annual volume 
is updated by the customer, quarterly. The payment terms are 90 days.
Other revenue
Other revenue can include revenue from licensing agreements, such as out- 
licensing revenue and milestone payments. Milestone payments refer to partial 
payments received from partners triggered by the fulfilment of a specific part of 
a partnering agreement, such as regulatory approval of a jointly developed 
product. This type of revenue is recognised when the contracted event has 
occurred and there is reasonable assurance that payment will be collected. 
Due to various contract formulations, the initial licence fee can be recognised 
in two ways: either directly when the licence fee is received, or allocated over 
its estimated useful life. In 2020, milestone payments received amounted to 
SEK 87 M (–) related to approval of the CLD indication in China.
Service fees comprise consideration for sales and marketing services related 
to some partner products during a contractual term. Revenue is recognised 
over time. When the Group has an obligation to carry out research and 
develop ment assignments and the consideration pertains to services provided 
by the Group, the consideration is recognised over time as the services are 
 performed. Revenue from research collaborations is recognised in the period 
in which the work is performed.
Government grants
Government grants are recognised when the company fulfils the criteria 
attached to the grant and there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be 
received. Grants received are recognised as deferred income in the balance 
sheet and are recognised in profit or loss as a reduced cost in the period in 
which expenses are recognised for the costs for which the grants compensate. 
In 2020, Sobi did not receive any government grants. 
Other operating income/expenses
Other operating income and other operating expenses are income and 
expenses arising from activities outside the company’s ordinary operations. 
These items include exchange-rate effects on operating receivables and liabili-
ties. Accumulated gains or losses arising on the cash-flow hedge reserve in 
equity are reclassified to other operating income/expenses in the period in which 
the hedged item affects profit or loss. For more information, see Note 7, 8 and 25.  
CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAX 
Taxes in the statement of comprehensive income comprise current and 
deferred tax. Current tax refers to tax payable/received attributable to current/
prior years. Deferred tax refers to tax attributable to future years and is calcu-
lated on the basis of temporary differences between the carrying amount and 
tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is measured using the applicable/
substantively enacted tax rates and tax rules for the period in which the reversal/
realisation is expected to occur. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences in consolidated 
goodwill, nor for temporary differences attributable to participations in subsid-
iaries, since it is unlikely that such a reversal will take place in the foreseeable 
future. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are divided 
into deferred tax liabilities and equity. Deferred tax assets relating to deductible 
temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards are recognised to the extent 
it is probable that future taxable profits are available, against which these can be 
utilized. Tax is recognised under Income tax in the statement of comprehensive 
income except for those items recognised in other comprehensive income or 
equity. See Notes 15 and 20.Note 2, cont.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
552INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Good-
will is allocated to cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment, or 
when there is any indication that the acquired goodwill is impaired. Impairment 
loss for goodwill is not reversed. 
Product and marketing rights 
Product and marketing rights, and any associated development projects, that 
are acquired separately are measured at cost including any costs directly attrib-
utable to the acquisition. In the case of considerations contingent upon future 
events, usually related to the achievement of certain regulatory and commer -
cial milestones, product and marketing rights are initially recognised at fair 
value of paid purchase price and future contingent considerations plus trans-
action costs. Fair value is determined by totalling the payment obligations in 
connection with the acquisition. The future payments are probability-weighted 
and discounted to present value at the acquisition date, and a corresponding 
amount is recognised as a separate financial liability. Refer also to the section 
on financial instruments – liabilities measured at amortised cost and Note 4. 
Product and marketing rights acquired in a business combination are mea-
sured at acquisition-date at fair value. Product and marketing rights have a lim-
ited life and are measured at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any 
subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is carried out to 
allocate the cost over their estimated life, normally 5–20 years. Straight-line 
amortisation is used to allocate the cost over their useful lives, based on the 
expected commercial useful lives of each product and marketing right. 
 Amortisation expense is classified as selling costs. See also Notes 4 and 16.
Licenses and patents
The costs and amortisation of licences are treated in the same way as product 
and marketing rights above. Patent costs are expensed immediately. 
Research and development costs
Costs for development projects are recognised as intangible assets if Sobi can 
demonstrate that it is technically possible to complete and profitably commer -
cialise the results, and only if the costs of the project can be measured reliably. 
In practice, this means that the costs cannot be capitalised until the relevant 
authority/institution have granted approval. Acquired development projects are 
capitalised at the acquisition date and recognised in accordance with product 
and marketing rights above. When a development project has received 
approval, it is reclassified to product and marketing rights. See above, for amor -
tisations. Other research and development costs that do not meet the relevant 
recognition criteria of IAS 38 are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Capitalised costs
Software and IT projects in progress
Acquired software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred 
when the relevant software is acquired and available for use. These costs are 
amortised over the estimated useful life of the software. 
Costs associated with developing or maintaining software are recognised as 
an expense when incurred. Costs directly associated with identifiable software 
products developed specifically for Sobi that are controlled by the company 
and will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one 
year, are recognised as intangible assets. Direct costs include expenses for 
employees working on software development and a reasonable proportion 
of overhead costs.
Costs to enhance the performance of software or extend its useful life 
(development costs) beyond the original plan are capitalised and added to 
the initial cost of the software. Amortisation according to plan for software rec -
ognised as an asset is performed using the straight-line method over its useful 
life up to a maximum of three years.
Manufacturing relocation costs
Costs at relocation of manufacturing of Sobi’s products are capitalised, if they 
meet the requirements of IAS 38, and classified as intangible assets. Costs that 
are capitalised are costs directly attributable to the construction of new pro-
duction lines. Amortisation commences when the asset is available for use. 
Amortisation of capitalized costs
Amortisation of capitalised costs is charged to selling and administrative 
expenses. For more information, see Note 6.TANGIBLE ASSETS
Tangible assets are recognised as assets on the balance sheet if it is probable 
that future economic benefits will accrue to the company and the cost of the 
asset can be measured reliably. 
All tangible assets are measured at cost less depreciation. The cost includes 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Additional costs are 
added to the carrying amount of the asset or recognised as a separate asset, 
depending on which is appropriate, only when it is probable that the future 
economic rewards associated with the asset will accrue to the Group and the 
cost of the asset can be measured reliably. All other forms of repair and mainte-
nance are recognised as expenses in profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation of tangible assets
Tangible assets are depreciated according to plan over their estimated useful 
life. They are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life 
less residual value. The following depreciation periods are applied: 
Plant and machinery
• Laboratory equipment and other investments 3–7 years
• Other major investments, such as property refurbishment 5–20 years
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings
• Servers and other large computer hardware 3–5 years
• Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5–10 years
Land and buildings
• Buildings  20 years
• Land indefinite useful life
The residual value and useful life of the assets are assessed at each  balance- 
sheet date and adjusted if necessary. An asset’s carrying amount is immediately 
depreciated to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the asset 
exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. The gain or loss arising on the 
 disposal or retirement of tangible assets is the difference between the proceeds 
and the carrying amount less direct selling costs. The profit/loss item is rec -
ognised as other operating income or other operating expense.
IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill, which has an indeterminable useful life, and intangible assets not yet 
available for use are not depreciated, but tested annually for impairment and 
when there is any indication that the value of an asset may be impaired. 
Product and marketing rights and other assets that are depreciated/amor -
tised are tested for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An asset is impaired if its 
 carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment is thus the 
difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount where 
the recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s net realisable 
value and value in use. When determining the value in use, the cash flows 
expected to be generated by the asset are discounted using a rate equivalent to 
Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
When assessing goodwill impairment, this is grouped at the lowest levels for 
which there are separately identifiable cash flows – cash-generating units. Any 
impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment test on goodwill, product 
and market rights and development projects are described in Note 16.
An impairment loss for an asset other than goodwill is reversed if there has 
been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset's recoverable 
amount. A reversal must not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, less depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised. 
Impairment testing of goodwill, product and marketing rights, and develop-
ment projects are described in Note 16.
Cash-generating units
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the Group’s 
cash-generating units. A cash-generating unit is defined as the lowest level 
within the Group at which the goodwill in question is monitored for internal 
management purposes, see Note 16.
LEASES
Most of the Group’s leased assets comprise properties and vehicles. The right-
of-use asset and corresponding lease liability are recognised on the balance 
sheet when the leased asset is made available for use. Short-term and Note 2, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
562 low-value leases are excepted, which in all material respects comprise copying 
machines, printers and computers. Variable lease payments other than those 
that depend on an index or rate are recognised as an expense in the period in 
which they occur.
The lease liability is initially recognised at the present value of the Group’s 
fixed payments less any lease incentives receivable, and variable lease pay-
ments that depend on an index or rate that have not been paid on the com-
mencement date. Options to extend and terminate are included in the pay-
ments if it is reasonably certain that these will be used. The lease payments are 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease if that rate can be readily 
determined, otherwise Sobi’s incremental borrowing rate is used. The lease lia-
bility is subsequently remeasured to reflect changes in the lease term, which 
are treated as adjustments to the right-of-use asset. 
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and includes the present 
value of the lease liability, including lease payments made on or before the 
commencement date and initial direct costs. Restoration costs are included in 
the asset if a corresponding provision for restoration costs is identified. The right-
of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the useful life 
of the asset and the lease term. The following periods of useful life are applied:
Properties  2–10 years
Vehicles  36–48 months
In the cash flow statement, payments attributable to the lease liability are 
reported under financing activities while payments for short-term leases, low-
value asset leases and variable lease payments not included in the measure-
ment of the lease liability are recognised under operating activities. For more 
information, see Note 9.
Sobi has a provision for site restoration related to restoration of the leased 
property Paradiset 14 when the lease expires. The company recognises this 
item as a provision on the balance sheet. 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one 
company, and a financial liability or equity instrument in another.
Classification of financial instruments
The Group classifies its financial instruments into the following categories:
1. Assets measured at amortised cost
2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
3. Assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
4. Liabilities measured at amortised cost 
5. Liabilities measured at fair value
The classification depends on the purpose for which the instruments were 
acquired and the type of financial instrument. The recognition of equity instru-
ments that are not held for trading depends on whether Sobi, at the acquisition 
date, has made an irrevocable election to measure equity instruments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income. The classification of the instru-
ments is determined at initial recognition and they are only reclassified if the 
business model for the instruments is changed. 
Assets expected to mature or be sold within 12 months, and liabilities with no 
unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after 
the balance sheet date, are classified as current assets or current liabilities. Other 
assets and liabilities are classified as fixed assets or non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss are 
measured at fair value on the transaction date, including transaction costs on 
the balance sheet. Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit 
or loss are initially measured at fair value, while related transaction costs are 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Financial instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, including transaction 
costs, at the transaction date. 
Financial instruments recognised as assets in the balance sheet include 
equity instruments, endowment policies, accounts receivable, derivatives and 
cash and cash equivalents. Financial liabilities mainly include borrowings, con-
tingent considerations, accounts payable, derivatives and other liabilities.1. Assets measured at amortised cost
Assets are classified in this category if both of the following criteria are met:
1. The objective of the business model is to hold the financial asset to collect 
the contractual cash flows.
2. The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to 
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.
The Group’s assets in this category consist of accounts and other receivable 
and cash and cash equivalents. These are measured at amortised cost less any 
impairment. The maturities of accounts receivable are mainly short, which is 
why they are recognised initially at nominal value without discounting. Impair -
ment of accounts receivable in the Group is based on a model for expected 
future losses, which have been calculated using historical losses and for -
ward-looking estimates. Any impairment of accounts receivable based on 
expected credit losses, as well as any impairment on individually assessed 
receivables, are recognised in operating expenses. 
2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets 
that are not measured at amortised cost (see above). This category includes the 
Group’s endowment policies and derivatives that are not included in an effec -
tive cash flow hedge or net investment hedge. 
3. Assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
are derivatives that meet hedge accounting requirements (cash flow hedges 
and net investments) and equity instruments in the form of quoted shares. In 
cases where Sobi has elected to present value changes in equity instruments in 
other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent reclassification of 
changes in fair value through profit or loss on derecognition. Any dividends on 
equity instruments are recognised as income in the statement of profit or loss 
when the right to receive payment has been determined. 
4. Liabilities measured at amortised cost 
This category includes financial liabilities such as borrowings, accounts payable 
and lease liabilities, as well as liabilities related to contingent considerations tied 
to licensing and collaboration agreements for the development and commer -
cialisation of product and marketing rights. Liabilities in this category are mea-
sured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net after transaction costs. 
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost and any difference 
between the amount received and the repayment amount is recognised in 
profit or loss over the term of the loan, using the effective interest method. Bor -
rowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to 
defer settlement of the liability until twelve months after the balance-sheet date. 
Liabilities related to contingent considerations are initially measured at the 
fair value of future obligations. Contingent considerations are usually tied to 
future payments contingent on achievement of certain regulatory and com-
mercial milestones. The fair value of contingent liabilities is initially determined 
by probability-weighting and discounting potential future payments. The liabil-
ity is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, whereby the interest expense is recognised as a financial expense in 
the income statement allocated over the expected obligation period. A change 
in the liability due to changed assumptions regarding future payments is rec -
ognised as a corresponding change in the related intangible asset. Liabilities 
tied to contingent considerations are classified as current liabilities, non-inter -
est bearing when the related milestone payment is payable, or expected to be 
payable, within 12 months of the balance sheet date, see also Notes 4, 26 and 
28, above under the heading of product and marketing rights and Note 16.
5. Liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 
This category includes liabilities not measured at amortised cost. The liabilities 
are measured both initially and in subsequent periods at fair value in the bal-
ance sheet. This category includes derivatives and contingent considerations in 
connection with business combinations, where changes in the value of such 
liabilities are recognised in profit or loss. The components of the change in 
value relating to interest and exchange rate effects are recognized in net finan-
cial items while other changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. Note 2, cont.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
572Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not included in an effective cash 
flow hedge or net investment hedge are recognised in profit or loss. Changes in 
the fair value of derivatives that are included in an effective cash flow hedge or 
net investment hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Derivatives
Derivatives are used for hedging and not for speculation. Sobi differentiates 
between derivatives included in an effective hedging relationship and other 
derivatives held for trading. Derivatives are measured at fair value on the bal-
ance sheet, both initially and in subsequent remeasurements, and recognised 
as either an asset or a liability, depending on whether their fair value is positive 
or negative. Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are 
recognised in profit or loss. Derivatives held to manage financial risks are rec -
ognised in net financial items, while derivatives held to manage risks in the 
operating result are recognised in other operating income/expenses. See 
below for the recognition of derivatives that meet the criteria for hedge 
accounting.
Hedge accounting
The Group applies hedge accounting for currency risk and uses derivative 
instruments and loans in these hedging relationships. The method for recog-
nising the resulting gains or losses from the remeasurement of loans or deriva-
tives in hedge accounting depends on whether the instrument has been identi-
fied as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, fair value hedge or 
net investment hedge. 
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in fair value of a derivative instrument identi-
fied as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The 
gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. Accumulated gains or losses in equity are reclassified to profit or 
loss in the periods in which the hedged item affects the results. If a hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting and there are accumulated gains or losses from hedging in 
equity, these gains or losses remain in equity and are transferred to the income 
statement when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. If a loan is des-
ignated as a hedging instrument for foreign-exchange risk, the effective por -
tion of the remeasurement effects pertaining to exchange rate fluctuations is 
recognised in the same way as for derivatives, while other parts of the loan are 
recognised as a loan not included in a hedging relationship.
Fair value hedges
Fair value hedges are only made with derivative instruments. When hedging fair 
value, derivatives are recognised in profit or loss together with changes in the 
fair value of the hedged item pertaining to the portion that is exposed to the 
hedged risk and included in the hedging relationship. 
Net investment hedges
A net investment is hedged with financial liabilities denominated in foreign 
 currency. The accounting is similar to cash flow hedges.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is 
calculated using the first in, first out principle (FIFO). Net realisable value is the 
expected selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling costs. 
Obsolescence risk and confirmed obsolescence have been taken into account 
in the measurement. 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The cash and cash equivalents of the Parent Company and the Group include 
the balances of the consolidated accounts and other bank accounts, and invest-
ments with a maturity of less than three months from the acquisition date.  
EQUITY
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction costs directly attributable 
to the issue of new shares or options are recognised in equity, net after tax, as 
a deduction from the proceeds.PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised on the balance sheet when Sobi has a legal or con-
structive obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and where it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. 
It must also be possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount. Provisions 
are recognised in the amount corresponding to the best estimate of the pay-
ment required to settle the obligation. If the outflow of resources is expected to 
take place at a point far in the future, the expected future cash flow is discounted 
and the provision is recognised at its present value. Provisions are recognised 
on the balance sheet under other current and non-current liabilities. 
Restructuring provisions, which substantially change the way in which Sobi 
works, are recognised when a detailed and formal restructuring plan has been 
established and publicly announced, at which point clear expectations are 
 created that the plan will be implemented. Provisions for restructuring often 
include termination benefits, which can be either voluntary or involuntary. 
 Termination benefits are recognised as described above, except in those cases 
in which a service obligation is tied to the benefit, in which case costs are dis-
tributed over the period in which the services are carried out.
Restructuring provisions entail estimates of the time and cost of planned 
future activities. The most significant estimates relate to those costs required 
for severance pay or other obligations in connection with termination of 
employment, as well as costs for the termination of agreements and other 
costs for withdrawal. Such estimates are based on the actual situation in nego-
tiations with the affected parties and/or their representatives. Salaries relating 
to periods following the termination of duty to work are expensed when the 
decision is made and communicated.
Sobi recognises endowment policies gross on the balance sheet as a finan-
cial asset and a provision. For more information, see under heading direct 
 pensions. 
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible commitment 
 arising from past events and whose existence is confirmed by only one or more 
uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised 
as a liability or a provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will 
be required.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension obligations
Pensions and other benefits after the termination of employment are classified 
as either defined-contribution or defined-benefit plans. Most of the Group’s 
employees are covered by a defined-contribution pension plan. There are 
defined-benefit plans in France, Italy, Norway, Switzerland and Sweden. 
A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan according to which 
the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate legal entity. The Group’s com-
mitments are limited to the contributions it has undertaken to pay. The contri-
butions payable to defined-contribution plans are expensed in the period in 
which the services are rendered. Prepayments are recognised as an asset to the 
extent that the prepayment will lead to a cash refund or reduction in future 
payments for the Group.
A defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan that promises a specified 
pension payment on retirement that is normally based on one or several fac -
tors, such as, the employee’s age, tenure of service and earnings history.
The liability for defined-benefit pension plans is recognised on the balance 
sheet as the present value of the obligations under the plan at the bal-
ance-sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets. The defined-benefit pen-
sion obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the Pro-
jected Unit Credit Method. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using the interest rate 
for first-class corporate bonds and mortgage bonds issued in the same cur -
rency that the benefits will be paid and with maturities comparable with the 
current pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses due to experience-based 
adjustments and changes to actuarial assumptions are recognised in other 
comprehensive in the period in which they occur. Past service costs are rec -
ognised immediately as an operating expense. Interest expense less expected 
return on plan assets is classified as a financial expense.Note 2, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
582Direct pensions 
For some senior executives, their pension plan has been supplemented with 
direct pension promises. In these cases, the Parent Company, over time, has 
taken out endowment policies pledged to the employee as collateral for the 
agreement. Endowment policies taken out by the Parent Company are classi-
fied as a financial asset on the balance sheet, since they are a long-term hold-
ing, and measured at fair value, while the pension obligation to the employee is 
recognised under provisions for pensions. A provision for special payroll tax is 
also recognised for the endowment policies. Premiums paid into the endow-
ment policies are not deductible. However, the payment to the beneficiary is 
deductible. 
Long-term incentive programmes
Outstanding share programmes and share option programmes are recognised 
according to IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment. 
The fair value of allotted share programmes is estimated on the issue date 
using a generally accepted modelling technique, the Monte Carlo simulation 
model, and taking market conditions and performance obligations into 
account. Performance obligations in the form of a revenue component exist 
for the programmes that include the CEO, senior executives and managers. Fair 
value at the date of allotment is recognised as a personnel cost in profit or loss, 
allocated over the vesting period, and corresponding adjustments are made in 
equity. At the end of every quarter, the Group reviews its assessments of how 
many shares are expected to be vested based on the service condition. The 
shares are delivered to the employee at the end of the programmes, under the 
framework of the programmes. 
The fair value of the allotted share option programmes is estimated on the 
issue date using the Black-Scholes model, taking market conditions and perfor -
mance obligations into account. Performance obligations exist, as described 
above, for share programmes. Fair value at the date of allotment is recognised 
as a personnel cost in profit or loss, allocated over the vesting period, and cor -
responding adjustments are made in equity. The amount recognised as an 
expense is continuously adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options 
vested. The social security contributions are remeasured at every bal-
ance-sheet date until settlement takes place, and allocated using the same 
principles as the cost of shares. 
The Group also has long-term cash-based incentive programmes, which are 
not classified as share-based payments, that include all employees in the US 
and Canada. Since awards under these programmes are contingent upon con-
tinued employment at the company, the costs are recognised continuously 
over the vesting period. A liability is calculated on each balance-sheet date 
based on the market value, renewed assessments of target fulfilment and how 
much has been vested. The net of these effects is recognised as a personnel 
cost in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. The social security contri-
butions are remeasured at every balance-sheet date until settlement takes 
place, and allocated using the same principles as the cost of shares. 
A more detailed description of the long-term incentive programmes can be 
found in Note 10.
Termination benefits
A provision for costs in connection with termination of personnel is recognised 
only if the company is demonstrably obligated to terminate employment 
before the normal period of service has ended or when benefits are provided as 
an incentive to encourage voluntary termination, e.g. early retirement packages. 
In cases where the company terminates employment, a detailed plan is pre-
pared that, at a minimum, contains information about the workplace, positions 
and approximate number of individuals concerned, as well as the compensa-
tion for each employee category or position and the schedule for the plan’s 
implementation.
THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), has prepared its 
Annual Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 
(1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 
2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The statements issued by the Financial Report-
ing Board regarding listed companies are also applied. According to RFR 2, the 
Parent Company is to prepare its annual financial statements using all of the 
IFRSs and statements adopted by the EU as far as possible within the framework 
of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Pension Obligations Vesting Act, and Note 2, cont.
with consideration for the relationship between accounting and taxation. The 
recommendation sets out the exemptions from, and amendments to, IFRS that 
must be made.
The Parent Company has assets and liabilities that are measured at historical 
cost, except for some financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair 
value. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group 
with the following exceptions:
Employee benefits/defined-benefit plans
In the calculation of defined-benefit pension plans, the Parent Company com-
plies with the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act, which is a prerequisite 
for tax deductibility. The most significant differences compared with the 
requirements under IAS 19 are how the discount rate is established, that the 
calculation of the defined-benefit obligation is based on current salary levels 
without assumptions regarding future salary increases, and that all actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income as they arise. 
See Note 29 for more information.
Leased assets
Leases are reported according to the exception allowed in RFR 2. For leases 
where the Parent Company is lessee this means that the right-of-use assets 
and liabilities are not recognized on the balance sheet. Costs under the lease 
are recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognized as an integral part of 
the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. 
Group contributions
The Parent Company applies the alternative approach and, consequently, 
reports all Group contributions received/provided as appropriations.
Taxes
Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal entities.
Subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised in accordance with the cost model. 
The value of subsidiaries is tested when there is an indication of a decline in 
value. Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised as revenue. Trans-
action costs associated with an acquisition are recognised as part of the cost of 
acquisition. Contingent considerations are recognised as part of the cost if it is 
probable they will be realised. If the initial assessment needs to be revised in 
subsequent periods, the cost must be adjusted.
Internal receivables
The Parent Company uses a method to test for impairment on internal receiv-
ables and loans based on the model used by the Group for external accounts 
receivable. 
3 Financial risk management
Financial risks and risk management
Through its operations, Sobi is exposed to various kinds of risks that may impact 
the company’s earnings, cash flow and financial position. The risks can be 
divided into operational risk and financial risk. Financial risk refers to a poten-
tially negative impact resulting from changes in the financial risk factors. Below 
is a description of the financial risk factors deemed most significant for Sobi, 
and how they are managed. Operational risks are described in a separate sec -
tion of the Directors’ Report.
Financial risk is managed at central level by Sobi’s treasury function, which in 
addition to being responsible for the Group’s financing, ensures that solutions 
are in place for liquidity monitoring and payments, continuously monitoring 
financial risk and supporting the business operations in finance-related issues.
The Treasury Policy, which is adopted by the Board, establishes the division 
of responsibilities and control of financial matters between the Board, CEO, 
CFO and the treasury function. The Board has appointed an Audit Committee 
to monitor the structure of the Treasury Policy and, if necessary, propose 
changes to the Board. The main objective of the Treasury Policy is to maintain a 
low level of financial risk and to manage risk safely.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
592
3Financial risk factors
Currency risk – Transaction risk
Transaction risk arises when sales and purchasing transactions are denomi-
nated in other currencies, which may affect the company’s profitability, cash 
flow and financial position. This risk is limited in the subsidiaries as their com-
mercial flows are mainly denominated in their local currencies. This risk is sig-
nificant for the Parent Company, since the company has considerable flows of 
foreign currencies, primarily EUR and USD. The currency surplus in EUR is most 
significant as a large part of sales are denominated in EUR while purchasing is 
spread between several currencies. In the event of a 5 per cent depreciation of 
the SEK against other currencies, sales in 2020 would have increased SEK 
696 M (677) and EBITA SEK 402 M (397). 
Financial instruments, such as currency futures, are used to manage the 
transaction exposure. Sobi also applies hedge accounting and uses cash-flow 
hedges to reduce some of the transaction risk in EUR and USD. These flows are 
primarily related to the Synagis, Elocta and Alprolix products.
The currencies with the largest net exposures, excluding derivatives, are 
shown in the diagram below.
Transaction exposure, annual volume
SEK M
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000
Other USD EUR2020 
2019 4,826
4,206
649
2742,604
1,551
Currency risk – Translation risk
Translation risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will have a negative 
impact on equity when the Group’s net assets denominated in foreign currency 
are translated into SEK. In 2020, translation risk decreased for Sobi mainly as a 
result of decreased net exposure in USD. The changes in equity are considered 
acceptable and not managed by using currency derivatives. The risk is partly 
managed by limiting the size of the net assets by raising foreign currency loans. 
The diagram of translation risk shows the Group’s sensitivity to this risk. The 
diagram shows how the translation effect on consolidated equity would be 
negative if the SEK weakened, and vice versa. If the SEK, for example, were to 
depreciate 5 per cent against all currencies, the translation effect on consoli-
dated equity would have been SEK –38 M (–249). The corresponding translation 
risk for Sobi´s financial assets and liabilities would have been 489 MSEK (878).
Translation risk
Currency change in SEK
-10-8-6-4-20246810
74.9 59.9 45.0 30.0 15.00
-15.0 -30.0 -45.0 -59.9 -74.9%
SEK M,
Eﬀect on
equity
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Sobi is unable to raise financing on acceptable 
terms, or meet its payment obligations due to factors beyond Sobi’s control. 
How the liquidity risk should be managed is described in the Treasury Policy. 
Both short-term and long-term forecasts of the Group’s liquidity are regularly 
compiled to ensure there is sufficient cash and undrawn credit facilities to meet 
the needs of the day-to-day operations. According to the policy, Sobi shall 
maintain an appropriate liquidity reserve.The liquidity reserve comprises bank balances, current investments and 
undrawn committed credit facilities. At 31 December 2020, the company’s 
undrawn committed credit facilities totalled SEK 4,320 M (3,959). At 31 December 
2020, SEK 14,234 M (16,243) of the facilities had been drawn. See the distribu-
tion in the table below.
Credit facilities, maturity structure
GROUP 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total
Credit facilities, undrawn 250 1,560 — 2,510 4,320
Credit facilities, drawn 4,015 3,570 3,363 3,287 14,234
Credit facilities, total 4,265 5,130 3,363 5,797 18,554
The following table shows the contractual, non-discounted cash flows from 
the Group’s financial liabilities, divided according to the time remaining at the 
balance-sheet date until the contractual maturity date.
Maturity analysis
AT 31 DECEMBER 2020, 
GROUPLess than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Derivatives1 269 — — —
Borrowings 4,231 3,748 6,817 —
Accounts payable 569 — — —
Leases 111 308 — —
Contingent 
 considerations 491 — 2,836 11,259
Non-contingent 
 considerations 205 102 962 —
Total 5,875 4,159 10,615 11,259
AT 31 DECEMBER 2019, 
GROUPLess than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Derivatives1 60 — — —
Borrowings — 6,953 9,290 —
Accounts payable 681 — — —
Leases 99 320 — —
Contingent  considerations 464 — 2,221 —
Non-contingent 
 considerations 662 1,234 210
Total 1,966 8,508 11,721 —
1. Included in other liabilities, non-interest bearing in the balance sheet.
The liabilities in the table are presented at nominal value according to an 
assessment of the contracts at 31 December 2020. For information in the 
 balance sheet, see Note 26.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that Sobi would be adversely impacted by changes in 
interest rates, both on profits through changes in general interest rates and on 
instruments with fixed interest rates through changes in market values. 
Changes in market values are considered acceptable since Sobi’s general prin-
ciple is to minimise its earnings volatility. Sobi’s exposure to interest rate risk 
mainly occurs through external loans and cash.
Sobi’s financing sources primarily consist of equity, cash flow from operating 
activities and borrowings. Interest-bearing debt exposes the Group to interest 
rate risk. Loans are normally raised with a fixed-rate period of three months and 
at year-end, Sobi had a remaining fixed-rate period of one month.
The liabilities to Sanofi and AstraZeneca are non-interest bearing by agree-
ment, but are discounted in the accounts and therefore incur an interest 
expense in accounting. There were no fixed-income derivatives outstanding at 
the balance-sheet date.
Interest-rate sensitivity is measured by assuming a constant interest-rate 
change of 1 percentage point. At 31 December 2020, such a change would 
have had an annual impact of SEK 132 M (146) on net financial items. At 31 
December 2020, Sobi’s interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 14,152 M 
(16,141). The loans raised carry variable interest, which is deemed most favour -
able for Sobi.Note 3, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
603Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if a counterparty is unable to meet its obliga-
tions. Credit risk can be divided into credit risk in the form of accounts receiv-
able, and financial credit risk.
Sobi’s credit risk is mainly related to accounts receivable. At the bal-
ance-sheet date, these amounted to SEK 3,756 M (3,736), of which SEK 662 M 
(685) was overdue, see Note 22 for information about overdue accounts receiv-
able. Sobi’s customers are mainly large distributors with low credit risk, hospitals 
and government administrations, which means that these are largely funded by 
the government of each respective country. If Sobi judges that a receivable will 
not be paid, a provision is made for an expected credit loss in accordance with 
the principles described in Note 2. At 31 December 2020, these amounted to 
SEK 71 M (69). Only a very limited volume of accounts receivable have been 
pledged.
Credit rating reports are obtained for both distribution agreements and 
larger individual transactions, when the customer is not previously known or 
when other circumstances give rise to uncertainty regarding creditworthiness. 
The credit ratings must be obtained from a nationally recognised statistical rat-
ing organisation. A credit limit is set for every customer, and continuously mon-
itored and evaluated.
In its Treasury Policy, Sobi has established principles that limit the amount of 
exposure to financial credit risk per counterparty. To further limit financial 
credit risk, financial transactions are primarily conducted with counterparts 
with a high credit rating. Any surplus liquidity is invested in instruments with a 
low level of credit risk and a high level of liquidity. Investments are only permit-
ted in instruments issued by the Swedish Government and municipalities, or by 
banks, financial institutions and companies with a minimum credit rating of A from 
Standard & Poor’s, or an equivalent rating from another rating agency. A high level 
of liquidity means that investments can be converted into cash at any given time.
Capital risk
The goal of Sobi’s capital structure is to generate high shareholder returns, 
value for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure in 
order to keep cost of capital at a reasonable level. The capital structure can be 
adapted to the needs that arise by, for example, paying dividends to sharehold-
ers, repaying capital to shareholders, issuing new shares or repaying debts.
The Group’s equity/assets ratio forms the basis of the Group’s capital struc -
ture assessment. At 31 December 2020, the equity/assets ratio was as follows: 
GROUP 2020 2019
Equity 20,206 16,930
Total assets 48,283 45,658
Equity/assets ratio, % 41.8 37.1
Hedge accounting
As described above, Sobi uses currency derivatives and loans in foreign cur -
rency as hedging instruments to manage currency risk in future cash flows, and 
loans in foreign currency to limit the Group’s net assets and currency exposure 
in equity. Hedge accounting is applied to hedging relationships that meet the 
qualifying criteria and where Sobi considers hedge accounting appropriate.
There is an economic relationship in Sobi’s cash flow hedges and hedges of 
net investments, since these relate to foreign-exchange risk and hedging 
instruments and the hedged items are in the same currency. Sobi assesses 
hedge effectiveness at each hedge’s inception, and at every balance-sheet 
date. Sobi applies a hedge ratio of 1:1 if the underlying conditions are identical.
Sources of ineffectiveness:
• Difference or change in the hedging instrument’s settlement date and timing 
of the most probable cash flow in a cash flow hedge
• Changes to the hedged item’s amount
• A significant change in the hedging instrument’s counterparty’s credit risk 
In 2020, Sobi had no hedging relationships associated with fair value hedges. 
Sobi’s hedging relationships at the end of 2020 and their effects on profit or 
loss during the year are presented below. In 2020, Sobi’s total ineffectiveness 
was SEK 0 M (0). Note 3, cont.
Cash flow hedges 2020
CurrencyNominal value  
in MSEKHedging 
instrumentHedged 
item Hedged riskMaturity 
interval
EUR 335 BorrowingsHighest 
probable 
inflows of 
EURForeign- 
exchange 
risk (Avista) 2021–2023
USD 19Non- 
contingent 
consider -
ationHighest 
probable 
inflows of 
USDForeign- 
exchange 
risk (Avista) 2021
Cash flow hedges 2019
CurrencyNominal value  
in MSEKHedging 
instrumentHedged 
item Hedged riskMaturity 
interval
EUR 335 BorrowingsHighest 
probable 
inflows of 
EURForeign- 
exchange 
risk (Avista) 2021–2023
USD 89Non- 
contingent 
consider -
ationsHighest 
probable 
inflows of 
USDForeign- 
exchange 
risk (Avista) 2020–2021
Net investment hedges 2020
CurrencyNominal  
value in MSEKHedging instru-
mentsHedged 
item Hedged risk
USD 345Contingent 
 considerationsNet assets 
in USDForeign- 
exchange risk 
(Avista)
Net investment hedges 2019
CurrencyNominal  
value in MSEKHedging instru-
mentsHedged 
item Hedged risk
USD 137Contingent  
considerationNet 
assets  
in USDForeign- 
exchange risk 
(Avista)
In 2020 and 2019, no hedging relationships were discontinued prospectively. 
The change in the hedging reserve is presented in Note 25.
4  Significant accounting judgements, estimates  
and assumptions
Sobi makes estimates and assumptions about the future, and accounting 
judgements. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
entailing a considerable risk of material adjustments in the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the upcoming financial year are presented below. 
For significant accounting judgements regarding fair value, see Note 26.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
613
4ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS
Revenue
When revenue is recognised, each agreement is interpreted separately and Sobi 
makes an assessment of any obligations. Revenue is recognised when control 
has been transferred to the buyer, depending on the shipping terms. Revenue is 
calculated as invoiced gross revenue according to agreement less variable 
consideration corresponding to actual and estimated discounts to public and 
private customers, and pharmaceutical taxes. Since actual and final conditions 
for discounts and pharmaceutical taxes on sales in the current period are not 
always known at the balance-sheet date, some of the deductions from gross 
revenue are based on estimates. At 31 December2020, sales related accruals 
amounted to SEK 2,158 M (1,032). See Note 5 and Note 31. 
In addition, the likelihood of future economic rewards accruing to Sobi is 
assessed on the basis of several factors, including a customer’s payment history 
and credit rating. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be paid, a provision for 
credit loss is made in accordance with the principles described in Note 2.
Acquisitions
Business and asset acquisitions
For acquisitions, Sobi determines whether the transaction is a business combi-
nation or an asset acquisition. The assessment is made in accordance with IFRS 
3. Each acquisition is considered separately and, in some cases, Sobi applies the 
concentration test to simplify the determination of whether the transaction is 
an asset acquisition. At the end of 2020, Sobi had not completed any business 
acquisitions considered as an asset acquisition. 
Intangible assets
When intangible assets are acquired, including terms for additional consider -
ations contingent upon future events, usually related to the achievement of 
certain regulatory and commercial milestones, assessments and assumptions 
are made to determine the initial acquisition value (fair value of paid purchase 
price and future considerations). The value of future considerations is deter -
mined by totalling the payment obligations in connection with the acquisition, 
which are probability-weighted and discounted to present value at the acquisi-
tion date, and a corresponding amount is recognised as a separate financial lia-
bility. See Note 28 and under the heading of financial liabilities. 
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Intangible assets
Sobi’s intangible assets are essentially attributable to goodwill, product and 
marketing rights, and related development projects. Sobi’s goodwill is derived 
from the acquisition of Swedish Orphan, Dova and emapalumab. 
Goodwill
Sobi conducts regular goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with the 
principle described in Note 2. The recoverable amount of cash-generating 
units is determined by calculating their value in use. This calculation requires cer -
tain assumptions to be made. See Note 16. At 31 December 2020, Sobi’s goodwill 
amounted to SEK 5,873 M (6,678). Performed testing during 2020 showed no 
indication of impairment. 
Product and marketing rights
Certain assumptions are needed to assess the value of product and marketing 
rights, and related development projects. These are described in Note 16. 
Changes in these assumptions could have a material effect on the carrying 
amount of the asset. At 31 December 2020, Sobi’s product and marketing rights 
amounted to SEK 32,307 M (30,139). 
Sales forecast assumptions have a major impact on future value and are 
based on assumptions of underlying growth, future product development and 
expanded applications for the drug. For product development projects, 
assumptions about positive outcomes in clinical trials are a prerequisite for 
future value. These assumptions are probability-weighted. 
Product and marketing rights that are amortised are tested for impairment 
whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable. During the year, Gamifant and Doptelet were tested for impair -
ment due to the negative opinion adopted by the CHMP for emapalumab in 
Europe for treatment of primary HLH in children under 18 years of age, and the 
results from the phase 3 study with Doptelet (avatrombopaq) and its efficacy in the treatment of CIT, respectively. Testing showed no indication of impairment. 
Refer also to Note 16. Product marketing rights that have not yet been amor -
tised are tested, at least annually, for impairment in accordance with the princi-
ple described in Note 2.
For product and marketing rights that are amortised, the amortisation period 
ranges from 5–20 years and is adapted to the expected commercial useful life 
of each right. Sobi has assessed that these amortisations are attributable to the 
selling costs, since the intangible assets that are classified as product and mar -
keting rights primarily pertain to marketing rights, which means that Sobi can 
market or sell the products. Right of use is consumed over the asset’s useful life, 
which corresponds to the related product estimated useful life in the market. 
Research and development costs
Sobi conducts research and development in internal projects and jointly with 
external partners. In cases where Sobi carries out projects with an external 
partner and both parties share certain costs, the costs are estimated when the 
project commences. This cost is then used as a basis for settlement with the 
external partner. The calculation is assessed and updated regularly. In some 
collaboration agreements, Sobi agrees to pay contingent considerations. This 
consideration is balanced and recognised as licences and patents, or product 
and marketing rights. Amortisation does not commence until the project has 
reached commercialisation phase and meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intan-
gible Assets. Evaluation of the project’s progress and impairment testing are 
carried out as described under the heading of product and marketing rights. 
In 2020, impairment loss of SEK – M (–18) was related to the early -stage clinical 
programmes.
Costs for internal development and payments for projects and substances 
under agreement with third parties are expensed as incurred if they do not 
meet the requirements of IAS 38. Regulatory frameworks and uncertainty 
 usually mean that the criteria are not met. However, in cases where the require-
ments are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised according to 
plan. Capitalisation commences when Sobi can demonstrate that it is techni-
cally feasible and profitable to commercialise the results. 
Taxes
When preparing the financial statements, Sobi calculates the income tax for 
each tax jurisdiction in which Sobi operates, and deferred tax attributable to 
temporary differences. See Note 2.
Deferred tax assets mainly attributable to loss carry-forwards and temporary 
differences are recognised if the tax assets are expected to be recovered 
through future taxable profits in the various tax jurisdictions.
At the end of 2020, Sobi recognised deferred tax assets of SEK 611 M (354) 
and deferred tax liabilities of SEK 3,464 M (3,726). Non-capialised tax loss car -
ry-fowards amounted to SEK 2,708 M (2,212). Changes in estimates of future 
taxable profits, as well as changes in tax rates, could therefore have either a 
positive or negative effect on earnings when valuing deferred tax. See Note 20 
for more information about deferred taxes.
Financial liabilities
Contingent considerations
Sobi has financial liabilities related to contingent considerations attributable to 
business combinations and intangible assets acquired. At the end of 2020, rec -
ognised liability amounted to SEK 2,846 M (1,661) and total obligations 
amounted to SEK 14,587 M (2,685). The contingent considerations are usually 
related to future payments for the achievement of certain regulatory and com-
mercial milestones. Recognised liability is based on assumptions and estimates 
of the future potential payments, which are probability-weighted and dis-
counted. Sobi uses historical data for clinical and regulatory advancement to 
assess the probability that regulatory obligations will be achieved. Commercial 
milestones are usually tied to the achievement of various sales levels for the 
product. Sobi makes assumptions, which are probability-weighted, about the 
achievement of these levels based on sales revenue forecasts. The assumptions 
may change over time, as circumstances change due to new facts, which could 
lead to a significant change in the value of a recognised liability and its corre-
sponding intangible asset. For more information about accounting policies for 
financial liabilities related to contingent considerations, see Note 2. Also refer 
to Note 28 for more information about financial liabilities related to contingent 
considerations. Note 4, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
6245  Segment information and segment revenue
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Sobi’s activities are organised in three business areas – Haematology, 
Immunology and Specialty Care. As of 1 January 2020, the Group’s segment 
information will be based on these business areas.
Haematology segment: Revenue is generated from sales of Elocta, Alprolix 
and Doptelet. Revenue is also derived from manufacturing of the drug sub-
stance for ReFacto AF/Xyntha for Pfizer, and royalties on Sanofi’s sales of 
 Eloctate and Alprolix.
Immunology segment: Revenue is generated from sales of Kineret, Synagis 
and Gamifant.Specialty Care segment: Revenue is generated from sales of Orfadin, Kepivance 
and partner products in the Specialty Care portfolio.
The Group–other category mainly relates to costs for central functions such 
as finance, legal, communication, HR and other items that cannot be allocated 
per segment.
Revenue, EBITA and adjusted EBITA for each segment comprise their  
contribution to the Group’s revenue, EBITA and adjusted EBITA. No sales are 
conducted between the segments. The segments’ assets are measured in the 
same way as in the financial statements. These assets are distributed on the 
basis of the segment’s operations and the asset’s physical location.
GROUP 2020 Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – other Total
Revenue and EBITA per segment
Revenue 8,660 5,415 1,186 — 15,261
EBITA1 4,377 1,902 564 –143 6,700
Adjusted EBITA 3,978 1,902 564 –143 6,301
Amortisation/depreciation –652 –1,009 –179 –42 –1,882
Financial expenses — — — –602 –602
Financial income — — — 1 1
Profit/loss after financial items 3 725 893 385 –786 4,217
As sets
Goodwill 4,761 1,112 — — 5,873
Other intangible assets 10,512 21,507 701 198 32,918
Total intangible assets 15,274 22,619 701 198 38,791
GROUP 2019 Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – other Total
Revenue and EBITA per segment
Revenue 7,755 4,706 1,787 — 14,248
EBITA1 4,451 1,529 563 –610 5,933
Adjusted EBITA 4,451 1,529 563 –398 6,145
Amortisation/depreciation –228 –942 –181 –50 –1,401
Financial expenses — — — 5 5
Financial income — — — –291 –291
Profit/loss after financial items 4,223 587 382 –448 4,247
Assets
Goodwill 5,536 1,142 — — 6,678
Other intangible assets 11,961 17,762 857 153 30,735
Total intangible assets 17,497 18,904 857 153 37,412
1. EBITA 2020 excluding non-recurring items; other operating income related to reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. EBITA for 2019, excluding non-recurring items: transaction costs of SEK 92 M related 
to the acquisition of Dova, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M, and a gain of SEK 37 M from the divestment of SOBI005. 
GROUP 2020 2019
Haematology
Elocta 4,585 4,508
Alprolix 1,705 1,463
Royalties 1,301 1,373
Doptelet 587 34
Manufacturing 481 376
Total 8,660 7,755
Immunology
Kineret 2,079 1,571
Synagis 2,726 2,594
Gamifant 609 542
Total 5,415 4,706
Specialty Care
Specialty Care 1,186 1,787
Total 1,186 1,787
Total revenue 15,261 14,248GROUP 2020 2019
Revenue – Gross-To-Net
Product sales, gross 18,401 17,192
Contractual discounts –1,243 –832
Statutory discounts –3,849 –3,820
Tender-based discounts –77 –64
Product returns –44 –14
Cash discounts –47 –20
Total discounts –5,260 –4,750
Product sales, net 13,141 12,441
Manufacturing 481 376
Royalties 1,301 1,373
Milestone payment 87 —
Service fees 251 58
Total revenue 15,261 14,248noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
635Total contract liabilities
The table below shows the share of revenue recognised in relation to contract liabilities during the financial year, and the share of revenue recognised in relation to 
performance obligations satisfied in a prior financial year.
GROUPAccrued contractual 
and tender-based 
 discountsAccrued refunds based 
on government  
and regulatory  
price changes Accrued  
product returnsAccrued  
co-financingAccrued  
cash and  
other discounts Total
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2019 147 280 10 5 — 442
Reserves for current year 605 930 19 73 20 1,647
Adjusted reserves for prior years 1 –44 –2 –1 — –46
Payments –327 –623 –5 –38 –18 –1,011
Translation differences –2 3 0 0 0 93
Closing balance, 31 Dec 2019 424 546 22 38 2 1,032
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2020 424 546 22 38 2 1,032
Reserves for current year 854 2,169 44 103 6 3,176
Adjusted reserves for prior years –31 –34 0 –5 –2 –72
Payments –650 –1,026 –2 –105 –1 –1,784
Translation differences –36 –147 –7 –4 –0 –194
Closing balance, 31 Dec 2020 561 1,509 56 28 5 2,158
Revenue and assets by segment and geographic area
GROUP 2020Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – Other Total
RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assetsNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets
Europe 6,377 5,924 618 10,046 625 701 198  7,6201  16,868 
North America 586 9,350 4,509 12,574 388 — —  5,4832  21,924 
Rest of the world 396 — 288 — 173 — —  857 —
Other3 1,301 — 0 — — — —  1,301 —
Total 8,660 15,274 5,415 22,619 1,186 701 198 15,2614 38,791
GROUP 2019Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – Other Total
RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assetsNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets
Europe  6,037  10,299  501  5,671 930 857 153  7,4681  16,980
North America  34  7,198  4,046  13,233 506 — —  4,5862  20,431
Rest of the world  311 —  159  — 351 — —  821 —
Other3  1,373 — — — — — —  1,373 —
Total  7,755  17,497  4,706  18,904 1,787  857 153  14,2484,5  37,412
1. Sales revenue from external customers amounted to SEK 4,400 M (2,004) in France, SEK 1,445 M (1,254) in Germany, and to SEK 720 M (616) in Sweden. 
2. Sales revenue from external customers amounted to SEK 5,435 M (4,543) in the US. 
3. Other pertains to royalties derived from our haemophilia products that are not attributable to a specific region according to the distribution above. All royalties pertain to Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
4. Total sales revenue from external customers in other countries amounted to SEK 1,960 M (4,458). 
5. Sobi’s largest customer accounted for approximately 12 per cent (5) of sales in 2020. The customer was reported under the Immunology and Specialty Care segments. See also Note 22 for more information 
about Sobi’s customers.Note 5, cont.
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Revenue - Gross-To-Net
Product sales, gross 13,690 14,050
Contractual discounts –543 –487
Statutory discounts –1,211 –2,365
Total discounts –1,754 –2,852
Product sales, net 11,936 11,198
Manufacturing 481 376
Royalties 1,301 1,373
Service fees 251 45
Total revenue 13,968 12,991Group Parent Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
Total contract assets1  
Accounts receivable 3,756 3,736 731 2,402
Accrued royalties2 302 358 302 358
Total 4,058 4,094 1,033 2,760
1. For maturity structure and the year’s change, see Note 22.
2. Included in prepaid expenses and accrued income on the balance sheet.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
6456  Depreciation/amortisation and  
impairment of assets1
GROUP 2020 2019
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of asset
Licences and patents –38 –38
Product and marketing rights –1,779 –1,305
Capitalised costs –65 –39
Plant and machinery –17 –22
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings –18 –13
Right-of-use assets –102 –90
Other non-current assets –4 –2
Total –2,023 –1,508
Impairment by type of asset2
Licences and patents — –18
Plant and machinery — –32
Right-of-use assets — –30
Total — –80
Total depreciation/amortisation and impairment 
by type of asset –2,023 –1,588
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of function
Cost of goods sold –36 –34
Selling and administrative expenses –1,974 –1,445
Research and development expenses –13 –28
Total –2,023 –1,508
Impairment by type of function2
Cost of goods sold — –16
Selling and administrative expenses — –18
Research and development expenses — –47
Total — –80
Total depreciation/amortisation and  
impairment by type of function –2,023 –1,588Note 5, cont.
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Revenue by geographic area1
Europe 2  7,174  6,677 
North America3  4,799  4,266 
Rest of the world  694  675 
Other4  1,301  1,373 
Total  13,968  12,991 
1. The geographic distribution is based on where the customer is located.
2. Sales in Sweden amounted to SEK 720 M (616).
3. Sales revenue from external customers in the US amounted to SEK 1,247 M (2,594).
4.  Other pertains to royalties derived from our haemophilia products that are not attributable to a 
specific region according to the distribution above. All royalties pertain to Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate 
and Alprolix.PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of asset
Licences and patents –1 –3
Product and marketing rights –262 –262
Capitalised costs –65 –39
Plant and machinery –13 –19
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings –6 –7
Other non-current assets –1 –1
Total –347 –331
Impairment by type of asset2
Licences and patents — –18
Plant and machinery — –32
Total — –50
Total depreciation/amortisation and impairment 
by type of asset –347 –381
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of function
Cost of goods sold –12 –11
Selling and administrative expenses –336 –312
Research and development expenses 0 –8
Total –347 –331
Impairment by type of function2
Cost of goods sold — –16
Selling and administrative expenses — –18
Research and development expenses — –17
Total — –50
Total depreciation/amortisation and impairment 
by type of function –347 –381
1. See Note 16 and 17 for further information.
2. For 2019, impairment losses pertained to one of the early-stage clinical programmes  
as well as tangible assets and right-of-use assets for properties used in early-stage R&D, since 
these were discontinued in 2019. 
7  Other operating income
GROUP 2020 2019
Remeasurement contingent consideration1 399 —
Expenses re-invoiced to partners — 8
Disposal of early-stage clinical programme — 46
Other 2 14
Total 401 68
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Expenses re-invoiced to Group companies 95 —
Expenses re-invoiced to partners — 8
Exchange-rate gains2 1 8
Disposal of early-stage clinical programme — 46
Total 96 62
1. Reversal of the CVR liability related to the acquisition of Dova in 2019, see Note 33 for more 
information.
2. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net as other operating income or other operating expense. 
In 2020, exchange rate effects generated a loss of SEK –42 M (–7) for the Group. For the Parent 
Company, exchange rate effects generated a gain of SEK 1 M (8), see Note 8.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
655
6
78  Other operating expenses
GROUP 2020 2019
Exchange-rate losses1 –42 –7
Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets –2 –12
Other 0 0
Total –44 –18
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets — –10
Total — –10
1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net as other operating income or other operating expense. 
In 2020, exchange rate effects generated a loss of SEK –42 M (–7) for the Group. For the Parent 
Company, exchange rate effects generated a gain of SEK 1 M (8), see Note 7.
9  Leases
Sobi holds leases for various types of objects, mainly properties and vehicles. 
The term of property leases is normally between 2 and 10 years, while vehicle 
leases are normally between 36 and 48 months. Options to extend or terminate 
are included in the lease contracts for several of Sobis properties, and are 
accounted for in the Group’s assessment of whether it is reasonably certain to 
exercise these options. Most contracts also include clauses related to the 
indexation of future rental costs, which are continuously accounted for. Service 
components are not included in capitalised amounts in accordance with IFRS 
16. The same applies to other variable costs, such as electricity and heating, 
where the costs are based on the actual use of the properties.
Sobi also has several leases that are short-term or low-value. The Group 
applies the exemption for short-term and low-value leases, which essentially 
comprise copying machines, printers and computers. 
Sobi recognises right-of-use assets under a lease contract as tangible assets 
on the balance sheet, see below for the recognised amounts and activities for 
the period:
GROUP Properties Cars Total
At 1 January 2019 394 18 412
Addition1 77 25 102
Depreciation and impairment2 –110 –10 –120
Divestments and disposals 0 –2 –2
Translation differences 2 0 3
At 31 December 2019 364 31 395
Addition 96 25 121
Depreciation and impairment –83 –18 –102
Divestments and disposals 0 –2 –2
Translation differences –3 0 –4
At 31 December 2020 373 36 409
1. Of additional right-of-use assets of SEK 102 M in 2019, acquisitions accounted for SEK 10 M.
2.  2019 includes an impairment loss of SEK 30 M on right-of-use premises related to premises 
previously used for early-stage R&D, which the company discontinued in 2019.
Sobi recognises lease liabilities under separate headings on the balance sheet – 
non-current liabilities and current liabilities. See table for amounts recognised 
and activities for the period:GROUP 2020 2019
At 1 January 419 393 
Addition 119 113
Accumulated interest 7 6
Payments –118 –94
Translation differences –8 2
At 31 December 419 419
Non-current 308 320
Current  111 99
For a maturity analysis of lease liabilities, refer to Note 3.
The following amounts were recognised in profit or loss:
GROUP 2020 2019
Depreciation and impairment of right-of-use 
assets1 –102 –120
Interest expense on lease liabilities –7 –6
Costs attributable to short-term leases –9 –6
Costs attributable to low-value leases –1 –1
Costs attributable to variable lease payments not 
included in the measurement of the lease liability –1 –
Total amount recognised in profit or loss –120 –133
Amounts recognised in the cash flow statement
Amortisation of lease liability –118 –94
Short term leases –9 –6
Low value leases –1 –1
Variable lease payments not included in the 
measurement of the lease liability –1 –
Total cash flow –129 –101
1. 2019 includes an impairment loss of SEK 30 M on right-of-use premises related to premises 
previously used for early-stage R&D, which the company discontinued in 2019.
During the year, the Group did not derive any benefits from right-of-use assets 
in a sublease, nor any gains or losses from sale and leaseback transactions.
The Parent Company, which prepares its accounts in accordance with RFR 2, 
applies the exemption to recognising assets and liabilities for assets as a legal 
entity. See the table below for lease payments.
FUTURE MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS
Contracted future rental payments for premises  
related to non-terminable contracts fall due:
Parent Company
2020 2019
Within 1 year 61 60
Between 1–5 years 218 226
Later than 5 years 27 —
Total 306 286
Rental payments for the year 60 61
Other contracted future minimum lease payments  
related to non-terminable contracts fall due:
Parent Company
2020 2019
Within 1 year 0 0
Between 1–5 years — —
Later than 5 years — —
Total 0 0
Lease payments for the year 0 0
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
668
910  Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of Board members and senior executives
No. of employees1
GROUP 2020of whom  
women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
% 2019of whom  
women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
%
US 444 57 43 414 58 42
Sweden 438 64 36 435 66 34
Switzerland 148 64 36 128 66 34
Germany 80 56 44 51 59 41
UK 62 52 48 47 44 56
France 61 61 39 55 64 36
Italy 56 46 54 46 54 46
Spain/Portugal 44 66 34 37 63 37
United Arab 
 Emirates 34 41 59 27 22 78
Central and 
 Eastern Europe 30 49 51 25 49 51
Russia 22 77 23 4 75 25
Belgium/ 
Netherlands 21 41 59 22 45 55
Denmark 14 71 29 15 67 33
China 12 100 0 — — —
Canada 11 45 55 6 33 67
Austria 10 62 38 6 46 54
Finland/Baltics 7 57 43 8 50 50
Greece 7 71 29 4 75 25
Japan 6 50 50 — — —
Norway 4 75 25 5 80 20
Total 1,509 59 41 1,335 60 40
1. At 31 December 2020, the number of full-time employees was 1,509 people, while the number  of 
employees at the same date was 1,568.
Gender composition of the Board and management
The information in the table does not include the employee representatives. 
The information refers to the conditions at the balance-sheet date.
GROUP 2020 2019
Board
Men 4 5
Women 3 3
Total 7 8
CEO and other senior executives
Men 8 8
Women 2 3
Total 10 11
59% 41%GENDER COMPOSITION EMPLOYEESSalaries, other remuneration and social security costs
2020 2019
GROUP AND  
PARENT COMPANYSalaries and 
remunera-
tionSocial secu-
rity costsSalaries and 
remunera-
tionSocial 
 security 
costs
Parent Company 477 250 577 273
(of which pension expense) — (72) — (103)
Subsidiaries 1,773 276 1,171 202
(of which pension expense) — (96) — (58)
Group, total 2,250 526 1,748 475
(of which pension expense) — (168) — (161)
Salaries and other remuneration divided between Board members,  
the CEO and other employees
2020 2019
Board  
and CEOOther 
employeesBoard  
and CEOOther 
employees
Parent Company
Salaries and other 
 remuneration 24 453  24 553
(of which bonus) (8) (61)  (8) (67)
Subsidiaries
Salaries and other 
 remuneration — 1,773  — 1,171
(of which bonus) — (435) — (239)
Group, total 24 2,226  24 1,724
(of which bonus) (8) (496) (8) (306)
Guidelines and remuneration 2020
The 2020 AGM resolved on remuneration guidelines for the company’s senior 
executives as set forth below, that will apply until the 2024 AGM.
The members of the Executive Committee of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ) (‘the company’ or ‘Sobi’) fall within the provisions of these guidelines. 
The guidelines also cover any remuneration of Board members, except fees 
resolved by the AGM1. The guidelines are forward-looking, i.e. they are applica-
ble to remuneration agreed, and amendments to remuneration already agreed, 
following adoption of the guidelines by the 2020 AGM. These guidelines do not 
apply to any remuneration decided or approved by the AGM.
The guidelines’ promotion of the Company’s business strategy, long-term 
interests and sustainability
At Sobi we are transforming the lives of people affected by rare diseases. As a 
specialised international biopharmaceutical company, we provide access to 
innovative therapies in the areas of Haematology, Immunology and Specialty 
Care. We bring something rare to rare diseases – a belief in the strength of 
focus, the power of agility and the potential of the people we are dedicated to 
serving.
Sobi’s vision is to be recognised as a global leader in providing innovative 
treatments that transform lives for individuals with rare diseases.
Sobi aim to have a strong correlation between Sobi’s compensation ele-
ments, the long-term strategy and sustainability. To support our vision, we 
also have performance measures such as growth and profitability as we aim to 
create long-term sustainable value for people with rare diseases, shareholders, 
employees and other stakeholders.
For more information about the company’s business strategy, see  
www.sobi.com.
A prerequisite for the successful implementation of the company’s business 
strategy and safeguarding of its long-term interests, including sustainability, 
is that the company is able to recruit and retain highly qualified personnel. As 
an international company, Sobi employs the majority of its personnel outside 
Sweden. Remuneration of the Executive Committee is designed on a total 
1. Any remuneration of Board members, except fees adopted by the General Meeting,  
may only consist of consultancy fees.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
6710Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, KSEK
2020 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chair of the Board
Håkan Björklund 1,610 1,610
Other Board members 
David Allsop2  193 193
Annette Clancy 610 610
Matthew Gantz 578 578
Lennart Johansson 650 650
Helena Saxon 650 650
Hans GCP Schikan2 227 227
Staffan Schüberg2 403 403
Elisabeth Svanberg 560 560
Executive Committee, 2020
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,625 8,126 2,840 12,4635 33,054
Other senior executives (9–10 people)3, 4 43,433 18,598 6,687 3,167 19,2675 91,152
Total 58,539 26,724 9,527 3,167 31,730 129,687
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, which consisted of nine people in addition to the CEO at 31 December 2020. Additional people were included in management during the 
year. The remuneration of all members of the Executive Committee during the year is included in the table. For information about changes in management, see the Directors’ Report. The table shows the 
company’s costs (excluding social security contributions). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report.
2. At the AGM on 13 May, David Allsop and Hans GCP Schikan stepped down from their positions as ordinary Board members, and Staffan Schüberg was appointed new ordinary Board member.
3. Base salary, variable pay, pension and other benefits include severance pay of KSEK 8,731 to former senior executives, according to agreement. 
4. Henrik Stenqvist was appointed Deputy CEO in 2018. During the financial year 2020, he did not act as Deputy CEO, so his remuneration is included among other senior executives.
5. The year’s cost for Sobi is not to be equated with employee benefits.
Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, KSEK
2019 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chair of the Board
Håkan Björklund 1,542 1,542
Other Board members 
David Allsop  585 585
Annette Clancy 632 632
Matthew Gantz 677 677
Lennart Johansson 630 630
Helena Saxon 627 627
Hans GCP Schikan 677 677
Elisabeth Svanberg 585 585
Executive Committee, 2019
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,524 8,385 2,781 0 12 7224 33,412
Other senior executives (10–12 people)2, 3 43,840 18,225 5,796 5 7015 8 1624 81,727
Total 59,319 26,610 8,577 5,701 20,884 121,092
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, which consisted of ten people in addition to the CEO at 31 December 2019. Additional people were included in management during the year. 
The remuneration of all members of the Executive Committee during the year is included in the table. For information about changes in management, see the Directors’ Report. The table shows  
the company’s costs (excluding social security contributions). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report.
2. Base salary and other benefits include severance pay of KSEK 4,951 to former senior executives, according to agreement. 
3. Henrik Stenqvist was appointed Deputy CEO in 2018. During the financial year 2019, he did not act as Deputy CEO, so his remuneration is included among other senior executives.
4. The year’s cost for Sobi is not to be equated with employee benefits.
5. Other benefits includes costs for relocation to senior executives.Note 10, cont.
remuneration approach. The position of total remuneration should be market 
competitive relative to competitors in each local market. The market compar -
isons should be made against a set of peer Group companies with comparable 
sizes, industries and complexity. The remuneration guidelines shall enable 
international hiring and support diversity within the Executive Committee. 
Employment contracts governed by rules other than Swedish may be duly 
adjusted to ensure compliance with mandatory rules or established market 
practice, taking into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of 
these guidelines.Types of remuneration
The remuneration shall be on market terms and may consist of the following 
components: fixed base salary, variable pay, pension benefits and other ben-
efits. Additionally, the AGM may, irrespective of these guidelines, resolve on, 
among other things, share-related or share price-related remuneration. The 
components are presented below.
Base salary
The fixed base salary of the Executive Committee shall be based on compe-
tence, responsibility, and performance. The Company uses an international 
evaluation system to evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
6810Variable pay
The annual short-term incentive plan shall be based on the achievement of 
predetermined and measurable annual financial (75 per cent) and non-financial 
objectives (25 per cent). The annual financial objectives shall be related to 
targets promoting growth and profitability (annual revenues and EBITA1). 
The annual financial objectives are recommended by the Compensation and 
Benefits Committee and approved by the Board. The annual non-financial 
objectives are related to strategic and business development goals as defined 
and approved according to the grandparent-manager principle.
The objectives are determined for the promotion of the Company’s business 
strategy, long-term development (including its sustainability), value creation 
and financial growth and shall be designed in a way that encourages compliant 
behaviour. The maximum annual short-term Incentive may vary but shall not 
amount to more than 100 per cent of the annual gross fixed base pay. To which 
extent the criteria for awarding annual short-term incentive has been satisfied 
shall be evaluated and determined by the Board upon the recommendation 
from the Compensation and Benefits Committee.
Further variable pay may also be paid out in extraordinary circumstances, 
provided that such arrangement is of a one-time nature and is agreed on an 
individual basis for management recruitment or retention purposes or as com-
pensation for extraordinary efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary assignment. 
Such compensation shall be in line with market practice and may for example 
include a one-time cash payment, retention bonus or severance payment in 
case of a change of control, or similar. The compensation shall not exceed 
the amount of the gross fixed base pay for three (3) years and shall not be paid 
more than once a year per individual. Resolutions on such compensation shall 
be made by the Board based on a proposal from the Compensation & Benefits 
Committee.
Long-term incentives
Long-term share-related incentive plans have been implemented in the 
Company. Such plans are proposed by the Board and presented to the AGM for 
approval and are therefore excluded from these guidelines. The performance 
criteria used to assess the outcome of the long- term share-related incentive 
plan for the Executive Committee are distinctly linked to the business strategy 
and thereby to the Company’s long-term value creation. For more information 
about the Company’s long-term share-related incentive plans, including the 
criteria which the outcome depends on, see www.sobi.com.
Pension and benefits
The company’s preferred type of pension plan is defined contribution2. If the 
operating environment requires the establishment of a defined benefit pension 
plan under mandatory collective agreement provisions, law, or other regula-
tions, such a plan may be established. The defined benefit level should in such 
cases be limited to the mandatory level.
The pension premiums or allowance for pension shall amount to not more 
than 40 per cent of the member’s pensionable salary, which may include a 
capped level of the variable pay to the extent required by mandatory collective 
agreement provisions.
Other benefits may include, for example, life insurance, health insurance, 
medical insurance, and company cars. Premiums and other costs relating to 
such benefits shall be based on market practice but amount to no more than 
20 per cent of the annual gross fixed base pay.
Executives who are expatriates to or from Sweden may receive additional 
remuneration and other benefits, such as a support package including reloca-
tion and tax filing support as well as tax equalization, to the extent reasonable 
in light of the special circumstances associated with the expat arrangement, 
taking into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of these guide-
lines. Such benefits may not in total exceed 40 per cent of the annual gross 
fixed base pay.
Termination of employment
The notice period may not exceed twelve (12) months. Fixed base salary during 
notice period and severance pay, including payments for any restrictions on 
competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent to the gross fixed 
base salary for two (2) years.Consultancy fees to Board members
The members of the Board elected by the general meeting may receive 
consultancy fees for services provided to the Company. Such services must 
contribute to the Company’s business strategy and long-term interests, includ-
ing its sustainability, and may not relate to regular board work. Any consultancy 
fee shall be based on market terms and may for each member of the Board not 
exceed the annual remuneration for the board assignment. The above applies 
correspondingly to services performed by a wholly-owned company of a 
member of the Board.
Salary and employment terms for employees
In the preparation of the Board’s proposal for these remuneration guidelines, 
salary and employment conditions for employees of the Company have been 
taken into account. Information on the employees’ total remuneration, the 
components of the remuneration and increase and growth rate over time, have 
been included in the Compensation & Benefits Committee’s and the Board’s 
basis of decision when evaluating whether the guidelines and the limitations set 
out herein are reasonable.
Decision process to determine, review and implement the guidelines
The Board has established a Compensation & Benefits Committee. The com-
mittee’s tasks include preparing the Board’s decision to propose guidelines for 
remuneration to the Executive Committee. The Board shall prepare a proposal 
for new guidelines at least every fourth year and present it to the AGM. The 
guidelines shall be in force until new guidelines are adopted by the general 
meeting. The Compensation & Benefits Committee shall also monitor and 
evaluate programs for variable remuneration for the Executive Committee, the 
application of these guidelines as well as the current remuneration structures 
and compensation levels in the Company. The members of the Compensation 
& Benefits Committee are independent of the Company and the Executive 
Committee. The CEO and other members of the Executive Committee do not 
participate in the Board of Directors’ processing of and resolutions regarding 
remuneration-related matters in so far as they are affected by such matters.
Deviation from the guidelines
The Board may temporarily resolve to derogate from these guidelines, in whole 
or in part, if in a specific case there is special cause for the derogation and a 
derogation is necessary to serve the Company’s long-term interests, including 
its sustainability, or to ensure the Company’s financial viability. As set out above, 
the Compensation & Benefits Committee’s tasks include preparing the Board’s 
resolutions in remuneration-related matters. This includes any resolutions to 
derogate from these guidelines.
Senior executives’ employment terms and remuneration
Sobi aims to offer market-based terms, which enables the company to recruit 
and retain competent personnel.
Remuneration of AGM-elected Board members is paid in accordance with a 
resolution adopted by the 2020 AGM. No pensions are paid to Board members. 
The CEO’s remuneration is reviewed and proposed by the Chair of the 
Board together with the Compensation & Benefits Committee and approved 
by the Board. Remuneration of other members of the Executive Committee is 
proposed by the CEO in close cooperation with the Compensation & Benefits 
Committee and approved by the Board. Remuneration of the CEO and other 
senior executives consists of base salary, variable pay in the short and long 
term, other benefits and pensions. Other senior executives refers to those 
individuals who together with the CEO form the Executive Committee. 
Base salary
Each senior executive’s area of responsibility, experience and performance 
is taken into account when determining the base salary. The base salary is 
reviewed every year.
Short-term variable pay
For the CEO, short-term variable pay in 2020 was capped at 100 per cent of 
annual gross salary. Variable pay was based on financial and non-financial tar -
gets set by the Board. For other senior executives, short-term variable pay was Note 10, cont.
1. Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
2. A defined-contribution pension plan determines a percentage level of the employee’s annual gross 
base salary as the contribution paid into the pension plan for each employee.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
6910capped at 60 per cent of base salary and based on financial and non-financial 
targets. The expected outcome is reviewed continuously throughout the year 
and reserves are adjusted monthly. The outcome of variable pay is assessed on 
each reporting date. 
Retirement benefits
The CEO is entitled to a defined-contribution pension solution amounting to 
30 per cent of base salary. In 2020, Sobi paid out a premium of KSEK 2,840. The 
retirement age is 65 years.
Other senior executives employed in Sweden are covered by the ITP plan with 
a retirement age at 65. They are also covered by a supplementary defined-con-
tribution pension obligation of 27 per cent of pensionable salary, including ITP. 
Incentive programmes
Sobi had four active share programmes at the balance-sheet date. To partic -
ipate in the share programmes, employees must be permanently employed. 
All programmes run for three years. The company also has three active cash-
based programmes for employees in the US. The 2017, 2018 and 2019 pro-
grammes run for four years, while the 2020 programme runs for three years.
Long-term incentive programmes 
The 2017–2020 AGMs adopted the Board’s proposal to establish long-term 
incentive programmes. The aim has been to create long-term commitment to 
Sobi, to offer participants the opportunity to share in Sobi’s long-term success 
and value creation, and to enable the company to attract and retain senior 
executives and senior managers. The company’s long-term share-based remu-
neration programmes are described below.
The share programmes for 2017–2020 are structured according to similar 
principles. 
The programmes have a three-year vesting period.
The programmes for the employees require a personal investment in Sobi 
shares, and matching shares may be allotted free of consideration. 
The management programmes require no personal investment in Sobi shares, 
but performance shares are only allotted if the programme criteria are met. 
The number of performance shares that employees are entitled to receive 
differs according to the organisational level.
One requirement for all programmes is that the employee must be per -
manently employed throughout the entire vesting period and, in the case of 
investment shares, that these are retained throughout the entire vesting period.
The performance targets for the management programme are that the 
share price increases by a certain percentage over a three-year period, and that 
actual annual sales during the vesting period meet or exceed the budget for 
annual sales.
The 2019 and 2020 AGM resolved to introduce a share and share option 
programme for senior executives, comprising 50 per cent performance shares 
and 50 per cent share options. The performance targets for the share option 
programme are a strike price of 105 per cent and that actual average sales must 
meet or exceed the budgets for the financial years during the vesting period. 
The relevant employees and how performance targets are formulated differ 
between the programmes. 
2017 Share Programmes (paid in 2020)
The 2017 Share Programmes expired in 2020. For 2017, the Board resolved that 
91.82 per cent of the following performance and other vesting conditions had 
been achieved when the 2017 Share Programme for the CEO, senior executives 
and managers was redeemed on 19 May 2020. In the programme for senior 
executives and managers, 562,425 shares with a market value of SEK 119.7 M 
were allotted. For 60 per cent of the maximum number of performance shares, 
the performance target was a 15–50 per cent increase in the share price, 
adjusted for any dividends. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price 
is below 15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment of performance shares for 
15–50 per cent. The performance was 86.37 per cent. For a maximum allot-
ment of the remaining 40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual reve-
nue during the vesting period must meet or exceed the budget for the annual 
revenue. The performance target was achieved for 2017, 2018 and 2019. In the 
all employee programme, 37,313 shares with a market value of SEK 7.5 M were allotted. Participants in the programme were allotted two matching shares for 
each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching shares, programme 
participants must have retained the saving shares they have acquired.
2017 Cash-based Programme (expired in 2020, paid out in 2021)
The 2017 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employees 
in the US and Canada. The programme consisted of two components: a time-
based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per 
cent) based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) were that the share price should 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The other performance 
target (50 per cent) was that sales in North America had to be at least 95 per 
cent per year in relation to the budget over a four-year period. The programme 
expired in 2020 and the outcome for share price performance was 0 per cent, 
while the outcome for sales was achieved. 
2018 Share Programme
The 2018 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Par -
ticipation in the programme for other employees requires personal investment 
in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management pro-
gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price 
performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, 
the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 
at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased 
by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line allot-
ment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 40 per 
cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting period 
must meet or exceed the budgets for the annual revenue. The performance 
target was achieved for 2018, 2019 and 2020. The maximum possible allotment 
of shares is 656,325. Participants in the all emplyee programme are allotted two 
matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching 
shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have 
acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 34,650. 
During the roll-out of the 2018 Share Programme, a number of employees 
were insiders and not therefore eligible to participate in the programme. In 
light of this, the Board approved the roll-out of LTI 2018B for these employees 
and new employees since the roll-out of LTI 2018A. The maximum possible 
allotment of shares in the management programme is 21,551, and 3,434 in the 
all employee programme.
2018 Share Programme
Number 
of perfor-
mance sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue  
in KSEK
CEO and other senior executives 
in the Group (7) 224,901 — 27,253
Total 224,901 — 27,253
2018 Cash-based Programme
The 2018 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employ-
ees in the US and Canada. The programme consists of two components: a 
time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component 
(50 per cent) based on two performance targets. The first performance target 
(50 per cent) is that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent over 
a four-year period. The other performance target (50 per cent) is that sales in 
North America must be at least 95 per cent per year in relation to the budget 
over a four-year period.
2019 Share Programme
The 2019 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Par -
ticipation in the programme for other employees requires personal investment 
in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. Note 10, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7010After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management pro-
gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price 
performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, 
the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 
at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased 
by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line allot-
ment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 40 per 
cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting period 
must meet or exceed the budgets for the annual revenue. The performance 
target was achieved for 2019 and 2020. The maximum possible allotment of 
shares is 742,951. Participants in the all employee programme are allotted two 
matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching 
shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have 
acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 38,998.
2019 Share Programme
Number 
of perfor-
mance sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue  
in KSEK
CEO and other senior executives 
in the Group (9) 197,766 — 21,764
Total 197,766 — 21,764
2019 Share Option Programme
In May 2019, the AGM resolved that, in addition to the right to a long-term share 
programme, a share option programme would be launched in accordance with 
the Board’s proposal covering the CEO and a maximum of 15 members of the 
Sobi Group’s Executive Committee, and 15 pre-selected key individuals in the 
Sobi Group. The programme comprises 25 people. The total number of options 
issued was 1,454,718. The vesting period is three years, followed by a two-year 
redemption period. One condition for the granting of options is a strike price 
of SEK 180.65, corresponding to 105 per cent of the volume-weighted average 
price for the Sobi share (SEK 172.05). In addition, the performance target must 
be met – that the Sobi Group’s actual average sales meet or exceed the Sobi 
Group’s target for average sales in the budget determined by the Board during 
the vesting period. 
The maximum value per share that may be obtained through the redemption 
of share options is limited to an amount that is five times the strike price. Should 
the share value exceed this level, the conditions must be recalculated. In the 
programme, those employees qualifying for options in Sweden may request 
that their share options be settled by the company making a cash payment 
corresponding to the excess amount of the closing price for the shareholders, 
compared with the strike price on the redemption date less any administrative 
expenses. Due to the possibility of such a choice for employees in Sweden, 
share options are classified as settled in cash for accounting purposes, in 
accordance with IFRS 2.
2019 Cash-based Programme
The 2019 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employ-
ees in the US and Canada. The programme consists of two components: a 
time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component 
(50 per cent) based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The other performance 
target (50 per cent) is that sales in North America must be at least 95 per cent 
per year in relation to the budget over a four-year period.2020 Share Programme
The 2020 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and one programme for other employees. 
Participation in the programme for other employees requires personal invest-
ment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the management pro-
gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price 
performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, 
the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 
at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased 
by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line 
allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 
40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting 
period must meet or exceed the budgets for the annual revenue. The per -
formance target was achieved for 2020. The maximum possible allotment of 
shares is 794,110. Participants in the all employee programme are allotted two 
matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching 
shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have 
acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 51,446.
During the roll-out of the 2020 Share Programme, a number of employees 
were insiders and not therefore eligible to participate in the programme. In view 
of the legal obstacles to participation in the programme, the Board decided to 
establish a long-term cash-based incentive programme instead.
2020 Share Programme
Number 
of perfor-
mance sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue  
in KSEK
CEO and other senior executives 
in the Group (9) 174,750 — 23,230
Total 174,750 — 23,230
2020 Share Option Programme
The AGM in May 2020 resolved that, in addition to the right to a long-term 
share programme, a share option programme would be launched in accor -
dance with the Board’s proposal covering the CEO and a maximum of 15 
members of the Sobi Group’s Executive Committee, and 15 pre-selected key 
individuals in the Sobi Group. The programme comprises 24 people. The total 
number of options issued was 1,363,514. The vesting period is three years, 
followed by a two-year redemption period. One condition for the granting of 
options is a strike price of SEK 213.86, corresponding to 105 per cent of the 
volume-weighted average price for the Sobi share (SEK 203.68). In addition, 
the performance target must be met– that the Sobi Group’s actual average 
sales meet or exceed the Sobi Group’s target for average sales in the budget 
determined by the Board during the vesting period. 
The maximum value per share that may be obtained through the redemption 
of share options is limited to an amount that is three times the strike price. 
Should the share value exceed this level, the conditions must be recalculated. 
In the programme, those employees qualifying for options in Sweden may 
request that their share options be settled by the company making a cash 
payment corresponding to the excess amount of the closing price for the 
shareholders, compared with the strike price on the redemption date less any 
administrative expenses. Due to the possibility of such a choice for employees 
in Sweden, share options are classified as settled in cash for accounting pur -
poses, in accordance with IFRS 2.
2020 Cash-based Programme
The 2020 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employ-
ees in the US and Canada. The programme consists of two components: a 
time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component 
(50 per cent) based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perfor -
mance target (50 per cent) is that sales in North America must be at least 95 per 
cent in relation to the budget over a three-year period.Note 10, cont.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7110Expensing of the 2018–2020 Share Programmes is calculated using the following parameters:
Start date End dateNumber of 
matching 
sharesNumber of 
 performance 
sharesService, 
in monthsFair value of  
matching  
shareFair value of  
performance 
share2Fair value of  
performance 
share3Expected  
employee 
turnover, %Max. 
allotment  
of shares1Forfeited 
shares in 
2020
2018 Share  Programme: 
All Employee 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 34,650 n/a 36 184.32 n/a n/a 7 34,650 2,408
2018 Share  Programme:  
Management 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 n/a 656,325 36 n/a 79.75 184.32 7 656,325 33,762 
2018B Share Programme:  
All Employee 1 Nov 2018 1 Nov 2021 3,434 n/a 36 185.6 n/a n/a 7 3,434 252
2018B Share Programme: 
Management 1 Nov 2018 1 Nov 2021 n/a 21,551 36 n/a 66.92 185.6 7 21,551 1,817
2019 Share  Programme:  
All Employee 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 38,998 n/a 36 179.26 n/a n/a 7 38,998 2,552
2019 Share  Programme:  
Management 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 n/a 742,951 36 n/a 67.75 173.5 7 742,951 46,977
2020 Share  Programme:  
All Employee 28 May 2020 28 May 2023 51,446 n/a 36 200.49 n/a n/a 7 51,446 206
2020 Share Programme:  
Management 28 May 2020 28 May 2023 n/a 794,110 36 n/a 85.77 203.68 7 794,110 35,874
1. At 31 December 2020, there were 2,343,465 shares outstanding in the share programmes amounting to a theoretic value of SEK 294 M, representing a market value of SEK 389 M.
2. Fair value of performance shares related to share price performance, see under 2018, 2019 and 2020 Share Programmes above.
3. Fair value of performance shares related to revenue, see under 2018, 2019 and 2020 Share Programmes above.
Volatility is measured as the standard deviation of the expected return on the share price, based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices for Sobi’s ordinary share 
over the past three years.Note 10, cont.
11  Remuneration of auditors
GROUP 2020 2019
EY
Auditing assignments1 –8 –9
Audit activities in addition to the auditing 
 assignment 0 –1
Tax consultancy — 0
Other services 0 0
Total EY –9 –10
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
EY
Auditing assignments1 –3 –4
Audit activities in addition to the auditing 
 assignment 0 –1
Tax consultancy — 0
Other services 0 0
Total EY –4 –5
1. Auditing assignment refers to the statutory audit in order to submit an auditor’s report and provide 
audit advice. 
12  Costs according to type of cost
GROUP 2020 2019
Raw materials and consumables –2,778 –2,962
Other external costs –3,044 –2,763
Employee benefit costs –2,965 –2,452
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –2,013 –1,588
Other operating expenses –44 –18
Total –10,844 –9,783
1. Increase in depreciation/amortisation during the year is due to assets acquired in 2019.PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Raw materials and consumables –2,759 –2,831
Other external costs –4,380 –4,404
Employee benefit costs –755 –891
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment –337 –381
Other operating expenses — –10
Total –8,230 –8,517
The above costs correspond to: Cost of goods sold, selling and administrative 
expenses, research and development expenses and other operating expenses 
in the income statement classified by function of expense.
13  Financial income
GROUP 2020 2019
Interest income 1 5
Total 1 5
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Interest income, Group companies 486 346
Interest income, other 0 2
Exchange-rate gains1 177 —
Total 663 348
1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2020, generated a gain in the Parent Company 
and a loss in the Group. In 2019, this item was a loss in both the Parent Company and the Group. 
See also Note 14.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7210
11
12
1314  Financial expenses
GROUP 2020 2019
Interest expense, borrowings –330 –182
Interest expense, other1 –124 –59
Exchange-rate losses2 –115 –31
Management costs –32 –18
Other –1 –1
Total –602 –291
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Interest expense, Group companies –38 –11
Interest expense, borrowings –330 –184
Interest expense, other1 –69 –30
Exchange-rate losses2 — –42
Management costs –31 –18
Other –1 –1
Total –469 –287
1. Includes interest expense for considerations. 
2. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2020, generated a gain in the Parent Company 
and a loss in the Group. In 2019, this item was a loss in both the Parent Company and the Group. 
See also Note 13. 
15  Income tax
Tax expense (–) / tax income (+) in earnings
GROUP 2020 2019
Current tax
Current tax on profit for the year1 –1,133 –449
Prior year adjustments1 8 1
Total current tax recognised for the Group –1,125 –449
Deferred tax
Excess depreciation –479 –805
Inventories 295 137
Sale of PRV (priority review voucher) — 125
Acquired product rights 166 81
Other intangible assets –4 –8
Tax loss carry-forwards 100 –43
Net investment hedges 64 —
Pharmaceutical tax 14 11
Other –3 7
Total deferred tax recognised for the Group 153 –494
Total tax recognised for the Group –972 –942
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Current tax
Current tax on profit for the year1 –944 –318
Prior year adjustments1 7 2
Total current tax recognised in the Parent 
 Company –938 –316
Deferred tax
Other 7 4
Total deferred tax recognised for  
the Parent Company 7 4
Total tax recognised for the Parent Company –931 –313Reconciliation of effective tax
GROUP 2020 2019
Profit before tax 4,217 4,247
Tax at applicable tax rate for the  
Parent  Company2 –902 –909
Tax effect, non-deductible/non-taxable items
Remeasurement of contingent  
consideration (CVR)3 82 —
Utilisation of non-capitalised tax loss carry-for -
wards — 49
Non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards –101 –73
Changed tax rate in Sweden2 –17 31
Difference foreign tax rates 8 0
Non-deductible expenses –51 –49
Adjustment of tax prior years 8 1
Other 0 8
Total effective tax recognised for the Group –972 –942
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Profit before tax 4,337 1,431
Tax at applicable tax rate for the  
Parent  Company2 –928 –306
Tax effect, non-deductible/non-taxable items
Changed tax rate in Sweden2 0 0
Controlled Foreign Company taxation — –2
Non-deductible expenses –9 –7
Adjustment of tax prior years 7 2
Other — 1
Total effective tax recognised in  
the Parent Company –931 –313
1. In addition to tax recognised in earnings, current tax of SEK 35 M (–12) was recognised in other 
comprehensive income, attributable to exchange rate effects on the Parent Company’s liabilities/
derivatives in other comprehensive income. Additionally, current tax of SEK 9 M (42) was  
recognised directly in equity, attributable to the Parent Company’s long-term incentive  
programme (deferred tax of SEK 5 M (8) was also recognised directly in equity, see Note 20 for 
other deferred tax items).
2. The current tax rate for the Swedish Parent Company amounts to 21.4 per cent (21.4), but will be 
reduced to 20.6 per cent from 2021. Deferred tax was valued using the applicable tax rate for the 
period that reversal/resolution is expected to occur.
3. See also Note 33.
Non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards
GROUP 2020 2019
Tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred  
tax asset was recognised 2,708  2,212 
Potential tax benefit 523  480 
Of non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards, SEK 1,291 M will expire within the 
next seven years, while other tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely. No 
deferred tax assets were recognised as it is considered uncertain whether the 
tax loss carry-forwards attributable to subsidiaries and prior years have any tax 
value for the Group.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7314
1516  Intangible assets and impairment testing
GROUP GoodwillLicenses  
and patentsProduct and 
marketing rights Capitalised  
costs5Ongoing  
capitalised  
costs5 Total
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening cost 1,554 550 10,850 227 76 13,256
Investments1 — 3 15,686 74 260 16,023
Business acquisitions2 5,293 35 7,555 11 — 12,895
Disposals3 — –16 — –58 — –74
Reclassification — — — 3 0 3
Translation differences –169 0 –88 0 — –257
Closing cost 6,678 572 34,003 258 336 41,846
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –418 –2,559 –120 — –3,097
Amortisation — –38 –1,305 –39 — –1,382
Impairment4 — –18 — — — –18
Disposals3 — 7 — 57 — 65
Translation differences — 0 0 0 — 0
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — –467 –3,864 –102 — –4,434
Closing carrying amount 6,678 104 30,139 155 336 37,412
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 6,678 572 34,003 258 336 41,846
Investments1 — — 4,890 9 113 5,012
Business acquisitions2 –313 — — — — –313
Disposals — — –3 0 — –3
Reclassification — — — 164 –165 –1
Translation differences –491 –1 –1,023 –1 — –1,517
Closing cost 5,873 570 37,867 429 284 45,023
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment — –467 –3,864 –102 — –4,434
Amortisation — –38 –1,779 –65 — –1,882
Disposals — — 3 — — 3
Translation differences — 1 80 — — 81
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment — –505 –5,560 –167 — –6,232
Closing carrying amount 5,873 66 32,307 262 284 38,791
1. Investments for the year are mainly related to pegcetacoplan, SEK 3,060 M and SEL-212, SEK 1,776 M. In 2019, investments mainly pertained to Synagis, SEK 13,689 M and BIVV001, SEK 1,817 M. 
2. During the year, goodwill declined SEK 313 M related to adjustments to the acquisition analysis for Dova, see Note 33. In 2019, business combinations pertained to accrued goodwill of SEK 4,391 M related 
to Dova, and SEK 902 M related to the acquisition of emapalumab. Priority Review Voucher (PRV) was not classified as an intangible asset. In 2019, acquired product and marketing rights of SEK 7,555 M 
pertained to Doptelet.
3. In 2019, disposals pertained to licences and various IT projects.
4. In 2019, impairment pertained to an impairment loss on one of the early-stage clinical programmes.
5. Capitalised costs comprise IT projects and expenses to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan.
Specification of major intangible assets 
SEK M 20201Amortisation rate, 
yearsRemaining amortisa-
tion period, years
Synagis 12,574 20 18.1
Doptelet 5,910 15 13.9
Gamifant 3,802 20 18.0
Pegcetacoplan2 3,060 – –
SEL-2122 1,776 – –
Alprolix 1,297 20 14.2
Elocta 1,310 20 15.0
BIVV0012 1,868 – –
Orfadin 630 15 4.4
Other – launched 526 3–15 5.0
Other – not yet launched 166 – –
Total 32,918
1. Reported net value.
2. Under development, amortisation has not yet started.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7416PARENT COMPANY Licenses  
and patentsProduct and 
marketing rights Capitalised  
costs4Ongoing  
capitalised  
costs4 Total
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening cost 54 4,776 220 75 5,125
Investments1 3 1,817 74 207 2,101
Disposals2 –16 — –58 — –74
Reclassification — — 3 0 3
Closing cost 40 6,593 240 282 7,155
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –23 –1,185 –116 — –1,325
Amortisation –3 –262 –39 — –304
Impairment3 –18 — — — –18
Disposals2 7 — 57 — 65
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –37 –1,447 –98 — –1,583
Closing carrying amount 3 5,146 141 282 5,572
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 40 6,593 240 282 7,155
Investments1 — 4,849 — 113 4,961
Reclassification — — 164 –165 –1
Closing cost 40 11,442 404 230 12,116
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –37 –1,447 –98 — –1,583
Amortisation –1 –262 –65 — –328
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –38 –1,709 –163 — –1,911
Closing carrying amount 2 9,732 240 230 10,205
1. Investments for the year are mainly related to pegcetacoplan, SEK 3,060 M and SEL-212, SEK 1,734 M. In 2019, investments mainly pertained to BIVV001, SEK 1,817 M and capitalised IT costs.
2. In 2019, disposals pertained to licenses and various IT projects.
3. In 2019, impairment pertained to an impairment loss on one of the early-stage clinical programmes.
4. Capitalised costs comprise IT projects and expenses to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
The assessment of the value of the Group’s goodwill is based on value in use of 
the smallest cash-generating unit. Sobi has three separate cash generating 
units – Haematology, Immunology and Speciality Care – to which goodwill is 
allocated. At 31 December 2020, Sobi’s goodwill amounted to SEK 5,873 M 
(6,678). See Note 5 for goodwill split by cash generating unit. 
Cash flows are based on financial plans established by management and 
cover a five-year period. The financial plans have been established on the basis 
of past performance, experiences and market expectations. The plans include 
assumptions about the current product development and future product 
launches. The financial plans also include assumptions of price trends, sales 
performance and cost trends. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have 
been extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2 per cent. 
There is no indication of goodwill impairment at Group level.
The following table shows the growth rate and discount rate used before and 
after tax:
PARAMETER, % 2020 2019
Growth rate beyond the initial five-year period 2 2
Discount rate before tax 10.0 10.2
Discount rate after tax 8.0 8.0
Assumptions regarding Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC):
• Risk-free interest rate: ten-year treasury bills or comparable financial invest-
ment with the lowest possible risk. 
• Market risk premium: 6.8 per cent (6.6). 
• Beta coefficient: Sobi’s beta coefficient is 1.26 (1.26).
• Interest expense: according to Sobi’s borrowing cost.
• Tax rate: according to the tax rate in Sweden, except where income is  
taxed in another country.Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following parameters in the 
impairment testing of goodwill: discount rate, gross margin, sales volume and 
perpetual growth rate. The sensitivity analysis indicates that there are good 
margins in the calculation and no reasonable change to key parameters would 
lead to an impairment. 
Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights are tested for impairment whenever events and 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The 
assessment of the value of product and marketing rights is based on the value 
in use of each individual asset. The value in use is based on cash flows that are 
expected to be generated over the remaining life of the asset. When discount-
ing future cash flows, the discount rate is used as described in the table. When 
product and marketing rights are tested for impairment, a number of assump-
tions are made. These refer to forecasts of future sales revenue, costs attribut-
able to each individual product, the life of the products and the discount rate. 
Development projects related to product or marketing rights are tested 
annually for impairment. Key parameters are future cash flows from the individ-
ual asset, the probability of achieving positive outcomes in clinical trials and 
assumptions about the best commercial outcomes. Future cash flows are esti-
mated with regard to the long and short-term development of the project and 
adjusted for the probability of commercialisation. The earlier in the chain of 
development the project is, the higher the risk. As it passes through the defined 
phases of development, the probability of reaching the market increases.
The assessed likelihood of a project passing through the relevant develop-
ment phase successfully is assessed on the basis of the project’s scientific 
potential to demonstrate positive results in the individual phase of the develop-
ment process. Assumptions are made using the parameters with the greatest 
impact on the project’s potential to develop into a drug with maximum com-
mercial potential, and on the basis of what is reasonable to assume about the 
project’s scientific profile using the information that is currently available. The 
forecast period is based on the product’s estimated market life.Note 16, cont.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7516During the year, emapalumab was tested for impairment due to a negative 
opinion by the CHMP regarding the use of emapalumab for treating primary 
HLH in Europe. The impairment test indicates that there are good margins in 
the calculation but is dependent on future approvals and commercial success 
on markets outside Europe. 
On 9 October 2020, Sobi announced the topline results from the phase 3 
CIT study of avatrombopag, of which the primary endpoints were not met. 
 Following the results of the study, an impairment test of the carrying amount 
for the intangible asset related to Doptelet was performed. The impairment test 
showed no impairment need. Doptelet has performed well during 2020 in the 
US in its two approved indications ITP and CLD. Further, Doptelet was approved 
in the EU for treatment of ITP in January 2021. At 31 December 2020 the 
reported value on the balance sheet was SEK 5,910 M.
The impairment model was based on a fifteen-year time horizon with no 
terminal value and a WACC of 8%. Annual peak sales were assumed at SEK 
4,000–5,000 M. The fifteen-year period reflects a growth phase to peak revenue, 
with the outer years growth at a low single-digit growth, followed by a phase of 
double-digit decline. The impairment model was adjusted to remove all future 
revenue and operating expenses related to CIT. The main risk for impairment in 
the future, where reported value for Doptelet exceeds its recoverable amount, 
will be events that change the underlying launch assumptions or peak revenue 
estimates. 
Impairment 
There were no impairment losses in 2020. In 2019, an impairment loss of 
SEK 18 M was recognised for one of the early-stage clinical programmes, 
which affected the value of the intangible assets. 
CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS RELATED TO INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Sobi has undertaken to pay additional consideration under certain acquisition, 
licensing and collaboration agreements. These consist of contingent payments 
(also known as milestone payments) conditional upon the achievement of 
 certain pre-defined targets, and non-contingent payments.
AGREEMENT WITH SANOFI
The collaboration agreement with Sanofi mainly concerns Elocta and Alprolix, 
and the potential future follow-up products BIVV001 and BIVV002. 
Sobi and Sanofi receive royalties in the range of 12–17 per cent on each 
 other’s sales of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix in the respective company’s territory. 
Sobi also receives royalties based on 50 per cent of net profit in Sanofi’s territory, 
where sales are conducted through a third party.
Under the agreement, Sanofi takes full responsibility for the development, 
manufacturing and costs associated with the BIVV002 programme until Sobi 
exercises its opt-in right. Sobi exercised its opt-in right to BIVV001 in 2019.
Sobi’s opt-in right for development and commercialisation of the pro-
grammes means that Sobi holds the commercialisation rights in Europe, North 
Africa, Russia and certain countries in the Middle East (Sobi’s territory). Sanofi 
holds the commercialisation rights for North America (Sanofi’s North American 
territory) and for the rest of the world excluding Sobi’s territory (Sanofi’s direct 
territory and Sanofi’s distribution territory). In the event of a future approval and 
takeover of the rights, Sobi will be obligated to reimburse Sanofi for 50 per cent 
of the development and production costs incurred by each programme. Sobi 
will reimburse Sanofi for 100 per cent of the development costs that only 
 benefit Sobi’s territory.
BIVV001/efanesoctocog alfa
In the event that marketing authorisation is granted by the European Commis-
sion, Sobi shall make a one-time payment corresponding to 50 per cent of the 
total development costs, at exercise of the opt-in right, an estimated USD 280–
290 M less USD 50 M which has already been paid. At 31 December 2020, the 
value of BIVV001, which is  recognised as an intangible asset, was SEK 1,868 M 
(1,817). For liabilities related to BIVV001, see Note 28. 
BIVV002 
In February 2017, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development pro-
gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia B treatment, BIVV002, 
in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement between Sobi and Sanofi, 
Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the programme, and the 
possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s territory according to 
the principles described above.Alprolix
The liability for development and commercialisation of Alprolix was repaid in 
full in 2020.
OTHER AGREEMENTS 
Doptelet
On 12 November 2019, Sobi acquired all of the outstanding shares in Dova 
Pharmaceuticals. Through the acquisition, Sobi received access to Dova’s 
commercial product Doptelet. After the acquisition, Sobi’s commitments in 
relation to Doptelet were as follows:
• Under a contract with Eisai, Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M (approximately 
SEK 1.1 billion) based on annual net sales of Doptelet, calculated per calen-
dar year. This obligation is recognised as a financial liability in Sobi’s balance 
sheet.
• Under the licensing agreement with Astellas, Sobi will make additional mile-
stone payments of up to USD 3 M (approximately SEK 25 M) to Astellas if 
 certain regulatory milestones are achieved. In addition, Sobi will pay royalties 
to Astellas based on net sales of Doptelet.
• Under a contract with Eisai regarding commercial sales of Doptelet, Sobi will 
place some binding orders in the coming period. The minimum possible 
purchasing requirement is about USD 13 M (approximately SEK 106 M).
Synagis and MEDI8897
On 23 January 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of the rights to Synagis 
(palivizumab) in the US from AstraZeneca, as well as the rights to 50 per cent 
of future earnings from the drug candidate MEDI8897 (nirsevimab) in the US 
 market. The upfront consideration was approximately USD 1,500 M (SEK 13.5 
billion). In addition to this, Sobi paid a total of USD 40 M (approximately 
SEK 343 M) in 2019 and 2020, and shall pay an additional USD 20 M (SEK 164 M) 
at the end of 2021. This obligation was recognised as a current financial liability 
on the balance sheet. 
Provided that some terms related to sales of Synagis are met, an additional 
consideration of up to USD 470 M (approximately SEK 3.8 billion) may be pay-
able as of 2026. Sobi may also pay USD 175 M (approximately SEK 1.4 billion) for 
the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) for MEDI8897 to the 
FDA. The agreement also includes possible net payments of about USD 110 M 
(approx. SEK 900 billion) on achievement of other MEDI8897 profit and devel-
opment-related milestones. In this case, these will be paid as of 2023. At the 
end of 2020, Sobi has not reported any asset or liability linked to these potential 
future milestone payments as Sobi has an unconditional right to withdraw from 
the agreement until the application for approval is submitted to the FDA.
SEL-212
On 28 July 2020, Sobi concluded the strategic licencing agreement for  SEL-212 
with Selecta Biosciences, Inc. Sobi is responsible for development as well as 
regulatory and commercial activities in all markets outside China, while Selecta 
will conduct the phase 3 study on behalf of Sobi. 
Sobi has paid USD 105 M (approximately SEK 977 M) to Selecta, including a 
payment of USD 75 M for the licence fee, USD 25 M for shares in Selecta Biosci-
ences, Inc., and a milestone payment of USD 5 M related to randomisation of 
the first patient in the phase 3 clinical programme with SEL 212. Provided that 
certain regulatory and commercial milestones are met, Selecta will be entitled 
to receive additional potential milestone payments of up to USD 625 M 
(approximately SEK 5.1 billion). The purchase price of SEK 1,896 M for the 
acquired intangible and financial assets comprises the initial payment 
 combined with the liability (probability-weighted and discounted value) for 
future payments of potential milestone payments. The liability is presented 
under Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing, see Note 28. Selecta will also be 
entitled to incremental double-digit royalties on future sales. 
GROUPBalance sheet at the 
agreement date
Intangible assets 1,767
Financial assets 120
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 954Note 16, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7616Pegcetacoplan
On 27 October 2020, Sobi and Apellis entered into a collaboration for global 
development and ex-US commercialisation of systemic pegcetacoplan in rare 
diseases with an urgent need for new treatments.
Sobi made a payment of USD 250 M (approximately SEK 2,180 M) to Apellis. 
Provided that certain regulatory and commercial milestones are met, Apellis 
will be entitled to receive additional potential milestone payments of up to USD 
915 M (approximately SEK 7.5 billion). The purchase price of SEK 3,060 M for the 
acquired intangible assets comprises the initial payment combined with the lia-
bility (probability-weighted and discounted value) for future payments of 
potential milestone payments. The liability is presented under Other liabilities, 
non-interest-bearing, see Note 28. Apellis will also be entitled to incremental 
double-digit royalties on future sales. Sobi will pay USD 80 M (approximately SEK 655 M) to Apellis over a four-year 
period as consideration for R&D in accordance with the original development 
plan. These costs will be recognised as expenses in the period in which they occur.
GROUPBalance sheet at the 
agreement date
Intangible assets 3,060
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 851Note 16, cont.
17  Tangible assets
GROUPPlant  
and 
machineryEquipment,  
tools, fixtures  
and fittingsRight-of-use 
assetsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction 
in progress Total
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening cost 466 245 — 12 9 731
Change in accounting principle — — 412 — — 412
Investments 18 16 92 — 3 129
Business acquisitions 19 3 10 3 — 35
Divestments and disposals –19 –85 –2 –2 — –108
Reclassification –1 –2 — 4 –3 –2
Translation differences 0 1 2 — — 3
Closing cost 483 178 515 16 8 1,200
Opening accumulated depreciation 
and impairment –378 –212 — –5 — –594
Depreciation –22 –13 –90 –2 — –128
Impairment1 –32 — –30 — — –62
Business acquisitions — 0 0 –1 — –1
Divestments and disposals 18 84 0 1 — 104
Reclassification — 1 — –1 — —
Translation differences –5 5 0 0 — 0
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment –418 –135 –120 –8 — –682
Closing carrying amount 65 43 395 8 8 518
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 483 178 515 16 8 1,200
Investments 3 17 121 5 15 162
Divestments and disposals2 –47 –1 –8 0 — –55
Reclassification 5 12 — 0 –14 2
Translation differences 0 –4 –9 –1 — –14
Closing cost 444 203 620 20 9 1,295
Opening accumulated depreciation 
and impairment –418 –135 –120 –8 — –682
Depreciation –17 –18 –102 –4 — –141
Divestments and disposals2 49 0 5 0 — 55
Reclassification — –1 — 0 — –1
Translation differences 1 1 6 0 — 9
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment –386 –154 –210 –11 — –761
Closing carrying amount 58 49 409 9 9 534
1. Impairment pertained to impairment on plant and machinery, as well as right-of-use premises previously used for early-stage R&D which was discontinued during 2019. 
2. Divestments and disposals for the year refer to plant and machinery used for early-stage R&D, which was discontinued in 2019.
The table above includes right-of-use assets, i.e. leased assets, due to the IFRS 16 reporting standard that came into effect on 1 January 2019.   
For further information about leases, see Note 9.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7716
1718  Participations in Group companies
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Cost
Opening balance 8,853 4,652
Investment1 — 4,201
Closing balance 8,853 8,853
Accumulated impairment
Opening balance –1,177 –1,177
Closing balance –1,177 –1,177
Closing carrying amount 7,676 7,676
1. The Parent Company had no investments in Group companies during the year. In the sub-group, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
International AB has created two new subsidiaries, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Japan Co.,Ltd in Japan, and Swedish Orphan 
Biovitrum Pty Ltd in Australia. In 2019, investment of SEK 4,201 M pertained to the investment in Sobi US Holding Corp. related 
to the acquisition of Dova.
 Note 17, cont.
PARENT COMPANYPlant  
and 
machineryEquipment,  
tools, fixtures  
and fittingsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction  
in progress Total
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening cost 458 202 5 9 674
Investments 11 1 — 3 15
Divestments and disposals –18 –83 — — –101
Reclassification — 0 — –3 –3
Closing cost 451 121 5 8 585
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –371 –189 –3 — –562
Depreciation –19 –7 –1 — –27
Impairment1 –32 — — — –32
Divestments and disposals 18 83 — — 101
Closing accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –404 –113 –3 — –520
Closing carrying amount 47 8 2 8 65
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 451 121 5 8 585
Investments — — — 15 15
Divestments and disposals2 –46 –1 — — –47
Reclassification 5 10 — –14 1
Closing cost 409 131 5 9 554
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –404 –113 –3 — –520
Depreciation –13 –6 –1 — –19
Divestments and disposals2 49 1 — — 49
Closing accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –369 –118 –4 — –491
Closing carrying amount 40 13 2 9 64
1. Impairment pertained to impairment on plant and machinery, as well as right-of-use premises previously used for early-stage R&D which was discontinued during 2019. 
2. Divestments and disposals for the year refer to plant and machinery used for early-stage R&D, which was discontinued in 2019. 
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7817
18Specification of Parent Company and Group holdings of participations in Group companies
SUBSIDIARY/CORP. REG. NO./REGISTERED OFFICE No. of  participations Participations, %1Carrying amount3
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, 556329-5624, Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 3,248,584
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S, 19179079, Copenhagen, Denmark
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum SARL, 490259405, Paris, France
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic
 Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, 1024811, Turku, Finland
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.l, 5288990962, Parma, Italy
 OOO Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 5087746194520, Moscow, Russia
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS, 976313682, Trollåsen, Norway
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum S.L., B84710623, Madrid, Spain
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ltd, 4369760, Cambridgeshire, UK
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, HRB 226770, Martinsried, Germany
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AG, 284.917.678, Basel, Switzerland
  Novimmune B.V. 27278836, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Florio GMBH, HRB 249347, Munich, Germany
 Sobi Pharma (Guangzhou) Company Limited, 91440101MA5D2D0A6G, Guangzhou, China
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Unipessoal Lda, 980 670 152, Lisbon, Portugal
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Japan Co.,Ltd, 0100 01 210061, Tokyo, Japan
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Pty Ltd, 645,396,532, Sydney, Australia
SOBI Middle East FZ-LLC, 91193, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 1,000 100 132
Arexis AB, 556573-5130, Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 225,137
Sobi, Inc EIN 68-0682244, Delaware, USA 1,000 100 7
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic2 1 1 8
BVBA Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 0536.217.087, Brussels, Belgium 100 100 166
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, 416986, Vienna, Austria 100 100 313
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI) Canada, Inc. 949375-1, Oakville, Canada 10,000 100 65
Sobi Single Member I.K.E, 142300401000, Athens, Greece 20,000 100 195
Sobi US Holding Corp., 7626060, Delaware, US 1,000 100 4,201,329
 Dova Pharmaceuticals Inc., 5997129, Delaware, US
  AKaRx, Inc., 20-1990243, Delaware, US  
  Dova Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited, 610709, Dublin, Ireland
Total 7,675,935
1. The participation refers to the ownership of capital, which also corresponds to the proportion of the votes.
2.  The remaining portion is owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB. 
3.  The carrying amount is given in KSEK.
19  Financial assets
GROUP 2020 2019
Cost
Opening balance 50 55
Equity instruments1 131 —
Endowment policy –3 0
Financial receivables –1 2
Returned deposit 1 –3
Other — –5
Closing balance 179 50
Closing carrying amount 179 50
1. Equity instruments refer to the holding in Selecta Bioscience, Inc. The holding is measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income. Investment for the year amounted to SEK 120 M and 
a gain of SEK 11 M was recognised in other comprehensive income. 
GROUP 2020 2019
Equity instruments 131 —
Endowment policy 44 47
Deposits 2 1
Financial receivables 1 2
Total 179 50PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Cost
Opening balance 47 52
Equity instruments1 131 —
Endowment policy –3 0
Fair value hedges — –5
Closing balance 176 47
Closing carrying amount 176 47
1. Refer to comments for the Group. 
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Equity instruments 131 —
Endowment policy 44 47
Total 176 47Note 18, cont.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
7918
1920  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities
GROUP 2020Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax 
 liabilities Net
Excess depreciation — –1,817 –1,817
Inventories 562 — 562
Acquired product and marketing 
rights — –1,859 –1,859
Other intangible assets 50 — 50
Tax loss carry-forwards 130 — 130
Pharmaceutical tax 30 — 30
Other 71 –19 52
Total 843 –3,696 –2,853
Offsetting –232 232 0
Tax assets/liabilities, net 611 –3,464 –2,853GROUP 2019Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax 
 liabilities Net
Excess depreciation — –1,338 –1,338
Inventories 318 — 318
Acquired product and  
marketing rights — –2,524 –2,524
Other intangible assets 53 — 53
Tax loss carry-forwards 47 — 47
Pharmaceutical tax 17 — 17
Other 54 — 54
Total 489 –3,862 –3,372
Offsetting –136 136 —
Tax assets/liabilities, net 354 –3,726 –3,372
The Parent Company’s total deferred tax assets amounted to SEK 24 M (22), 
and mainly comprised a deferred tax asset of SEK 12 M (13) related to pension 
 provisions, a deferred tax asset of SEK 6 M (8) related to long-term incentive 
programmes, a provision of SEK 9 M (2) for expected credit losses on external 
and internal receivables, and a deferred tax liability of SEK –2 M (–) related to 
the market value of a financial asset. Deferred tax has been valued using 
enacted future tax rate in Sweden, see Notes 2 and 15. 
Change in deferred tax
GROUP 2020Amount at 
 beginning  
of yearRecognised  
in profit or lossRecognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
incomeRecognised 
directly in equityIncrease through 
business 
 acquisitionsAmount at  
end of year
Excess depreciation –1,338 –479 — — — –1,817
Inventories 318 295 –51 — — 562
Acquired product and marketing rights1 –2,524 166 178 — 320 –1,859
Other intangible assets 53 –4 0 — — 50
Tax loss carry-forwards2 47 100 –18 — — 130
Pharmaceutical tax 17 14 –1 — — 30
Net Investment hedges — 64 –64 — — —
Other 54 –3 4 –3 — 52
Total –3,372 153 94 –48 320 –2,853
1. The year-on-year decrease of SEK 320 M in deferred tax for acquired product and marketing rights refers to a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset related to a liability in the acquisition analysis for 
Dova. See also Note 33.
2. Deferred tax on loss carry-forwards for the year relates to foreign tax losses accrued during the year that are expected to be utilised, and the settlement of last year’s deferred tax on loss carry-forwards that 
were either utilised or have expired. See also Note 4.
GROUP 2019Amount at 
 beginning  
of yearRecognised  
in profit or lossRecognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
incomeRecognised 
directly in equityIncrease through 
business 
 acquisitionsAmount at  
end of year
Excess depreciation –532 –805 — — — –1,338
Inventories 181 137 — — — 318
Sale of PRV (priority review voucher) — 125 0 — –125 0
Acquired product and marketing rights1 –263 81 –54 — –2,288 –2,524
Other intangible assets 61 –8 — — — 53
Tax loss carry-forwards2 86 –43 3 — — 47
Pharmaceutical tax 6 11 0 — — 17
Other 28 7 0 9 10 54
Total –433 –494 –51 9 –2,404 –3,372
1. The increase in acquired product and marketing rights is attributable product and marketing rights acquired during the year.
2. Deferred tax on loss carry-forwards for the year relates to foreign tax losses accrued during the year that are expected to be utilised, and the settlement of last year’s deferred tax on loss carry-forwards that 
were either utilised or have expired. See also Note 4.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
802021  Inventories
GROUP 2020 2019
Raw materials and consumables 21 13
Work in progress 1,929 775
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,103 985
Total 3,053 1,772
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods 
sold and amounted to SEK 2,778 M (2,962). Reported inventory includes a 
reserve for obsolete goods of SEK 443 M (390). During the period, the Group’s 
inventories were written down by M 49 SEK (50).
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Raw materials and consumables 21 13
Work in progress 1,929 775
Finished goods and goods for resale 577 745
Total 2,527 1,533
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods 
sold and amounted to SEK 2,759 M (2,831). Reported inventory includes a 
reserve for obsolete goods of SEK 440 M (389). During the period, the Group’s 
inventories were written down by M 48 SEK (36).
22  Accounts receivable and other receivables
GROUP 2020 2019
Accounts receivable 3,827 3,804
Minus:  
Provision for credit losses –71 –69
Accounts receivable, net 3,756 3,736
Tax assets 25 35
Other receivables 440 495
Total other receivables 465 530
Total accounts receivable and other receivables 4,221 4,266
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Accounts receivable 747 2,410
Minus:  
Provision for credit losses –16 –8
Accounts receivable, net 731 2,402
Tax assets 10 27
Other receivables 396 422
Total other receivables 405 449
Total accounts receivable and other receivables 1,136 2,851
Sobi’s largest customers are primarily large distributors, hospitals and govern-
ment authorities. The large customer base has a wide geographic spread, with 
no specific concentration of receivables. See Note 5 for further information. 
The Group’s exposure to expected credit losses is continuously monitored 
by country and type of counterparty. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be 
paid, a provision is made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the 
principles described in Note 2. This Note also contains information about cus-
tomers’ payment terms. 
At 31 December 2020, the Group’s overdue receivables amounted to 
SEK 662 M (685), of which SEK 71 M (69) is included in the provision for credit 
losses. Actual credit losses of SEK 0.7 M (0.8) were charged to profit for the year, 
of which SEK 0.6 M (0.3) was attributable to the Parent Company. Changes in the provision for credit losses are as follows:
Expected credit losses
GROUP 2020 2019
At beginning of year –69 –70
Provision for credit losses –14 –24
Reversed provisions 12 25
At end of year –71 –69
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
At beginning of year –8 –8
Provision for credit losses –9 –22
Reversed provisions 1 22
At end of year –16 –8
Maturity structure
GROUP 2020 2019
Not past due 3,094 3,051
Past due 1–30 days 505 459
Past due 31–90 days 93 130
Past due 91–120 days 8 53
Past due > 121 days 56 43
Total 3,756 3,736
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Not past due 565 2,246
Past due 1–30 days 135 141
Past due 31–90 days 20 13
Past due 91–120 days 1 2
Past due > 121 days 11 0
Total 731 2,402noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8121
22Recognised amounts per currency for accounts receivable and other 
receivables
GROUP 2020 2019
CHF 67 136
EUR 919 1,003
GBP 109 117
SEK 747 807
USD 2,316 2,138
Other currencies 63 64
Total 4,221 4,266
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
CHF 62 85
EUR 277 238
SEK 740 807
USD 2 1,662
Other currencies 56 61
Total 1,136 2,85123  Prepaid expenses and accrued income
GROUP 2020 2019
Accrued royalty revenue1 302 358
Other prepaid expenses 186 190
Total 490 548
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Accrued royalty revenue1 302 358
Other prepaid expenses 127 141
Total 430 499
1. These are classified as contract assets under IFRS 15, no significant changes between the years. 
24  Cash and cash equivalents
2020 2019
GROUP Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 404 404 737 737
Total 404 404 737 737
2020 2019
PARENT 
COMPANY Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 240 240 431 431
Total 240 240 431 431
Cash and cash equivalents refer to funds held in bank accounts.Note 22, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8222
23
2425  Equity
Other reservesTranslation 
differencesCash flow 
hedgesNet investment  
hedgesFinancial  
investmentsDefined-benefit pension 
plans and similar plans Total
Other reserves 1 Jan 2019 –12 –106 — — –26 –144
Translation differences –97 — — — — –97
Hedging instruments:
  Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments 
 recognised in equity — –132 52 — — –80
  Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging  
instruments recognised in equity — 28 –10 — — 18
Transferred to profit or loss for the period — 135 — — — 135
Tax on transfers to profit or loss for the period — –29 — — — –29
Gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit pension  
plans and similar plans — — — — –4 –4
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit 
 pension plans and similar plans — — — — 0 0
Other reserves 31 Dec 2019 –110 –104 42 — –30 –202
Other reserves 1 Jan 2020 –110 –104 42 — –30 –202
Translation differences –434 — — — — –434
Hedging instruments:
  Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments 
 recognised in equity — 133 309 — — 442
  Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging  
instruments recognised in equity — –29 –64 — — –93
  Transferred to profit or loss for the period — 34 — — — 34
 Tax on transfers to profit or loss for the period — –7 — — — –7
Gain/loss on remeasurement of equity instruments  
recognised in equity — — — 11 — 11
Tax effect on equity instruments — — — –2 — –2
Gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit pension  
plans and similar plans — — — — –3 –3
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit 
 pension plans and similar plans — — — — 0 0
Other reserves 31 Dec 2020 –544 26 288 9 –32 –253
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital was SEK 167 M, distributed between 
303,815,511 shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55. All shares issued at the 
balance-sheet date were ordinary shares. Ordinary shares carry one vote per 
share. The company held 8,918,672 ordinary shares in treasury at the bal-
ance-sheet date. The own shares item corresponds to 2.9 per cent of the  
total number of shares in the company. 
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before dilution are calculated by dividing earnings attri-
butable to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding shares held in 
 treasury.
To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential 
ordinary shares.2020 2019
Earnings attributable to Parent Company 
 shareholders (in KSEK) 3,244,521 3,304,479
Weighted average number of ordinary  
shares outstanding (000s) 294,658 292,649
Weighted average number of ordinary  
shares outstanding after dilution (000s) 297,640 294,528
Earnings per share (SEK per share) 11.01 11.29
Earnings per share, adjusted (SEK per share)1, 2 9.66 11.89
Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share) 10.90 11.22
Diluted earnings per share, adjusted  
(SEK per share)1, 2 9.56 11.81
Number of ordinary shares 303,815,511 299,977,839
Number of ordinary shares (in treasury) 8,918,672 5,678,099
Number of ordinary shares (excluding shares  
held in treasury) 294,896,839 294,299,740
Number of ordinary shares after dilution 306,797,549 301,857,247
Average number of ordinary shares  
(excluding shares held in treasury) 294,658,136 292,649,020
Average number of ordinary shares after dilution 
(excluding shares in treasury) 297,640,174 294,528,428
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 136.
2. EBITA 2020 excluding non-recurring item; other operating income related to the reversal of the 
CVR liability of SEK 399 M. EBITA 2019 excluding non-recurring items; transaction costs related to 
the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of 
SOBI005 of SEK 37 M.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
832526  Financial assets and liabilities per category 
GROUPAssets measured at 
amortised costAssets measured at 
fair value through 
profit or lossAssets  
measured at fair value  
through other 
comprehensive 
income Total
31 December 2020
Assets on the balance sheet
Accounts receivable 3,756 — — 3,756
Endowment policy — 44 — 44
Derivatives1 — 117 — 117
Equity instruments — — 131 131
Cash and cash equivalents 404 — — 404
Total 4,160 162 131 4,453
31 December 2019
Assets on the balance sheet
Accounts receivable 3,736 — — 3,736
Endowment policy — 47 — 47
Derivatives1 — 57 — 57
Cash and cash equivalents 737 — — 737
Total 4,473 104 — 4,577
Liabilities measured  
at amortised costLiabilities measured  
at fair value through 
profit or loss Total
31 December 2020
Liabilities on the balance sheet
Borrowings 14,152 — 14,152
Lease liabilities 419 — 419
Derivatives2 — 269 269
Accounts payable 569 — 569
Contingent considerations 2,845 — 2,845
Non-contingent considerations 1,191 — 1,191
Other liabilities 94 — 94
Total 19,270 269 19,540
31 December 2019
Liabilities on the balance sheet
Borrowings 16,141 — 16,141
Lease liabilities 417 — 417
Derivatives2 — 60 60
Accounts payable 681 — 681
Contingent considerations 1,273 388 1,661
Non-contingent considerations 2,002 — 2,002
Other liabilities 146 — 146
Total 20,661 448 21,109
1. Of the 2020 derivatives, SEK 117 M (57) is measured at fair value through profit or loss, and SEK 0 M (0) is included in cash-flow hedges. The derivatives are classified as other  
liabilities on the balance sheet.
2. Of the 2020 derivatives, SEK 269 M (60) is measured at fair value through profit or loss, and SEK 0 M (0) is included in cash-flow hedges. The derivatives are classified as other  
liabilities on the balance sheet.
See Note 2 for more information about what is included in the various categories. 
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8426Financial instruments measured at fair value
The following table shows financial instruments measured at fair value, based 
on their classification in the fair value hierarchy.  
The different levels are defined as follows:
•  Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•  Level 2: Observable data for the asset or liability other than the quoted prices 
included in Level 1.
•  Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable 
 market data.
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3).
The table below shows the significant unobservable inputs used to measure 
fair value in level 3 instruments. In 2020, Sobi had no liabilities categorised 
within level 3. 
Fair valueEffect on  
fair value of
2020 2019Expected 
cash flowDiscount 
rateDiscount  
rate +1%Nominal 
cash flow 
+10%
Contingent 
 consideration — 388 417 5 % –5 39
AT 31 DECEMBER 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 1 Total
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss 
Derivatives held for trading 
— –151 — –151
Endowment policies — — 44 44
Equity instruments 131 — — 131
Total 131 –151 44 24
AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 1 Total
Financial assets measured at  
fair value through profit or loss 
Derivatives held for trading — –4 — –4
Endowment policies — — 47 47
Contingent consideration — — –388 –388
Total — –4 –341 –345
1. Due to results from the phase 3 study with Doptelet for the treatment of CIT, Sobi does not expect 
the conditions of the CVR to be met. The liability was subsequently reversed, which had a positive 
impact of SEK 399 M on other operating income during 2020. Endowment policies are reported 
gross with the corresponding liability, which is reported as a provision, see Note 30. 
All derivatives are measured at fair value based on market data in accordance 
with IFRS. At 31 December 2020, the net value of derivatives recognised on the 
balance sheet was SEK –151 M (–4).27 Borrowings 
Sobi has credit facilities of EUR 1,540 M and SEK 3,000 M. One credit facility of 
EUR 190 M under the loan agreement of EUR 390 M from 2019 was extended 
by one year from the original maturity date. The new maturity date is November 
2022. During the year, one undrawn credit facility of SEK 1,000 M expired. In 
addition to these, Sobi has an overdraft of SEK 250 M with a repayment period 
of one year. For further information about maturity structure, see Note 3.
GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Non-current liabilities to banks and credit 
institutions 10,137 16,141
Current liabilities to banks and credit  
institutions 4,015 —
Total 14,152 16,141
Specification per currency, translated to SEK M
GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Currency
EUR 7,377 7,669
SEK 2,918 5,398
USD 3,857 3,074
Total 14,152 16,141
28  Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing, current  
and non-current
GROUP 2020 2019
Non-current
Liability to Sanofi1 1,163 1,273
Liability to Eisai2 993 1,177
Liability to Selecta1 773 —
Liability to Apellis1 539 —
Liability to AstraZeneca2 — 170
Other 5 —
Total 3,473 2,620
Current
Liability to Sanofi2 — 475
Liability to Eisai2 41 —
Liability to Selecta1 81 —
Liability to Apellis1 265 —
Liability to AstraZeneca2 157 178
CVR3 — 388
Derivatives 269 60
VAT 322 394
Other 167 146
Total 1,302 1,641Note 26, cont.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8526
27
28PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Non-current 
Liability to Sanofi1 1,163 1,273
Liability to Selecta1 773 —
Liability to Apellis1 539 —
Other — —
Total 2,475 1,273
Current
Liability to Sanofi2 — 475
Liability to Selecta1 81 —
Liability to Apellis1 265 —
Derivatives 269 60
Other 112 88
Total 727 623
1. Contingent considerations.
2. Non-contingent considerations
3. See Note 26.
Sanofi
In 2019, Sobi entered into a contract with Sanofi for BIVV001 where Sobi, con-
ditional upon marketing authorisation from the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA), will make a one-time payment corresponding to 50 per cent of the total 
development costs, at exercise of the opt-in right, estimated to be USD 280–
290 M less USD 50 M that has already been paid. The obligation was recognised 
as a non-current liability, non-interest-bearing on the balance sheet and 
amounted to SEK 1,163 M (1,273) at 31 December 2020. 
Eisai
Under a contract with Eisai, Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M based on annual net 
sales of Doptelet, calculated per calendar year. At 31 December 2020, the obli-
gation was recognised as a non-current liability, non-interest-bearing of SEK 
993 M (1,177) and a current liability, non-interest-bearing of SEK 41 M (-) on the 
balance sheet.
Selecta
On 28 July, Sobi concluded the strategic licensing agreement for the SEL-212 
product candidate with Selecta Biosciences, Inc. Sobi paid USD 105 M (approxi-
mately SEK 977 M) to Selecta, including a payment of USD 75 M for the licence 
fee, USD 25 M for shares in Selecta Biosciences, Inc., and a milestone payment 
of USD 5 M. Provided that certain regulatory and commercial milestones are 
met, Selecta will be entitled to receive additional potential milestone payments 
of up to USD 625 M. At 31 December 2020, the obligations were recognised as 
a non-current liability, non-interest bearing of SEK 773 M (-) and a current lia-
bility, non-interest-bearing of SEK 81 M (-) on the balance sheet.
Apellis
On 27 October 2020, Sobi and Apellis entered into a collaboration for global 
development and ex-US commercialisation of systemic pegcetacoplan in rare 
diseases with an urgent need for new treatments. Sobi made a payment of USD 
250 M to Apellis. Provided that certain regulatory and commercial milestones 
are met, Apellis will be entitled to receive additional potential milestone pay-
ments of up to USD 915 M. At 31 December 2020, the obligations were rec -
ognised as a non-current liability, non-interest-bearing of SEK 539 M (-) and a 
current liability, non-interest-bearing of SEK 265 M (-) on the balance sheet.
AstraZeneca
Acquisition of the rights to Synagis included a contract for Sobi to pay 
USD 60 M in addition to an up-front consideration to AstraZeneca. At 31 
December 2020, an amount of USD 20 M remained payable. This obligation is 
recognised as a current liability, non-interest-bearing on the balance sheet and 
at 31 December 2020, amounted to SEK 157 M (178). 29  Post-employment benefits
Group employees have various forms of pension benefits, either defined- 
contribution or defined-benefit plans. Most of Sobi’s employees are covered by 
defined-contribution plans. 
Sweden
Defined-contribution plan via Alecta and pension benefits
For white-collar employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pen-
sion obligations for retirement and family pensions are insured through Alecta. 
According to the Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for 
ITP 2 Plans Financed by Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer 
defined-benefit plan. For the 2020 financial year, Sobi did not have access to 
the information required to recognise these obligations as a defined-benefit 
plan. The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore recognised as a defined-contribution 
plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retirement and family pension is cal-
culated individually, and is based on factors that include salary, previously 
earned pension and expected remaining period of service. In 2021, expected 
contributions for ITP 2 plans insured through Alecta amount to SEK 20 M (24). 
Sobi’s share of the total plan contributions and the total number of active 
members in the plan is immaterial. The collective funding ratio is the market 
value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated 
according to Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which are not con-
sistent with IAS 19. The collective funding ratio is normally allowed to vary 
between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 
125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent, measures should be taken to create the 
right conditions for the ratio to return to the normal range. If the ratio is low, an 
appropriate measure could be to raise the agreed price for new policies and 
extensions of existing benefits. If the ratio is high, premium reductions could be 
introduced. At the end of 2020, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective 
funding ratio was 148 per cent (148). The occupational pension premium for a 
certain number of current and former executives exceeds a certain level, which 
is why a direct pension is used for that portion of the premium that is not 
deductible. The company secures the direct pension by taking out an endow-
ment policy that is pledged to the senior executive.
Defined-benefit pension plan 
The defined-benefit pension obligations are calculated annually or when 
required, based on actuarial principles. Sobi has defined-benefit pension plans 
in Switzerland, Norway, France, Italy and for a few former employees in Sweden.
The present value of the obligations includes special payroll tax, in accor -
dance with IAS 19, for these pension plans. Pension expenses are recognised 
under the items of selling costs, administrative expenses and research and 
development expenses, depending on the function in which the insured is/was 
employed. 
Switzerland
The Swiss pension plans are funded and covered by the Swiss Federal Act on 
Swiss Federal Occupational Old Age, Survivors and Disability Pension Act (BVG). 
The pension plans are administrated by two separate legal entities and funded 
by regular contributions from the employees and the company. The final bene-
fit is contribution-based with certain minimum guarantees. Due to these mini-
mum guarantees, these plans are considered defined-benefit according to 
IFRS, even though many of their characteristics are otherwise similar to a 
defined-contribution plan. If the plans are underfunded, they can be adjusted 
using various measures, such as raising contributions for employees and com-
panies, lowering interest rates on the pension obligations, reducing future ben-
efits and disallowing early withdrawals of pension funds. At 31 December 2020, 
the plans covered 157 employees (114) of whom all were active. 
Other
At 31 December 2020, the liability recognised for other defined-benefit pen-
sion plans was SEK 21 M. Other pension obligations are attributable to France, 
Italy, Norway and Sweden.Note 28, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8628
29SEK M 2020 2019
Present value of funded obligations 349 227
Fair value of plan assets –220 –145
Deficit in funded plans 129 83
Present value of unfunded obligations 15 —
Net 144 83
Changes in defined-benefit pension obligations during  
the year are as follows: 
1 JANUARY– 
31 DECEMBER 2020Present value of 
obligationsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –227 145 –83
Additional pension plans1 –125 80 –45
Reclassification –2 — –2
Amount in profit or loss
 Current service costs –30 — –30
 Interest expense –1 — –1
 Interest income — 1 1
Amount in cash flow
  Contributions from 
 employees –5 5 0
  Contribution into plans  
from employer 1 13 13
  Payment from the plans 17 –18 –1
  Pension payments directly 
from the company 1 — 1
Amount in other 
 comprehensive income
Remeasurement
  Return on plan assets,  
excl. amounts included  
in interest expense — 4 4
  Changed demographic 
assumptions 3 0 3
  Changed financial 
 assumptions –11 — –11
  Experience-based 
 assumptions 2 –1 1
Translation difference 12 –7 6
At end of year –364 220 –144
1. Refers to pension plans in Switzerland and France, and part of the plan in Italy, which were not 
previously recognised in accordance with IAS 19 in the Group. 
1 JANUARY– 
31 DECEMBER 2019Present value of 
obligationsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –39 32 –7
Acquired pension liability 
Switzerland 20191 –174 104 –69
Amount in profit or loss
 Current service costs –6 — –6
 Interest expense –1 — –1
 Interest income — 0 0
Amount in cash flow
  Contributions from 
 employees –2 2 0
  Contribution into plans  
from employer — 6 6
 Payment from the plans 1 –2 –1
  Pension payments directly 
from the company 1 — 11 JANUARY– 
31 DECEMBER 2019Present value of 
obligationsFair value of  
plan assets Total
Amount in other 
 comprehensive income
Remeasurement
  Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts included in interest 
expense — 1 1
  Changed financial 
 assumptions –5 0 –5
  Experience-based 
 assumptions –3 2 –2
Translation difference 1 –1 0
At end of year –227 145 –83
1. Related to the acquisition of emapalumab, see Note 33.
Net obligation per country
2020 20191
Sweden 0 1
Italy 3 —
Norway 6 10
France 12 —
Switzerland 123 72
Total 144 83
1. Reported values are not adjusted for the pension plans that were not taken into account at end of 
2019.
Actuarial assumptions at the balance-sheet date
AVERAGE FOR PENSION PLANS 2020 2019
Discount rate, % 0.3 1.2
Expected annual salary increase, % 1.9 2.0
Pension increases 0.9 0.9
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age,  
male, years 18.1 20.8
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, 
female, years 22.2 23.4
Demographic assumptions 
Mortality assumptions correspond to the Swedish Financial Supervisory 
Authority’s recommendations, which came into effect on 31 December 2007 
for the Swedish pension plan. Mortality assumptions are based on the BVG2015 
mortality table for the Swiss pension plan, RG48 for the Italian pension plan and 
K2013 BE for the Norwegian pension plan. The retirement age is set at 65 years 
except in Switzerland, where the retirement age for women starts at 64 years. 
Distribution by plan assets
2020 Quoted, % 
2019 Quoted, % 
Equity funds 75 100 19 100
Interest-bearing securities 67 100 64 100
Properties 40 — 19 —
Other funds 27 — 43 —
Other 11 — — —
Total 220 65 145 57Note 29, cont.noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8729Note 29, cont.
Sensitivity analysis
2020 2019
Pension obligation under current assumptions 364 227
Discount rate –0.5% 396 249
Discount rate +0.5% 339 205
Salary decrease –0.5% 357 220
Salary increase +0.5% 371 235
Life expectancy after retirement –1 year 359 221
Life expectancy after retirement +1 year 366 231
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption, with 
all other assumptions remaining constant. 
In practice, this is highly unlikely to occur and some of the changes 
 in the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the 
defined-benefit obligations to significant actuarial assumptions, the same 
method (present value of the defined-benefit obligation applying the projected 
unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when 
calculating the pension liability recognised on the balance sheet.
Other information
For the 2021 financial year, contributions to plans for post-employment 
 benefits are expected to be SEK 22 M (16). The weighted average duration of 
the  obligation is an estimated 19.2 years (19.1). 
Risks
Through its defined-benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number 
of risks. The most significant risks are described in the table below:
Type of risk
Life expectancy 
assumptionsMost of the pension obligations entail that the employees 
covered by the plan will receive life-long benefits and, 
accordingly, the longer life expectancy assumptions will 
result in higher pension liabilities. 
Inflation Some of the plan’s pension obligations are linked to inflation. 
Higher inflation leads to higher liabilities (although, in most 
cases, a ceiling has been set for the level of inflation to pro-
tect the plan against exceptional increases in inflation). Most 
of the plan assets are either unaffected by (fixed-rate bonds), 
or weakly correlated with (shares) inflation, which means that 
an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Discount 
rateA decrease in the interest rate on corporate bonds will 
increase the liabilities of the plans, although this will partially 
be offset by an increase in the value of the bond holding.
Asset  
volatilityThe pension liability is calculated using discount rates derived 
from corporate bonds. A deficit exists if the discount rate 
does not reflect the expected return on plan assets. The plan 
assets include shares, which are eventually expected to 
exceed the interest on corporate bonds, but also entail 
 volatility and risk in the short term.30  Provisions
Group Parent Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
Provision at beginning of year 179 97 84 80
Endowment policy1 –2 0 –2 —
Provision, milestone obligations2 12 0 — 0
Restoration reserve3 0 — 0 0
Changes in pension obligations 61 79 — 4
Other 1 2 — 0
Provisions at 31 December 252 179 82 84
Group Parent Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
Endowment policy1 44 47 44 47
Provision, milestone obligations2 23 11 — —
Restoration reserve3 34 34 34 34
Pension obligations 144 86 3 3
Other 6 2 — —
Provisions at 31 December 252 179 82 84
1. For corresponding assets, see Note 19.
2. Provision under licensing agreement with Astella related to Doptelet. For a more detailed 
description, see Note 16. 
3. Sobi will restore the rented Paradiset 14 property to an acceptable condition with consideration for 
the operations conducted by the company, in accordance with the Rental Agreement (IAS 16). 
Group Parent Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
Non-current portion 249 179 82 84
Current portion 3 2 — —
Total provisions 252 179 82 84
31  Accrued expenses and deferred income
GROUP 2020 2019
Sales-related 2,158 1,032
Employee-related 572 581
Royalties 207 230
R&D 194 181
Co-Promotion 191 277
Inventory-related 164 188
Other 442 550
Total 3,928 3,039
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Sales-related 226 157
Employee-related 257 265
Royalties 189 226
R&D 179 172
Co-Promotion 191 277
Inventory-related 116 157
Other 156 316
Total 1,314 1,570
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
8829
30
3132  Pledged assets and contingent liabilities
GROUP 2020 2019
Pledged assets
Endowment policy 44 47
Other pledged assets 2 1
Total 46 48
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Pledged assets
Endowment policy 44 47
Total 44 47
PARENT COMPANY 2020 2019
Contingent liabilities
Guarantee commitment 26 24
Total 26 24
Guarantees for 2020 for subsidiaries relate to general guarantees up to a speci-
fied amount and relate to all types of credit, such as rental guarantees, credit 
cards, etc, that the subsidiary in question may hold.
TAX AND LEGAL DISPUTES
Legal disputes
Sobi is involved in several ongoing disputes, a not-uncommon situation for 
pharmaceutical companies. None of these is currently considered material. 
33 Acquisitions
Dova
Sobi completed the acquisition of Dova 12 November 2019. Following the 
completion of Sobi’s tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding shares of 
Dova for USD 27.50 per share plus one non-transferable contingent value right 
(CVR) entitling Dova’s previous shareholders to an additional USD 1.50 per 
share, conditional upon the FDA’s approval of Doptelet for the treatment of 
chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). As a result of the phase 3 
study regarding Doptelet for use in CIT, Sobi estimates that the conditions for 
the CVR will not be met. Therefore, the CVR liability was reversed positively 
impacting the profit for the period of SEK 399 M. 
Through the acquisition, Sobi received access to Dova’s commercial prod-
uct Doptelet. Dova became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sobi 
through the aquisition.
If Dova had been included in the Group throughout 2019, sales would have 
increased by SEK 121 M and EBITA decreased by SEK 472 M. Transaction costs 
of SEK – M (92) were paid and are included under administrative expenses in 
the income statement, and are part of operating cash flow on the cash flow 
statement. 
The purchase price allocation (PPA) was completed in 2020, and in connec -
tion with it, the value of deferred tax assets was adjusted upwards by SEK 320 M 
related to the liability to Eisai, which has been assessed as deductible. Goodwill 
and other liabilities and provisions were adjusted by SEK –313 M and SEK –7 M, 
respectively.GROUP Final PPA
Agreed purchase price 8,414
Contingent Value Right (CVR) 404
Consideration transferred 8,818
Assets
Intangible assets 7,555
Other assets 61
Cash 444
Total assets 8,060
Other liabilities and provisions1 –1,694
Deferred tax1 –1,626
Total liabilities1 –3,320
Total identifiable net assets at fair value1 4,740
Goodwill 1,2 4,078
Consideration transferred 8,818
Analysis of cash flows in acquisition
Contingent consideration purchase price (CVR) –404
Net cash acquired with the business –444
Acquisition of business, net of cash 7,969
1. Updated values during 2020.
2. Recognised goodwill is mainly attributable to securing know-how and employees with 
 cutting-edge expertise for future development, and earning potential related to follow-up 
indications for Doptelet. 
Emapalumab
18 July 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of emapalumab and related assets 
and liabilities. 
As part of the acquisition of emapalumab, Sobi obtained:
• All emapalumab-related assets, including intellectual property (IP), patent 
rights, data and know-how.
• All employees involved in the clinical and biopharmaceutical development 
of emapalumab.
• Options for the shared financial rights of the immuno-oncology product 
candidates NI-1701 and NI-1801.
• A priority review voucher (PRV) in the FDA’s expedited review programme for 
companies investing in orphan drugs, which reduces application fees for 
future products and shortens the review period. In September 2019, the PRV 
was sold for a total consideration of USD 95 M. 
The acquisition consideration amounted to CHF 515 M (SEK 4,911 M), of which 
CHF 400 M was already committed under the exclusive license agreement for 
emapalumab. noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
891
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
11
13
14
15
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
25
26
31
32
33
35
36GROUP Final PPA
Agreed purchase price 4,914
Redemption of previous commitment1 –3,802
Deferred tax 469
Consideration transferred 1,581
Assets
Intangible assets 88
Tangible assets 19
Inventories 34
Priority Review Voucher (PRV)2 892
Cash 3
Total assets 1,037
Liabilities
Other liabilities and provisions –245
Deferred tax –113
Total liabilities –358
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 679
Goodwill3 902
Consideration transferred 1,581
Analysis of cash flows in acquisition
Net cash acquired with the business –3
Cash paid 4,914
Acquisition of business, net of cash 4,911
1. Refers to a prior commitment of 400 MCH under the exclusive license agreement for emapalumab 
and was recognised as a current liability.
2. The PRV was sold in September 2019.
3. Recognised goodwill is mainly attributable to securing know-how and employees with cut-
ting-edge expertise for future development, and earning potential related to follow-up indications 
for emapalumab. 
Sobi’s costs did not increase after the acquisition of emapalumab and related 
assets and liabilities, compared with the periods after the acquisition of the 
global rights.
Transaction costs of SEK – M (18) were expensed and are included in admin-
istrative expenses in profit or loss and are part of operating cash flow on the 
cash flow statement.
GROUP Dova emapalumab Total
Compilation of acquired assets 
and liabilities
Goodwill1 4,078 902 4,980
Other intangible assets 7,555 88 7,643
Priority Review Voucher (PRV) — 892 892
Other assets 61 53 114
Cash 444 3 447
Total assets1 12,138 1,938 14,076
Other liabilities and provisions1 –2,098 3,557 1,459
Deferred tax1 –1,626 –582 –2,208
Total liabilities1 –3,724 2,975 –749
Total acquired assets and  
liabilities 8,414 4,913 13,327
Net cash acquired with the  
business –444 –3 –447
Acquisition of business  
net of cash 7,969 4,911 12,880
1. Updated values during 2020.34  Related-party transactions
Apart from that stated in the Notes on remuneration of senior executives and 
intra-Group transactions, there were no related-party transactions.
See Note 5 for internal transactions between the Group’s subsidiaries.
35  Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting:
KSEK
Share premium reserve 9,023,392
Retained earnings 3,803,035
Profit for the year 3,406,312
Total 16,232,739
The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for the 2020 financial year. 
The Board of Directors proposes that the share premium reserve, retained 
earnings and profit for the year, totalling KSEK 16,232,739 SEK, be carried for -
ward.
36  Events after the balance-sheet date
Doptelet was approved in the EU for the treatment of chronic immune throm-
bocytopenia (ITP) in adult patients with insufficient response to previous treat-
ment. Chronic ITP is a rare autoimmune disorder characterised by low blood 
platelet counts. 
Kineret was approved in Russia by the Ministry of Health of the Russian Fed-
eration for the treatment of cryopyrin associated periodic syndromes (CAPS).
Refer also to the Director’s Report for more information about COVID-19.Note 33, cont.
noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
9033
34
35
36The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards 
(IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s 
financial position and results. The Annual Report has been prepared in accor -
dance with generally accepted accounting principles and provides a true and 
fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results.The Director’s Report for the Group and the Parent Company provides a true 
and fair view of the development of the Group and the Parent Company’s 
 operations, financial position and results and describes the material risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies in the Group.
The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the  
Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2021 for adoption. 
Stockholm, 25 March 2021
 Håkan Björklund Annette Clancy Matthew Gantz 
 Chair Board member Board member
 Lennart Johansson Helena Saxon Staffan Schüberg 
 Board member Board member Board member
Elisabeth Svanberg
Board member
 Pia Axelson Erika Husing
 Employee representative Employee representative
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Our auditor’s report was submitted on 26 March 2021
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Authorised Public Accountant 
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
91Auditor’s report
TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SWEDISH ORPHAN BIOVITRUM AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556038-9321 
Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
Opinions
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2020. The annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included 
on pages 34–91 in this document.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in 
accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all 
material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 
31 December 2020 and its financial performance and cash flow for 
the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, 
the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2020 and 
their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), 
as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory 
administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders 
adopts the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and 
balance sheet for the group as well as the income statement and the 
balance sheet for the parent company.Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report 
that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in 
accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Swe-
den. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described 
in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the 
parent company and the group in accordance with professional eth-
ics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes 
that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited 
services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 
have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its 
parent company or its controlled companies within the EU.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profes-
sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit 
addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s 
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our 
report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit 
included the performance of procedures designed to respond to 
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the proce-
dures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for 
our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements
Valuation of product and market rights and goodwill 
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
Per 31 December 2020 the majority of (79% or SEK 38 246 M) the Group’s (below 
referred to as the Company) total assets consist of product- and marketing rights 
as well as goodwill (hereafter referred to as “the assets”). The Company performs 
an impairment test of the assets on an annual basis and when events or changes 
in conditions indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed the 
recoverable amount. Testing of impairment for the assets involve a number 
of significant assumptions and assessments, among other assessing the value 
in use through identifying cash generating units, estimating expected future 
cash flows including the growth rate and calculating weighted average cost of 
capital (“WACC”) used to discount future cash flows. The Company’s process for 
assessing impairment requirements also includes the use of management’s and 
the board of director’s business plans and forecasts.
For additional information refer to the Group’s accounting principles in Note 2, 
significant assessments and assumptions in Note 4 as well as information about 
the product and marketing rights and goodwill in Note 16.
We focused on this area as the book value of the assets are significant and the 
impairment test is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Therefore, we considered 
this a key audit matter in our auditOur audit was conducted together with our valuation specialists and included 
but was not limited to the following audit procedures:
•  obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for identifying 
 indicators of impairment
•  evaluation of methods used by management when performing the 
 impairment test including the sensitivity analysis and 
•  review of the assessments made by the Company when testing the 
 impairment with our focus on assumptions for which the result of 
 impairment  testing is most sensitive to.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
auditoR 'S RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
92Revenue – Estimate of Unsettled Pharmaceutical Taxes and Discounts
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
The Group (below referred to as the Company) operates in a number of countries 
where sales to customers take place under various commercial and governmen-
tal contracts and regulations where pharmaceutical taxes and discounts exist as 
conditions for certain products. Net sales are reported after deductions from 
pharmaceutical taxes and discounts. Therefore, an estimate of the unsettled 
 revenue adjustments for pharmaceutical taxes and discounts needs to be made 
at year end.
The unsettled revenue adjustments recorded at 31 December 2020 are based 
on the Company’s best assessment of the expected outcome of future settle-
ment of the commitments at year end. The assessment is complex and often 
requires access to both internal and external market and sales data that may be 
limited at the time of assessment.
Refer to Notes 2, 4 and 5 in the annual report for a detailed description of the 
revenue adjustments and the liabilities reported.
Due to the significant amount that the revenue adjustments represent in 
 relation to the Company’s comprehensive income for the period and the 
 complex assessments, revenue adjustments is a key audit matter in our audit.We have in our audit obtained an understanding of the Company’s process to 
identify and assess the unsettled revenue adjustments. We have also evaluated 
the Company’s previous accuracy in preparing forecasts and the Company’s 
calculation of liabilities for the revenue adjustment and assessed the reason-
ableness of the assumptions and data that the Company used in its assessment. 
In certain countries we have also been supported by our internal specialists in 
our audit.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
Contingent considerations
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
During 2020 and in previous years, the Company and the Group (hereinafter 
referred to as the Company) have made for the Company significant business 
and asset acquisitions. In most of the acquisitions there are contingent consider -
ations that are determined based on future events that are often linked to the ful-
filment of certain future regulatory and commercial milestones linked to the 
acquired assets. As of December 31, 2020, the reported liabilities for contingent 
consideration amounted to SEK 4,036 M and SEK 2,821 M in the Group and the 
Parent Company respectively. As described in Note 2, contingent considerations 
are initially recognized at fair value of the future commitments. Subsequent valu-
ation of contingent considerations for business combinations are made at fair 
value and is recognized in the statement of comprehensive income. Subsequent 
valuation of contingent considerations for asset acquisitions are measured at 
amortized cost and recognized against the value of the asset with the exception 
of currency movements and interest expense.
The Company continuously evaluates the assumptions for the contingent 
considerations, which affects the valuation of the liabilities. The values of the 
Company’s liabilities for contingent considerations are disclosed in Notes 3, 4, 
26, 28 and 33. Key assumptions used to determine the values are described in 
Notes 4 and 28.
As described in Note 4, management is required to make assessments and 
develop own assumptions in order to estimate the value of the contingent con-
siderations. Since the value of the contingent considerations constitutes a not 
insignificant part of the Company’s liabilities and is linked to significant future 
commitments for the Company, valuation of liabilities for contingent consider -
ations constitutes a key audit matter in our audit.Our audit has included, among other things, the following audit procedures:
•  obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for valuing contingent 
considerations,
•  review of material agreements including conditions for contingent 
 considerations; 
•  review of management’s assessments and assumptions used to support the 
valuation of contingent considerations with a focus on the assumptions for 
which the valuation is most sensitive and
•  tested the Company’s calculations for arithmetical correctness and 
 consistency with reported values.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.auditoR 'S RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
93Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts
This document also contains other information than the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 2–32, 
96, 104–107, 133–136. The remuneration report for the financial year 
2020 also constitutes other information. The Board of Directors and 
the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. 
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
does not cover this other information and we do not express any form 
of assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoli-
dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified 
above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent 
with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proce-
dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in 
the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informa-
tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 
this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for 
the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accor -
dance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and 
the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control 
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The 
Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the 
assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the com-
pany, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of 
Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things 
oversee the company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a 
high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards 
in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profes-
sional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant 
to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the 
Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We 
also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and 
the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and 
consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the 
disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities within the 
group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. 
We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of 
significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant 
deficiencies in internal control that we identified.
We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our inde-
pendence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or 
related safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most 
important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter.
auditoR 'S RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
94Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Opinions
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
AB (publ) for the year 2020 and the proposed appropriations of the 
company’s profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that 
the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the 
statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for 
the financial year.
Basis for opinions
We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those 
standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities 
section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in 
accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and 
have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropri-
ations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, 
this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable 
considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s 
type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent 
company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, 
liquidity and position in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organi-
zation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes 
among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the 
group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organ-
isation is designed so that the accounting, management of assets 
and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a 
reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing 
administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and 
instructions and among other matters take measures that are neces-
sary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and 
handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.Auditor’s responsibility
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby 
our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence 
to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any mem-
ber of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material 
respect:
• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which 
can give rise to liability to the company, or
• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, 
the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of 
the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to 
assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is 
in accordance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or 
omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the 
proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in 
accordance with the Companies Act.
As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and main-
tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination 
of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the com-
pany’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. 
Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional 
judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that 
we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships 
that are material for the operations and where deviations and viola-
tions would have particular importance for the company’s situation. 
We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, 
actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our 
opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion 
on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s 
profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in accordance 
with the Companies Act.
Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Jonatan Hansson 
as auditor in charge was appointed auditor of Swedish Orphan 
Biovitrum AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on 
13 May 2020 and have been the company’s auditor since 8 May 2014.
Stockholm, 26 March 2021
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Authorised Public AccountantauditoR 'S RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
95Sobi has delivered on its strategy for growth 
since 2017, and the company continues to 
generate long-term value. Two highlights 
in 2020 were the important agreements 
regarding SEL-212 and systemic pegceta-
coplan, both of which broaden the R&D 
pipeline and expand the geographical scope.
The Board supports Sobi by providing a 
clear governance structure, as well as exper -
tise in crucial corporate decisions.
Clear governance is particularly important 
during times of rapid growth such as the one 
Sobi is experiencing today. Many people are 
joining the company, and it is expanding into 
new geographical markets and new medical 
areas. This growth means Sobi’s products 
will become available to even more patients. 
But with these new opportunities come the 
responsibility of continuing to do business in 
the right way.The Code of Conduct is a foundation stone 
for Sobi’s governance structure. The new 
code approved by the Board and introduced 
in Q4 2020 will help Sobi deliver on the 
strategy and act responsibly as it expands. 
Available digitally for all employees and 
external stakeholders on www.sobi.com, 
the code is a compulsory part of the edu-
cation package for every Sobi employee. 
Compliance with the Code of Conduct is the 
minimum standard accepted by Sobi.
The same high standard is expected of 
Sobi’s suppliers and partners. As part of the 
Responsible Sourcing Programme intro-
duced in January last year, Sobi introduced 
the Partner Code of Conduct. Sobi has 
committed to work only with partners who 
embrace standards of ethical behaviour 
consistent with Sobi’s own. Sobi continues to report on expanded key 
performance indicators in line with its com-
mitments under the UN Global Compact 
and the Global Reporting Initiative to improve 
transparency.
2020 was a year like no other, and the 
COVID-19 pandemic had long-reaching 
effects on both Sobi and on the individuals 
who make up the company. The commit-
ment of all staff to ensuring continuity of 
operations, to ensuring that patients con-
tinued to receive their medicines, was and 
continues to be commendable.
I am confident that Sobi in 2021 will lay 
the foundation for reaching its ambition 
of SEK 25 billion in revenue in 2025.Letter from the chairman
Sobi continues to deliver on its strategy for long-term growth and 
value generation, advancing towards the vision of being recognised 
as a global leader in rare diseases. 
Håkan Björklund
Chairman of the Board
LetteR fRom tHe CHaiRman
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
96Corporate Governance Report
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) (“Sobi”) 
is a Swedish public limited liability company 
with its registered office in Solna, Sweden. 
Sobi is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. This 
report for the 2020 financial year is part of 
Sobi’s Directors’ Report and has been audited.
Sobi is an international biopharmaceutical 
company focused on rare diseases with 
in-house capabilities that stretch from R&D 
and biologics manufacturing to distribution 
and commercialisation.
In addition to Swedish legislation or other 
regulations, the Group’s corporate gover -
nance is based on the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code and the Nasdaq Stockholm 
Nordic Main Market Rulebook for Issuers 
of Shares. Sobi complies with the Swedish 
Corporate Governance Code without any 
deviations and has not breached the Nasdaq 
Stockholm Nordic Main Market Rulebook 
for Issuers of Shares or standards of good 
practice for listed companies. The Swedish 
Corporate Governance Code is available 
at www.bolagsstyrning.se and the Nordic 
Main Market Rulebook for Issuers of Shares 
is available at www.nasdaqomxnordic.com.
This Corporate Governance Report 
summarises how corporate governance is 
organised and how it was carried out in 2020. 
The report has been prepared in accordance 
with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 
(1995:1554) and the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code. The illustration below 
provides an overview of Sobi’s  corporate governance structure, which is then 
described in more detail in this report. 
In addition to the external regulations 
set out above, there are also a number of 
internal regulations in place to support Sobi’s 
corporate governance, including the Articles 
of Association, Rules of Procedure for the 
Board and its committees, CEO instructions 
and Sobi’s governing documents with Sobi’s 
Code of Conduct as a portal document.
1. General Meeting
Sobi’s highest decision-making body is the 
General Meeting through which shareholders 
have the right to make decisions on the com-
pany’s affairs. The Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) must be held within six months of the 
end of the financial year, and Extraordinary 
General Meetings (EGM) may be held if the 
Board of Directors deems it necessary, or at 
the request of Sobi’s auditors or shareholders 
holding at least 10 per cent of all shares in 
the company. The AGM adopts the income 
statement and balance sheet, resolves on 
the appropriation of profits and elects Board 
members, the Chair and auditors.
The company does not apply any special 
arrangements with regard to the function of 
the general meeting, either on the basis of 
provisions in the Articles of Association or, to 
the extent they are known to the company, 
shareholder agreements.
The Articles of Association state that the 
AGM is to be held in Stockholm or Solna. At present, Sobi has not found that the com-
position of shareholders justifies any special 
measures for shareholders being able to 
follow the AGM remotely. Notice of the AGM 
is published in Post- och Inrikes Tidningar 
and on the company’s website. When this has 
been done, an announcement to this effect is 
published in Svenska Dagbladet.
2020 AGM
The AGM was held on 13 May 2020 in 
Stockholm. The Meeting was attended by 
292 shareholders (385), in person or by proxy, 
representing 66.7 per cent (64.6) of the total 
number of votes. Lawyer Eva Hägg was elected 
to chair the meeting. The company’s Chair -
man, CEO and auditor participated remotely. 
The full minutes and information from 
the 2020 AGM are available at www.sobi.com.
Resolutions 2020 AGM
The following resolutions were inter alia 
adopted by the 2020 AGM:
• Re-election of six Board members
• Election of one new Board member
• Re-election of the Chair
• Re-election of Ernst & Young AB as auditor
• Remuneration of the Board and auditors
• Remuneration guidelines for senior 
executives
• Discharge from liability for the Board and 
CEO for the 2019 financial year
• Amendment of the Articles of Association
8
General Meeting
BoardExternal auditors
3
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee71
Nomination 
Committee2
Elects/appoints Reports/informsExternal  
regulationsInternal  
regulationsCompensation & Benefits 
CommitteeScientific Committee Audit Committee5 4 6CoRpoRate Go VeRnanCe RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
972021 AGM
The Annual General Meeting is held on Tues-
day 4 May 2021. Due to the coronavirus and 
in order to reduce the risk of spreading the 
virus, the Board has decided that the Meeting 
should be conducted by way of postal vote 
pursuant to temporary legislation being in 
effect in 2021. This means that the Meeting 
will be held without the physical presence of 
shareholders, representatives or third parties. 
The shareholders will therefore only be able 
to exercise their voting rights by postal voting 
in advance of the Meeting.
Shareholders, share capital, the share and 
voting rights
At year-end, Sobi had a total of 33,816 
(25,227) shareholders. Investor AB was the 
largest shareholder, with 35.4 per cent (35.9) 
of the share capital and 35.4 per cent (35.9) 
of the votes. The 15 largest shareholders 
accounted jointly for 70.8 per cent (78.1) of 
the share capital and 70.8 per cent (78.1) of 
the votes. No shareholders other than Inves-
tor AB have a direct or indirect shareholding 
that represents one-tenth or more of the 
votes for all shares in the company. Sobi’s 
Articles of Association do not contain any 
restrictions on how many votes each share-
holder may cast at a general meeting.
Nor do they contain any specific provisions 
on the appointment and dismissal of Board 
members or amendments to the Articles of 
Association.
Conversion of shares and authorisations for 
the Board of Directors
In order to secure commitments under long-
term incentive programmes, the AGM on 
13 May 2020 adopted (i) a private placement 
of redeemable and convertible C shares, 
(ii) authorisation for Sobi’s Board to make 
decisions regarding the repurchase of issued 
C shares, and (iii) the transfer of Sobi’s own 
shares to participants in the programme.
The AGM also resolved to transfer a 
maximum of 247,655 of Sobi’s own shares 
in order to cover some expenses, mainly social security contributions, that may arise 
due to the 2017 Incentive Programme. The 
AGM also resolved to authorise the Board of 
Directors to make decisions regarding the 
issue of shares and/or convertibles and/or 
warrants. 
At 31 December 2020, Sobi held 8,918,672 
ordinary shares in treasury. In 2020, all 
previously issued C shares were converted 
into ordinary shares. For more detailed 
information about the total number of shares 
in the company, the number of different 
classes of shares and the votes carried by the 
company’s shares, refer to the section on 
shares on page 30.
Dividend policy
One of Sobi’s most important business 
objectives is to create long-term shareholder 
value. Sobi’s Board bases its evaluation of 
future dividends on several factors, including: 
• the company’s sustainable earnings trend;
• the company’s expansion potential and 
access to capital; 
• the company’s operational risk, and
• the dividend’s impact on liquidity.
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid 
for 2020. In the short term, the company 
intends to use accrued profits to finance the 
continued development and expansion of its 
operations. 
2. Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee represents 
Sobi’s shareholders and is tasked with pre-
paring the AGM’s resolutions on election and 
remuneration matters.
According to the instructions and statutes 
adopted by the AGM on 9 May 2019, the 
Nomination Committee shall consist of 
four members: the Chair of the Board and 
one representative from each of the three 
largest shareholders in terms of votes in the 
company on the last banking day of August, 
based on ownership statistics from Euroclear 
Sweden AB, who wish to appoint a represen-
tative. The composition of the Nomination Committee is to be announced at least six 
months before the AGM. The Nomination 
Committee observes the rules on the inde-
pendence of Board members according to 
the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 
The Nomination Committee’s composition 
prior to the 2021 AGM was announced on 21 
October 2020. 
In the period up to the 2021 AGM, the 
Nomination Committee has had the follow-
ing composition: Petra Hedengran (Investor 
AB), Chair of the Nomination Committee, 
Lennart Francke (Swedbank Robur Fonder 
AB), Thomas Ehlin (Fourth Swedish National 
Pension Fund) and Håkan Björklund, Chair 
of the Board of Sobi. Prior to the 2021 
AGM, the Nomination Committee held four 
minuted meetings. As a basis for its work, 
the Nomination Committee has taken note 
of the Chair’s account of the Board’s work. 
The Nomination Committee has prepared 
proposals for the AGM, including proposals 
for Board members, the remuneration of 
Board and Committee members, auditor and 
auditor fees, and the Chair of the AGM.
3. Board/Chair of the Board
Sobi is a biopharmaceutical company with 
a focus on marketing, developing and 
manufacturing pharmaceutical products to 
treat rare diseases. The product portfolio 
contains both marketed products and 
products at various stages of development. 
It is therefore crucial that Board members 
have relevant experience from marketing and 
research in the pharmaceutical industry, as 
well as solid financial expertise. The Board 
is responsible for the Group’s organisation 
and management. The Board also decides 
on overall objectives, strategies, the financial 
structure, policies, appointment of the CEO, 
remuneration of the Executive Committee, 
acquisitions, divestments and major invest-
ments. The Board produces Annual and 
Interim Reports and proposes dividends to 
the AGM.
The Board’s work is based on its charter, 
the CEO instructions and the principles for 
Nomination Committee prior to the 2021 AGM 
Name/RepresentingVotes  
31 Dec 2020, % Votes  
31 Dec 2019, % 
Petra Hedengran (Chair of the Nomination Committee)  
Investor AB 35.4 35.9
Lennart Francke 
Swedbank Robur Fonder AB 4.9 4.7
Thomas Ehlin 
Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4) 4.5 3.2
Håkan Björklund 
Chair of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 0.0 0.0
Total 44.8 43.8
CoRpoRate Go VeRnanCe RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
98the division of work between the CEO, Chair 
of the Board, Board members and commit-
tees established by the Board. The Board 
Charter and the CEO instructions are revised 
and updated once a year.
Composition of the Board
The company’s Board shall comprise a 
minimum of three and a maximum of 12 
members. The Nomination Committee 
represents the shareholders and is respon-
sible for preparing the AGM’s decisions on 
matters related to election and remuneration 
and, when applicable, procedural matters for 
the next Nomination Committee. The Nomi-
nation Committee has applied rule 4.1 of the 
Swedish Corporate Governance Code as a 
diversity policy. The objective of the policy 
is that the Board shall have an appropriate 
composition with regard to the company’s 
business, stage of development and situation 
in general, characterised by versatility and 
breadth in respect of the competence, expe-
rience and background of members elected 
by the AGM, and that efforts shall be made to 
achieve an even gender distribution. As set 
out in the Nomination Committee’s reasoned 
opinion to the 2020 AGM, the Nomination 
Committee has taken into account the importance of a well-functioning Board in 
terms of diversity, including sex, nationality, 
professional experience and experience 
of sustainability work, and believes that 
achieving and maintaining a gender balance 
is important. The current composition of the 
Board is the result of the Nomination Com-
mittee’s work prior to the 2020 AGM.
The 2020 AGM adopted the Nomination 
Committee’s proposal that, as of the 2020 
AGM, the Board should consist of seven 
AGM-elected members (six re-elected and 
one newly elected by the 2020 AGM) and 
two employee representatives appointed 
by the trade union organisations (plus two 
deputies for the employee representatives). 
Three of the seven AGM-elected members 
are women.
For more information about the Board, 
refer to pages 104–105.
Independence
The company meets the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code’s independence require-
ments in that a majority of the AGM-elected 
Board members are independent of the 
company and its management, and that at 
least two of them are independent of major 
shareholders. The table on page 100 shows the independence of Board members on the 
publication date of this report. 
Chair of the Board
In addition to leading the Board’s work, the 
Chair of the Board’s duties include monitor -
ing the company’s performance and ensur -
ing that any important matters are addressed 
if required, in addition to those already on the 
agenda. The Chair shall consult with the CEO 
on strategic matters, participate in important 
external relationships and represent the 
company in ownership issues. The Chair is 
also responsible for ensuring that the Board’s 
work is regularly evaluated and that new 
Board members receive adequate training. 
Number of meetings
In addition to the statutory Board meeting, 
the Board shall meet at least four to six times 
per year, generally in connection with the 
publication of interim and annual reports and 
the AGM. Additional meetings or teleconfer -
ences are convened as necessary. The Board 
conducts an in-depth strategic review of 
operations during at least one of the Board 
meetings each year. In 2021, the Board has 
scheduled a total of eight ordinary meetings. 
Important events in Board work in 2020
 In order to carry out effective board work, the Board has established three committees – Audit Committee, Compensation & Benefits 
Committee and Scientific Committee. The committees observe the rules of procedure established by the Board. The committees prepare  
relevant proposals and recommendations within their own areas of expertise, and submit them to the Board.BOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of Q4 and year-end reports for 2019. 
• Adoption of 2020 STI programme.
BOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of 2019 Annual Report. 
• Determination of the Board’s instructions.
• Approval of material matters for the AGM.  
BOARD MEETING  
•  Strategy meeting.
•  Extension of the donation programme with WFH and Sanofi. 
•  Strategic licensing agreement with Selecta.2 BOARD MEETINGS  BOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of 2020 Q1 report. 
•  Adoption of 2020 LTI programme. 
BOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of 2020 Q2 report. 
•  Approval of repurchase of own shares  
for the LTI programme. 2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Adoption of 2020 Q3 report.
•   Approval of strategic collaboration agreement 
between Sobi and Apellis Pharmaceuticals.BOARD MEETING  
2 BOARD MEETINGS  2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Discussion around business development projects.
•  Adoption of 2021 budget.
2020CoRpoRate Go VeRnanCe RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
99Board work in 2020
In 2020, the Board held a total of 14 
meetings, of which nine were scheduled 
in addition to the statutory meeting, and 
four were extra meetings. Sobi’s CEO and 
President attends Board meetings, as does 
Sobi’s  General Counsel, who has served 
as secretary at the meetings. Other Sobi 
employees have attended in a reporting 
capacity. The number of extra Board meet-
ings was motivated inter alia by discussions 
concerning business development projects. 
The matters addressed are shown in the 
illustration below. The Board members’ 
attendance at Board meetings is presented in 
the table below. 
Board fees 
At the AGM on 13 May 2020, the Board 
resolved that for the period until the next 
AGM, a fee of SEK 490 K would be paid to 
each of the AGM-elected Board members 
except for the Chair, who would be paid a fee 
of SEK 1,500 K. The fees for Audit Committee 
work would be SEK 160 K to the Chair and 
SEK 100 K to each of the other members. 
Fees for the Compensation & Benefits Com-
mittee’s work would be SEK 110 K to the 
Chair and SEK 60 K to each of the other 
members. Fees for Scientific Committee 
work would be SEK 110 K to the Chair and 
SEK 60 K to each of the other members. In 
2020, Board fees of SEK 5,481 K were paid, 
including remuneration for committee work.It was further resolved that for each physical 
Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K would be 
paid to Board members residing in Europe 
but outside the Nordic region, and USD 3 K 
to Board members residing outside Europe. 
The Board members’ remuneration for 
Committee meetings is presented in the 
table below.
Evaluation of the Board’s work 
The Board conducts an annual evaluation 
of its work. The evaluation covers working 
methods and climate, and the main focus 
of the Board’s work. This evaluation also 
focuses on access to, and the need for, 
specific skills on the Board. The evaluation 
is used as a tool for developing the Board’s 
work, and serves as input for the Nomination 
Committee’s work. Every year, the Chair 
initiates and leads the evaluation of the 
Board’s work. In 2020, the evaluation took 
the form of individual discussions between 
the Chair and individual Board members. The 
evaluation was discussed at a Board meeting. 
The Chair presented the results of the evalu-
ation for the Nomination Committee. 
4. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s main task is to 
address issues related to the company’s 
accounting, auditing and financial reporting, 
and matters related to internal governance 
and control. Sobi’s Audit Committee consists of three members, all of whom are 
 independent of management: 
• Lennart Johansson (Chair)
• Helena Saxon
• Staffan Schüberg 
Sobi’s CFO serves as secretary of the 
Committee, but is not a member. Sobi’s CEO 
attended the meetings but is not formally a 
member. The Committee held six meetings 
during the year. Sobi’s auditor attended five 
of the meetings. The Committee reports 
regularly to the Board about its work. The 
Board members’ attendance and remunera-
tion for committee meetings is presented in 
the table below.
5. Compensation & Benefits Committee
The Compensation & Benefits Committee’s 
task is to recommend guidelines and prin-
ciples for Sobi’s remuneration programmes. 
This includes a review of and proposals for 
the remuneration of senior executives, the 
long-term incentive programmes, pension 
plans and other issues related to employee 
benefits. Sobi’s Compensation & Benefits 
Committee consists of three members, who 
are all independent of management:
• Håkan Björklund (Chair)
• Helena Saxon
• Matthew Gantz
Remuneration (KSEK) Attendance1
Indepen-
dence FeesAudit 
 CommitteeCompensa-
tion & 
Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee Other5 Total BoardAudit 
 CommitteeCompensa-
tion & 
Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee
David Allsop2 x 163 — 20 — 10 193 4/14 — 4/10 —
Håkan Björklund x 1,500 — 110 — — 1,610 14/14 — 10/10 —
Annette Clancy x 490 — — 110 10 610 13/14 — — 4/4
Matthew Gantz x 490 — 60 — 28 578 13/14 — 9/10 —
Lennart Johansson3 490 160 — — — 650 14/14 6/6 — —
Helena Saxon3 490 100 60 — — 650 14/14 6/6 10/10 —
Hans GCP Schikan2 x 163 33 — 20 10 227 5/14 3/6 — 2/4
Staffan Schüberg2 x 327 67 — — 10 403 9/14 3/6 — —
Elisabeth Svanberg x 490 — — 60 10 560 14/14 — — 4/4
Pia Axelson4 — — — — — — 14/14 — — —
Erika Husing4 — — — — — — 2/14 — — —
Kristin Strandberg4 — — — — — — 12/14 — — —
1. The figures in the table show the totals for attendance/meetings. In 2020, the Board held a total of 14 meetings, of which nine were scheduled in addition to the statutory meeting and four were extra 
meetings. The Audit Committee held six meetings, the Compensation & Benefits Committee held 10 meetings and the Scientific Committee held four meetings.
2. At the AGM on 13 May, David Allsop and Hans GCP Schikan stepped down from their positions as ordinary Board members, and Staffan Schüberg was appointed new ordinary Board member.
3. Board member does not qualify as independent in relation to major shareholders.
4. Erika Husing was appointed to the Board as ordinary employee representative on 23 November 2020, when Kristin Strandberg ended her employment.
5. For each physical Board meeting, a fee of KSEK 10 is paid to members who live in Europe but outside the Nordic region, and KUSD 3 to each member who lives outside Europe.
CoRpoRate Go VeRnanCe RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
100Sobi’s Head of HR serves as secretary of 
the Committee, but is not a member. The 
Compensation & Benefits Committee met 10 
times during the year. At these meetings, the 
Committee discussed and monitored annual 
salary revisions and bonus outcomes for the 
CEO and senior executives, and proposed 
guidelines and allotments for the long-term 
incentive programme. The Committee 
reports regularly to the Board about its work. 
A remuneration report will be prepared 
and presented at the 2021 AGM for the 
shareholders’ approval. The Board members’ 
attendance and remuneration for committee 
meetings is presented in the table on 
page 100. For information about salaries 
and remuneration of the CEO and senior 
 executives, see Note 10.
6. Scientific Committee
The Scientific Committee’s task is to provide 
advice on scientific matters, to evaluate the 
company’s R&D strategies and to monitor 
and report to the Board on scientific trends 
and new fields of R&D. During the year, the 
Scientific Committee consisted of three 
members until Hans GCP Schikan stepped 
down from his positions as Board member 
and member of the Committee at the 
scheduled Board meeting in May 2020, and 
thereafter consisted of two Board members. 
All are independent of management:
• Annette Clancy (Chair)
• Elisabeth SvanbergSobi’s CEO and Chief Medical Officer/Head 
of Research & Development attended the 
meetings, but are not formal members. 
Chief Medical Officer/Head of Research 
& Development served as secretary of the 
Committee. During the year, the Committee 
held four meetings. The following issues 
were discussed at these meetings:
•  Development of the company’s  
R&D portfolio
• The R&D organisation
• Review of individual projects
•  Review and follow-up of the 
organisation’s targets
• Budget
• Business development opportunities
The Committee reports regularly to the 
Board about its work. 
The Board members’ attendance and 
remuneration for the committee meetings 
is presented in the table on page 100.
7. CEO/Executive Committee
Sobi’s Executive Committee consists of the 
CEO and managers of the most important 
functions and regions. The Executive 
Committee has a broad composition of 
members with extensive experience in R&D, 
the markets in which Sobi operates and the 
production and sale of drugs. In addition, 
members of the Executive Committee hold 
the required competence in accounting, 
finance, law, communications and HR. In 
2020, the Executive Committee held one 
meeting every month. For more detailed 
information about the Executive Committee, 
see pages 106–107.Each year, the Board establishes the division 
of work between the Board, the Chair and 
the CEO. Operational management is based 
on the decision-making procedure adopted 
by the Board, which is reflected in the organi-
sational form and business model that govern 
Sobi and how the company works.
8. Auditor
Sobi’s auditor is the auditing firm Ernst 
& Young AB (EY), with Authorised Public 
Accountant Jonatan Hansson as auditor in 
charge. EY was elected as Sobi’s auditor until 
the end of the 2021 AGM and has been Sobi’s 
auditor since the 2014 AGM. The auditor 
reviews the Q3 interim report and audits the 
annual report and consolidated financial 
statements. The auditor also expresses 
an opinion on whether this Corporate 
Governance Report has been prepared, 
and whether certain disclosures herein are 
consistent with, the annual accounts and 
consolidated financial statements. The 
auditor reports the results of their audit of the 
annual accounts and consolidated financial 
statements and their review of the Corporate 
Governance Report in the auditor’s report, 
with a separate opinion on the Corporate 
Governance Report, which they present to 
the AGM. In addition, the auditor presents 
detailed findings from their reviews to the 
Audit Committee three times a year, and to 
the full Board once a year. 
For information about remuneration of 
the company’s auditors, see Note 11.CoRpoRate Go VeRnanCe RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
101Risk management and internal  
control over financial reporting
The Board is responsible for ensuring 
effective internal control systems in accor -
dance with the Swedish Companies Act 
(2005:551), the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 
(1995:1554) and the Swedish Corporate Gov-
ernance Code. The Board presents the most 
important elements of Sobi’s internal control 
and risk management systems in connection 
with the financial reporting process. 
Sobi’s internal control framework
Sobi’s internal control complies with the 
COSO Framework (Committee of Sponsor -
ing Organizations of the Treadway Com-
mission) which consists of five components: 
control environment, risk assessment, con-
trol activities, information & communication 
and monitoring activities. 
The illustration below provides an 
overview of Sobi’s framework for internal 
control over financial reporting and shows 
how the framework’s components interact 
to ensure good internal control over financial 
reporting.
The components are described in more 
detail below.Control environment
The control environment constitutes the 
basis of Sobi’s internal control. The control 
environment mainly comprises the culture 
on which the Board and management base 
their work and communication to the opera-
tions through Sobi’s internal regulations. 
The control environment for financial 
reporting comprises an organisational struc -
ture with clear powers, areas of responsibility, 
decision-making paths and governing docu-
ments that support the financial processes.
Sobi’s governing documents are gathered 
on the company’s intranet. Some of the 
governing documents with relevance for 
financial reporting are: 
• Sobi’s Code of Conduct
• Decision-making powers established by 
the Board
• Signing authorisation instructions
• Reporting instructions
• Accounting manual
• Treasury Policy
• Risk Management PolicyRisk assessment
Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s busi-
ness opportunities and profits with share-
holders’ and other stakeholders’ demands for 
stable, long-term value growth and control. 
The aim of Sobi’s risk management process 
is to support the company’s operations and 
create profitable business opportunities 
combined with good control over risk. The 
risk management process contributes with 
structures and systems to proactively identify 
and manage risks that could have a negative 
impact on the company’s ability to achieve its 
set targets. Sobi’s risk management process 
is intra-organisational and any risks deemed 
to affect Sobi’s financial reporting or financial 
position are prioritised. In regard to financial 
reporting, the operational units perform risk 
assessments together with the responsible 
Group controllers to identify, analyse and 
ensure control over risks in accounting and 
reporting processes.
Material risks identified by Sobi are 
described on pages 41–43. 
Control activities
The aim of control activities is to manage 
identified risks and contribute to good 
internal control and efficiency. Control 
activities applicable to financial reporting 
include approval of decisions and transac -
tions, account reconciliation and analytical 
monitoring. Sobi’s control activities are 
either manual or integrated with the ERP 
systems used, such as IFS, Cognos, Business 
Intelligence and so forth. Sobi also has 
General IT Controls in place for managing 
its system environment. General IT Controls 
include Identity and Access Management and 
Change Management.Sobi’s internal control framework
General IT ControlsInternal regulations
Control of key financial processes
Inform
ation and communicationFollow-up
Risk assessment
CoRpoRate Go VeRnanCe RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
102Information and communication
Sobi has internal information and commu-
nication channels to ensure that financial 
reporting disclosures are efficient and 
accurate. Sobi’s intranet is the main com-
munication platform. The Group’s financial 
organisation also holds annual meetings 
with a focus on ensuring that everyone has 
enough information to ensure accurate 
financial reporting. The Board and its Audit 
Committee receive regular reports on the 
Group’s financial position and performance.
Procedures for external information 
disclosure aim to provide the market with 
relevant, reliable and accurate information 
about Sobi’s performance and financial posi-
tion. The guidelines for financial reporting 
are set out in Sobi’s Communication Policy. 
Financial information is presented regularly in 
the form of:
• Interim reports 
• Annual report
• Press releases about important news and 
events that could significantly affect the 
valuation of the company and the share 
price
• Presentations and teleconferences for 
financial analysts, investors and media 
representatives on the publication date of 
interim reports and in connection with the 
release of other important information
• Meetings with investors and financial 
analysts
•  Reports, presentations and press releases 
are published on the Group’s website 
www.sobi.com Follow-up
Forms of supervision of internal control are 
determined by the Board and the Audit Com-
mittee. Sobi’s CFO is responsible for ensuring 
that internal controls are conducted in 
accordance with the Board’s decisions. Sobi 
has had one employee with responsibility for 
strengthening the Group’s internal control 
since 2017. The function reports to the CFO 
and prepares an internal control plan every 
year, which is approved and monitored by 
the CFO.
The Board deals with all interim reports 
and annual report prior to publication, and 
monitors the review of internal control 
through the Audit Committee. 
The company’s external auditor reports 
their observations and assessment of internal 
controls to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit
Sobi does not have a separate internal 
audit function, but has decided that those 
responsible for internal control together 
with the existing organisation, primary within 
the Treasury function, assess and monitor 
compliance with Sobi’s internal control 
framework every year. The Board and Audit 
Committee regularly examine the issue of 
whether an internal audit function should be 
established, and based on this year’s internal 
control report makes the assessment that a 
seperate internal audit function, for the time 
beeing, is not necessary.Activities in 2020 that strengthened internal 
control 
• Implementation of a new process for 
analysing Sobi’s partners
• Implementation of the Partner Code of 
Conduct
• Implementation of a new contract 
 management system
• Continued efforts to map processes for 
functions outside the finance function
• Implementation of control activities for the 
management of material risks identified
• Local visits by the internal control function 
to selected subsidiaries to provide support 
for the development of their internal 
control processes
Activities in focus for 2021 to further 
strengthen internal control
• Clarification of the Group’s internal control 
framework
• Implementation of risk and control 
matrices for the Group’s core financial 
processes
• Implementation of an internal evaluation 
process for the Group’s internal control 
framework
• Adjustments to the Group’s risk manage-
ment process
Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan 
 Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-93211
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate gov-
ernance statement for the year 2020 on pages 97–103 and that it has 
been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s 
standard RevR 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate gover -
nance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate 
governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than 
an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We 
believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for 
our opinions.Opinions
A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures 
in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 
2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second 
paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and 
the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act.
Stockholm, March 26, 2021
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Auktoriserad revisorCoRpoRate Go VeRnanCe RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
103The Board
Håkan Björklund 
Born 1956
Chair. Board member since 2016.  
Member of the Compensation and Benefits 
 Committee (Chair).
Ph.D. from  Karolinska  Institutet
Other assignments: Chairman of OneMed. Board 
member of Bonesupport. Partner at Tellacq Partners. 
Advisor to Rothschild Private Equity.
Previous positions: CEO of Nycomed. Extensive 
international background in the life-science industry, 
from both R&D and sales and marketing. Board 
member of several international life-science 
 companies including Alere, Coloplast, Danisco, and 
 Lundbeck. Board member of  Biovitrum 2001–2007.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 15,800Annette Clancy
Born 1954 
Board member since 2014. Member of the Scientific  
Committee (Chair).
BSc Hons Pharmacology from Bath University 
Other assignments: Non- executive Chair of the 
Board, Enyo SA. Board member of Obseva SA. 
 Investor at Jeito Capital, France.
Previous positions: Senior  Advisor, Biopharmaceuti -
cal Team of Frazier Healthcare. Chair of the Board of 
Directors, Genable  Therapeutics and Lysogene SA. 
Non-Executive Board Director, Silence Therapeutics 
plc. and Clavis Pharma. Head of Trans action and 
 Alliance Management at Glaxo SmithKline.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 3,414
Lennart Johansson
Born 1955 
Board member since 2010. Member of the Audit 
 Committee (Chair). 
MBA from Stockholm School of  Economics 
Other assignments: Member of the management 
team and Senior Advisor at Patricia Industries 
( division of Investor AB). Chair of the Board of  
Bone support AB, board member of HI3G, Atlas 
 Antibodies AB, Chalmers Ventures and Fastighets AB 
Tingshuset 13.
Previous positions: Chair of the Board of Vectura 
Fastig heter AB, CEO in b-business partners and 
 Emerging Technologies AB. Board member of SAAB 
AB, IBX Group AB and Gambro Holding AB.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: No 
Shares: 21,200Matthew Gantz
Born 1965 
Board member since 2012. Member of the 
 Compensation and Benefits Committee.
BA Princeton University and MBA from Harvard 
 Business School 
Other assignments: CEO of Castle Creek Biosciences 
Inc. Member of the board of the Marine Corps Scholar -
ship Foundation.
Previous positions: CEO of OxThera AB. Executive 
Vice President of BTG. Founder and CEO of Acureon 
Pharmaceuticals. President and CEO of Hydrabio -
sciences Inc., VP Europe for Chiron’s Biopharmaceuti -
cal Division and GM for PathoGenesis Europe. Various 
US sales and marketing roles at Abbott Laboratories 
Diagnostic Division. Board member of Life Sciences  
of Pennsylvania Association.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 0
Helena Saxon
Born 1970 
Board member since 2011. Member of the Audit   
 Committee and Compensation and Benefits 
 Committee.
MSc from Stockholm School of  Economics 
Other assignments: CFO at Investor AB. Board 
 member of SEB. 
Previous positions: CFO at  Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, 
Vice President at Investor AB and financial analyst at 
Goldman Sachs. Board member of Aleris and 
 Mölnlycke Health Care.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: No
Shares: 15,500
tHe boaRd
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
104Deputies for the employee representatives:
• Katy Mazibuko
• Linda LarssonStaffan Schüberg 
Born 1969 
Board member since 2020. Member of the Audit 
Committee.
BA Hons Business Administration from the London 
Guildhall University 
Other assignments:  CEO and Board member of the 
ESTEVE Group. Board member of Dizlin Pharma -
ceuticals AB and Corporacíon Químico Farmacéutical 
Esteve S.A.
Previous positions:  More than 20 years of experi -
ence from Board and executive management roles, 
including a number of senior positions within Lund -
beck A/S, such as Regional Vice President for 
Southern and Western Europe, President and Chair -
man of the U.S. operations and Global Chief Com -
mercial Officer on Group level.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: Yes
Shares:  4,500Elisabeth Svanberg
Born 1961
Board member since 2018. Member of the Scientific 
 Committee.
MD and PhD from the University of Gothenburg, 
Sweden, Associate  Professor of surgery
Other assignments: Chief Development Officer at 
Ixaltis SA. Board member of Egetis Pharmaceuticals 
(formerly PledPharma AB), Galapagos NV and 
Pharnext.
Previous positions: Board member of Follicum AB 
and of the Swedish American Chamber of Com -
merce New York. Head of the Established  Products 
Group at Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Development 
Leader and Head of Medical Affairs (Intercon) at Bristol 
Myers Squibb. Various senior R&D management roles 
at Serono International,  Switzerland.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 1,550
Pia Axelson
Born 1962 
Employee representative 
Board member since 2019. Deputy Board member 
2019. Board member 2017.  Deputy board member 
2009. Representative of the council for negotiation 
and  cooperation. 
Medical laboratory scientist
Laboratory engineer
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: No
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 7,229Erika Husing
Born 1973
Employee representative
Board member since 2020
Representative of the council for negotiation and 
cooperation.
CRM Application Manager, Commercial Effectiveness
MSc Chemistry
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: No
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: Yes
Shareholding in the company: 25
All shareholdings reported as per  
31 December 2020.tHe boaRd
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
105Executive committee
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Born 1965
Employed since 2017
PhD in Strategic Management,  University of South 
Australia, Master of Economics, South Bank Univer -
sity, London, Complementary  studies in Economics, 
London School of Economics and Political Science.
Other assignments: Chair of the Advisory Committee 
of Zentiva Group, Industrial Advisor EQT. Board 
member of Sartorius AG.
Previous positions: CEO BSN Medical GmbH, Presi -
dent & CEO Gambro, EVP Commercial Operations 
Nycomed, CEO Invida, Global Head of Healthcare 
DKSH, previous managerial roles at Aventis and 
 preceding entities, Board member of Meda & 
 Sartorius AG.
Shares: 213,223
Duane H. Barnes
Head of North America
Born 1960
Employed since 2021
MBA and MSc - Indiana University, Kelley School of 
Business. BA, West Virginia University, Eberly College 
of Arts and Sciences.
Other assignments: Board member BIO - Biotech -
nology Innovation Organization; HLC - Healthcare 
Leadership Council.
Previous positions: President of UCB Inc and Head 
of US Operations, Amgen: Vice President & General 
Manager; Value, Access, Reimbursement and Patient 
Experience. Prime Therapeutics: Chief Operating 
Officer. Aetna Healthcare: Division President, Head 
of Pharmacy.
Shares: 0
Sofiane Fahmy
Head of Europe
Born 1972
Employed since 2013
Degree in Marketing, University of Paris XI France, 
Degree in Pharmacy University of Poitiers.
Previous positions: General Manager Sobi France 
and North Africa, Managerial roles at Pfizer, 
 Commercial roles at GSK, Brand Manager Hospital 
 Products Roche.
Shares: 0
Anne Marie de Jonge Schuermans
Head of Technical Operations
Born 1972
Employed since 2018
PhD from Swiss Federal Institute of Technology 
Zurich (ETHZ); MSc. degrees in Agriculture & Natural 
Environment from Wageningen Agricultural University 
and in Environmental  Management & Technology 
from the Ecole Polytechnique Féderale Lausanne 
(EPFL).
Previous positions: Vice President Global Supply 
Chain Operations & Strategic Partnerships, Vice 
 President Global Manufacturing, Executive Board 
Member of Biogen International GmbH; more than 
20 years of experience in the life-sciences industry 
from Biogen, Stryker and Novartis. 
Shares: 0
Henrik Stenqvist
Chief Financial Officer
Born 1967
Employed since 2018
Degree in Finance and Business Administration  
from the University of Linköping
Other assignments: Board member of Midsona AB.  
Previous positions: CFO Recipharm, CFO Meda, 
Regional Finance Director AstraZeneca, Finance 
Director Astra Export & Trading. Board member of 
MedCap AB.
Shares: 28,000
Torbjörn Hallberg
General Counsel and Head of Legal Affairs, Head of 
Human Resources
Born 1969 
Employed since 2018
Master of Laws from  University of Lund
Previous positions: Vice President, General Counsel, 
Emerging Markets at Takeda Pharmaceuticals. 
 Corporate Counsel, Nycomed Pharma. Corporate 
Counsel, Ferring Pharmaceuticals. Senior Associate/
Lawyer, Advokatfirman Lindahl.
Shares: 8,500
exe CutiVe C ommittee
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
106Norbert Oppitz
Head of International
Born 1967 
Employed since 2017
Dipl. BW (FH)/Business Administrator, FH Rhenania 
Palatina/Mainz
Previous positions: Member of the Executive 
 Committee of BSN Medical, in charge of Latin  America. 
Member of the Executive Committee of Endo 
 Pharmaceuticals, Emerging Markets. Head of Latin 
America, Takeda/Nycomed as well as country 
 management roles at Roche Pharmaceuticals 
and Aventis Pharma.
Shares: 12,000
Armin Reininger
Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs
Born 1957 
Employed since 2017
MD, PhD, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, 
Germany; certified specialist in Trans fusion  Medicine.
Professor of  Anatomy at the Ludwig Maximilians-
University Munich.
Previous positions: Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Haemophilia, Baxter. Head of Global Medical Affairs 
Haematology, Baxalta. Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Haematology, Baxalta/Shire. Senior Physician Univer -
sity Clinic Munich. Harvard Medical School & Mass. 
General Hospital,  Boston, MA. The Scripps Research 
Institute, La Jolla, CA. 
Shares: 9,300
Ravi Rao
Head of Research & Development, Chief Medical 
Officer
Born 1967 
Employed since 2020
MB BCh Cambridge University and PhD from 
 Imperial College 
Other assignments: Member of the Royal College  
of Physicians, London and an Honorary Member of 
the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine.
Previous positions: Chief Medical Officer, Aeglea 
 Biotherapeutics. Roles at GSK as Vice President, 
Global Medical Head, Immunology and Specialty 
Medicine Franchise, Vice President and Medicines 
Development Leader in Immuno-inflammation R&D. 
Group Medical Director, Immunology Clinical 
 Development at Roche Pharmaceuticals. Academic 
rheumatologist at Imperial College and a post-  
doctoral fellow at Harvard University.
Shares: 0
Mahmood Ladha
Head of Business Development 
Born 1964
Employed since 2019
MBA and BS from University of South Carolina
Previous positions: President and Head of Dova 
Pharmaceuticals, Senior Advisor to CEO, VP and 
Head of Transactions at AstraZeneca, Executive 
Director and Head of US Respiratory at AstraZeneca.
Shares: 0
Daniel Rankin
Head of Global Portfolio and Product Strategy
Born 1980
Employed since 2017
PhD in Biology from University of Helsinki, MSc in 
Biology from Leiden University, BSc from University 
of York.
Previous positions: Head of Corporate Development 
Sobi, VP Chief of Staff to the CEO Sobi, Management 
consultant McKinsey & Company New York and 
Zurich, Group Leader University of Zurich.
Shares: 2,500
Paula Treutiger
Head of Corporate Communication & Investor 
 Relations
Born 1967
Employed since 2019
Degree in Finance and Business Administration, 
Stockholm University
Previous positions: Director Corporate Communica -
tions & Investor Relations Medicover, Corporate 
Communications, IR and Sustainability Meda, 
 Portfolio Manager Swedbank, VP Corporate 
 Communications Gambro, Financial Analyst 
 Carnegie and Alfred Berg.
Shares: 2,500
All shareholdings reported as per  
31 December 2020.exe CutiVe C ommittee
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
107Sustainability Report 2020
At Sobi our key contribution to sustainable development and our overall 
 sustainability objective – to transform the lives of people living with rare 
 diseases – is closely aligned with our vision and our operations.
Grow  
ImmunologyLead in 
 HaematologyCapture the value  
of our pipelineGo  
globalBusiness strategy 
Sustainability strategy
Commitment to Agenda 2030 & the Paris AgreementOur R&D is ethical and  
focused on medical need
We expand access to treatment
We are patient centric and  
engage with our communities
We contribute to knowledge to  
enhance the practice of medicine 
We focus on patient safetyWe help our people develop and  
keep them safe & healthy
We have no tolerance for corruption
We source responsibly
We reduce our environmental footprint Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviourTransform lives within  
rare diseasesBusiness model and sustainable growth 
At Sobi, we are transforming the lives of people living with rare 
diseases. We provide access to innovative treatments in the areas of 
haematology and immunology. Sobi’s business model (read more on 
page 10) spans from clinical research to patient access and international 
commercialisation. 
Our sustainability strategy is closely linked to the business and 
based on two priorities – our commitment to patients and our 
responsible behaviour. By expanding our geographical reach, 
investing in the development of novel products and deepening our 
engagement in the areas of haematology and immunology, we can improve access to rare disease treatments for patients worldwide. 
If we are successful in our operations, we will positively impact the 
communities we serve.
Sobi is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, and we have inte-
grated the ten principles of the Global Compact into our core business 
operations. We commit to operating in a way that contributes to 
achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 
Paris Agreement to address society’s greatest challenges by 2030. 
We are in a unique position to improve health globally within our 
areas of focus and believe that aligning our business with the SDGs 
will help us to be stronger and more sustainable.
SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
108Material sustainability topics 
Our material sustainability topics reflect those sustainability areas 
where our business has significant impact on our environment from 
the economic, environmental and social perspectives. 
It is essential that we understand the outcome of our materiality 
assessment as it highlights sustainability topics that are important to 
our stakeholders and our strategy. In 2019, we performed a compre-
hensive materiality assessment including web surveys and targeted 
interviews with internal and external stakeholders such as employees, 
internal and external experts, owners, suppliers, partners and patient 
organisations. In 2020, we deepened the assessment by attending 
conferences, participating in ESG ratings and research, and following 
and reviewing new legislation. 
Measures to address the patient perspective included attending the 
10th European Conference on Rare Disease and Orphan Products, 
ECRD 2020, the largest, patient-led rare disease event for dialogue and 
learning shaping future rare disease policies. In November 2020, the 
European Commission communicated its Pharmaceutical Strategy for 
Europe which has an impact on our business and is aligned with our 
ambitions. 
In 2020, governmental procurement bodies and tender processes 
have to a greater extent included sustainability requirements in order 
to be eligible to participate. Shareholders, institutional owners and 
banks have also increased expectations regarding Sobi’s sustainability 
performance, reflected by an increased number of meetings with a 
sustainability focus. 
The materiality assessment performed in 2019 remains in place, 
identifying the possibility to transform lives as Sobi’s key long-term 
sustainability objective. The evolution of Sobi’s corporate strategy, 
relying on sourced/acquired research and geographical expansion, 
has accentuated the need to focus on responsible partnerships and 
sourcing strategies. The material sustainability topics as defined 
through the materiality assessment and stakeholder dialogues are 
summarised in our sustainability strategy and its two priority areas: 
• Commitment to patients
• Responsible behaviourSustainability governance 
Management 
Sobi’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for Sobi’s sustain-
ability performance, which is publicly reported each year in the 
Annual and Sustainability Report. The CEO and the Executive Com-
mittee approve Sobi’s sustainability strategy, ensure compliance, and 
decide on overall objectives and implementation of the sustainability 
strategy. The leadership teams in each respective area are responsible 
for implementing and following up on the strategy. The Director of 
Sustainability is, on behalf of the Executive Committee, responsible 
for operationalisation and communication of the strategy in close 
collaboration with the business units. 
Policies and responsibilities
All sustainability activities are driven by the sustainability strategy and 
based on the Code of Conduct and other sustainability-related poli-
cies. The Sobi Code of Conduct provides a framework for what Sobi 
considers to be responsible and appropriate conduct, and applies to 
all Sobi employees worldwide as well as temporary personnel. The 
most important practices and policies guiding Sobi’s sustainability 
work and processes are listed below. Visit the website www.sobi.com 
for a list of policies governing sustainability-related areas.
Important responsibilities in terms of managing Sobi’s material 
sustainability topics and delivering on the sustainability strategy are:
• The Sustainability function, which evaluates materiality, creates 
guidelines, supports implementation of the strategy programme 
and reports on outcomes. 
• Corporate Compliance, responsible for the implementation of anti-
corruption and healthcare interaction policies, data privacy and the 
compliance hotline (whistleblower hotline). 
• Technical Operations, which includes Procurement, is responsible 
for environmental compliance and performance regarding 
in-house operations, and for monitoring suppliers’ and partners’ 
adherence and development in accordance with the Responsible 
Sourcing Programme. 
• Internal Control, which evaluates and improves processes for 
management, internal control and risk management. 
• Business units, which are required to run the business in compli-
ance with the Code of Conduct, realise the elements of the 
sustainability strategy and drive progress. 
Sustainability-related policies
Commitment to patients Responsible behaviour 
•  Policy on Healthcare Interactions
•  Good Pharmaceutical Practice including Good 
Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Good Distri bution 
Practice (GDP), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and 
Good Pharmaco vigilance Practice  
(GVP)•  Anti-corruption policy
•  Sobi Group Authority Policy
•  Policy on Anti-  Corruption Due  
 Diligence on Third  Parties
•  Entertainment policy
•  Policy on Healthcare Interactions 
• Communication Policy
• Insider Policy
• Finance Policy•  Procurement Policy
•  Environmental Policy
•  Health and Safety Policy
• Policy on Processing of Personal Data 
• Policy on InvestigationsSuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
109External recognition
Sobi’s sustainability performance and progress is validated by external 
CSR specialist firm EcoVadis on an annual basis. Sobi also actively 
partakes in environmental, social and governance (ESG) evaluations 
with the aim of ensuring continuous improvement. The following 
sustainability rating agencies are rating our performance from an ESG 
perspective.
Sustainability Rating Agencies
Rating 2020 2019 2018
MSCI A A A
Sustainalytics 26.4 medium risk 26.2 medium risk 
ISS C
High relative 
performance C
High relative 
performanceC 
High relative 
performance
Sustainability risk management 
The Sobi risk management process is documented in the Sobi Group 
Risk Management Policy and the Sobi Group Risk Management 
Instructions. 
Sobi applies a business risk-management approach where sustain-
ability risks that may impede our ability to achieve set objectives are 
included. The organisation works actively to identify and address any 
uncertainties related to our ability to achieve our objectives. Identified 
risks are analysed using relevant values for the operations, enabling 
subsequent prioritisation on a commercial basis, whereby uncertain-
ties and untapped opportunities around the company’s strategy can 
be identified and managed. Sobi’s Risk Manager reports the current 
risk status to the Executive Committee, and a review of this process is 
presented to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. 
As part of the risk management process, the company’s critical 
flows are identified and business continuity plans for these are 
 implemented. 
Sobi is following the development of the current Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and 
EU Taxonomy regulations. Our sustainability risks are presented on 
pages 41–43.Sustainability reporting and communication 
Sobi’s sustainability reporting and communication aims to provide 
correct and relevant information regarding sustainability perfor -
mance, goals and strategy to investors and stakeholders. We have 
committed ourselves to be transparent on our sustainability perfor -
mance and progress.
Based on the outcome of the materiality assessment and the 
defined sustainability strategy, Sobi has identified material topics and 
their boundaries, taking into consideration reporting principles such 
as stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and 
completeness. 
Sobi’s Sustainability Report has not been subject to external assur -
ance. The Sustainability Report has been approved by Sobi’s auditors in 
line with requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act.
Sustainability strategy
The aim of the Sobi sustainability strategy is to deliver on the vision of 
transforming the lives of people living with rare diseases. It also aims 
to support Sobi’s business strategy and deliver progress in terms of 
sustainability. The strategy is based on two priorities – our commit-
ment to patients and our responsible behaviour – and includes nine 
sustainability commitments. Each priority is, in addition, linked to UN’s 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and targets that are perceived 
as critical for our business. The sustainability strategy is based on our 
commitment to always be transparent and our willingness to contribute 
to the realisation of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement.
SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
110Commitment to patients and the SDGs
Sustainable Development 
Goals Sustainable Development targets Action and ambitions Progress Read more 
SDG 3 Good health  
and  wellbeing3.2  End preventable deaths  
of newborns and children  
under 5 years of age Promote life expectancy by expanding 
access to paediatric treatmentsSynagis (palivizumab) is the only approved 
medicine for the prevention of serious 
lower respiratory tract infections caused by 
RSV in high-risk infants, and significantly 
reduces the risk of RSV hospitalisation. 
Continued investments in expanding indi-
cations for Kineret (anakinra), approved in 
certain indications for children from 8 
months of age.
Continued efforts to ensure widespread 
sustainable access to Orfadin for children 
with HT-1. Regulatory filing in China.p 16
p 15
p 17
3.4  Reduce premature mortality 
from non-communicable 
 diseases (NCDs)Increase number of R&D programmes  
in rare diseases and areas of high  
medical need12 late-stage programmes in our pipeline 
as of 31 December 2020
Orfadin, the first pharmacological treatment 
approved for the ultra-rare disease AKUp 20–22
p 17
3.8  Achieve universal health 
 coverageContinue 10-year commitment to  
the WFH Humanitarian Aid ProgramSigned additional 5-year contract for a 
total 1 billion IU donation.
To date, WFH donations have reached 
17,329 patients in 43 countries.p 24, 113
p 113
Contribute to cost-support programmes Continued support of Kineret OnTrack and 
Orfadin4U support programmes in the USp 112
Support charities in under-developed  
and underserved areasMedical grant to FYMCA Medical Ltd for 
continued rare disease education in 
 developing countries.p 114
3b  Support R&D and access  
to medicines for diseasesIncrease number of first-in-class  
products in R&D pipeline 5 first-in-class products p 24
10–15% of turnover in R&D spend R&D spend increased to 13–15%  
of  revenue 2021–2022p 24
Expand products’ global market reach 3 new indications approved
1 approval in a new market
Expansion into China, Japan,  
Australia in 2020.p 127–128
p 24
SDG 10 Reduced  
inequalities 10.3 Equal opportunity Expand rare disease and orphan drug 
 innovation  pipeline3 new partnerships for products with 
orphan drug status.  
2 orphan drug designations for new 
 indications of on-market products. p 24
SDG 16 Peace, justice  
and strong institutions16.7  Inclusive, participatory  
and representative 
 decision- making Include patient and healthcare 
 representatives in decision-making Co-developed patient support pro-
grammes, advocacy and evidence  
generation activities with patient  
advocacy groups.p 113–114
SDG 17 Partnerships  
for the goals 17.16  Global and multi- 
stakeholder partner- 
ship for  sustainable   
developmentSupport rare disease organisations  
and participate in multi-stakeholder 
 organisationsProvided support to patient  organisations 
as well as local patient organisations.
Approved members of PSCI in January 2020.p 113–114
Science and technology 
 innovation for recovery  
from COVID-19Provide treatment to investigator- 
sponsored studies (ISS) and conduct  
own  studies to support use in COVID-1918 ongoing or planned, external, ran-
domised controlled studies of anakinra in 
moderate-severe COVID-19. Sobi is sup-
porting 10 ISS across the US and EU.p 20, 112Commitment to patients 
For Sobi, meaningful engagement and cooperation with the rare 
disease community is essential. Engaging with the rare disease com-
munity requires a specialised skill set and a high level of engagement. 
The community’s collaborative commitment to reach common goals is important, as rare diseases are still undefined in many areas and 
cannot be charted in isolation. 
We are in a unique position to improve health on a global scale for 
a number of small and often overlooked patient populations and we 
take action to contribute to the SDGs via specific targets. SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
111Our R&D is ethical and focused on medical need 
High-quality and ethical science is of the greatest importance to us 
and contributes to the expansion of treatments for rare diseases in 
areas of unmet medical need. 
Sobi’s pipeline has a tight focus on innovative and differentiated 
medicines, enabling a step change in therapy in cases of unmet 
medical need where there is no available treatment. Sobi intends to 
take leadership in medicine development within rare diseases. Sobi’s 
products are already being developed and evaluated for multiple 
indications and an integrated life-cycle management approach is 
applied. Sobi is also exploring the possibilities of precision medicine in 
the use of digital health, companion diagnostics and genetic screen-
ing to optimise treatment outcomes. 
Our research is founded on scientific and medical need, and the 
design of our studies and the studies we support enables a scientifi-
cally sound evaluation of the treatments we develop and provide. 
Ethics in clinical development
To avoid exposing participants to unnecessary risks, all studies are 
ethically and scientifically reviewed and approved, and conducted 
and reported in compliance with the International Conference on 
Harmonisation (ICH) Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (GCP) 
and the latest revision of the Ethical Principles for Medical Research 
Involving Human Subjects (the Declaration of Helsinki). 
When conducting clinical studies, we make sure that we give 
participants comprehensive, easy-to-understand information so 
that they enrol only of their own free will and with informed consent. 
Patients also have the right to withdraw from a study without com-
promising the care they receive.
Working in the area of rare diseases may pose extraordinary 
requirements regarding paediatric and vulnerable patients and people 
with genetic diseases. This can include special precautions in areas 
such as gaining consent, considerations for data privacy in small 
patient populations and research of genetic diseases. Through close 
collaboration with patient representatives, we act in the belief that 
this group should stand to benefit from the knowledge, practices or 
interventions that result from the research.
We conduct our research openly and publish clinical studies on 
clinicaltrials.gov. We register and report all our clinical studies and 
share the complete and accurate results of our clinical studies even 
if they show an outcome that is not beneficial for our business. Most 
clinical research is outsourced. Training on the medical aspects of the 
disease as well as processes and monitoring is done regularly for both 
our own and sourced personnel. 
Sobi recognises the important role that investigator-sponsored 
studies (ISS) can play in expanding the knowledge related to Sobi’s 
products and their associated disease areas. In an ISS, an investigator 
independently generates a research proposal, and Sobi provides 
Ethical R&D focused on medical need – Ambitions
• Committed R&D budget in rare  diseases 
•  Increase number of R&D programmes in rare diseases  
and areas of high  medical need
• Use orphan drug regulations to shorten time to patient 
• Optimise treatment outcomes through innovative approaches
• Increase number of clinical studies on Sobi products
•  Perform consultations of patients and payers to ensure endpoints 
and outcomes that are meaningful for payers and patients. 
• Support investigator-sponsored studiessupport for the proposal if it is approved. Support can include drug 
material, expert advice, funding and more. The investigator serves as 
the study sponsor and assumes full responsibility for ensuring com-
pliance with regulatory requirements.
Bioethics
The use of human biological samples in research and therapy devel-
opment is a potentially sensitive area and internal standard operating 
procedures (SOPs) ensure that all use complies with all relevant 
external legislation, regulations and guidelines. Sobi does not cur -
rently conduct stem-cell research. 
Where animal testing is necessary, it is carefully considered and 
justified, with the 3R (replacement, reduction and refinement) prin-
ciples applied. Sobi does not perform in-house animal studies and 
contracts only from highly qualified suppliers. 
We expand access to treatment 
Sobi’s growth strategy and market expansion enable us to reach more 
patients with our treatments and regulatory approvals are necessary 
for commercialisation in new markets. Sobi has set an ambitious 
target to expand operations and access to treatments into Asia, the 
Pacific and South America over the coming five years which will 
broaden access to treatments outside our core markets. Sobi also has 
a partnership strategy to serve currently underserved markets. 
For a review of current approval and reimbursement status in 
markets, see the table on pages 127–128. 
A treatment is of value only if it reaches patients and physicians. 
One of the most powerful ways in which we work with the commu-
nity is through patient access – ensuring rapid and sustainable access 
to treatment for people with rare diseases through the established 
healthcare system. Responsible pricing and reimbursement are 
essential components in enabling access. 
Ensuring sustainable and secure access to care means that patients, 
caregivers and patient organisations can access the care they need 
when they need it without significant physical, social, financial or 
emotional burden. Some solutions created to support access include 
home nursing and product delivery programmes, telemedicine, 
patient navigation tools, culturally and linguistically adapted tools as 
well as adherence programs. 
Product delivery programmes to support people living with 
haemophilia are currently in place in Saudi Arabia, Italy and Spain. 
In the United States, Sobi has been running the patient support 
programmes Kineret OnTrack and Orfadin4U for several years; 
these programmes include services such as financial assistance and 
reimbursement, treatment guidance, mentor programmes, injection 
training and support, home delivery and waste management. Similar 
services are also available for patients and caregivers on other 
treatments in the US. 
Pricing and reimbursement
Pricing and reimbursement are two essential areas of patient access 
following regulatory approval. Each market has its own regulations 
and demands regarding approval of the proposed price and the 
degree to which reimbursement is provided. 
Sobi strives to set a price that reflects the benefit that the innova-
tion delivers to patients, healthcare systems, societies and payers, 
creating sustainable access to medicines for patients and continued 
long-term affordability to health systems to meet their patient and 
healthcare priorities.
Sustainable reimbursement is achieved through evidence genera-
tion that enables the clinical and patient value of a treatment to be 
quantified. Sobi works continuously to develop data that reflects 
resolution of unmet medical need on both initial and ongoing bases. 
SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
112Expand access to treatment – Ambitions
•  Increase geographical reach of operations
• Ensure sustainable access to care
• Continuous product launches in areas of rare diseases in key geographies
• Support managed access1
•  WHF Humanitarian Aid Program 
– 2015–2019 – 500 million IU donated 
– 2020–2025 – 500 million IU to be donatedindependent request from their treating physician and where legally 
permissible, Sobi considers making access of our medicines available 
via Managed Access Programmes1. Requests from treating physicians 
for Managed Access are assessed based purely on medical need and 
managed by the R&D and medical organisation.
Sobi has an established process for emergency orders within the 
EU and the US for life-saving products (Orfadin, Kineret and Gamifant) 
which is also available during non-office hours 365 days a year for 
immediate service if needed to save a patient’s life. 
WFH Humanitarian Aid Program donation
More than 75 per cent of people with haemophilia around the world 
have limited or no access to diagnosis and treatment, particularly in 
the developing world. The World Federation of Hemophilia Humani-
tarian Aid Program helps address the lack of access to care and treat-
ment by providing much-needed support for people with inherited 
bleeding disorders in developing countries. 
By providing a more predictable and sustainable flow of humanitar -
ian aid donations, the programme makes it possible for people living 
with haemophilia to receive consistent and reliable access to treat-
ment and care. In addition, educational programmes for treaters and 
patients are critical initiatives helping to develop in-country capacities 
to improve diagnosis and treatment monitoring. In 2020, due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the training workshops were mainly conducted 
in a virtual setting, resulting in almost a three-fold increase in the 
number of attendees. While personal interactions are important, the 
WFH will evaluate how a multi-channel approach may further expand 
the reach and accessibility of training. 
Since 2015, and renewed in 2020, Sobi and Sanofi have pledged to 
support of the WFH Humanitarian Aid Program with a total of 1 billion 
IU of factor therapy for humanitarian use over a ten-year period. See 
Sustainability Notes on page 122 for details on impact to date.
Actions to ensure continued access to treatment  
during the COVID-19 pandemic 
Supply-chain continuity 
In 2020, our product supply chain withstood the challenges 
of the COVID-19 pandemic and there was no interruption to 
the safe and secure production, supply and logistics of Sobi 
products. Sobi – with its collaboration partners, contractual 
manufacturers and distribution network – has been able to 
manage the effects of the pandemic. This is a result of strong 
partner relationships, intensified communications and clear sup-
ply planning to secure product availability and manage fluctuating 
product demand. 
Home delivery in Saudi Arabia during COVID-19 lockdown 
Just as COVID-19 emerged, several major hospitals in Saudi 
Arabia switched haemophilia patients to Sobi products. The 
lockdown of the capital Riyadh meant patients outside the city 
were at risk of not receiving treatment. Sobi introduced a home 
delivery service in collaboration with local hospitals, pharma-
cies and Sobi supply chain/logistics, sending refrigerated trucks 
with products from Riyadh to 12 cities around Saudi Arabia.
COVID-19 educational material for haemophilia 
Educational videos on COVID-19 were co-created with 
stakeholders from the haemophilia community, sharing 
insights, expertise and their experience on how best to manage 
haemophilia and maintain good health during the pandemic. 
There is a significant need to maintain exercise and adherence 
to prescribed treatment and support a healthy immune system. Actions to ensure continued access to treatment  
after Brexit
Since 2018, Sobi has prepared for different possible outcomes 
of the Brexit Free Trade Agreement negotiations. The project 
has involved representatives from a multitude of functions. To 
ensure supply for patients in the UK, extra stock was organised 
in the UK and Sobi signed the UK Government’s secured freight 
capacity for supply of medicines. When the UK left the EU on 
1 January 2021, no patients experienced interruptions of product 
supply. Sobi is also well prepared for future regulatory changes.The EU Pharmaceutical Strategy aims to facilitate collaboration on 
unmet needs and evidence generation in joint meetings of existing 
committees/networks of regulators, health technology assessment 
(HTA) bodies and payers, involving key stakeholders in the develop-
ment, authorisation and access to medicines for a life-cycle approach 
and improved availability and affordability. Sobi has pioneered and 
participated in these collaborations over many years and intends to 
continue doing so. 
In some markets, patient access to treatments may be limited by 
the lack or complexity of reimbursement processes. We have several 
initiatives in place e.g. in the US to support patients and treaters to 
gain access, bridging the gap.
Acting with urgency
Regulatory pathways for orphan drugs are implemented in several 
markets. Sobi’s pipeline is positioned to use these pathways to 
shorten time to access for patients. A priority review will direct overall 
attention and resources to the evaluation of applications for therapies 
that, if approved, would provide significant improvements in the 
safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of 
serious conditions when compared with standard applications. 
Sobi recognises that there may be instances when patients with 
serious or life-threatening diseases have exhausted all treatment 
options currently available to them and are unable or ineligible to 
participate in a clinical trial. Additionally, new medicines are normally 
not available between completion of a clinical trial and regulatory 
approval or commercial availability. For such patients, upon an 
1. Managed Access describes areas regularly known as compassionate use, expanded access  
and other similar programmes.SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
113Patient-centricity & community engagement
Our patient community engagement is based on three elements: 
enabling connectedness, ensuring sustainable access to care, and 
giving a voice to patients to express their needs related to care. 
Sobi supports connectedness so that patients, caregivers and 
patient organisations can connect to each other and the com-
munity, and to relevant information and resources to support timely 
diagnosis, optimal treatment and living well with their condition. Sobi 
applies a proactive outreach to patient organisations and supports the 
establishment or strengthening of patient organisations and networks 
in accordance with the Healthcare Interactions Policy.
Sobi is a long-term sponsor of patient organisations such as the 
European and North American rare disease organisations EURORDIS 
and NORD respectively, the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) 
and the European Haemophilia Consortium. Sobi also supports the 
European Haematology Association (EHA), The Irish Platform for 
Patient Organisations, Science and Industry (IPPOPI), The AKU Society, 
the Histiocytosis Association, AIArthritis Association, and other local 
patient organisations. A yearly summary of support provided to 
patient organisations is made public on www.sobi.com. 
Sobi has been giving a voice to patients to express their needs 
related to care, offering a platform to build awareness and to advo-
cate for their needs to be considered in current and future decisions 
related to care. This is done through patient advisory boards and 
involvement of patients in R&D and clinical study design to ensure 
we continue to develop our medicines to meet unmet needs, and 
by sharing patient stories. Sobi co-develops patient support pro-
grammes, advocacy and evidence generation activities with patient 
advocacy groups in disease areas such as haemophilia, ITP, PNH, 
HLH, FMF, AKU and refracorty gout.
Sobi also contributes to the wider community through collabora-
tions with third parties. In 2020, Sobi entered into an agreement 
with QBE Europe to invest 25 per cent of our corporate insurance 
premium into investments with an additional social objective via 
Premiums4Good.
Community engagement – Ambitions 
• Support patient connectedness 
• Give a voice to patients
Knowledge contribution to enhance the practice of medicine 
Within rare diseases, knowledge about each disease is rare too, 
and Sobi is committed to contributing to increased understanding, 
diagnosis and treatment of these underserved diseases. Sobi engages 
in advancement of knowledge by sponsoring and attending scientific 
meetings and arranging medical training designed to share medical 
advancements, and taking part in discussions to enhance the practice 
of medicine. Participation in medical events is governed by the Health -
care Interactions Policy. Sobi sponsored and participated in six inter -
national scientific meetings as well as several local events in 2020. 
Sobi’s annual support to the WFH Corporate Partner Program has 
enabled country development programmes, educational resources, 
training for healthcare professionals, capacity building and training 
for patients and patient organisations as well as support for the World 
Bleeding Disorder Registry.
For almost ten years, Sobi has been a sponsor of SSIEM, the Society 
for the Study of Inborn Errors of Metabolism. Sobi has taken part in 
the organisation’s meetings, which offer a unique opportunity for the 
community to meet, train and learn from each other.Sobi also provides a medical grant to FYMCA Medical Ltd for con-
tinued rare disease education and services in developing countries. 
The FYMCA programme aims to develop the skills of the healthcare 
personnel in diagnosing and managing metabolic diseases, as well 
as providing genetic counselling in countries where equipment and 
resources are not available.
Knowledge contribution – Ambitions 
• Active participation and sponsorship of medical conferences
•  Continued support of  community-led initiatives to increase 
 knowledge sharing
We focus on patient safety 
By adhering to pharmaceutical standards, we strive to provide 
products that meet the high quality and regulatory expectations of 
the pharmaceutical field. The safety profile and monitoring of our 
products is of utmost importance.
Safety surveillance, pharmacovigilance, continues across the 
life cycle, allowing us to identify safety risks sooner so that we can 
mitigate them and minimise or avoid harm. For all our medicines, 
under development or on the market, we have systems in place for 
identifying and evaluating possible adverse drug effects. With a robust 
pharmacovigilance system, we continuously monitor the benefit/
risk profiles of our products and ensure our alignment with the pre-
cautionary principle. Our Chief Medical Officer is accountable for the 
benefit and risk profiles of our products, providing medical oversight 
and enforcing risk assessment processes that help us make efficient 
and informed decisions about patient safety. Each product also has 
a dedicated safety team, which includes a responsible global safety 
physician. 
As part of our commitment to patient safety we continue to 
improve the competence of our staff, and develop our processes, 
systems and tools. Annual training is provided for all employees to 
ensure that all safety information – such as adverse events, product 
complaints and incorrect use – in relation to our products is reported. 
Product quality regulations
As part of the pharmaceutical industry, Sobi works in a heavily 
regulated environment. Therefore, it is essential that Sobi meets 
all regulations, and acts in compliance with Good Manufacturing 
Practices (GMP), Good Distribution Practices (GDP), Good Clinical 
Practice (GCP) and Good Pharmacovigilance Practice (GVP) including 
the requirement in the regulatory dossier in all countries where our 
products are licensed, manufactured or sold. 
Good Practice guidelines are maintained to monitor and ensure 
product safety and quality compliance during the products’ life 
cycles. The Quality Assurance department is responsible for product 
release to the market; this process includes the evaluation of product 
testing and the manufacturing steps. In the EU, product release to 
the market is performed by a Qualified Person (QP). For drug safety 
(pharmacovigilance) the responsibility is held by the Qualified Person 
Pharmacovigilance (QPPV).
To ensure and evaluate compliance with current requirements, 
inspections of our facilities by regulatory authorities are performed 
regularly. In addition to external inspections, Sobi continuously 
monitors the performance of our suppliers and internal processes 
and operations. 
SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
114Ensuring product integrity
Sobi works to improve patient safety through updated product infor -
mation, safe packaging and extensive safety monitoring of known or 
new side effects. 
Product recall is governed by standard operating procedures (SOP) 
and managed for all products for which Sobi is Marketing Authorisa-
tion Holder (MAH), and for Investigational Medicinal Products (IMP) 
in Sobi-sponsored clinical trials in cases when a product may cause 
damage, injury or inconvenience to the consumer and may affect 
one or several batches or the whole product. An Expert Committee 
is responsible for assessing product quality and compliance risks for 
products released to market and clinical studies, and a Recall Deci-
sion Body will take the decision on a recall together with the relevant 
regulatory authority or authorities.
Correct labelling is important to ensure proper use, and current 
and new safety information needs to be communicated consistently 
and promptly to authorities, prescribers, patients and within the 
organisation. SOPs are in place to ensure timely updates to Product 
Information and Patient Information Leaflets in the product packag-
ing. The labelling process consists of a series of processes and is a 
cross-functional responsibility involving the Benefit-Risk Council, Drug Safety, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Affairs, External Manufactur -
ing/Packaging and Quality Assurance, and Supply Chain.
Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are a growing worldwide problem. 
Governments all over the world are introducing regulations and sys-
tems to detect and prevent the distribution of counterfeit products. 
All Sobi products are serialised and given unique identification codes. 
Sobi’s products have not yet been subject to falsification. 
Patient safety – Ambitions 
• All Sobi employees trained in patient safety
• No critical or major incidents of product recall
• No incidents of incorrect  labellingSuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
115Responsible behaviour 
At Sobi, we promote business ethics in everything we do by setting 
high ethical standards and providing policies to support employees 
by defining responsible behaviour. The aim is to build a sustainable 
organisation by enforcing compliance with our corporate principles, and by supporting a culture that promotes an open discussion of 
ethics in our operations. Through our actions, we take action to 
contribute to the SDGs via specific targets.
Responsible behaviour and the SDGs
Sustainable Development 
Goals Sustainable Development targets Action and ambitions Progress Read more 
SDG 7 Affordable and 
clean energy7.2  Increase share of   
renewable energy Shift to 100% renewable energy  
and LED lighting 100% renewable energy at head office  
and manufacturing site in Sweden. p 121
Transition to 100% hybrid/electrical  
car fleet by 2030Environmental limits and increased 
 nominal value introduced in car  policy  
for Sweden and Italy p 121
SGD 8 Decent work and 
economic growth8.8  Safe and secure work 
 environmentsAmbition for zero work-place  
incidents Updated Health & Safety Policy. Reduced 
number of incidents in 2020. 
Supplier requirements stipulated in Partner 
Code of Conduct.p 117, 125
p 119
SDG 12 Responsible 
 consumption and 
 production12.1 Implement programmes  
on sustainable productionImplement the Sobi Responsible  
Sourcing Programme in supplier 
 relationship  management Partner Code of Conduct in place.
Responsible Sourcing Programme rolled 
out across the organisation. p 119
12.4  Achieve the environmentally 
sound management of 
chemicals and all wastes 
throughout their life cyclesComply with REACH legislation 
Environmental assessments  
of products 
Increase data collection on waste to   
enable reduction of waste volumesSobi granted REACH authorisation for  
the use of Triton X-100.
Environmental assessments updated for 
Sobi’s two small molecule treatments
Waste project initiated. Established process 
for reuse and recycling of IT equipment. p 120
p 121
SDG 13 Climate action 13.2  Integrate climate  
change measures Apply TCFD risk analysis and adopt  
climate strategy in response. 
Complete Scope 1, 2 and 3 reporting  
with targetsStrategy on environmental sustainability in 
place. Environmental policy updated with 
training.
Scope 1 and 2 reporting for whole organi-
sation. Enhanced Scope 3 data collection 
and reporting with  target set for 2022. p 120
p 121—
123
SDG 16 Peace, justice  
and strong institutions16.4  Combat organised  
crimeZero incidents of product counterfeiting 100 % serialisation of products to prevent 
counterfeiting.p 115
16.5  Anti-corruption and  
briberyZero incidents of bribery or corruption New Code of Conduct approved. Training 
distributed with a 97% completion rate.
Healthcare Compliance structure 
strengthened and continued transparent 
reporting on monetary transactions and 
transfers of value. 
Whistle-blower functionality made available 
to external parties.p 118
SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
116We help our people to develop and keep them safe & healthy 
Sobi is a responsible employer. We rely on our people to deliver on 
our business strategy. Our social impact is derived from our com-
mitment to patients as described in this report, but also through our 
interactions with our employees and the work opportunities and 
conditions we provide. 
Employee survey 
Sobi has committed to perform an annual all-employee survey, 
including pulse surveys to monitor employee satisfaction, inclusion 
and engagement. 
In 2020, the Global Engagement Survey was conducted with a 
response rate of 87 per cent including all employees and full-time 
consultants in wholly owned subsidiaries. Employee engagement 
ranked on 73 (benchmark 74), on par with the industry.
Workshops throughout the organisation have identified areas 
for development in three main areas: culture, career opportunities 
and work-life balance. Culture is seen as an aspect important to 
maintain and nurture during the organisation’s growth and strategic 
shift. Career opportunities are also valued, and while employees 
believe that their competence is a good match with their roles, 
there is a continued desire to develop to contribute even more and 
that opportunities for career development are recognised in the 
expanding business strategy. Finally, work-life balance was impacted 
negatively during the COVID-19 pandemic, as seen in many organisa-
tions last year. It was noted however that workload ranked better in 
the Engagement Survey in September 2020 than in the COVID Pulse 
Survey in June 2020, after which actions were taken to improve the 
workload situation. 
Development, training and compensation
Sobi is a values-driven company with a scientific and patient-centric 
organisation. Highly skilled and high-performing teams have been 
identified as a key success factor for meeting our ambitious strategic 
objectives. This involves developing our methods to help managers, 
leaders and colleagues facilitate continuous growth. An example of a 
Sobi leadership training programme is the Sobi Management Toolbox 
training which is designed to develop Sobi’s leadership population 
in the fundamentals of people management. The training, which is 
now available digitally, offers managers the opportunity to practise 
leadership skills, identify their own strengths and development areas, 
and learn from peers. 
Sobi also offers regular business introduction sessions that are 
open to the whole company where corporate leaders present their 
respective areas.
Creating a safe working environment during COVID-19
COVID-19 impacted our employees across the world in a 
professional and private perspective. 
Actions implemented to ensure a safe working environment 
included more flexible working hours, initiatives to ensure 
necessary distancing and safety precautions such as additional 
personal protection equipment (PPE), desk dividers, informa-
tion signs and office attendance planning. International travel 
restrictions were applied March to December, allowing only 
business-critical international travel.
Sobi conducted a global COVID-19 employee pulse survey 
(response rate 85 per cent) in June that showed strong 
engagement from employees and an eagerness to influence 
working conditions. All Sobi’s employees receive regular performance and career devel-
opment reviews. A talent management process was presented in 
2020 to support employee evaluation and development. Sobi applies 
a 70:20:10 learning and development model: training opportunities 
are offered as part of the role (70), through interactions with others 
(20), and formal educational events (10).
All Sobi employees have access to the Sobi Learning Management 
system and are assigned training based on role, supported and 
documented by a training matrix system. The system also lists avail-
able business, management and product training, meets regulatory 
requirements in the pharmaceutical field and serves as a comprehensive 
digital platform for ensuring individualised and specialised training as well 
as evidence of learning. Internal processes and control measures involve 
scientific, regulatory and compliance training which covers all employ-
ees (including part-time) and contractors. In 2020, an online Learning 
Resource Guide was also made available to all employees. 
Competitive terms of employment are a prerequisite for recruiting 
and retaining high-calibre people. We endeavour to offer competitive 
salaries and benefits, individually determined and adapted to the local 
labour market. All employees (with exception of North American and 
Asian based employees due to tax reasons) are offered long-term as 
described in Note 10. 
Health and safety 
Sobi enforces a global Health and Safety Policy. Occupational health 
and safety (OHS) management is integrated into overall activities and 
operational control as an ordinary part of daily work. OHS should 
be regularly addressed at meetings and any OHS aspects regarding 
activities considered. Managers are responsible for addressing any 
concerns raised. The joint management-worker health and safety 
committee operates from head office and includes representatives 
from all operations. The committee meets quarterly and reports to 
the Executive Committee.
Investigating and identifying the cause(s) of an accident, dangerous 
situations or near-misses makes it possible to take action to prevent a 
similar occurrence in the future. All employees are required to report 
OHS-related incidents to their employer; this is done through an 
electronic system. Managers are required to report serious incidents 
and significant OHS risks, and ensure that regulatory requirements 
and internal procedures for reporting of incidents are followed.
Diversity and equality 
Every employee is offered equal opportunities regardless of ethnicity, 
age, gender, religion, sexual orientation or physical ability. Our guide-
lines clearly prohibit any sexual harassment. In the US, a Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion programme was initiated, including an Employee 
Resource Group, manager training on inclusion and belonging as well 
as unconscious bias training. 
In Sweden, our gender equality analysis carried out annually is 
designed to prevent discrimination and promote equal rights and 
opportunities. We carefully evaluate the results in collaboration 
with trade unions and act when needed. We also map roles and 
responsibilities proactively to ensure that salaries and  development 
opportunities are provided in an equitable manner.
Caring for our employees – Ambitions 
• Perform annual employee engagement survey
•  All employees offered annual performance and career  
development discussions
• Zero-tolerance approach to  discrimination and sexual  harassment 
• Target of no workplace accidents leading to lost workdaysSuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
117We have no tolerance for corruption 
Transparency and open dialogue about ethical issues form the foun-
dation of strong collaborations. The Sobi Code of Conduct provides a 
framework for what Sobi considers to be responsible and appropriate 
conduct. It is approved by the Board of Directors and applies to 
everyone working at Sobi and its subsidiaries – including employees, 
temporary personnel and on-site consultants. The Code of Conduct 
connects to essential corporate policies, Sobi values and sustainability 
areas. 
During the year, a fully digital version of the Code of Conduct  
(www.coc.sobi.com) was launched, accessible for both employees 
and external audiences, replacing the previous version. Topics include 
human rights, health in the workplace, freedom of association, zero 
tolerance of child and forced labour, patient and community interac -
tions, product safety and quality, ethical research, anti-corruption, fair 
competition, handling of conflicts of interest, data privacy, intellectual 
property and environmental responsibility. The Code of Conduct 
has been translated into major languages and is supported with 
e-learning focusing on practical dilemmas. 
We also promote high ethical standards by supporting a corporate 
culture that promotes open discussions of ethics both in our opera-
tions and among key stakeholders. 
Sobi’s employees are encouraged to report potential miscon-
duct or unethical behaviour openly, to line management, Human 
Resources, Corporate Compliance or the Legal Department, or by 
using the Sobi Compliance Hotline, a whistleblowing hotline run by 
a third party to allow for the possibility of anonymous reporting and 
legal protection. During 2020, the Sobi Compliance Hotline also 
became available for external audiences via a link on the company 
website. All reports made through the whistleblowing hotline are 
reviewed by the Corporate Compliance Department, are subject to 
investigation according to Sobi’s Investigational Policy and are fol-
lowed up with appropriate remediation measures as needed.
Compliance 
Sobi’s compliance programme aims to enable our business by 
handling risk before it arises; it follows the elements and principles for 
effective compliance programs established by regulators. Compli-
ance is introduced to all new employees and included as a topic in 
induction programmes. As Sobi is expanding and entering into mar -
kets with higher risk, specific focus has been applied to introduce new 
markets to Sobi’s compliance programme including on-site visits, 
training and increased monitoring of new service agreements. 
The Global Compliance Governance Charter ensures management 
oversight of the compliance programme, including a governance 
structure with compliance committees, clear compliance account-
ability at different levels of the organisation and a network of compli-
ance subject-matter experts in the countries. The Chief Compliance 
Officer reports directly to the General Counsel, and regular updates 
on the compliance programme are provided to the Corporate Com-
pliance Committee and the Board of Directors. 
Anti-corruption
The pharmaceutical industry presents several corruption risks. It is 
a highly regulated sector with global operations, multiple interac -
tions with government officials and widespread use of third parties 
throughout the pharmaceutical value chain. We work actively to 
prevent any form of corruption. 
Sobi’s Anti-Corruption Policy, approved by the executive manage-
ment, has a global scope and complements the Code of Conduct 
with Sobi’s global minimum standards to prevent corruption in activi-
ties under Sobi’s control. It is aligned with industry codes and legisla-
tion, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. Key principles outlined include not accepting any nature of bribe, no 
offer or provision of facilitation payments, accurate bookkeeping and 
records, and ensuring that no gifts are made to public officials or to 
healthcare professionals. Risk assessments shall be carried out on a 
regular basis and risk-based due diligence procedures shall be carried 
out in respect of third parties. 
Sobi’s Internal Control function governs standards across the 
organisation, including the Risk Management Policy, the Authority 
Policy, conducting yearly walk-throughs and testing of previously 
mapped processes to identify changes in activities, risks and controls. 
Collaboration and audits with the Compliance department occur on a 
regular basis or when reason arises. 
All employees are required to undergo regular e-learning compli-
ance training on the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption and data 
privacy, with records kept of training. Additional training for specific 
audiences is defined in yearly compliance training plans, and may 
include areas such as “train the trainer” materials on relevant topics 
from appointed compliance subject-matter experts or face-to-face 
training on key compliance topics. 
Considering the risk exposure related to corruption and Sobi’s 
zero-tolerance policy, significant efforts are made to promote the 
reporting of suspected corruption incidents. Sobi’s Compliance 
Hotline has a dedicated reporting section for potential bribery and 
corruption concerns to facilitate reporting.
Managing corruption risks in the pharmaceutical industry
As a pharmaceutical company, the most apparent corruption risk lies 
within Sobi’s interactions with healthcare stakeholders. All engage-
ments are governed by Sobi’s Code of Conduct, while a majority are 
also covered by the Anti-Corruption Policy and the more specific 
Policy on Healthcare Interactions. Other policies with relevance to 
corruption prevention are: Policy on Anti-Corruption Due Diligence 
on Third Parties, Group Authority Policy, Entertainment Policy, Pro-
curement Policy and Risk Management Policy. 
We have an established Healthcare Compliance (HCC) programme 
including system support to minimise the risk of corruption; this 
includes policies, mandatory training for customer-facing employees, 
as well as reporting and controls. The HCC programme is an impor -
tant tool for ensuring that all interactions and value transfers remain 
legal and can withstand external scrutiny. All healthcare interactions 
are intended for the benefit of patients or to enhance the practice of 
medicine, and all interactions require prior approval and appropri-
ate documentation. A compliance monitoring plan is adopted and 
executed on an annual basis, involving sample testing and verification 
of key controls for different activity types and processes. Findings are 
categorised, logged and reported. 
Monetary transactions and transfers of value with healthcare 
providers and patient organisations follow local transparency initia-
tives such as under the EFPIA Code, US Sunshine Act and national 
transparency laws, and are made public on an annual basis on our 
website, www.sobi.com. Sobi currently publishes Transfers of Value 
to healthcare providers in 33 markets across Europe (including Russia 
and Ukraine) and the US. In 2020, we launched an updated pro-
gramme and system support for transparency reporting for increased 
effectiveness and rapid adaptation to new geographic areas.
Responsible marketing and sales
We are committed to employing high ethical standards of sales and 
marketing practice worldwide, in line with our Code of Conduct and 
supporting policy framework. Employees involved in promotional 
activities are trained regularly. 
The Policy on Healthcare Interactions guides promotional activity 
and provides relevant tools. The policy applies to Sobi employees,  
SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
118contractors, agents and third parties. General managers are account-
able for ensuring compliance at local level and for instructing quali-
fied representatives to design processes for local implementation and 
training, including approval processes incorporating the appropriate 
internal stakeholders. Promotional materials are always approved 
prior to external use and after each modification, by a cross-func -
tional team of qualified representatives, and review and approvals are 
documented in a digital vault. Approvals relating to promotional and 
non-promotional material are retained for ten years after final use.
Data privacy 
Data privacy is part of Sobi’s Code of Conduct and a prioritised area 
across Sobi. It is important that our customers, clinical study subjects, 
employees and others we interact with can trust that Sobi processes 
personal data in a responsible and secure manner. 
Sobi has implemented a data privacy programme in order to 
promote data privacy compliance, including appointing a Data Pro-
tection Officer (DPO), a global Policy on Processing of Personal Data 
and procedures on how to respond to data breaches and data subject 
access requests, and monitoring procedures. In addition, data privacy 
champions have been appointed throughout the Sobi organisation to 
promote compliance and support the business. 
EU data privacy legislation requires Sobi to assess all suspected and 
confirmed personal data breaches. If a personal data breach is con-
firmed, Sobi must also assess if reporting to supervisory authorities 
and/or data subjects is required. In order to be able to comply with 
these requirements, Sobi has implemented a personal data breach 
process globally, requiring all staff to report suspected and confirmed 
personal data breaches immediately to Sobi’s DPO. The DPO assesses 
all cases and ensures that appropriate actions are taken. 
We source responsibly 
To ensure sustainable and responsible sourcing, we launched the Sobi 
Responsible Sourcing Programme in January 2020, including the 
introduction of a Partner Code of Conduct and sustainability screen-
ing. Contracts include a requirement to comply with the Sobi Partner 
Code of Conduct. Sustainability screening of partners involves 
ensuring compliance with standards in the areas of governance, 
labour rights, human rights and environmental responsibility through 
EcoVadis third-party evaluation. Yearly assessment by EcoVadis is 
conducted for strategic suppliers in direct categories and for those in 
high-risk countries, in 2020 covering top 100 suppliers in spend. 
In January 2020, Sobi’s membership application to the Pharmaceu-
tical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) was accepted, and requirements for 
supplier behaviour and performance have been aligned with the PSCI 
principles.
During the year, the Procurement department has been trained 
in responsible sourcing, and an assessment of supplier sustainability 
performance has been included as a qualifier in supplier selection. 
Suppliers that do not reach a total EcoVadis score of >40 or which 
have a score <40 in any theme will be further evaluated and encour -
aged to improve their score. 
Sobi intends to expand the Responsible Sourcing Programme in 
2021 to include a materiality and risk-based approach to sustain-
ability audits, and introduction of continuous improvement plans and 
 non-compliance procedures. Sobi’s human rights statement and statement against child and forced 
labour are included in the Partner Code of Conduct to address poten-
tial risks and manage compliance in the supply chain. 
Third-party due diligence
Sobi’s commitment to prevent bribery and corruption in connection 
with our business activities around the world extends to third parties 
engaged to perform services on Sobi’s behalf. In accordance with 
Sobi’s Anti-Corruption Policy, Sobi conducts appropriate risk-based 
anti-corruption due diligence of third parties (“TPDD”) to identify and 
mitigate bribery and corruption risks and address any “red flags” prior 
to engagement of third parties. Third parties in scope for TPDD are 
re-evaluated periodically. Sobi contracts include standard compliance 
with laws clauses and related anti-corruption protections. 
Compliance – Ambitions 
•  All employees to undergo regular e-learning training with the 
 following being mandatory for all employees: Code of Conduct, 
 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery, Data privacy, and Product safety 
training
• Zero-tolerance approach to bribery
• No major violations of data privacy 
•  Transparent reporting of monetary transactions to healthcare 
 professionals and organisations 
• Deliver on Responsible Sourcing Programme
• Participate in supplier sustainability networks
•  Conduct ESG due diligence and promote the responsible business 
conduct of suppliersSuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
119Reducing our environmental footprint 
Our materiality assessment shows that our environmental and 
climate-related impact is limited. It can be broken down into direct 
and indirect impacts, through sourced activities both upstream and 
downstream and through activities caused by our operations. 
Our carbon footprint arises from energy consumption during the 
production of products, business travel, logistics within the supply 
chain and the distribution of our products. Environmental impacts 
from production and the laboratories are mainly due to the use of 
energy, water, chemicals, generated waste and discharge of sewage. 
Management of water and energy consumption, chemicals, waste 
and emissions have high priority in our production and laboratory 
facilities. More specific and detailed environmental guidance for the 
facilities is given in specific standard operating procedures and in 
the environmental compliance programme, which aims to improve 
control of the environmental impact from the production. 
We continuously evaluate and monitor the energy and water 
consumption of our production facility. Sobi reports energy and water 
consumption annually and measures internal KPIs with the aim of 
improving environmental performance. 
Sobi’s current reporting practice covers Scope 1 and 2 for all our 
wholly own operations as well as Scope 3 for business travel. Responsible handling of chemicals
All applicable chemical regulations are monitored closely and 
naturally constitute an important aspect of Sobi’s business. A recent 
example is the use of Triton in the ReFacto production process. Triton 
X-100 is subject to REACH authorisation. It is not possible to replace 
Triton in the process, so Sobi applied for and was granted authorisa-
tion for its use. Strict requirements are applied on filter cleaning and 
waste handling to ensure that environmental discharge is avoided as 
far as possible. 
Chemicals regulations are extensive and continuously expand-
ing; all handling of chemicals in our laboratory and manufacturing 
processes therefore follows strict instructions. We perform continu-
ous risk assessments and internal audits. The Responsible Sourcing 
Programme is an important tool to influence, manage and follow 
up sourcing and handling of chemicals in our supply chain. 
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
The environmental hazards of a specific drug refer to its inherent 
properties, such as toxicity and its ability to be broken down by 
nature. According to existing EU and US guidelines on environmental 
risk assessments of medicinal products, biopharmaceuticals com-
posed of for example proteins and peptides are not considered to 
have a significant negative environmental impact. A high percentage 
of Sobi’s products are protein-based and are therefore considered 
1.7
Combustion Cars Contract 
manufacturing2Distribution & 
logistics2 597 To map & actTo map & act
97 1,359To map & act To map & actSobi’s total carbon emissions (CO 2 tonnes)
Sobi’s own carbon emissions Sobi’s value chain’s carbon emissions
Purchased  
electricity1 Business  
travelRaw material3 Capital goods  
& services3
Other indirect emissions (rest of Scope 3), in the value chain to be mapped by 2022.
2. Hybrid method based on supplier direct reporting will be used
3. GHG-protocol calculations based on spend will be usedDirect and indirect emissions (Scope 1, 2 and parts of Scope 3 in CO 2 tonnes)
1. Calculation methods have been adjusted to previous years.
SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
120not to have a significant impact on the environment. Environmental 
assessments of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) have been 
conducted on Sobi’s two small molecule treatments, nitisinone 
and avatrombopag, and they are considered to be of low risk to the 
environment. 
Direct carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 
Sobi’s direct emissions arise from our commercial operations in 30 
countries with 20 offices as well as our biological production facility 
(reported as Manufacturing/Haematology) in Stockholm, Sweden, 
and our laboratory in Geneva, Switzerland. 
Our direct operations are where we have the most control. We 
commit to substantially reducing emissions from our sites and ground 
fleet by 2025 by avoiding, reducing and substituting, and have the 
ambition to reach zero emissions by 2030. Electricity from renew-
able sources is currently sourced for offices and facilities in Sweden, 
Switzerland and Denmark. Mapping and review of energy sources as 
well as extent of use of LED lighting for local offices was initiated in 
2020. 
Indirect carbon emissions (Scope 3)
All production of our commercial products is outsourced to contract 
manufacturers. Sobi’s supply chain sources production from CMOs 
in Europe and the US, with distribution to over 70 markets worldwide. 
Across our value chain (Scope 3), this is where reductions potentially 
could have the biggest impact but also where we have least control. 
During 2020, Sobi participated for the first time in the PSCI Supplier 
Survey led by Ecodesk to collect Scope 1 and 2 emissions data from 
contract manufacturers. 
Sobi intends to increase our awareness of our climate impact by 
mapping the supply chain by 2022, using surveys and other methods 
of direct reporting for CMOs as well as distribution and logistics 
services. Remaining emissions from raw materials, packaging, capital 
goods and services will be calculated using industry-specific guid-
ance on spend from the GHG Protocol where possible. Sobi will aim 
to apply the boundaries “from cradle to customer”, limiting reporting 
to areas within our producer responsibility - production, formulation, 
packaging and delivery of sold goods to wholesaler or partner. Emis-
sions calculations will not cover a full consumer life-cycle analysis as 
the prescription and use of our products is beyond our control.
We will continue to use the Responsible Sourcing Programme and 
supplier relationship management to increase reporting coverage as 
well as influencing suppliers to participate in emission reductions with 
a focus on areas of our producer responsibility. The safe and timely 
delivery of our products will always be the primary consideration. 
Development of climate-based targets
Target 
year Topic Ambitions
2022 Emissions – 
Scope 3Map emissions in supply chain (CMO, 
 distribution, waste and spend) – set baseline 
and reduction targets 
2025 Emissions – 
Scope 1 and 2Reduce operational GHG footprint by 50% 
from 2015 baseline
2030 Emissions – 
Scope 1 and 2Reduce operational GHG footprint to net 
zero emissions 
Shift to 100% renewable energy
2030 Emissions – 
Scope 3Set reduction target in 2022
2030 Vehicle fleet Achieve a 100% hybrid or electric vehicle fleetBusiness travel
In 2020, Sobi expanded the reporting scope of business travel 
emissions to cover all global operations (in 2019, 80 per cent of 
operations were included) with the intention of setting a baseline year 
for business travel. However, in 2020 the COVID-19 pandemic had a 
substantial impact on business travel as Sobi limited all non-essential 
business travel from 15 March until the end of the year. 
Business travel also includes a Sobi leased car fleet (Scope 1) as well 
as employee-owned cars (Scope 3). The practice of car management 
and policy is dependent on local regulations and culture. In Sweden 
and Italy, further sharpened environmental limits were introduced 
in 2020 for local car policies as well as the provision of an increased 
nominal value to include electric and hybrid cars. Charging facilities 
are available at offices in Italy, Belgium and Finland with economic 
compensation for the installation of charging facilities at employees’ 
homes provided in Italy, UK, Ireland, Spain and Portugal. According to 
policies for the newly opened operations in Japan, only employees’ 
public transport is compensated. 
A significant shift has been made to transition to digital internal 
and external meetings as well as scientific congresses reducing the 
need for travel. Sobi has accelerated the implementation of modern 
workplace technology across the entire organisation. 
Waste
Sobi strives to continually increase data collection on waste and 
thereby enable continual reductions in waste volumes wherever 
possible. Measures are also taken to prevent generation of waste. 
In 2019, Sobi discontinued and moved the majority of the labora-
tory operations from the Solna head office. In 2020, all equipment 
was evaluated for further use within Sobi’s operations. To further 
limit the volume of waste caused by this action and promote reuse, 
functioning laboratory equipment was sold to external parties.
Sobi has an established process for reuse and recycling of IT 
equipment in Sweden via a certified technology lifecycle manage-
ment service partner. This process will extend to all Sobi’s operations 
worldwide as of 2021. SuStainabiLit Y RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
121Sustainability Notes
Sobi updated its materiality assessment process in 2020. For a 
detailed description of stakeholder groups and outcomes of the 
assessment, see page 109. The materiality assessment identified the 
most important topics for Sobi’s sustainability reporting.
Economic performance
In 2020, revenue growth was 7 per cent with revenue of SEK 15,261 M. Adjusted 
EBITA was SEK 6,301 M, resulting in an adjusted EBITA margin of 41 per cent for 
the full year. Cash flow from operations totalled SEK 5,214 M.
Direct economic value generated 
SEK M 2020 2019
Revenue 15,261 14,248
Operating costs 7,575 6,430
Employee wages and benefits 2,250 1,748
Payments to providers of capital 249 86
Payments to government1 918 520
Community investments2 20 23
Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
1. Includes corporate income tax (CIT) payments (i.e. no special payroll tax on pensions,  
VAT or social security contributions). Does not include other taxes such as pharmaceutical, 
environmental and individual employee’s income tax.
2. Community investments are based on costs for financial  support to patient organisations. 
The largest recipients are the World Federation of Hemophilia and the European Haemophilia 
Consortium. Patient organisations receiving support are made public on www.sobi.com. 
Indirect economic impact
Sobi reports on the humanitarian aid donation of haemophilia factor treat-
ments as a significant indirect economic impact in the stakeholder community 
and developing countries. 
In June 2020, Sobi and Sanofi committed to an additional 500 million IUs to 
the initial donation, in support of the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) 
Humanitarian Aid Program, fulfilling the pledge to donate up to 1 billion 
IUs of coagulation factor to humanitarian aid between 2015–2025. 
Sobi’s impact is reported in accordance with the WFH’s progress report for 
this programme and is the result of Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution to the pro-
gramme. 
Number 2020 2019 2018
Total M IUs1 delivered 538 449 362
Total patients treated (cumulative) 17,329 17,223 16,885
Acute bleeds treated 21,900 42,881 37,896
Surgeries 470 355 461
Number of workshop attendees 691 250 240
1. International units
In addition to the humanitarian aid donation to the WFH, Sobi contributes to 
the WFH  Corporate  Partner Program. Read more about the impacts of the Cor -
porate Partner Program on the webiste www.sobi.com. Environmental performance
The scope of Sobi’s environmental impact reporting includes Sobi-owned 
 biological manufacturing facility, headquarters in Sweden and international 
offices and business travel. Reporting for 2020 includes environmental data 
from subsidiaries, not previously included. 
Sobi aims to report comprehensively on supply chain emissions by 2022. 
E1. GHG Emissions 
GHG emissions (CO 2) (tonnes)
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Own activities  
(direct and indirect)
Total 3,096 4,326 1,326 1,207 1,331
Scope 1  
(direct   emissions)
Facilities’ energy use 1.7 2,2 3 3 2.6
Fleet cars1 (Parent) 88 98 129 153 167
Fleet cars1 (Subsidiaries) 509 — — — —
Total 599 100 132 156 170
Scope 2 
(indirect  emissions)
Heating (Parent)2 61 82 119 129 130
Cooling (Parent)2 0 0 0 0 0
Electricity (Parent)2 0.02 0.02 0.02 — —
Unspecified energy 
(Subsidiaries) 36 — — — —
Total 97 82 119 129 130
Scope 3
(indirect  emissions) 
Business travel - flight, 
taxi (Parent) 295 971 981 830 945
Business travel - flight 
(Subsidiaries) 1064 3099 — — —
Business travel - cars
(Subsidiaries) 977 — — — —
Heating (Parent)2 43 74 94 92 86
Cooling (Parent)2 33 0 0 0 0
Electricity (Parent)2 0.01 0.01 0 0 0
Energy (Subsidiaries) 17 — — — —
Total 2,400 4,144 1075 922 1,031
1. Includes fleet cars included in IFRS16 reporting of leased properties. 
2. Parent company emissions adjusted from previous years’ reporting in alignment with GHG- 
protocol. Energy at the head office is purchased indirectly through landlord. 
3. Indirect effects of district cooling included in Scope 3 from 2020.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions include data from Sobi’s global operations, defined as 
Parent for emissions from the biological manufacturing facility and headquarters 
in Sweden, and Subsidiaries for emissions from the international offices. 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the Parent have reduced 47 and 53 per cent 
respective from 2016, 50 per cent in total. Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 
2020 cannot be compared with prior years due to the expanded requirement 
to include all global operations. Scope 2 and 3 emissions from the Parent have 
gradually declined due to better energy mix from the supplier in Sweden and 
more efficient energy use. SuStainabiLit Y  noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
122E2.1 Total amount of energy directly consumed
The direct energy produced and consumed on-site (Scope 1 Facilities’ energy 
use) is generated by an emergency generator that is tested every month. In mid 
2019, the process to test the generator was made more efficient and the time 
spent was cut in half, as were the emissions. 
E2.2 Total amount of energy indirectly consumed
Energy consumption is regularly followed up in relation to internal perfor -
mance indicators. In 2020, energy consumption from the manufacturing of 
steam increased at the production site. The production of more steam was 
intentional and used to extend life duration of certain machinery.
Energy-saving possibilities are regularly evaluated at the production facilities 
in Stockholm, Sweden. 
E3. Energy intensity 
Total direct energy use for in-house manufacturing per output scaling factor. 
Total direct energy use (MWh/SEK M)
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Energy (MWh) 6,173 5,867 6,313 6,480 6,425
Revenue manufacturing 
(SEK M) 481 376 436 559 569
MWh/SEK M 12.8 15.6 14.5 11.6 11.3
E4. Water use
Water consumption refers to Sobi’s head office and production facilities in 
Stockholm, Sweden. Water consumption is regularly followed up in relation to 
internal performance indicators. 
Water consumption
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Purchased water 56,725 31,776 57,374 45,913 40,491
Reclaimed water — — — — —
Total 56,725 31,766 57,374 45,913 40,491
In 2020, an incorrect reading of water consumption for the head office was 
adjusted, resulting in a considerably higher reading compared to previous 
years. During 2021, a validation of the reading will be conducted to certify 
proper reporting for actual consumption. The actual water consumption at the 
head office should most likely have decreased during 2020 compared to previ-
ous years, since the laboratory work performed there was discontinued in 2019.
Water in the production facilities is not reclaimed, but warm water is recycled 
from the production of steam to extract heating and cooling. 
Energy consumption
 2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   Of which renewable03,0006,0009,00012,00015,000MWh
Electricity
renewableDistrict
heatingFossil
fuel (oil)Cooling Total
of which
renewableIn 2020, the reporting of business travel is complete covering all of Sobi’s 
 operations as well as employee-owned cars used for business purposes. Travel 
emissions decreased substantially during the year due to reduced travel during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Sobi intended to set 2020 as a new base line year for 
calculation of total emission reductions, but due to the pandemic reported 
emissions are not representative of expected emissions.
Emission factors used 
Aspect Emission factor Source
Electricity, Sweden 0.003 g CO 2/kWhA mix of certified renewable 
energy sources 
Cooling, SwedenS2: 0 g CO 2/kWh
S3: 1 g CO 2/kWhAnnual environmental report, 
District heating supplier
Heating, Sweden1 48.6 g CO 2/kWhAnnual environmental report, 
District heating supplier
Heating values 
 fossil fuel 
 consumption in 
 facility, Sweden 35.82 GJ/m3Emission factors and heating 
 values 2020, Swedish Environ-
mental Protection Agency 
(Naturvårdsverket)
Emission factor 
fossil fuel con-
sumption in   
facility, Sweden 74.26 kg CO 2/GJEmission factors and heating val-
ues 2020, Swedish Environmen-
tal Protection Agency 
(Naturvårdsverket)
Air travel —Emission factors provided by 
flight operators and US Environ-
mental Protection Agency
Car travel —Individual factors depending on 
type of car
Rail travel —Emission factors provided by  
different train operators
1. Emission factor for heating in Sweden was reduced due to the supplier’s decommission of coal as 
energy source. The compensation made by the supplier is not included in Sobi’s calculations. 
E2. Energy use and mix
Energy consumption refers to all operations, including Sobi’s contract and 
in-house manufacturing and all offices. Energy consumption by source of 
 origin and the proportion that is renewable is included where data is available.
In 2020, a mapping of energy sources for all offices was initiated. Renewable 
energy is sourced for offices and facilities in Sweden, Switzerland and Denmark.
In an effort to transition to more renewable energy in the company and 
employee car fleet, electrical cars are subsidised in Sweden, Italy, Norway, 
 Finland, UK and Ireland. In Sweden, the nominal price was increased in 2020 
to include electric and hybrid cars. 
Energy consumption (facilities’ energy use) (MWh)
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Electricity 8,318 7,518 7,694 7,852 7,687
of which renewable 8,318 7,518 7,694 7,852 7,687
District heating 2,133 2,550 2,596 2,690 2,713
of which renewable 1,770 2,015 2,051 1,991 2,116
Fossil fuel (oil)1 5,6 7,2 10,0 8,4 8,8
Cooling 2,902 3,059 3,167 2,793 2,745
Total 13,358 13,127 13,457 13,335 13,145
1. Direct energy SuStainabiLit Y  noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
123E5. Environmental operations
The Environmental Policy emphasises the importance of management and 
states the basic overall principles and guidelines for managing environmental 
issues within Sobi. 
To our knowledge, there have been no confirmed incidents resulting in 
administrative and judicial sanctions for failure to comply with environmental 
laws and/or regulations in 2020. 
In an effort to reduce energy and water consumption by half at the Stock -
holm production site, several initiatives in 2014 reduced energy use by 45 per 
cent and water use by 60 per cent over a two-year period. The reductions 
achieved in 2014 remain in relation to production volumes (see Sobi’s Annual 
Report 2016 and 2017 for details). 
E6. Climate oversight and risk mitigation
Sobi’s direct GHG emissions are limited and the company is not at risk of sub-
stantial exposure to climate change in the short-term.
Supply chain partners with a high impact on Sobi’s operations and that are 
impacted by climate-related risks are continuously monitored as part of Sobis 
responsible sourcing programme and risk-assessment process. 
Sobi is following the development of the EU Taxonomy Regulation and rec -
ommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure 
(TCFD) with the aim of adapting the company’s climate-related financial dis-
closures to evolving reporting practice. Sobi’s direct and indirect climate-re-
lated risks and opportunities will be assessed in accordance with the TCFD’s 
recommendations in 2021. At this point in time, it is Sobi’s understanding that 
none of our economic activities are covered by the technical screening criteria 
in the EU Taxonomy Regulation so far released. We are continuously following 
the development of the EU Taxonomy Regulation and Sobi’s operations do not 
make a substantial contribution, and do no significant harm, to the six environ-
mental objectives established by the regulation.E7. Waste 
Waste reporting is based on Sobi’s head office and production facilities in 
Stockholm, Sweden. Waste data does not include waste from marketing and 
sales offices outside Sweden. Non-hazardous waste has decreased as a result 
of several measures, including digitalisation of deviation management and 
changes to available archive spaces.
Office and production site waste (tonnes)
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Total amount of waste 35 39 42 72 61
Non-hazardous waste
Recycling 5 6 — — —
Combustion with 
energy recovery 16 17.5 — — —
Other treatment 0 0.6 — — —
Landfill1 1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0
Total 22 24.3 24 50 46
Hazardous waste
Recycling 6 5 — — —
Reuse2 1 — — — —
Combustion with 
energy recovery 0 0 — — —
Other treatment 7 8.6 — — —
Landfill 0 0 — — —
Total 13 14.4 18 22 16
1. A limited amount of Sobi’s waste cannot be recycled and is therefore sent to landfill. The waste 
is non-hazardous and consists for example of insulation, bricks, ceramics and tiles. All waste is 
disposed of and treated by authorised companies.
2. IT-equipment sent for repurposing 
Office and production sites waste
 Non-hazardous waste  Hazardous waste01020304050607080
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016TonnesWater consumption
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,000
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016m3SuStainabiLit Y  noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
124Social performance 
In 2020, Sobi’s commercial operations were based in Europe, North America, 
North Africa and the Middle East, and new offices were established in China, 
Japan and Australia. Biological manufacturing is based in Sweden with one 
 laboratory facility in Switzerland. In terms of number of employees, Sobi grew 
organically in 2020. 
To our knowledge, there were no confirmed incidents resulting in adminis-
trative or judicial sanctions for failure to comply with laws and/or regulations 
in the social and economic area in 2020. 
S1. CEO remuneration
See Note 10 for information about CEO remuneration. See also the Remunera-
tion report available on the www.sobi.com website in connection with the 
documentation for the 2021 Annual General Meeting. 
S2. Gender pay ratio
In Sweden, our gender equality analysis is carried out annually and it is designed 
to prevent discrimination and promote equal rights and opportunities. We eval-
uate the results in collaboration with trade unions, and take action if necessary. 
We also map roles and responsibilities proactively to ensure fair and equitable 
salaries and development opportunities. 
S3. Employee turnover
In 2020, Sobi had a turnover rate of 11 per cent due to voluntary terminations. 
Sobi did not introduce any furlough schemes or layoffs during the COVID-19 
 pandemic.
Year New hiresHires 
womenHires 
menVoluntary  
terminationTotal number
employees
2020 390 221 169 166 1509
S4. Gender diversity
Sobi has strong representation of women in management roles within 
STEM-related (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) areas. 
Positions such as CIO, Head of Global Manufacturing and Infrastructure, Head 
of R&D Operations, and Head of Project and Portfolio Management are all held 
by women. 
2020 2019 2018
% Female Male Female Male Female Male
Board 38 62 38 62 38 62
Executive  
Committee 18 82 27 73 18 82
Senior manage-
ment1 42 58 – – – –
All employees 59 41 60 40 59 41
1. Senior management - management positions reporting to Executive Committee. 
S5. Temporary worker ratio 
Typically, Sobi does not have part-time positions. Employees may be granted 
voluntary part-time equivalent employment for personal needs such as child 
care. 
Employees, contract type 
Employees1 Male Female SwedenOther 
RegionsTotal 
2020
Employees 615 894 438 1071 1509
Permanent contract 608 881 403 – 1491
Fixed-term contract 7 11 7 11 18
Substitute 1 1 1 1 2
1. Employee numbers are expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE). S6. Injury rate 
Total number of accidents includes those that did not lead to absence from 
work but that may have required medical care. 
The number of incidents was lower in 2020, partly due to the closure of the 
laboratory facilities at the head office in 2019. For 2020, statistics include all 
operations globally. Up to 2019, the data only included reports from Sweden. 
Incidents 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
No. of accidents 10 26 28 23 22
Lost workday injury (LWI) 0 0 1 0 0
Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0 0 0.39 0 0
LWI – Accidents that led to sickness absence (in addition to the day of the accident)
LTIR – Lost time incident rate per million hours worked
S7. Global Health and Safety
Sobi applies a global Health and Safety Policy and Occupational Health and 
Safety (OHS) management is integrated into the company’s overall manage-
ment and business. Health and safety is addressed regularly at meetings and 
any OHS risks associated with activities are considered. Managers are responsi-
ble for addressing any concerns raised.
The joint management worker health and safety committee is based at the 
head office and consist of representatives from all operations. The committee 
meets quarterly and reports to the Executive Committee.
S8. Training and education 
All of Sobi’s employees receive regular performance and career develop ment 
reviews. Training documentation and performance management processes are 
digitalised. 
All employees completed their performance management process (PMP) 
in 2020. 
S9. Patient safety 
To ensure and evaluate statutory compliance with quality and patient safety 
regulations, our facilities are regularly inspected. In 2020, Sobi hosted four 
inspections (3 GVP, 1 GMP). In addition to external inspections, Sobi continu-
ously monitors the performance of our suppliers and internal processes and 
operations.
Sobi had no incidents of product recall in 2020.
S10. Marketing and labelling 
In 2020, Sobi was sanctioned by the UK self-regulatory body PMCPA for one (1) 
instance of misleading advertising. The ad has since been removed.
No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes 
concerning product and service information and labelling were reported.
S11. Forced and Child Labour
Sobi’s statement on forced and child labour is included in the Code of Conduct 
and Partner Code of Conduct (which applies specifically to the supply chain), 
both of which are available on www.sobi.com.
S12. Human rights
Sobi’s human rights statement is included in the Code of Conduct and Partner 
Code of Conduct (which applies specifically to the supply chain), both of which 
are available on www.sobi.com.SuStainabiLit Y  noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
125Governance performance
Sobi promotes business ethics by setting high ethical standards in our opera-
tions globally. The aim is to create a sustainable organisation by building a 
 culture of compliance with our corporate principles. The objective of maintain-
ing ethical standards extends to our supply chain. 
G1. Board diversity
The Nomination Committee applies rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Govern-
ance Code in regard to composition of the Board.
Board diversity 
2020 2019 2018
Male 5 5 5
Female 3 3 3
Nationalities 4 4 4
30–50 years 0 1 1
Over 50 years 8 7 7
Committee chairs (three committees)
Male 2 (3) 2 (3) 2 (3)
Female 1 (3) 1 (3) 1 (3) 
G2. Board Independence
See the Corporate Governance Report. 
The company meets the Swedish Corporate Governance Code’s require-
ments that a majority of Board members must be independent of the company 
and its executive management, and that at least two Board members must also 
be independent of the company’s major  shareholders.
G3. Incentivised Pay
Executives are formally incentivised for objectives that are determined for the 
promotion of the Company’s business strategy and long-term development, 
including its sustainability, in accordance with the Remuneration Guideline set 
out in Note 10. 
In the Shareholding Guidelines, the Board recommends that the CEO and 
other members of the Executive Committee, within three years of their 
appointment, accumulate personal holdings in Sobi shares representing one 
annual gross base salary for the CEO, and 50 per cent of annual gross base sal-
ary for other members of the Executive Committee, and maintain these shares 
for the duration of their appointment as CEO or other Executive Committee 
member.
G4. Collective bargaining agreements
All of Sobi’s employees are free to form, join or refrain from joining organisa-
tions that represent their interests as employees. All employees are also 
allowed to negotiate collectively. 40 per cent of Sobi’s employees (Sweden, 
Austria, France, Italy, Spain/Portugal) are covered by collective bargaining 
agreements.
Employees covered by collective bargaining (%)
Region 2020
Sweden 100
Europe1 31
North America2 0
Rest of the world 0
Total 40
1. Excluding Sweden
2. US and CanadaG5. Supplier Code of Conduct
In 2019, Sobi introduced a Partner Code of Conduct for vendors, suppliers and 
partners. The Code is available on www.sobi.com.
In January 2020, Sobi became a formal associate member of the Pharma-
ceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI ) and during the year, participated in sev-
eral PSCI working groups.
The sustainability assessment of 86 partners was monitored by EcoVadis. 
• 3 suppliers scored <40 using the EcoVadis CSR Rating Methodology. 
• No supplier scored <40 using the EcoVadis theme score of Labour Practices 
and Human Rights.
G6. Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Sobi’s ethical standards statement is included in the Code of Conduct and Part-
ner Code of Conduct (which applies specifically to the supply chain). Sobi’s 
Anti-corruption Policy applies to all employees.
In 2020, five reports of alleged misconducted were reported to the Corporate 
Compliance Department. All cases were investigated and the appropriate 
 corrective and disciplinary actions were taken where needed. 
97 per cent of Sobi’s workforce completed the Code of Conduct e-learning. 
95 per cent completed the assigned anti-corruption training.
G7. Data Privacy
Please see page 119 for a high-level overview of Sobi’s data privacy program. 
To allow for continuous improvements as well as complying with data protec -
tion legislation, it is of great importance to establish and maintain a robust data 
breach reporting process. 
Sobi’s data protection office received 16 internal reports of suspected per -
sonal data breaches during 2020, showing that there is an awareness within the 
company regarding integrity issues, an inclination to report potential issues, 
and that there are open lines of communications enabling such reporting. The 
reports range from minor incidents such as e.g. emails sent to the wrong recip-
ient to potentially more severe breaches. All incidents were investigated and 
corrective actions taken. Two cases were reported to the supervisory authority, 
as required by applicable data privacy legislation.SuStainabiLit Y  noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
126Market availability of Sobi products
Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2020
Region Alprolix1 Elocta1 Doptelet2  Kineret Gamifant Orfadin
EU and EFTA states Haemophilia B Haemophilia A CLD RA, CAPS, Still’s, FMF*,3 HT-1 & AKU*,4
Austria x x x* x x 
Belgium x x x x 
Bulgaria x x x x
Croatia x x x x
Cyprus x
Czech Republic x x x x
Denmark x x x* x x 
Estonia x x x
Finland x x x x
France x x x x
Germany x x x x 
Greece x x x x
Hungary x x x x
Iceland x
Ireland x x x* x x
Italy x x x x
Latvia x
Liechtenstein x x x x
Lithuania x
Luxembourg x x x x
Malta x*
Netherlands x x x x
Norway x x x* x x
Poland x x x x
Portugal x x x x
Romania x* x* x
Slovakia x x x x
Slovenia x x x x
Spain x* x x x
Sweden x x x xRegulatory approvals and indications for Sobi’s products vary 
according to geographical region. In addition to regulatory 
approval, local agreements on pricing and reimbursement are 
also required for the product to be fully available through regular 
healthcare pathways.
The table below shows the countries for which Sobi has been 
granted marketing authorisation (MA), including the indication, 
and whether market access is achieved through approved pricing 
and/or reimbursement (marked with x) or managed access pro-grammes (MAP). In the EU, the marketing authorisation approval 
and indication is valid for all EU member and EFTA states. 
Sobi is commercialising the following proprietary products: 
Alprolix, Elocta, Doptelet, Gamifant, Kineret and Orfadin. As Sobi 
only holds the rights to Synagis in the US, Synagis is not included 
in the table. Sobi also commercialises Kepivance in the US. 
See the glossary on page 134 for a definition of the listed 
indications. 
1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia. 
2. Doptelet received approval for primary chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in January 2021. 
3. FMF – Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF) indication approved in Europe 28 April 2020. 
4. Adult patients with alkaptonuria (AKU) indication approved in Europe 22 October 2020.SuStainabiLit Y  noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
127Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2020
Region Alprolix1 Elocta1 Doptelet2  Kineret Gamifant Orfadin
Europe – other Haemophilia B Haemophilia A CLD RA, CAPS HT-1
Russia x* x x (MAP2) x
Switzerland x x x x
Turkey x*
United Kingdom x x x* x x (HT-1 & AKU*)
Ukraine x
North America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory HT-1
Canada RA, NOMID  
xx
Mexico x x
United States3 CLD, ITP 
xRA, NOMID 
 xpHLH 
xx
Asia HT-1
Bahrain x x x
China Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory Out-licensed submitted for  
approvalsubmitted for 
approval
Kuwait x x x* x*
Israel Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory x + FMF* x
Japan Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory x* x
Jordan x
Oman x x x
Palestine x
Qatar x x x x
Saudi Arabia x x x (MAP) x
United Arab Emirates x x x (MAP) x (MAP)
Africa Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory HT-1
Algeria x
Tunisia x
South America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory HT-1
Argentina x
Chile x
Australia Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory RA, CAPS, Still’s
x x
1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia. 
2. MAP - Managed access programme
3. In the US, Sobi also markets Synagis and Kepivance. Market availability of Sobi products, cont.SuStainabiLit Y  noteS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
128Sobi’s Sustainability Report 2020 is defined in the GRI Index below. 
Its main components are found in the following sections of the 
Annual and Sustainability Report 2020:
• Business Model is found on page 10.
• Description of sustainability approach is found on pages 108 –121 .
• Information on performance is reported in the Sustainability notes 
section, on pages 122–128.
This  sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core option. It also fulfils the requirements 
on  sustainability reporting in the Annual Accounts Act.Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, as part 
of the Annual and Sustainability Report. The indicators below have 
been selected on the basis of a materiality analysis, which is  further 
described on page 109. All page references below refer to pages in 
Sobi’s 2020 Annual and Sustainability Report or at www.sobi.com. 
Our sustainability report serves as our UN Global Compact 
 Communication on Progress report. 
For questions regarding the Annual and Sustainability Report, 
please contact info@sobi.com.Global Reporting Initiative Index
 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global   
Compact Principle
GENERAL DISCLOSURES – 102
Organisational Profile
102-1 Name of the organisation 54, 97
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12, 34, 36, 54
102-3 Location of headquarters 54, 97
102-4 Location of operations 21, 79
102-5 Ownership and legal form 30–31, 54, 97–98
102-6 Markets served 21, 34–36, 63
102-7 Scale of the organisation, including total number of employees, 
operations, net sales, and capitalisation26, 32, 34–37
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 67 6
102-9 Supply chain 119
102-10 Significant changes to the organisation  
and its supply chain4, 34
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 109–110
102-12 External initiatives 7, 108, 116
102-13 Membership of associations www.sobi.com
Strategy and analysis
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7, 96
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 41–43, 109
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards,  
and norms of behaviour26–27, 109,  
117–11910
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 118–119
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 97–107, 109–110
102-19 Delegating authority 102–103, 109
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 100–101
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 30, 109
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 126
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 109 3
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 109
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 109GRi index
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
129 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global   
Compact Principle
Reporting methodology
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement 54–59
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 54–59, 109
102-47 List of material topics 23, 108–109
102-48 Restatements of information 122–126
102-49 Changes in reporting 54, 109
102-50 Reporting period 97
102-51 Date of most recent report April 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle 97, 110
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report www.sobi.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 39, 129
102-55 GRI content index 129–131
102-56 External assurance 132
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 108–121 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
103-2 The management approach and its components 108–121 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 108–126 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES – GRI 200: ECONOMIC
GRI 200: Economic performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 122
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 122
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 118–119 10
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption  
policies and procedures 118–119 10
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 126 10
GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 
and monopoly practices 126
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES – GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 122–124
302-3 Energy intensity 123
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 122–124
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018
303-1 Water withdrawal by source 123–124
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 122 7, 8
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 122 7, 8
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 122
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 123
GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 121, 124 8
GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 124
GRI 306: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 119, 126GRi index
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
130 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global   
Compact Principle
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES– GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 401: Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 125 6
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 117
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 117
403-9 Work-related injuries 125
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programs 117
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance  
and career development reviews 1256
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 125, 126
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
 assessments, and development programs 112–114, 1221
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 119, 126 2
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and ser -
vice categories 114–115
GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 114–115
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 
information and labelling 125
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
 communications 125
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
 privacy and losses of customer data 126
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and  economic area 125GRi index
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
131Auditor’s report on the statutory  
sustainability statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2020 on pages 23–27 and 
108–131 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding 
the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different 
and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally 
accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. 
Stockholm, March 26, 2021
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Authorized Public Accountant auditoR’S RepoRt
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
1322021 Annual General Meeting
2021 Annual General Meeting
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) will hold its Annual General 
Meeting (the “Meeting”) on Tuesday, 4 May 2021. Due to the corona-
virus and in order to reduce the risk of spreading the virus, the Board 
has decided that the Meeting should be conducted by way of postal 
vote pursuant to temporary legislation being in effect in 2021. This 
means that the Meeting will be held without the physical presence of 
shareholders, representatives or third parties. The shareholders will 
therefore only be able to exercise their voting rights by postal voting 
in advance of the Meeting.
To participate
Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting by postal voting 
must be listed as a shareholder in the presentation of the share regis-
ter prepared by Euroclear Sweden AB (the Swedish Central Securities 
Depository) concerning the circumstances on Monday, 26 April 
2021, and must give notice of participation no later than Monday, 3 
May 2021, by casting its postal vote so that the postal voting form is 
received by Euroclear Sweden AB no later than that day.
A special form must be used for the postal vote. The form for postal 
voting will be available on the company’s website www.sobi.com latest 
three weeks before the Meeting. The postal voting form is considered 
as the notification of participation at the Meeting. Further instructions 
and conditions can be found in the postal voting form.
Nominee shares
Shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of a nominee 
through the trust department of a bank or similar institution must, in 
addition to giving notice of participation in the Meeting by casting 
its postal vote, re-register its shares in its own name, so that the 
shareholder is listed in the presentation of the share register as per 
26 April 2021. Such registration may be temporary (so-called voting 
rights registration), and request for such voting rights registration 
shall be made to the nominee, in accordance with the nominee’s 
routines, at such time in advance as decided by the nominee. Voting 
rights registration that have been made by the nominee no later than 
28 April 2021 will be taken into account in the presentation of the 
share register.Proxy
If the shareholder votes in advance by proxy, a dated written power 
of attorney shall be enclosed with the form. A proxy form in Swedish 
and English will be held available on the company’s website,  
www.sobi.com, and will also be sent to shareholders who request it 
and who inform the company of their postal address. The power of 
attorney is valid for one year from the issue thereof or such longer 
period of time stated in the power of attorney, however not more 
than five years. If the shareholder is a legal entity, a certificate of 
incorporation or a corresponding document, not older than one year, 
shall be enclosed with the form.
Financial calendar 2021
January – March Interim Report 4 May 
Annual General Meeting 4 May 
January – June Interim Report 21 July 
January – September Interim Report 28 October 
The Annual Report can be downloaded in PDF format from  
www.sobi.com, as well as previous annual reports, interim reports 
and press releases.
Contact details
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)  
SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Phone: +46 (0)8 697 20 00
Email: info@sobi.com
Website: www.sobi.comannuaL GeneRaL meetinG
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
133Glossary
AKU
A serious, multifaceted, debilitating and slowly progressive disease 
affecting approximately 1 in every 250 000 to 1 million people. Also 
known as black bone disease or black urine disease.
Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor IX therapy approved in the EU, 
Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland, 
as well as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United 
States and other countries, for the treatment of haemophilia B. 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
A devastating neurodegenerative disease that results in progressive 
muscle weakness and paralysis due to the death of nerve cells, called 
motor neurons, in the brain and spinal cord. 
BIVV001/efanesoctocog alfa
A novel, investigational factor VIII therapy designed to extend pro-
tection from bleeds with prophylactic dosing once-weekly or longer 
apart for people with haemophilia A. Builds on Fc-fusion technology 
by adding a region of von Willebrand factor and XTEN polypeptides 
to potentially extend its time in circulation. 
CAPS
Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, constitutes a group of 
rare autoinflammatory diseases with an incidence estimated to 
be 1:1,000,000 worldwide. CAPS is characterised by uncontrolled 
overproduction of interleukin-1 (IL-1) which induces a number of 
inflammatory responses such as fevers, rash, joint pain, headaches, 
conjunctivitis and many other symptoms.
Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT)
A common side effect of chemotherapy that results in a low number 
of platelets.
Chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)
A rare autoimmune bleeding disorder characterised by a low number 
of platelets, affecting approximately 60,000 adults in the United 
States.
Chronic liver disease (CLD)
Liver disease becomes chronic when it has been present for more 
than 6–12 months without signs of resolution. Chronic liver disease 
can be inherited (genetic) or caused by a variety of factors such as 
viruses, auto-immunity, obesity and alcohol use. 
Cold agglutinin disease (CAD)
A severe, chronic, rare blood disorder that currently has no approved 
therapies and impacts around 10,500 people across the United States 
and Europe. People living with CAD may suffer from chronic anae-
mia, transfusion requirements, and an increased risk of life-threaten-
ing thrombotic events such as stroke.
Doptelet (avatrombopag)
A second-generation small-molecule thrombopoietin receptor 
(TPO) agonist used in the treatment of thrombocytopenia by 
 increasing platelet count.EHL
Extended half-life, which means that the circulation in the body is 
prolonged. Sobi’s haemophilia treatments, Elocta and Alprolix, are 
EHL products.
Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor VIII therapy approved in the EU, 
Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland 
for the treatment of haemophilia A. It is also approved in Australia, 
Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United States and other 
countries, where it is known as ELOCTATE®.
EMA
European Medicines Agency.
Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF)
Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF) is a genetic autoimmune disorder 
that causes recurrent episodes of fever together with abdominal, 
chest or joint pain.
FDA
The US Food and Drug Administration.
Gamifant (emapalumab)
An anti-interferon-gamma (IFNγ) monoclonal antibody (mAb), 
approved by the FDA for the treatment of primary haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a life-threatening syndrome of immune 
activation, and which is under investigation for other indications. 
Gout
An autoinflammatory disease that causes intensely painful flares and 
debilitating inflammatory arthritis due to deposition of pro-inflam-
matory monosodium urate (MSU) crystals in synovial fluid and other 
tissues.
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)
A rare and life-threatening syndrome of extreme immune activation. 
The primary form (inherited) of the disease mainly occurs in infants 
and young children and the secondary form (acquired) of the disease 
is acquired from or associated with autoimmune diseases or malig-
nancy. 
Haemophilia
A rare, genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to 
clot is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male 
births annually, and haemophilia B occurs in about one in 25,000 
male births annually. Both occur more rarely in females. People 
with haemophilia experience bleeding episodes that may cause 
pain, limited mobility, irreversible joint damage and life-threatening 
haemorrhages.
Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) 
People with HT-1 have problems breaking down an amino acid called 
tyrosine. Toxic by-products are formed and accumulate in the body, 
which can cause liver, renal and neurological complications.GLoSSaRY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
134HSCT-TMA
A rare blood disease that can be a fatal complication of a bone 
marrow transplant or HSCT. In HSCT-TMA, microscopic blood clots 
form in small blood vessels, leading to organ damage.
IC-MPGN/C3G
IC-MPGN and C3G are rare, debilitating kidney diseases that affect 
around 18,000 people in the United States and Europe. There are no 
approved therapies for the diseases, and symptoms include blood in 
the urine, dark foamy urine due to the presence of protein, swelling, 
and high blood pressure.
IL-1
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of inflammation and driver of 
autoinflammatory diseases.
Kineret (anakinra)
A recombinant protein drug that blocks the biological activity of 
interleukin-1α and β (IL-1α and IL -1β) by binding to IL-1 type 1 recep-
tors (IL-R 1), expressed in a variety of tissues and organs, thereby 
blocking the IL-1 signalling. IL-1 is a key mediator of inflammation and 
a significant contributor to autoinflammatory diseases. 
MAH – Marketing authorisation holder
The company in whose name the marketing authorisation has been 
granted and who is responsible for all aspects of the product.
Nirsevimab (MEDI8897)
A single dose extended half-life anti-RSV F-monoclonal antibody 
(mAb) being developed for the prevention of lower respiratory tract 
infections (LRTI) caused by RSV in all infants entering their first RSV 
season and children with chronic lung disease or congenital heart 
disease entering their first and second RSV season. MEDI8897 is 
being developed for passive immunisation of a broad infant popula-
tion, and engineered to have a long half-life so that only one dose will 
be needed for the entire RSV season. 
NOMID
Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease, the most severe 
form of CAPS, also associated with chronic meningitis, hearing loss, 
craniofacial abnormalities, bone lesions and increased mortality.
Orfadin (nitisinone)
A drug used to treat hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1). It blocks 
the breakdown of tyrosine, thereby reducing the amount of toxic 
tyrosine by-products in the body. Patients must maintain a special 
diet in combination with Orfadin treatment as tyrosine is not ade-
quately broken down.
Orphan drugs
Medicinal products targeting rare, life-threatening diseases or disor -
ders in very small patient populations. They are called “orphan drugs” 
because, under normal market conditions, there is little incentive for 
the pharmaceutical industry to develop a treatment for such a small 
patient population. Revenues would not be expected to meet the 
extremely high costs of bringing such a treatment to market. Govern-
ments often provide economic incentives to encourage companies 
to develop and market medicines for rare diseases.Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH)
A rare, chronic, life-threatening blood disorder characterised by the 
destruction of oxygen-carrying red blood cells through extravascular 
and intravascular haemolysis. Persistently low haemoglobin can 
result in debilitating symptoms such as severe fatigue, haemoglobi-
nuria, and difficulty breathing (dyspnoea), and can require frequent 
transfusions.
Pegcetacoplan
An investigational, targeted C3 therapy designed to regulate 
excessive complement activation, which can lead to the onset and 
progression of many serious diseases.
Real-world evidence
Real-world evidence is gained by examining how approved med-
icines and treatments are working in the healthcare system. Real-
world evidence studies use observational data such as electronic 
medical records, insurance claims information and patient surveys. 
Real-world analyses can assess how various treatments impact actual 
patient outcomes.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA)
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune and inflammatory 
disorder that primarily affects joints.
RSV
Respiratory syncytial virus. A common virus and the most common 
cause of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) in young children. 
The RSV season usually occurs from early autumn until late spring 
and peaks during the winter.
SEL-212
SEL-212 is a novel combination product candidate designed to 
sustain control of serum uric acid levels in patients with chronic 
refractory gout. SEL-212 consists of pegadricase, co-administered 
with ImmTOR, designed to mitigate the formation of anti-drug 
antibodies. 
Still’s disease 
An autoinflammatory disease that affects both children and adults, 
characterised by persistent high spiking fevers, recurring rashes 
and arthritis. Still’s disease is also known as systemic-onset juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) or adult-onset Still’s disease (AOSD). 
Synagis (palivizumab)
Indicated for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract infec -
tions (LTRI) caused by respiratory syncytial virus in infants and young 
children at high risk of RSV disease. RSV is the most prevalent cause 
of LRTI among infants and young children. Synagis is an RSV F-pro-
tein inhibitor monoclonal antibody (mAb) that acts as prophylaxis 
against serious RSV disease. It is the only medicine approved for the 
prevention of serious RSV disease. 
WFH
World Federation of Hemophilia, an international not-for-profit 
organisation.GLoSSaRY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
135Definitions
CER
Constant exchange rate.
Earnings per share
Profit/loss divided by the average number of shares.
EBIT
Earnings before interest and tax (operating income).
Full-time equivalent (FTE)
A unit that indicates the number of hours worked by an employee on 
a full-time basis, used to make workloads comparable across various 
contexts.
Gross profit
Operating revenue less cost of goods sold.
Gross margin
Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. 
Gross to net
Operating revenue less mandatory and contractual price reductions.
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Alternative performance measures
Financial measures not defined according to IFRS
Sobi uses certain financial measures in the interim and annual reports 
that are not defined according to International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS). The company considers that these measures 
provide valuable supplementary information for investors and com-
pany management, as they enable an assessment and benchmarking 
of the company’s reporting. Since not all companies calculate 
financial measures in the same way, these are not always comparable 
to measures used by other companies. These financial measures 
should therefore not be regarded as substitutes for measures defined 
according to IFRS. The following key ratios are not defined according 
to IFRS. 
Capital employed
Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. 
Cash flow from operating activities per share
Cash flow from operating activities divided by the weighted average 
number of outstanding shares.
Cash flow per share
Changes in cash and cash equivalents divided by the weighted 
average number of outstanding shares.
Debt-to equity ratio
Relative proportion of shareholders’ equity and debt used to finance 
the company’s assets.EBITA
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITA adjusted
EBITA less non-recurring items.
EBITA margin, %
EBITA as a percentage of total revenue.
EBITA margin adjusted, %
EBITA adjusted as a percentage of total revenue.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EPS, SEK adjusted
Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by average number of ordinary 
shares.
EPS after dilution, SEK adjusted
Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by average number of ordinary 
shares after dilution.
Equity per share
Equity divided by the number of ordinary shares.
Equity ratio
Shareholders’ equity as a proportion of total assets.
Net debt (+)/Net cash (-)
Borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Organic growth, % CER
Total revenue adjusted for Synagis and Doptelet measured at CER 
compared with previous period.
Return on capital employed
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/ capital employed.
Return on equity
Profit/loss after tax as a percentage of average equity.
Return on total capital
Profit/loss after financial items plus financial income as a percentage 
of average total assets.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)
Risk-free interest rate plus Beta multiplied by a risk premium. The 
risk-free rate is an average of 10-year Treasury bill over the past five 
years. Beta is the correlation between Sobi’s share and the stock 
exchange index. Risk premium is calculated as an average over five 
years of the market expectations of growth and return. A flat-rate tax 
of 21.4 per cent has been used.definitionS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
136Sobi, Elocta, Alprolix, Kepivance, Kineret, Orfadin and Gamifant are  trademarks of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ).  
All third party trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2021 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All rights reserved.
Production: Sobi in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson.
Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet.
Photos: Martin Botvidsson, Paulina Westerlind, Morten Lasskogen/Kunde & Co, Stock images/Getty,  
World Federation of Hemophilia, Sobi.Forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements. Actual results 
may differ from those stated. Internal factors such as the successful 
management of research programmes and intellectual property 
rights may affect future results. There are also external conditions 
such as the economic climate, political changes and competing 
research programmes that may affect Sobi’s results.Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)
SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00
www.sobi.com
Email: info@sobi.com