Annual and Sustainability Report 2019Focus on  
rare diseasesContents
Introduction
This is Sobi 2
Year in brief 4
From the CEO 6
Market 8
Business overview
Business model 10
Strategy and objectives 11
Haematology 12
Immunology 15
Specialty Care 17
Geographical expansion 18
Research & Development 20
Sustainability 22
Financial overview
Investment case 26
The share 28
Five-year summary 30
Reporting
Directors’ report 32
Financial statements 46
Notes 56
Corporate governance
Letter from the Chairman 93
Corporate Governance Report 94
Auditor’s report on the Corporate 
Governance statement 101
The Board 102
Executive Committee 104
Auditor’s report 106
Sustainability
Sustainability notes 110
GRI Index 117
Auditor’s report on the statutory 
 Sustainability statement 120
Additional information
2020 Annual General Meeting 121
Definitions 122
Glossary 123
This is Sobi’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2019. 
The audited Annual Report includes pages 32–92. 
The Sustainability Report is found on pages 22–25, 
40–45 and 110–119 and  consists of the Company 
and the Group’s legally  required  sustainability report 
according to the Annual Accounts Act, 6 chap. 11. 
The report also con stitutes our reporting to the UN 
Global Compact, Communication on Progress. Rare strength
An international biopharmaceutical company specialising in rare diseases 
We bring something rare to rare diseases – the strength of focus, the power 
of partnership and the agility to innovate. We believe in the potential of the 
people we are dedicated to serving.
1
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 This is Sobi
At Sobi, we are transforming life for people with rare 
 diseases. As an international biopharmaceutical com -
pany, we provide access to innovative treatments in the 
areas of haematology, immunology and specialty care.
• Two therapeutic areas – Haematology and Immunology – and a portfolio of products 
within Specialty Care 
• A strong portfolio of on-market products, and an extensive portfolio of pre-market assets
• Our extended half-life factor replacement treatments Elocta® and Alprolix® are the most 
prescribed treatments for haemophilia A and B respectively in several markets 
• We put our focus where we can have the greatest impact, in late-stage research and 
 development, and in patient access and commercialisation 
• Global Head Office in  Stockholm, Sweden, with offices in more than 30 countries,  
delivering  treatments to patients in more than 70 countries 
• The Sobi share (STO:SOBI) is listed in the Large Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm.
Adjusted EBITA,  
SEK million1,335
Number of 
employees (FTE)Increase in 
haemophilia 
patients14,248
Total revenue, SEK million
35%6,145This is sobi
2Pre-marketAvatrombopag1 – CIT, ITP (EU)
BIVV0012 – haemophilia A
BIVV0023 – haemophilia BEmapalumab4 – secondary HLH
Emapalumab4 – new indications
Anakinra5 – indication expansion
Nirsevimab6 (MEDI8897) – RSV
On-marketElocta – haemophilia A
Alprolix – haemophilia B
Doptelet®1 – ITP (US), CLDHaematology ImmunologyWith the acquisitions made over the past two years  
our pre-market portfolio has never been stronger.
Recent acquisitions provide better balanceGamifant®4 – primary HLH (US)
Synagis® – RSV (US)
Kineret®5
1. Avatrombopag – approved as Doptelet for thrombocytopenia in chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and chronic liver disease (CLD) in the US. 
Approved in EU for CLD but not yet launched. Under investigation for chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). 
2. Developed in collaboration with Sanofi.
3. Sobi has elected to add the BIVV002 programme to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in.
4. Emapalumab – approved as Gamifant in the US for primary haemaphagocytic lymphohystiocytosis (HLH).
5. Anakinra – approved as Kineret in the US and in the EU for several autoinflammatory diseases.
6. Nirsevimab (MEDI8897), a follow-on compound to Synagis for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
The creation of a strong second 
leg in Immunology balances 
our success in haemophilia, 
while expansion in North 
America during 2019 
strengthens our revenue 
base outside Europe.Total revenue and adjusted EBITA
SEK M
/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/nine.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum
 Total revenue  Adjusted EBITA
Revenue per geographic region
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK M
 Europe  North America  Rest of the worldRevenue per business area
/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK M
 Haematology  Immunology  Specialty CareTHIS IS SOBI
3Year in brief
Our growth journey continued at speed during 2019 as significant  
acquisitions drove the ongoing transformation of the company. 
A sharper R&D focus, broader geographical footprint and two strong 
therapeutic areas position us well for continued strong growth.
Sobi acquired emapalumab and related assets, giving Sobi access to additional competence within the 
immunology field.
Sobi discontinued its early-phase R&D operations in order to focus on late-stage R&D projects within the 
core areas of haematology and immunology.
Sobi acquired Dova Pharmaceuticals, creating a global growth platform in haematology. The acquisition 
provided Sobi with Doptelet (avatrombopag), a second-generation small-molecule thrombopotein receptor 
(TPO) agonist used in the treatment of thrombocytopenia by increasing platelet count.
Sobi entered into an expanded agreement with Sanofi to exercise early opt-in for the development and 
commercialisation of BIVV001, an investigational extended half-life factor VIII therapy with the potential  
to provide extended protection from bleeds with once-weekly dosing for people with haemophilia A. 
The first patient was dosed in the phase 3 study with BIVV001 for the treatment of haemophilia A.
The FDA grants orphan drug designation for avatrombopag as a candidate for the treatment of 
chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). 
Sobi established a presence in Asia with office and staff in China. Sobi completed the acquisition of Synagis, significantly expanding operations in the US. 
We continue to deliver on our strategy
Grow within  
Immunology
Expand within  
Haematology
Strengthen R&D 
pipeline with 
late-stage assets
Continue  
to expand 
geographically
Year in brief
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
4Key figures
SEK M 2015 2016 2017  2018  2019
Total revenue 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139 14,248
Gross profit 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723 10,913
Gross margin1, % 62 70 72 74 77
Operating expenses 1,861 2,518 3,057 3,601 6,430
EBITA1 433 1,543 2,053 3,571 5,933
Adjusted EBITA 1,2433 1,543 2,053 3,571 6,145
EBIT 146 1,133 1,600 3,122 4,533
Profit/loss for the year 83 802 1,149 2,418 3,304
Earnings per share, SEK 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29
Earnings per share, SEK adjusted 1,2,30.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.89
Cash flow from operations 507 343 1,333 2,090 3,634
Equity per share 1,2,3 SEK 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4
Equity assets ratio, % 56 54 61 53 37
Dividend 0 0 0 0 0
No. of employees (full-time equivalents) 702 760 800 902 1,335
1. Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). 
2. EBITA full-year 2019 excluding non-recurring items; transaction costs related to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M,  
restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of SOBI005 of SEK 37 M. 
3. EPS full-year 2019 excluding impairment of intangible assets of SEK 18 M related to restructuring.56%
Revenue growth 72%
Adjusted EBITA growth
» The year ended on  
a high note with strong 
organic growth as well 
as new assets added  
to the portfolio. « 
n Europe 64% n North America 32%
n Rest of the world 4%n Haematology 54% n Immunology 33%
n Specialty Care 13%Revenue per geographic region Revenue per business area
Year in brief
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
5Increasing speed
The transformation of Sobi accelerated during 2019, with the acquisition 
of Dova Pharmaceuticals, the closing of the Novimmune acquisition and 
the first year of Synagis sales, as well as significant progress with our core 
brands Elocta, Alprolix and Kineret. In addition, we have been able to 
advance important assets in our pipeline.
2019 was a rewarding year in which we 
made major progress in every area of our 
strategy. We ended the year as a stronger 
company with a broader geographical 
footprint and exceptional value in both 
our on-market and pre-market port-
folios.
We are proud to have access to five 
material growth drivers in our portfolio. 
These have the potential to transform 
the outlook of our company based on 
launch performance and indication 
expansion, see below.
Our success during 2019 led to total 
revenue of SEK 14,248 M, up 56 per cent 
on 2018 (48 per cent at CER), and 
adjusted EBITA1,2 of SEK 6,145 M. 
Organic growth adjusted for Synagis 
and  Doptelet amounted to 20 per cent.
We now have two core therapeutic 
areas, Haematology and Immunology, 
both of which are growing strongly. 
Key growth drivers
1.  Gamifant – in launch phase in primary 
HLH (haemophagocytic lymphohistio-
cytosis) in the US, phase 3 in secondary 
HLH, and further internationalisation.
2.  Doptelet – launch phase in chronic 
liver disease (CLD) and immune throm-
bocytopenia (ITP) in the US, phase 3 
in chemotherapy-induced thrombo-
cytopenia (CIT), and further expansion 
into international markets.3.  Kineret – expanding into new indica-
tions and improving absolute growth.
4.  BIVV001 – phase 3 study now under 
way. Sobi has the rights for Europe, the 
Middle East and North Africa.1.  Alternative Performance Measures (APMs), see page 122.
2. EBITA full-year 2019 excluding non-recurring items; 
transaction costs related to the acquisition of Dova in Q4 
of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M in Q2 and 
gain from divestment of SOBI005 in Q1 of SEK 37 M.Haematology
While extending the scope of our former 
haemophilia business to the broader 
area of Haematology, we believe in the 
strengths of our existing core products 
Elocta and Alprolix. The continued 
strong growth for both products justifies 
our belief that factor replacement 
remains a mainstay of treatment for 
haemophilia, and I am confident that 
we will continue to grow significantly in 
haemophilia based on greater patient 
access and internationalisation. 
Our decision to opt in early to the 
development of BIVV001, a novel 
investigational factor VIII therapy, shows 
our ongoing commitment to the field of 
haemophilia. Promising early data shows 
the potential for BIVV001 to provide 
extended protection from bleeds with 
once-weekly dosing for people with 
haemophilia A. 
We completed our acquisition of Dova 
Pharmaceuticals in November, reinforc -
ing our Haematology portfolio with the 
Dova asset Doptelet which is used in 
the treatment of thrombocytopenia by increasing platelet count. We look for -
ward to bringing this important medicine 
to more people around the world.
Immunology
In Immunology, we have created a 
strong second leg to balance our 
outstanding success in haemophilia. 
All three products in our Immunology 
portfolio performed well during 2019.
• We completed our acquisition of 
emapalumab and all related assets, 
and integrated the emapalumab 
organisation into Sobi during 2019. 
Launched in the US at the beginning 
of 2019 as Gamifant, emapalumab has 
performed well. Sales have however 
been volatile during this period, which 
is common for products in ultra-rare 
diseases. Gamifant is currently under 
investigation in other markets and in 
other indications including secondary 
HLH. 
• Synagis is flourishing under our care. 
After we acquired the US rights, and 
the entire Synagis team agreed to join 
Sobi, we strengthened the field force 
during 2019, and intensified efforts to 
extend protection against RSV to even 
more children. 
• Kineret continues to deliver double-
digit growth in both North America 
and the EMENAR region (Europe, 
 Middle East, Northern Africa and 
Russia). Extensive scientific interest 
in potential new indications shows 
that it holds much promise for years 
to come. 
from The Ceo
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
6»With several launches in new markets 
and new indications to accelerate our 
growth journey, 2020 will be when  
we turn potential into value for our 
stakeholders.«
Geographical expansion
We have long seen North America as a 
strategically important market for Sobi. 
Including the additions of Dova and 
Synagis, we have built our workforce in 
the US and Canada from 54 to 420 in just 
two years, giving us the scale we need 
to build our position in the largest rare 
disease market in the world.
With the addition of Gamifant and 
Doptelet to our portfolio, we have two 
new products with a global scope, which 
will allow us to expand into new terri-
tories and new indications. The estab-
lishment of our office in China in early 
2020 is the first step of our exploration 
of the Asian market. 
In a shift in our research & develop-
ment, we took the decision to discon-
tinue early research and focus instead 
on late-stage development. Combined 
with our acquisitions over the past few 
years, we now have a strong late-stage 
pipeline. These pre-market assets should 
allow us to maintain a high pace of 
launches in new indications and new 
markets over the coming years, which 
also delivers on our mission and sustain-
ability commitment to enable access to 
treatments.
With our strong revenue growth, and 
as profitability generated by both new 
and established products continues 
to generate substantial cash flow, we 
expect to expand both organically and 
through acquisition. Investments in 2019 
were debt-financed but given the strong 
cash-flow generation we should be able 
to restore our financial position quickly.
Revenue for the full-year 2020 
is expected to be in the range of SEK 15,000–16,000 M, reflecting expected 
double- digit growth in each of the two 
core businesses, Haematology and 
Immunology. EBITA is expected to be 
in the range of SEK 5,500–6,300 M, 
including the development and launch 
of Doptelet which will affect EBITA neg-
atively by around SEK 500 M in 2020.
I am pleased to confirm that we 
continue to support the ten principles 
of the United Nations Global Compact in 
the areas of human rights, labour, envi-
ronment and anti-corruption, and that 
we are committed to making the Global 
Compact and its principles part of our 
strategy, culture and daily operations.
Yes, 2019 was an exciting year, but 
not without its challenges. I wish to 
thank everyone working at Sobi for their 
efforts every day to make a difference for 
 people with rare diseases. I am proud to 
be part of this team. 2019 was a year of transformation for 
Sobi. As our growth journey continues, 
I see 2020 as a year when we turn poten-
tial into value for our stakeholders. With 
COVID-19 posing a major challenge 
for societies around the world, we will 
continue to do our best to protect the 
interests of the many people around 
the world who rely on us. Our ambition 
is that investments in 2020 will lay the 
foundations for continued annual dou-
ble-digit growth in Haematology and 
Immunology in the medium term. In the 
slightly longer term, both Doptelet and 
Gamifant have the potential to generate 
peak sales of more than USD 500 M.
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
from The Ceo
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
7The rare  
disease market
There are thought to be around 6,000 rare diseases, affecting a total 
of 300 million people around the world 1. Yet around 95 per cent of 
rare diseases still do not have any approved treatment option2.
High unmet medical need 
An estimated 75 per cent of identified 
rare diseases affect children, often with 
a devastating effect on life expectancy 
and quality of life. Around 30 per cent of 
children diagnosed with a rare disease 
will not live to see their fifth birthday. 
The severe nature of many rare 
diseases often leads to high levels of 
distress for patients and their families, 
with an accompanying high treatment 
burden.
Many rare diseases are inherited rather 
than acquired, and involve a defect in 
the genes that instruct our bodies how 
to work3. As a result, the body may fail to 
produce an essential enzyme or protein, 
for example, or immune defences may 
attack its own systems.
Because they are often genetic disor -
ders, rare diseases tend to be lifelong. In 
such cases, treatment often focuses on 
resolving the problems caused by the 
defective gene, alleviating symptoms 
and allowing the person to live a more 
normal life.Many physicians may never have seen a 
specific rare condition before and, as a 
result, many cases can go undiagnosed 
for years.
Rare challenges
The rare disease landscape presents spe-
cific scientific, medical and commercial 
challenges. These include understanding 
the biology of little-known diseases, 
developing the complex biopharmaceu-
tical processes to manufacture a drug, 
designing and running clinical studies 
in extremely small patient populations, 
navigating new regulatory pathways, 
and working with healthcare profes-
sionals to improve diagnosis of diseases 
that most doctors may see only once in 
a lifetime. 
The term “orphan drugs” describes 
medicines designed to treat diseases so 
rare that companies would be reluctant 
to develop them under normal market 
conditions. Fast track
Because of the challenges, and the 
high unmet medical need in most rare 
diseases, government authorities such as 
the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) 
and the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) have put measures in place to 
encourage pharmaceutical companies 
to develop treatments for rare diseases 
and reduce the time it takes for the treat-
ments to reach patients. 
In small studies, the process can be 
accelerated if a candidate treatment 
demonstrates transformative results for 
study patients. Both the FDA and EMA 
can allow such breakthrough therapies 
to be fast-tracked through the approval 
process, providing priority review pro-
cedures. 
Being the first to bring a new orphan 
therapy to patients can also have advan-
tages. With comparatively few compa-
nies working in the area, first movers 
can gain a sustainably high market share 
in an orphan indication. Regulatory 
markeT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8authorities can also grant a company 
market exclusivity for a specific time.
The nature of rare diseases, and the 
complex nature of biopharmaceutical 
therapies in particular, make the rare 
disease space less attractive for generic 
or biosimilar competitors. 
The price of orphan drugs is relatively 
high compared with other treatments 
targeting larger patient populations, 
while the total cost to the healthcare 
system is relatively small, particularly 
considering the transformative value that 
orphan drugs bring to patients4.
Rapidly growing market
In 2018, the size of the orphan drugs 
market was USD 131 billion and it is 
projected to reach USD 242 billion by 
2024, with a compound annual growth 
rate (CAGR) of 12.3 per cent 5. This is 
double the growth rate estimated for 
the non-orphan market.Treatments reaching more people
Advances in scientific knowledge are 
allowing the industry to identify and 
develop new treatments for more of 
those 6,000 or so rare diseases that have 
been identified. In the US, the 21 orphan 
drugs approved by the FDA 6 in 2019 rep-
resented 44 per cent of total novel-drug 
approvals, while in Europe, orphan drugs 
accounted for approximately 12 per cent 
of total positive opinions in 2019 7. 
The small size of rare disease pop-
ulations, and the often high levels of 
engagement among patients, families 
and treaters, also stimulate the uptake 
of new treatments. Such closely 
connected, well-informed disease 
communities share information about 
novel therapies, and better informed 
patients feel more able to discuss possi-
ble new treatments with their physicians. 
Many people with rare diseases – who 
histo rically have been and often still are under-served by their healthcare 
systems – are increasingly becoming 
empowered to pursue treatments that 
can improve their lives.
In many countries with less-devel-
oped healthcare systems, improving 
finances and better infrastructure are 
also allowing the expansion of screening 
programmes that can detect rare dis-
eases. In many cases, early diagnosis 
and treatment can prevent long-term 
injury and decreased quality of life.
Worldwide orphan drug sales & share of prescription drug market (2016–2024)
USD bn
/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/four.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/three.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/two.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum
+12.3% CAGR 2019–24%Forecast
 Prescription excl. generics and orphan  Generics  Orphan  
 Orphan drug sales as a percentage of prescription sales
 Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) – orphan drug market
Source: EvaluatePharma Orphan Drug Report 2019.Worldwide orphan drug market growth
High unmet need: Approximately 6,000 rare 
diseases globally – around 95 per cent have 
no approved treatment.
Attractive opportunity: Rare disease thera-
peutics can generally command a higher 
price due to the transformative value they 
offer to small patient populations. 
Shorter time to market: Multiple ways to 
speed up R&D projects (including orphan 
development designation, priority review by 
FDA and EMA, conditional approvals in case 
of unmet medical needs).
Limited competition: Few companies are 
active in orphan indications – translating to 
sustainably high share for first entrants.
Limited generic threat: Orphan drugs are less 
likely to face generic competition because of 
their biological nature, and are less attractive 
targets for biosimilars because of the small 
patient population.What is a rare disease?
In Europe, a rare disease is defined 
as one affecting fewer than one 
person per 2,000. In the US, the 
Orphan Drug Act of 1983 defines a 
rare disease as a condition affect-
ing fewer than 200,000 people. 
1. www.rarediseaseday.org/article/what-is-a-rare-disease 
2. Global Genes, www.globalgenes.org
3. ËURORDIS, www.eurordis.org
4. www.rarediseases.org/updated-study-analyzes-use-and-cost-of-orphan-drugs/5. EvaluatePharma® Orphan Drug Report 2019
6. www.fda.gov/media/134493/download
7. www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/report/human-medicines-highlights-2019_en.pdfmarkeT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
9Business model
Sobi’s business model spans from late-stage clinical 
research to commercialisation.
An integrated, patient-centric model 
Across the entire value chain, Sobi works 
in close dialogue with stake holders such 
as patient organisations, healthcare sys-
tems, government authorities and payers 
in order to transform life for people living 
with rare diseases. 
From late-stage R&D to the patient
Sobi’s value chain spans from late-stage 
clinical research and development to 
commercialisation and patient access to 
treatments. Our strengths include evaluat -
ing and developing late-stage projects, 
commercialisation and getting treatments 
to the patients as quickly as possible. 
Partnership and cooperation
By combining our strengths with those 
of our collaboration partners, we shape 
unique opportunities to create value 
within the rare disease landscape. We 
see partnership as essential in our efforts 
to provide sustainable access to treat-
ment all around the world. We work with several companies to provide access to 
innovative treatments to patients. 
Commercialisation and patient access 
We work in cross-functional teams 
bringing together our many disciplines. 
By bringing patient access specialists in 
as early as possible into development 
projects, approval applications and pric -
ing negotiations, for example, we can 
get treatment to patients more quickly. 
Our commercial and medical teams, 
as well as those in R&D, work together 
with healthcare professionals, external 
researchers and other stakeholders 
to increase understanding of patients’ 
and healthcare professionals’ changing 
needs. This leads to insights into needs 
that we continuously feed back into 
the system to improve our treatments 
and systems. This also allows us to see, 
for example, how new formulations 
or support systems can better meet 
patient needs. Ensuring that patients never risk going 
without their medicine is of the utmost 
importance. That is why we have built 
up robust delivery and distribution 
processes and systems that cover all our 
markets. 
Responsible pricing is vital in ensuring 
access to treatment. It requires us to 
balance the roles of a sustainable com-
pany with being a sustainable part of a 
healthcare system. Through continuous 
dialogue with rare-disease stakeholders, 
we can ensure that we continue to 
provide treatments to patients efficiently 
and responsibly. 
In all pricing negotiations, we take into 
account the following basic principles: 
medical need, the benefit the innova-
tion brings to patients, benefits for the 
healthcare system, and the cost required 
to continue innovation and meet future 
medical needs.
Patient and 
community value
Financial value 
(cash flow)Ongoing operational efficiency improvements
Partnerships and acquisitionsDeveloping and evaluating projects  
in late clinical stageCommercialisation and  
making treatments  
available to patientsA continuous dialogue with patients, patient associations, healthcare  
providers, regulators and payers to make products and treatments  
available to patientsSobi business model
business model
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
10Strategy and 
objectives
Our strategy established in 2017 remains in place, with 
 refinements reflecting the evolution of the company.
Vision
Our vision is to be recognised as a global 
leader in providing innovative treatments 
that transform life for people living with 
rare diseases. 
Strategy and objectives
We continue to deliver on our strategy 
which was first put in place in 2017. 
We aim to grow within Haematology. 
Building on our success over the past 
four years within haemophilia, we 
will continue to expand access to our 
extended half-life factor replacement 
treatments Elocta and Alprolix, reaching 
more people with haemophilia A and 
B in more countries. Within the larger 
scope of Haematology, we will work to 
realise the potential of our new product 
Doptelet, taking it to new markets and 
new indications. We continue to look for 
further external growth opportunities. We have established a strong second 
leg in Immunology, where we have 
three growing products with significant 
potential for further expansion. Work will 
intensify in order to extract maximum 
value from these products. And we con-
tinue to search for new products for the 
Immunology portfolio.
We continue to expand geographi-
cally. Our North American operations 
have grown from 54 staff to 420 in just 
over two years, giving us a significant 
presence in the world’s single largest 
rare disease market. We continue to 
build up our operations in Europe, the 
Middle East, North Africa and Russia, and 
we have taken a first step into Asia with 
the establishment of an office in China. 
We continue to strengthen our R&D 
pipeline. During 2019, we took the deci-
sion to discontinue early-stage research 
and focus on late-stage assets that we see address unmet medical needs and 
have great potential market value. We 
now have a significant stock of pre-mar -
ket assets under development, which 
will provide new therapies for launch in 
both the short and medium term.
Sustainable growth 
Sobi’s strategy for sustainable growth 
is closely linked to our commitment to 
provide access to treatment for people 
with rare diseases. 
Enabling access to treatments is our 
key contribution to sustainable develop-
ment. In order to meet this aim, we will 
promote a balance between: 
• Making a commitment to patients to 
ensure and expand access 
• Providing effective treatments that 
have favourable safety profiles for 
both patients and the environment 
• Acting responsibly and ethically. 
FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 2020
Revenue for 2020 is expected to be in the range of SEK 15,000–16,000 M reflecting double-digit growth in each of the two core businesses, 
 Haematology and Immunology. EBITA is expected to be in the range of SEK 5,500–6,300 M, including the development and launch of Doptelet 
which will affect EBITA negatively by around SEK 500 M in 2020.Grow within  
Immunology
Expand within  
Haematology
Strengthen R&D 
pipeline with 
late-stage assets
Continue  
to expand 
geographically
sTra TegY and obje CTives
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
11Haematology
Building on our success in haemophilia, we have expanded 
the therapeutic area to encompass haematology and create 
a platform for long-term growth.
Haematology includes the diagnosis, 
treatment and prevention of diseases of 
the blood and bone marrow as well as 
the immunological, haemostatic (blood 
clotting) and vascular systems. It covers 
more than 100 benign and malignant 
disorders of the red and white blood 
cells, platelets and coagulation system. 
The science of haematology profoundly 
affects the understanding of many 
diseases.
Building a leading position
Our foundation in haemophilia and our 
track record in getting innovative treat-
ments to the people who need them 
position us well to take a leading role in 
haematology. 
Continued growth
• Elocta sales up 38 per cent (34 at CER)
• Alprolix sales up 50 per cent (46 at CER)
• Acquired Doptelet
Elocta and Alprolix
Together with Sanofi, we provide 
Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) and Alprolix 
(eftrenonacog alfa), extended half-life 
(EHL) recombinant clotting factor 
replacement treatments for haemophilia A and haemophilia B, respectively. We 
aim to enable access to our treatments 
for everyone in our territory – Europe, 
most countries in the Middle East, North 
Africa and Russia – who has a need. 
More people are switching to Elocta 
and Alprolix. The number of patients 
using Elocta, for example, has more than 
doubled since the first quarter of 2017. 
Greater expectations
As well as protection from bleeds, EHL 
treatments are allowing people with 
haemophilia to expect less pain, better 
target joint resolution (halting repetitive 
bleeds into a specific joint and reversing 
joint damage) and fewer days when they 
have to worry about their treatment. 
Results from the pivotal phase 3 A-LONG 
study and ASPIRE long-term extension 
study show that weekly prophylactic 
dosing with Elocta has the potential to 
provide improved bleed protection over 
episodic treatment, resolve target joints 
and reduce the treatment burden asso-
ciated with more frequent dosing. 
Today’s available EHL treatments 
also allow people with haemophilia to 
personalise their treatment regimes, 
for example increasing factor levels for greater protection at specific times. 
The opportunities available have raised 
expectations. For many years, the main 
goal of treatment has been protection 
from bleeds. This remains a primary con-
sideration, but replacement treatment 
has now progressed beyond bleed pre-
vention. People with haemophilia have 
the right to treatment that suits their lives 
and their own ambitions, rather than 
letting their treatment and condition 
limit their dreams. 
By personalising treatment, a person 
with haemophilia can be certain they 
have the right level of protection to suit 
their lifestyle.
BIVV001: breaking barriers for  
factor treatment
In September 2019, we announced 
an expanded agreement with Sanofi 
to exercise an early opt-in for the 
development and commercialisation of 
BIVV001, an investigational long-acting 
VIII therapy with the potential to provide 
greater protection from bleeds with 
once-weekly dosing for people with 
haemophilia A. BIVV001 shows the 
potential to deliver a new standard of 
care by providing near- normal factor 
levels for much of the week.
In connection with the expansion 
of the collaboration agreement, a new 
 supply contract with Sanofi until 2027 
for Elocta and Alprolix has been agreed, 
with the potential for expansion to 
include BIVV001.
Doptelet strengthens portfolio
The acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuti-
cals, which was finalised in November 
2019, has added Doptelet to our Haema-
tology portfolio, in both on-market and 
pre-market indications in the area of 
thrombocytopenia. Although Doptelet Haemophilia
Haemophilia is a type of bleeding disorder in which the blood does not clot 
properly. The worldwide incidence of haemophilia is estimated at more than 
400,000 people, although only around 25 per cent receive adequate treat-
ment1. Haemophilia is caused by lack of a coagulation factor, factor VIII in 
haemophilia A and factor IX in haemophilia B. Appropriate management aims to 
help people with haemophilia to live full, healthy and active lives, with the same 
opportunities as anyone else.
1. www.hemophilia.org/About-Us/Fast-Facts
haema TologY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
1254%
of total revenue
is used in another part of the clotting 
process than the replacement factor 
therapies used for haemophilia, many 
healthcare professionals treating people 
with haemophilia are also active in the 
general area of haematology. 
Doptelet was approved by the FDA in 
May 2018 for the treatment of thrombo-
cytopenia in adult patients with chronic 
liver disease (CLD) who are scheduled to 
undergo a procedure, and in June 2019 
for chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in adult patients who have had 
an insufficient response to a previous 
treatment. Doptelet was approved in the 
EU for CLD in June 2019, and we have 
submitted the marketing authorisation 
application (MAA) for the treatment of 
ITP in the EU.
A phase 3 study of Doptelet in chemo-
therapy-induced thrombocytopenia 
(CIT), a common side effect of chemo-
therapy, is currently underway. The thrombopoietin (TPO) market is 
estimated at USD 2 billion, growing by 
5 per cent, and represents an attractive 
commercial opportunity. 
Doptelet’s recent US launch for the 
treatment of ITP is a first step towards 
capturing significant mid-term market 
share. In addition, Doptelet has the 
potential to become the first-to-market 
drug to treat CIT.
Revenue per product, Haematology
SEK M 2019 2018 Change, %
Elocta 4,508 3,261 38%
Alprolix 1,463 974 50%
Doptelet 34 — N/A
Manufacturing1 376 436 –14%
Royalty2 1,373 1,341 2%
Total 7,755 6,012 29%
1. Manufacturing of the drug substance for ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for Pfizer.
2. Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.Total revenue, Haematology
SEK M
/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum
 Total revenuehaema TologY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
13Mountains are there to be climbed
With personalised treatment, people with haemophilia do not have 
to let their condition hold them back. Erik, from Sweden, shared 
the story of his challenge – hiking up Sweden’s tallest mountain – 
on LiberateLife.eu
Theoretical activity level and dosing scenario of a clotting factor
Factor VIII Level
Time100%
5%30%
15%50%80%
0%Very high impact 
physical activity1High-risk surgery, life or 
limb-threatening bleed
Major surgery/trauma
Treatment period 
after major surgery 
or ICH
Minor invasive 
procedures, 
post-surgeryIntensive 
sport 
 activities2
High-risk activities, patients  
who bleed at lower trough levelsWith factor replacement therapy, 
different activities and measures 
require different levels of coag-
ulation factor in the blood. Major 
surgery and very high-impact 
physical activity, for example, 
require factor levels of 50–80 per 
cent, while minor surgery requires 
15–30 per cent. With personalised 
treatment, a person with haemo-
philia can adjust their factor levels 
to ensure they have the right level 
of protection to suit their activities 
and lifestyle.
 Theoretical activity level and dosing scenario of a clotting factor
1. Lorio et al. Haemophilia 2017. 
2. Srivastava et al. Haemophilia 2013; a,b discussed, but no consensus reached.Prophylaxis Treatment
Untreated severe and moderate haemophilia with risk for spontaneous and severe bleeds.Minor surgery, major bleeds
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
14haema TologYImmunology
With three strongly growing products that each address high unmet  
medical needs, our Immunology portfolio represents a new focus that 
builds on our heritage in rare diseases.
Our immune system is essential for 
protecting us from harmful diseases. Yet 
sometimes the immune system can mal-
function, underreacting or over reacting 
to a real or perceived threat. The field of 
immunology has long been at the heart 
of what we do at Sobi, allowing us to 
gain many years of experience.
During 2019, we established Immu-
nology as its own therapeutic area, 
providing a strong second leg to balance 
our success in haemophilia and diversify 
our revenue base. Immunology makes 
the most of the strengths we have built 
up in rare diseases and orphan drugs 
over the years. 
Building on the success of Kineret, 
we were able to add emapalumab – 
approved as Gamifant in the US – which 
we acquired in its entirety in June 2019, 
and the US rights to Synagis, acquired in 
2018 with closing in January 2019. 
The three products combined provide 
strong revenue flows as well as extensive 
potential for future growth.Kineret
• Sales up 19 per cent (12 per cent 
at CER) to SEK 1,571 M.
Sales of Kineret (anakinra) continued 
to grow strongly in both EMENAR and 
North America, driven by several factors. 
One key driver is increasing awareness 
of IL-1 as a key mediator of inflammation 
and scientific interest in Kineret as a 
treatment for systemic autoimmune/
autoinflammatory disorders. 
Medical need
Kineret has now been launched for Still’s 
disease in all EU markets, and is reim-
bursed in almost all. Kineret is approved 
for Still’s disease in adults and children 
from the age of eight months as a first-
line treatment before the use of steroids 
– avoiding the risk of growth retardation, 
a common side effect of steroids.
The ability to start treatment from as 
early as eight months is also important 
considering the risk of organ damage if 
treatment is delayed. Expanding patient access
In the US, a new distribution agreement 
is increasing patient access to Kineret, 
including co-payment programmes 
and assistance with reimbursement, 
im proving adherence and helping 
 people stay on their treatment longer. 
Other programmes include injection 
education through in-home nurse visits, 
and in  creased support for the auto-
inflammatory community.
Furthermore, in line with our geo-
graphical expansion strategy, we are 
investigating taking Kineret into new 
countries where there is an unmet 
 medical need.
Steady scientific interest
Researchers and healthcare profession-
als continue to show significant interest 
in interleukin-1’s role in autoimmune/
autoinflammatory disease, and the 
effects of anakinra as an IL-1 receptor 
antagonist in blocking the inflammation. 
This interest has been strengthened 
most recently by EU approval in 2018 of 
Kineret as a treatment for Still’s disease 
Total revenue, Immunology
SEK M
/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum
  Total revenueRevenue per product,  
Immunology
n Synagis 55% n Kineret 33% 
n Gamifant 12%33%
of total revenue  immunologY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
15in Europe, and building on the under -
standing of the role of IL-1 blockade in 
CAPS. It can be seen in the number of 
publications in the IL-1 area and continu-
ous requests for investigator-sponsored 
studies (ISS) as well as independent 
studies. 
Gamifant and HLH 
• Sales of SEK 542 M
Before 2018, there was no medicine 
approved for the treatment of primary 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH), a life-threatening syndrome of 
hyperinflammation. The most com-
mon treatment involved a cocktail of 
immuno suppressant drugs together with 
steroids and chemotherapy, a combina-
tion that can have significant side effects, 
ahead of a stem cell transplant. A study 
showed a 50–60 per cent survival rate 
among patients with primary HLH, a 
genetic form of the syndrome which 
predominantly affects children, receiving 
the traditional therapy. 
In November 2018, the FDA approved 
emapalumab as Gamifant for second- 
line treatment of primary HLH in children 
and adults, and was subsequently 
launched in the US. A study published 
in February 2019 showed 90 per cent 
survival after stem cell transplant for HLH 
patients treated with emapalumab.1
Supporting diagnosis
Launch activities have included negotia-
tions on pricing and reimbursement, and 
ensuring supply and distribution. There 
was also a strong focus on education, 
disease awareness and helping health-
care professionals identify HLH, which 
is often misdiagnosed.
Gamifant sales reached SEK 542 M 
for the year. The product is still in launch 
phase, and sales of products for ultra- 
rare diseases are often initially volatile 
due to the limited number of patients 
and difficulties in obtaining a correct 
diagnosis. Material growth driver
We see extensive promise for 
emapalumab beyond the current indi-
cation and market, and believe it has 
strong potential to be a material growth 
driver. Investigations are beginning in 
areas including secondary HLH and hae-
mopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). 
Patient recruitment is going well in the 
study in secondary HLH in children, 
and we have started a study in adults. 
The pilot phase of the study in acute 
graft failure (HSCT) is scheduled to start 
towards the end of 2020. 
Emapalumab is currently approved 
only in the US, for the treatment of 
primary HLH, and is under review by the 
EMA and in other markets. Some patients 
in Europe and the Middle East have 
already received treatment under early 
access programmes. 
Some patients in Canada have also 
been treated under an early access 
 programme, and filing is expected 
 during 2020. 
In line with our strategy of geograph-
ical expansion, we are beginning 
work on the regulatory pathway for 
emapalumab in China. There is a high 
unmet medical need in China, which 
has an accelerated approval path for 
rare diseases. We are also investigating 
other Asian markets.
Synagis and RSV
• Sales of SEK 2,594 M
RSV, or respiratory syncytial virus, is 
a common and highly contagious 
seasonal virus that is contracted by 
nearly all babies by the age of two. In 
most babies, RSV causes only a mild 
respiratory infection; however, for some 
– especially babies who are considered 
high risk – RSV can develop into a much 
more serious infection.
RSV is the leading cause of hospital 
admission in infants aged less than 
one year in the United States2. Synagis 
(palivizumab) is the only approved  medicine for the prevention of serious 
lower respiratory tract infections caused 
by RSV in high-risk infants, and signifi-
cantly reduces the risk of RSV hospitali-
sation. The seasonal nature of RSV has a 
major effect on sales of Synagis, with the 
vast majority of sales taking place during 
RSV season which covers the fourth and 
first quarters of each year. 
Strong growth
Sobi acquired the US rights to Synagis 
from AstraZeneca in 2018, integrating 
the Synagis team into our US operations 
during 2019. We have subsequently seen 
growth above that achieved in prior 
seasons. We are seeing a high level of 
referrals and good momentum working 
with institutions as we continue to 
identify high-risk infants who are eligible 
for Synagis.
Additional opportunities
Our investments in expanding the field 
force and market access continue to 
deliver additional opportunities for this 
important brand, including identifying 
and gaining label coverage for even 
more high-risk infants who would 
 benefit from Synagis.
An extensive campaign for RSV 
Awareness Month in October 2019 
helped raise awareness of RSV ahead 
of the approaching virus season.
1. www.sobi.com/en/press-releases/new-emapalumab-data-presented-transplantation-and-cellular-therapy-tct-meeting
2. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5090170/
immunologY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
161. von Spronsen et al. Hepatology. 1994; 20(5):1187-1191Specialty Care  
portfolio
We remain committed to Orfadin® and have also streamlined our 
 Specialty Care portfolio in line with our sharpened strategic focus. 
We remain committed to Orfadin, 
which is approved in the US, the EU and 
several other markets for the treatment 
of hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1), 
in combination with dietary restriction 
of tyrosine and phenylalanine. HT-1 is a 
rare genetic disorder that can cause liver, 
renal and neurological complications.
When Orfadin was first launched 
in 2002, few patients living with HT-1 
would celebrate their second birthday 1. 
Today, thanks to improved newborn 
screening, effective treatment and die-
tary management, we are seeing the first 
generation of patients with HT-1 reach 
an age where they are starting their own 
families.
Over years of working closely with the 
HT-1 community, we have continued 
to develop Orfadin to meet the various challenges facing people with HT-1 
during different stages of life. 
With an increase in newborn screen-
ing in several countries, more patients 
are being diagnosed earlier. The Sobi- 
patented oral suspension makes treat-
ment simpler for younger infants. At the 
other end of the scale, the larger 20 mg 
capsule – which is the only one on the 
market – allows older patients to reduce 
the number of capsules they have to 
take every day. 
Generic competition has entered 
some markets for other formulations, 
and sales of Orfadin declined in 2019. 
We remain strongly committed to the 
HT-1 community and providing life-long 
treatment with Orfadin and associated 
patient support services.Streamlining the portfolio
Rather than marketing partner products, 
where we control a relatively small 
part of the value chain, we will look 
for opportunities to acquire or wholly 
license products focused on rare 
diseases or niche indications. This will 
provide long-term strategic ownership 
while supporting our strengthened focus 
and increased investments in the areas 
of Haematology and Immunology. 
In conjunction with this adjustment, 
several contracts in the Specialty Care 
portfolio were terminated during 2019, 
including Xiapex® and Ravicti®. 13%
of total revenuespeCial TY Care
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
17Global expansion  
powers growth
Geographical expansion is taking our treatments to more people 
and creating new growth opportunities. 
We see geographical expansion as an 
important aspect of our strategy, and are 
pursuing it through acquisitions, greater 
market penetration and by establishing 
operations in new markets.
Expansion in North America, and in 
the US in particular, is a strategic objec -
tive. The US represents half of the global 
rare disease market, and a significant 
presence there is a prerequisite for a 
global leadership position. 
Strengthened US presence 
US growth has been significant, coming 
from acquisitions and organic growth. 
North America’s share of revenue has 
risen from 14 per cent in early 2018 to 
32 per cent at the end of 2019. From 55 
employees there at the start of 2018, we 
had a total of 420 by the end of 2019.
The acquisition of the US rights for 
Synagis in 2018 accelerated the expan-
sion of our workforce there, with all 133 
people from the Synagis team joining 
Sobi when the acquisition was finalised 
late that year. The workforce continued 
to grow throughout 2019 with the 
launch of Gamifant as well as reinforce-
ment of the Synagis and Kineret teams. 
Dova bolsters Haematology
The acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuti-
cals, finalised in November 2019, con-
tinued the expansion of our operations 
in the US. 
Based in Durham, North  Carolina, 
Dova brought 125 employees to the 
team, including specialists in haema-
tology, strengthening our infrastructure 
in Haematology and broadening our 
competence base in the US. Growing in Europe and around  
the world
Europe, the Middle East, North Africa 
and Russia have traditionally been Sobi’s 
home markets. Even with our growth in 
North America, these markets continue 
to play a vital role for both our Haema-
tology and Immunology franchises. 
In Haematology, we continue to 
increase market penetration with our 
extended half-life factor replacement 
treatments for haemophilia A and B. 
Market share in existing markets con-
tinues to grow: both Elocta and Alprolix 
are the market-leading factor therapies 
in Scandinavia, and in 2019, people 
with haemophilia in almost 30 coun-
tries – including the recent additions of 
Romania and Hungary – had access to 
our EHL treatments. 
New products for European market
Doptelet, which became a Sobi asset 
with the acquisition of Dova, was 
approved in the EU for chronic liver 
disease (CLD) in June 2019, and a launch 
is planned in certain European markets 
during 2020. A European filing for the 
chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
(ITP) indication has been submitted.
In Immunology, we have filed for 
European approval of emapalumab 
as a therapy for primary HLH.
Following EMA approval of Kineret as 
a treatment for Still’s disease in Europe 
in 2018, we launched Kineret in this 
indication in 17 countries in 2019. Several 
people with Still’s disease have com -
menced treatment.
Launching operations in China 
High unmet medical need has been seen 
in China in HLH and thrombo cytopenia. To address this unmet need, we estab-
lished operations in China in January 
2020. China has accelerated paths to 
approval for orphan drugs. 
With the addition of China, we are 
now represented in more than 30 
markets across North America, Europe, 
the Middle East, North Africa, Russia and 
Asia, providing treatment for patients in 
more than 70 countries. 
There is significant potential to expand 
our global position, with focus on the 15 
largest markets representing a majority 
of the global market for rare diseases. 
This would allow us to maximise the 
growth potential of our pre-market and 
on-market portfolio. 
Global supply chain
We market and sell a wide range of 
products in more than 70 countries. It 
is our key responsibility to ensure that 
patients never risk being without their 
medication. 
Our global Technical Operations team 
ensures the sourcing, manufacturing 
and distribution of compliant products 
to patients. 
Our supply chain depends on the 
qualified services of multiple partners 
engaged in manufacturing, testing, stor -
ing and finally distributing our products. 
Full and often serialised control over the 
entire chain is vital, as are Good Pharma-
ceutical Practices to ensure product 
integrity and quality.
During 2019, we introduced a 
Responsible Sourcing Programme to 
verify the sustainability of our supply 
chain, read more on page 24.
geographiC expansion
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
18Sobi’s markets
USADoptelet Orfadin
Kepivance®Synagis
Gamifant 
Kineret
Europe
Middle East Elocta
Alprolix
Doptelet 
Elocta
Alprolix
Doptelet 
Doptelet 2 Orfadin KineretHaematology Immunology
Orfadin
Partner Products Kineret
Orfadin Kineret
Gamifant (NPU) 1
Rest of the  
world
Specialty CareGlobal presence
 Patient access
  Sobi’s operations
»A significant  
presence in the  
United States is a  
prerequisite for a 
global leadership 
position.« 
See page 115–116 for full details.
1. NPU – Named patient use. 
2. Outlicensed in China. geographiC expansion
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
19Strengthening  
late-stage pipeline
Innovation has been at the heart of Sobi throughout our history. 
We combine our expertise with that of our partners to find and develop 
innovative treatments that address significant unmet medical need 
among people with rare diseases.
We see innovation as an essential 
element in achieving our vision of being 
recognised as global leaders in rare 
diseases. We take new treatments to 
patients, expand our existing products 
into new indications and regions where 
they address unmet medical need, and 
gather real-world evidence from avail-
able products.
As part of sharpening our strategic 
focus, our R&D is now concentrated on 
late-stage research within Haematology 
and Immunology. With the acquisitions 
over the past two years, our pre-market 
portfolio has never been stronger.
Haematology
Within Haematology, we added two 
major new assets to our pipeline during 
2019: BIVV001, an investigational 
long-acting factor VIII treatment with 
potential to provide greater protection 
from bleeds with once-weekly dosing 
for people with haemo  philia A; and 
Doptelet, a second-genera  tion small- 
molecule thrombopoietin receptor 
 agonist used in treatment of thrombo -
cytopenia by increasing platelet count. 
BIVV001
We see BIVV001 as having the potential 
to deliver a new standard of care for 
people with haemophilia A. By adding 
BIVV001 to our collaboration agreement 
with Sanofi, we are taking an active role 
in the development of this potential treatment. The pivotal phase 3 study in 
adults started in December 2019.
Doptelet
Doptelet is already approved in the 
US and the EU for the treatment of 
thrombocytopenia in adult patients 
with chronic liver disease (CLD) who 
are scheduled to undergo a procedure, 
and in the US for chronic immune 
thrombo cytopenia (ITP) in adult patients 
who have had an insufficient response 
to a previous treatment. 
A phase 3 study of Doptelet in chemo-
therapy-induced thrombocytopenia 
(CIT), a common side effect of chemo-
therapy that results in a low number of 
platelets, is underway. At present, there 
are no approved drugs to treat CIT.
Elocta and Alprolix
Several phase 4 studies (some in 
partnership with Sanofi) of Elocta and 
Alprolix, our extended half-life factor 
replacement therapies for haemophilia 
A and B respectively, are gathering real-
world evidence of safety and efficacy. 
Immunology
Within Immunology, emapalumab – a 
monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds 
and neutralises interferon gamma – is 
a key focus. Emapalumab was approved 
in the US in 2018 for adult and paediatric 
(newborn and older) patients with primary 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) with refractory, recurrent or 
 progressive disease or intol  erance for 
conventional HLH treatment.  Currently 
under evaluation by the EMA for primary 
HLH, emapalumab is also under investi-
gation for secondary HLH and haemo-
poietic stem cell transplant failure.
Nirsevimab (MEDI8897)
Nirsevimab, developed by Sanofi and 
AstraZeneca, has entered phase 3 for the 
prevention of respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV) in high-risk children and in healthy 
late preterm and term infants. Nirsev-
imab is a single-dose extended half-life 
anti-RSV F mAb being developed for 
the prevention of lower respiratory tract 
infections (LRTI) caused by RSV in all 
infants entering their first RSV season 
and children with chronic lung disease 
or congenital heart disease entering 
their first and second RSV season. It has 
been engineered to have a long half-life 
so that only one dose will be needed 
for the entire RSV season. Sobi has the 
rights to 50 per cent of future US earn-
ings of nirsevimab.
Kineret
We continue to investigate Kineret 
(anakinra), which still attracts much 
 scientific interest nearly 20 years after 
it was first described as an interleukin-1 
(IL-1) receptor antagonist. IL-1 blockade 
is one of the oldest biological therapies, 
yet use continues to rise as the role 
of IL-1 activation is being recognised 
researCh and developmenT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
20in a wide spectrum of inflammatory 
disorders, from gout to cancer. As well 
as investigator-sponsored studies, 
researchers are also carrying out their 
own trials without Sobi’s involvement.
Approved in several countries for IL-1 
related illnesses, Kineret was approved in 
2018 for Still’s disease in Europe. A study 
in Still’s disease in the US was halted due 
to recruitment issues, but based on the 
convincing results we plan to file for FDA 
approval in Still’s disease.Potential new indications 
Anakinra has also been under investiga-
tion in other IL-1 related illnesses. 
• Deficiency of interleukin-1 recep-
tor antagonist (DIRA), a rare and 
life-threatening autoinflammatory 
disease.
• Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is 
an inherited disorder manifested by 
episodic fevers, often with pain in the 
abdomen, joints or chest, and rash in 
the lower extremities.Filing to follow successful trial
Sobi has applied for EMA approval of 
an extended indication for Orfadin for 
the treatment of alkaptonuria (AKU) 
after positive results on efficacy without 
safety concerns from the phase 3 study 
SONIA 2.
AKU was the first identified human 
genetic disease and is said to be the 
birth of human genetics. It is a serious, 
 autosomal recessive, multisystem 
disorder affecting around one in every 
250,000 to 1 million people, although 
prevalence is higher in some countries. 
For more information, visit  
DevelopAKUre.eu
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration
NI-17011 
Anti-CD47/CD19 
R/R B cell lymphomaBIVV001/ 
rFVIIIFc-vWF-XTEN 2 
Haemophilia A
MEDI8897/
nirsevimab3 
RSV prevention
Doptelet/avatrombopag 
Chemotherapy-induced 
thrombocytopenia (CIT)Kineret/anakinra 
Deficiency of IL-1 receptor 
antagonist (DIRA) (US)
FILING PLANNED IN 2020Kineret/anakinra 
Familial Mediterranean 
Fever (FMF) (EU)
FILING SUBMITTEDGamifant/emapalumab 
Primary HLH (EU)
FILING SUBMITTED
Orfadin/nitisinone 
Alkaptonuria (EU)
FILING SUBMITTED IN 2020
Doptelet/avatrombopag 
Chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP) (EU)
FILING SUBMITTED IN 2020Gamifant/emapalumab 
Secondary HLH adults
Open for enrolmentOur innovation pipeline as per 25 March 2020
1. Financial interest only.
2. Developed in collaboration with Sanofi.
3. Nirsevimab is under development by Sanofi and AstraZeneca.  
Sobi has rights to 50 per cent of US earnings. Haematology
 Immunology 
 Specialty Care
In collaboration with Sanofi, Sobi 
is also conducting two phase 4 
studies – reITIrate and verITI8, for 
immune tolerance induction (ITI) 
in patients with haemophilia A 
who have developed inhibitors.Gamifant/emapalumab 
Secondary HLH/ 
macrophage activation 
syndrome (MAS) childrenresearCh and developmenT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
21Sustainability 
Our commitment to provide access to treatment for people with rare  
diseases is our main contribution to sustainable development. 
Access to treatment 
Our sustainability strategy consists of 
three key areas aimed at increasing 
patient access to treatment: 
• Supporting the rare disease com-
munity through our commitment to 
patients and working actively with 
pricing, reimbursement, knowledge 
sharing, regulatory approvals and 
market expansion. 
• Providing effective treatments that 
have a favourable safety profile for 
both patients and the environment. 
This is achieved by following high 
pharmaceutical standards, and 
undertaking initiatives to promote 
responsible sourcing and greater 
environmental responsibility. 
• Acting ethically and responsibly 
in everything we do, through high 
research standards, business ethics and policies aimed at creating a 
sustain able organisation purposed to 
serve the community.
Sobi has been a signatory to the UN 
Global Compact since 2017 1, and we 
conduct our business in a manner con-
sistent with the principles of the Global 
Compact. We report our sustainability 
performance within the framework of 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in 
accordance with the Core option. 
Commitment to patients 
Throughout our history, we have worked 
with the rare disease community to 
provide access to innovative treatments. 
We continue this cooperation across a 
wide range of areas, and see it as vital for 
the future.One of the most important ways in 
which we work with the community is 
in patient access, ensuring access to 
treatment for people with rare diseases 
through the healthcare system. Patient 
access involves negotiations and dis-
cussions with healthcare and regulatory 
authorities, payers, treaters and patient 
organisations.
Pricing and reimbursement
Social, economic and healthcare prior -
ities are different in every country, and 
each assesses medicines in different 
ways based on its local priorities, context 
and philosophy. Sobi works with each 
country on an individual basis to find 
appropriate solutions to reach patients. 
Pricing and reimbursement are two 
essential areas of enabling patient 
access. Several factors must be taken 
into account when pricing a medicine. 
At Sobi we follow a value-based 
pricing approach. The price of our 
medicines should represent the benefit 
that the innovation delivers to patients 
living with rare diseases, to healthcare 
systems, payers and to societies. A suc -
cessful pricing strategy supports further 
investment in innovation so that we can 
continue to meet the needs of patients 
in the future.
In some markets, patient access to 
treatments may be limited by the lack or 
complexity of reimbursement processes. 
We have several initiatives in place to 
support patients and doctors to gain 
access. One such programme is 
KINERET ON TRACK 2 in the US. 
Knowledge sharing
Each rare disease is so uncommon in its 
nature that knowledge about the disease 
is often rare too. It is not uncommon that 
a rare diagnosis is delayed. 
Understanding the patient experience 
of living with a rare disease can provide Sustainability strategy
Commitment
to patients
Safety for 
patients and 
environmentEthical and  
responsible  
behaviourAccess to  
treatment
1. www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/112201-Swedish-Orphan-Biovitrum-AB-publ-
2. www.kineretrx.com/nomid/kineret-on-track
susT ainabiliTY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
22important information and in  crease 
knowledge of disease burden and 
treatment possibilities. In 2018, Sobi 
commissioned an ethnographic study of 
over 50 people living with haemophilia 
in Europe. 
By sharing the data from this study 
with patient organisations, treaters and 
payers, we hope to increase understand-
ing not only of the challenges facing 
people living with haemophilia but also 
of the opportunities. Several organisa-
tions have received presentations on the 
key findings, and a congress poster was 
presented in October 2019. We intend 
to publish more detailed manuscripts 
in 2020. 
We support the research commu-
nity with grants and other forms of 
assistance. During 2019, we launched 
the Sobi Scientific Innovation Awards, 
recognising innovation and scientific 
excellence by both established and 
up-and-coming researchers. The inau-
gural awards focused on haemophilia 
research, with prizes for clinical and 
pre-clinical work. 
During the year, we have also been a 
sponsor of FYMCA, a medical education 
organisation that develops improved 
rare-disease education and services for 
the developing world.1
Innovative access strategies
In terms of access outside our key 
markets, our largest single contribution, 
together with our partner Sanofi, is the 
2015 pledge to donate up to 1 billion 
international units (IUs) of extended 
half-life coagulation factor replacement 
for use in developing countries over ten 
years. During the first five years, 500 
million IUs have been earmarked for 
distribution through the World Federa-
tion of Hemophilia (WFH) Humanitarian 
Aid Program. The donation has so far 
reached more than 17,200 people in 40 
countries, enabling 2,322 surgeries and 160,000 acute bleed treat ments, leading 
to major improvements in quality of life 
for thousands of people.2
Acknowledging that donations do not 
provide sustainable or long-term access 
to treatment in recipient countries, we 
strive to transform donations to access 
within the regulated healthcare system 
where possible. One example of this is 
the achievement of sustainable access 
to treatment for hereditary tyrosinaemia 
(HT-1) treatment in Palestine. Sobi has 
been donating Orfadin for the treatment 
of HT-1 in Palestine for more than 20 
years. During 2019, after constructive 
discussions between Sobi, the Palestin-
ian Ministry of Health and the treating 
physician in Palestine, the Ministry of 
Health was able to take over responsi-
bility and funding for existing and future 
HT-1 patients, ensuring true sustainable 
access.Another example of innovative strategies 
to increase access to treatments is the 
European Haemophilia Consortium’s 
(EHC) Procurement of Affordable 
Replacement Therapies Network of 
European Relevant Stakeholders – the 
PARTNERS programme, which Sobi sup-
ports. The PARTNERS programme aims 
to increase access to replacement ther -
apies in countries that provide little or 
no such treatment to their haemophilia 
patients. The EHC estimates that more 
than 5,000 people with haemophilia 
could benefit from the programme.3
1. www.fymcamedical.com
2. www.wfh.org/en/wfh-humanitarian-aid-program
3. www.ehc.eu/partners/Contributing to UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 
Sobi is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and is committed 
to supporting the principles it outlines. We have identified the 
SDGs that we can help to achieve.
Goal 3: Good Health and Wellbeing
Through our day-to-day operations we provide treatments to patients  
with rare diseases and work to expand access in our markets and beyond.
Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production 
We continuously monitor and improve the environmental performance of
our operations and we work with our supply chain to promote a common 
Code of Conduct, implement screening processes to promote good prac -
tices and improve our sustainability reporting. 
Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals 
We believe in working in partnerships – with patient organisations, through 
industry initiatives, research consortia and healthcare authorities – to create 
a greater impact in the rare disease space. 
Follow our progress towards each of these SDGs in the Sustainability Notes 
on pages 110–114.susT ainabiliTY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
23Safety for patients and the environment
Sobi follows pharmaceutical regulations 
and standards governing the safe pro-
duction and monitoring of treatments. 
We set high standards in regards to the 
safety of our treatments for patients. 
To ensure treatments also are safe 
for the environment and responsibly 
produced, we took several initiatives 
in 2019. 
Responsible sourcing
With a largely outsourced supply chain, 
we rely on sustainable and robust sup-
pliers to produce, package and distribute 
our products.
In 2019, we introduced a Respon-
sible Sourcing Programme, including 
the introduction of a Partner Code of 
Conduct and screening of sustainability 
aspects, starting January 2020. The 
screening involves ensuring compliance 
with standards in the areas of manage-
ment, labour and human rights, and envi-
ronmental responsibility. In 2020, our aim 
is to include the Partner Code of Conduct 
in all new agreements, to introduce our 
top 100 partners to the Code and to 
initiate screening of their operations.
Sobi also became a member of the 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative 
(PSCI) in 2019. Environmental responsibility 
Sobi’s environmental impact is attributed 
to direct and indirect activities, through 
our own operations and through 
sourced activities. Due to our business 
model, an extensive proportion of our 
impact arises from the activities we 
source from our contract manufacturers. 
Environmental impacts from produc -
tion, either in-house or outsourced, are 
mainly derived from the use of energy, 
water, chemicals, generated waste and 
discharge of sewage. We work actively 
to phase out chemicals that may be 
harmful to the environment or human 
health. Chemicals legislation is extensive 
and continuously expanding; all han-
dling of chemicals in our laboratories 
and manufacturing processes therefore 
follows strict instructions.
Our greenhouse gas emissions arise 
from areas such as energy consumption, 
business travel, logistics within the 
supply chain and distribution of our 
products. 
We continuously monitor and evalu-
ate the energy and water consumption 
of our production facility. The electricity 
consumed at the Stockholm plant is 
entirely a mix of certified renewable 
energy sources. The impact of our 
manu facturing plant in Stockholm, 
Sweden, is described in detail on 
pages 110–112.Business travel is an area where we 
are working to find ways to reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions. We believe 
that less travel will benefit not only the 
planet but also our employees. During 
the year, we expanded the ability for staff 
to use video-conferencing facilities in 
order to reduce travel between offices.
Ethical and responsible behaviour
We aim to always act ethically and 
require the highest ethical standards of 
our employees. In line with the growth 
Sobi is undergoing, we continuously 
review and adopt our policies and 
systems to ensure that we continue 
to maintain our high standards. Our 
employees receive regular training on 
appropriate conduct. In 2019, 95 per 
cent of our employees completed the 
mandatory anti-corruption, drug safety 
and Code of Conduct training.
To support the specific area of com-
pliance in healthcare interactions, a 
Healthcare Interactions Portal was made 
available in 2019, providing guidance 
and assistance for all staff.
Ethical behaviour is promoted through 
our company values and our Code of 
Conduct. Sobi’s five core values are 
aimed at ensuring that more patients 
benefit from our therapies, both now 
and in the future. See the illustration 
below.
Sobi’s core values
Care
We are who we are because of our dedication, knowl-
edge and passion. Care is the foundation upon which 
our strategy, our business and our culture are built.
Ownership
It is our duty to act. We therefore encourage intra-
preneurship and learn from our experiences.
Urgency
We need to embrace a sense of urgency, while safe-
guarding our standards, because patients cannot wait.
Partnership
We embrace partnerships and collaboration, both within 
Sobi and with external partners and  stakeholders.
Ambition
We set ourselves ambitious goals and do our utmost 
to achieve them. 
partnership
am
bitionownership
urgency
 care
susT ainabiliTY
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
24Responsible employer
Our workforce is essential for our ability 
to deliver on our strategy. At the end 
of 2019, we had 1,335 highly skilled 
employees1 in more than 30 countries 
around the world. Positive relationships 
with our employees support their devel-
opment, wellbeing and job satisfaction, 
and we are proud to offer a safe, healthy and inclusive workplace with equal 
development opportunities for all.
In 2019, activities were focused on 
supporting Sobi’s strategic shift and inte-
gration of the employees joining Sobi 
from the companies acquired in 2018 
and 2019. We have seen a high level 
of retention during these integrations, 
and continue to develop the process of introducing new  employees to Sobi’s 
culture and values. Our corporate values 
are actively promoted within our organ-
isation and lived by our employees. Our 
Code of Conduct is publicly available on 
the Sobi.com website.We are who we are because of our  
dedication,  knowledge and passion.
Number of employees
Number
/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/nine.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumGeographical distribution Gender distribution
n Europe 66% n North America 32%
n Other markets 2%n Women 60%  
n Men 40%1. FTE, full-time equivalents.
Our employees
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
25With a solid financial position and significant potential in our portfolio of 
pre-market and on-market products, Sobi is well positioned for continued 
international expansion and profitable growth in an attractive market.Sobi investment case
Haematology
Well positioned in a fundamentally attractive market
Significant pre-market pipeline 
Sobi has built a significant pre-market pipeline through the continued development of core 
assets and by acquiring promising late-stage assets. External growth is essential for the strategy 
and Sobi continues to evaluate opportunities. The medium-term focus is on the current pre- 
market portfolio which has potential to offer significant organic growth opportunities.
 Read more on page 20.
Pre-market
Avatrombopag1 – CIT, ITP (EU)
BIVV001 2 – haemophilia A
BIVV002 3 – haemophilia B
Emapalumab4 – secondary HLH
Emapalumab4 – new indications
Anakinra 5 – indication expansion
Nirsevimab 6 (MEDI8897) – RSV
1. Avatrombopag – approved as Doptelet for thrombocytopenia in chronic liver disease (CLD) and chronic immune thrompocytopenia (ITP) in the US.  
Under development for chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT).
2. Developed in collaboration with Sanofi. 
3. Sobi has elected to add the BIVV002 programme to the collaboration agreement with Sanofi but has not yet opted in.
4. Emapalumab – approved as Gamifant in the US for primary haemaphagocytic lymphohystiocytosis (HLH).
5. Anakinra – approved as Kineret in the US and in the EU for several autoinflammatory diseases. 
6. Nirsevimab (MEDI8897), a follow-on compound to Synagis for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
ImmunologySobi is a global player in the 
rare-disease market, which is 
characterised by high unmet 
medical needs. The cost of 
developing a treatment for a rare 
disease is high in proportion to 
the number of patients; such a 
medicine therefore generally 
commands a higher price and 
has a shorter time to market 
than other pharmaceuticals. 
Rare disease therapies are also 
less likely to face generic com-
petition, limiting price pressure. 
 Read more on page 8.Worldwide orphan drug sales & share of prescription drug market (2016–2024)
USD bn
/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/four.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/three.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/two.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum
+12.3% CAGR 2019–24%
Forecast
 Prescription excl. generics and orphan  Generics  Orphan drugs  
 Orphan drug sales as a % of prescription sales  Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) – orphan drug market
Source: EvaluatePharma Orphan Drug Report 2019.
invesT menT Case
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
26Geographical expansion 
Sobi is represented in more than 30 markets across Europe, 
North America, the Middle East, Russia, North Africa and Asia. 
There is significant potential to expand our global position, 
with focus on the 15 largest markets representing a majority 
of the global market for rare diseases. With more late-stage 
candidates and more on-market products for which we hold 
the global rights, global expansion should allow us to maxim-
ise the growth potential of our portfolio. 
 Read more on page 18.
Ongoing operational efficiency improvements
Developing and evaluating 
projects in late clinical stageCommercialisation and  
making treatments available  
to patients
Partnerships and acquisitionsPatient and 
community 
value
Financial 
value (cash 
flow)A continual dialogue with patients, patient associations, healthcare 
providers, regulators and payers to make products and treatments  
available to patientsCommercial excellence is our core competence 
Our core competence is late-stage clinical development and commercialisation, which opens 
up for co-development opportunities. Commercial excellence refers to our skills and expe-
rience, competence and the networks required to launch innovative rare-disease and niche 
medicines for sustainable patient access.
 Read more on page 10.
Cash flow and financial position support growth 
Sobi has a strong cash conversion rate, which has enabled investments in on-market products 
and late-stage assets in the R&D portfolio as well as in focused acquisitions. The ambition is to 
further strengthen cash flow and profitability in the commercial portfolio, and to drive develop-
ment projects to market launch over the next five years. Sobi has good financial capacity based 
on a strong operational cash flow which enables debt-financed external growth followed by 
quick reduction of debt.invesT menT Case
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
27The share
In 2019 the highest price paid was 
SEK 234.3 on 8 April, and the lowest was 
SEK 144.7 on 4 October. Sobi’s market 
capitalisation at year-end 2019 was 
SEK 46.3 billion. Over 2019, the share 
price fell 19.9 per cent.
Turnover and trading locations
The Sobi share is traded on several 
exchanges and trading platforms, 
including Nasdaq Stockholm, Bats CXE 
and Bats BXE. In 2019, trading on Nasdaq 
Stockholm accounted for 60 per cent of 
the total turnover. 
Average daily total turnover in Sobi 
shares was 1,579,560 in official trading. 
A daily average of 778,920 shares were 
traded on Nasdaq Stockholm. In 2019, a 
total of 572.4 million shares were traded, 
corresponding to a value of approxi-
mately SEK 104.1 billion.Share capital
At year-end, the total number of shares 
outstanding in Sobi was 299,977,839. 
All issued shares are ordinary shares 
and carry one vote per share. 
At year-end, the share capital was 
SEK 164,599,935, distributed between 
299,977,839 shares with a par value of 
approximately SEK 0.55.
Incentive programmes
Sobi has launched several share-based 
incentive programmes for senior execu-
tives and employees. Currently, there are 
eight active share programmes, all vest-
ing within three years. The programmes 
represent a total maximum of 2,052,187 
shares, or 0.7 per cent of the total num-
ber of shares in the company. For more 
information, see note 11. Shareholders
At year-end, the number of shareholders 
was 25,226 (23,435). The largest share-
holder, Investor AB, held 35.9 per cent 
(39.4) of the shares. Swedish legal entities, 
including institutions and funds, held 
59.3 per cent (61.0) of the shares. Shares 
held by Swedish Orphan  Biovitrum AB 
(publ) at year-end totalled 5,678,099 
common shares.
During the year 208,257 shares 
were used for allotment under two 
performance-based long-term share 
programmes, see Note 11 for further 
information.
Dividend
The Board proposes that no dividend 
be paid for 2019. For more information 
about Sobi’s dividend policy, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report.
Largest shareholders at 31 December 20191
SHAREHOLDERS Number of  
A sharesShare  
capital, % Share  
votes, %
Investor AB 107,594,165 35.9 35.9
BNY Mellon NA (former Mellon), W9 29,266,145 9.8 9.8
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, W9 24,193,592 8.1 8.1
Swedbank Robur fonder 14,074,880 4.7 4.7
State Street Bank and Trust Co, W9 13,369,722 4.5 4.5
Fjärde AP fonden 9,512,951 3.2 3.2
AMF – Försäkring och Fonder 7,973,313 2.7 2.7
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.) 5,678,099 1.9 1.9
Handelsbanken fonder 5,564,682 1.9 1.9
Euroclear Bank SA/NV, W8-IMY 4,895,403 1.6 1.6
Cbny-Norges Bank 4,133,805 1.4 1.4
JPM Chase NA 3,236,147 1.1 1.1
Andra AP-fonden 2,842,349 1.0 1.0
SIX SIS AG, W8IMY 2,697,456 0.9 0.9
Gladiator 2,605,000 0.9 0.9
Total 15 largest shareholders 237,637,709 79.6 79.6
Other 62,340,130 20.4 20.4
Total 299,977,839 100.0 100.0
1. The shareholders are presented as they appear in the shareholder register held by Euroclear Sweden AB. The list may therefore not show shareholders whose shares have been registered 
in the name of a nominee, through the trust department of a bank or similar institution. In addition to Investor AB, EdgePoint Investment Group Inc. has flagged for owning more than 
10 per cent of the voting rights.
 Source: EuroclearThe share (STO:SOBI) is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, under the company 
name of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum. Over the 2015–2019 period, the share 
price has increased by more than 94 per cent.
The share
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
28Average value of daily trading volume for the Sobi share
VOLUME ’000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
A shares 1,391.5 2,263.6 1,502.3 2,272.0 2,289.6
In 2019, the average daily trading volume for the Sobi share on Nasdaq 
 Stockholm was 778,920 shares.
Source: Fidessa.
Shareholder categories
31 DECEMBER 2019 % of capital 
Foreign shareholders 36.7
Swedish shareholders 63.4
whereof 
Institutions 59.4
Private persons 4.0
Source: Euroclear.
Key data per share
SEK 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Earnings/loss  
per share 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29
Equity per share 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4
Market price,  
Series A-share,  
31 Dec., last  
paid price 134.6 106.7 112.3 193.0 154.5
P/E ratio 434.2 35.7 26.3 21.5 13.7
Number of 
shares at 31 Dec. 271,822,806 272,010,948 272,507,708 273,322,117 299,977,839
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000
2019 2018 2017 2016 201550100150200250300SEK
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI 
Number of shares traded in thousands per month Nasdaq Biotech indexNumber of shares 
in thousandsSobi share price and trading volume 2015–2019 Shareholders by country
%
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
Other Luxem-
bourgBelgium UK US Sweden/six.tnum/three.tnum./four.tnum
/two.tnum/five.tnum./seven.tnum/six.tnum/four.tnum./eight.tnum
/six.tnum./four.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum./nine.tnum
/three.tnum./one.tnum/two.tnum./four.tnum /three.tnum./one.tnum /one.tnum./nine.tnum/one.tnum./five.tnum/three.tnum./four.tnum/three.tnum./seven.tnum
 2018  2019
Source: Euroclear.The share
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
29Five-year summary – Group development
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Income statement, SEK M 
Operating revenue 3,228 5,204 6,511 9,139 14,248
Gross profit 2,007 3,651 4,657 6,723 10,913
EBITDA1 465 1,574 2,086 3,607 6,121
EBITA1 433 1,543 2,053 3,571 5,933
EBIT (operating profit) 146 1,133 1,600 3,122 4,533
Profit/loss for the year 83 802 1,149 2,418 3,304
Capital, SEK M
Total assets 8,315 9,974 10,903 17,183 45,658
Capital employed1 5,508 5,880 6,716 9,048 33,560
Equity 4,678 5,365 6,701 9,040 16,930
Cash and cash equivalents 904 786 1,478 2,999 737
Net debt (+)/net cash (–)1 –89 –289 –1,478 –2,999 15,404
Cash flow, SEK M
Cash flow from operating activities  
before changes in working capital 411 642 1,431 2,341 5,300
Cash flow from operating activities 507 343 1,333 2,090 3,634
Cash flow from investing activities –143 –158 –139 –575 –21,686
Cash flow from financing activities 22 –308 –500 –1 15,780
Change in cash and cash equivalents 386 –123 694 1,514 –2,271
Key figures, %
Gross margin1 62 70 72 74 77
Return on capital employed1 2.6 19.3 23.8 34.5 13.5
Return on equity1 1.8 16.0 19.0 30.7 25.4
Equity ratio1 56 54 61 53 37
Debt/equity ratio1 77 86 63 90 170
Share ratio, SEK
Earnings/loss per share 0.31 2.99 4.27 8.97 11.29
Equity per share1 17.3 19.8 24.6 33.1 56.4
Dividend — — — — 0
Cash flow per share1 1.4 –0.5 2.6 5.6 –7.8
Cash flow from operating activities per share1 1.9 1.3 5.0 7.8 12.4
1. Sobi presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS, so-called alternative performance measures. These have been noted in the table above 
and further  information on why these are considered important, and how they are calculated, can be found in Definitions at the end of this report.
five Year summar Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
30Directors’ Report  ................................................. 32
Consolidated financial statements
Statement of comprehensive income ............ 46
Balance sheet ....................................................... 47
Statement of changes in equity ....................... 48
Cash flow statement .......................................... 49
Parent Company financial statements
Statement of comprehensive income ............. 51
Balance sheet ....................................................... 52
Statement of changes in equity ........................ 54
Cash flow statement ........................................... 55
Notes
Note 1 General information ............................ 56
Note 2  Significant accounting policies and  
basis of preparation for the financial 
statements of the Parent Company 
and the Group ....................................... 56
Note 3 Financial risk management ................ 61
Note 4  Significant accounting  
judgements, estimates and 
assumptions .......................................... 63
Note 5 Distribution of operating revenue .....65
Note 6 Segment reporting ............................... 65
Note 7  Depreciation/amortisation and  
write-downs of intangible  
and tangible assets .............................. 66Note 8 Other operating income .................. 66
Note 9 Other operating expenses ............... 66
Note 10  Leasing ................................................. 67
Note 11  Employees, personnel costs and  
remuneration of Board members 
and senior executives ....................... 68
Note 12 Remuneration of auditors ................ 73
Note 13  Costs according  
to type of cost ..................................... 73
Note 14 Financial income ................................ 73
Note 15 Financial expenses ............................. 73
Note 16 Income tax .......................................... 74
Note 17  Intangible assets and 
impairment testing ............................ 75
Note 18 Tangible assets .................................... 79
Note 19  Participations in  
Group companies ............................. 80
Note 20  Financial assets ................................... 81
Note 21  Deferred tax assets and liabilities ....82
Note 22  Inventories ........................................... 83
Note 23 Account and other receivables ....... 83
Note 24  Prepaid expenses and  
accrued income ................................ 84
Note 25  Cash and cash equivalents .............. 84
Note 26  Financial assets and liabilities  
per category ........................................ 85Note 27  Borrowings ......................................... 86
Note 28  Other liabilities, current 
and non-current ................................ 87
Note 29  Post-employment benefits .............. 87
Note 30  Provisions ........................................... 89
Note 31  Accrued expenses and  
deferred income ............................... 89
Note 32  Pledged assets and  
contingent liabilities ......................... 90
Note 33 Acquisition .......................................... 90
Note 34 The share ............................................. 91
Note 35 Related-party transactions .............. 91
Note 36 Proposed appropriation of profit .... 91
Note 37  Events after the  
balance-sheet date ............................ 91
Letter from the Chairman .................................. 93
Corporate Governance Report  ........................ 94ContentsReporting
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
31Highlights 2019 
Financial highlights 
• Total revenue of SEK 14,248 M  
(9,139), an increase of 56 per cent. 
• The gross margin was 77 per cent (74).
• EBITA was SEK 5,933 M (3,571). 
• Adjusted EBITA was SEK 6,145 M (3,571).
• Profit for the year totalled SEK 3,304 M  
(2,418), representing earnings per share 
of SEK 11.29 (8.97). Adjusted earnings per 
share amounted to SEK 11.89 (8.97).
• Cash flow from operating activities was 
SEK 3,634 M (2,090).Business highlights 
• The acquisition of Synagis® was com-
pleted, expanding US operations.
• Sobi completed the business acqusition 
of emapalumab.
• Sobi discontinued its early-phase R&D 
operations in order to focus on late-stage 
R&D projects within the core areas of 
haematology and immunology.
• Sobi acquired Dova Pharmaceuticals and 
created a global haematology platform. 
The acquisition gave Sobi access to 
Doptelet®, a product used for the treat-
ment of thrombocytopenia. 
• Sobi concluded an expanded agreement 
with Sanofi regarding the early exercise of 
an opt-in right and acquired the develop-
ment and commercial rights to BIVV001 in 
Sobi’s territories. BIVV001 is an extended 
half-life factor VIII product for haemo-
philia A in clinical development.
• The first patient was dosed in the phase 3 
study of BIVV001.
• The FDA granted orphan drug designa-
tion to avatrombopag (Doptelet) for the 
potential treatment of chemotherapy-
induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). 
• Sobi established operations in China.Directors’ Report
Sobi’s operations 
At Sobi, we are transforming the lives of 
people affected by rare diseases. As an 
international biopharmaceutical company, 
we provide innovative treatments in haema-
tology, immunology and niche indications.
In 2019, revenue was generated by:
• Sales in Europe and rest of the world of 
the proprietary products Elocta® and 
Alprolix®, and royalty revenue from 
Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate® and Alprolix. 
Global sales of the proprietary products 
Kineret® and Orfadin®. 
• Sales in the US of the proprietary products 
Gamifant®, Synagis and Doptelet.
• Sales in Europe and rest of the world of 
products for which Sobi holds distribution 
and/or licensing agreements.
• Manufacturing of the drug substance for 
ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for Pfizer.
Key figures
SEK M 2019 2018
Operating revenue 14,248 9,139
Gross profit 10,913 6,723
Gross margin, %1 77 74
EBITA1 5,933 3,571
EBITA adjusted1 6,145 3,571
EBITA-margin,1 % 42 39
EBITA-margin, % adjusted1 43 39
EBIT (operating profit) 4,533 3,122
Profit for the year 3,304 2,418
Earnings per share, SEK 1 11.29 8.97
Earnings per share, SEK, adjusted 11.89 8.97
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions page 122.  
See page 30 for a five-year summary of revenue, expenses and earnings.Five-year revenue trend
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK M
 Haematology  Immunology
 Specialty Care
dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
32Net sales and adjusted EBITA margin 
/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/nine.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnumSEK M
%
/three.tnum,/two.tnum/two.tnum/eight.tnum/five.tnum,/two.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum,/five.tnum/one.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum,/one.tnum/three.tnum/nine.tnum/one.tnum/four.tnum,/two.tnum/four.tnum/eight.tnum
 Net sales   Adjusted EBITA marginRevenue by business area
SEK M 2019 2018
Haematology 7,755 6,012
Immunology 4,706 1,320
Specialty Care 1,787 1,807
Total revenue 14,248 9,139Operating revenue 
In 2019, revenue amounted to SEK 14,248 M 
(9,139), an increase of 56 per cent (48 per 
cent at CER).
Revenue by business area
Haematology
Total Haematology revenue amounted to 
SEK 7,755 M (6,012), an increase of 29 per 
cent (24 per cent at CER). Elocta accounted 
for SEK 4,508 M (3,261) an increase of 38 per 
cent (34 per cent at CER). France, Germany, 
Italy and the Middle East accounted for more 
than half of this growth. Sales of Alprolix 
amounted to SEK 1,463 M (974) and most 
of this growth was attributable to more 
patients using the product in France, Italy, 
the Netherlands, the UK and Sweden. Sales 
of Doptelet, which was acquired during 
the year, amounted to SEK 34 M for the 
12 November–31 December period.
Royalty revenue amounted to SEK 1,373 M 
(1,341), derived from Sanofi’s sales of 
 Eloctate and Alprolix. 
At year-end, drug reimbursement had 
been granted for Elocta in 27 European 
countries, and for Alprolix in 26 countries. 
ReFacto manufacturing revenue totalled 
SEK 376 M (436), down 14 per cent. 
The current manufacturing agreement 
for ReFacto AF/Xyntha is valid until 31 
December, 2023, with an option to extend. 
Sobi’s royalty agreements for ReFacto ended 
in January 2018. Immunology
Total Immunology revenue amounted to 
SEK 4,706 M (1,320). Sales of Gamifant 
amounted to SEK 542 M. During the year, 
Gamifant showed a volatile sales pattern 
from quarter to quarter, which is normal for 
a product for an ultra-rare disease in launch 
phase. 
Sales of Synagis amounted to SEK 2,594 M. 
The final quarter made a significant con-
tribution to sales for the year as a result of 
improved commercial effectiveness and 
wholesaler stocking in the fourth quarter. 
In addition a positive Gross-to-Net impact 
and a more severe respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV) season than normal influenced the 
result positively.
Sales of Kineret amounted to SEK 1,571 M 
(1,320), an increase of 19 per cent (12 per 
cent at CER). Kineret continued to show 
a positive trend with double-digit growth. 
Growth was mainly driven by higher under -
lying demand in all regions and the ongoing 
European launch of Kineret for Still’s disease.
Specialty Care
Total Specialty Care revenue amounted to 
SEK 1,787 M (1,807), a decline of 1 per cent 
(–6 per cent at CER).
Annual sales of Orfadin totalled SEK 827 M 
(899), a decrease of 8 per cent (–13 per cent 
at CER).
Revenues for other Specialty Care 
products amounted to SEK 959 M (908), an 
increase of 6 per cent (2 per cent at CER).Gross profit
Gross profit was SEK 10,913 M (6,723), rep-
resenting a gross margin of 77 per cent (74). 
The higher gross margin was mainly driven 
by the addition of high-margin products, 
such as Synagis and Gamifant. 
Expenses
In 2019, operating expenses increased to 
SEK 6,430 M (3,601). 
Sales and administrative expenses before 
amortisation/depreciation and write-downs 
amounted to SEK 3,535 M (2,062). 
The increase was driven by Synagis and 
the Gamifant operations in North America, 
continued investments in haemophilia 
operations and the integration of Dova’s 
operations from 12 November 2019. The 
full-year was impacted by a non-recurring 
item – transaction costs of SEK 92 M related 
to the acquisition of Dova.
Research and development costs 
amounted to SEK 1,495 M (1,090). Expenses 
for the year reflect increased concentration 
in emapalumab and an effect of the acquisi-
tion of Dova Pharmaceuticals. Expenses 
were also affected by restructuring costs 
of SEK 157 M.
Operating expenses also included costs 
of SEK 81 M (113) for the long-term incentive 
programmes. Cash flow will not be affected 
by the share-based programmes until they 
expire, and then in the form of social security 
contributions.dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
33Other operating income and expenses 
amounted to SEK 50 M (0). Operating 
revenue for the year was mainly derived 
from exchange-rate effects.
Operating profit
Earnings before interest, taxes and amortis a-
tion (EBITA) amounted to SEK 5,933 M (3,571), 
corresponding to a margin of 42 per cent 
(39). Adjusted EBITA1  was SEK 6,145 M (3,571), 
corresponding to a margin of 43 per cent.
Amortisation and write-downs of intan-
gible assets amounted to SEK 1,401 M (449). 
The increase was mainly attributable to 
amort  isation of product and marketing rights 
related to Synagis, emapalumab and Dop -
telet. Operating profit (EBIT) amounted 
to SEK 4,533 M (3,122), an increase of 
45 per cent.
Net financial items
Net financial expenses were SEK –286 M 
(–40), including exchange-rate losses of 
SEK –31 M (17). The difference was mainly 
attributable to increased financing costs 
related to the acquisition of the rights 
to Synagis in the US, the acquisition of 
emapalumab with related assets, and the 
acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuticals.
Taxes
Total tax for the Group was SEK –942 M 
(–664), of which SEK –449 M (–767) per -
tained to current tax and SEK –494 M (103) 
to deferred tax. The Group’s effective tax rate 
was therefore 22.2 per cent (21.5). See also 
Notes 16 and 21.Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income amounted 
(net) to a loss of SEK –57 M (–124), and com-
prised cash-flow hedges mainly attributable 
to future inflows in foreign currency, current 
tax on these, exchange-rate differences, and 
remeasurment of pension commitments and 
deferred tax on these.
Cash flow and investments
Cash flow from operations before change 
in working capital was SEK 5,300 M (2,341). 
Working capital had a negative impact of 
SEK –1,666 M (–250) on cash flow for the 
full-year. The increase in working capital 
was mainly attribtable to inventory build-up 
and increased receivables as a result of sales 
growth.
Cash flow from investing activities was 
SEK –21,686 M (–575). Sobi completed the 
acquisition of Dova in the fourth quarter, 
which had a negative impact of SEK 7,969 M 
on cash flow, and made the payment of 
SEK 490 M for the acquisition of BIVV001. 
The largest investment in intangible assets 
during the year was SEK 13,869 M for 
Synagis, which had a negative impact of 
SEK 9,051 M on cash flow. 
Cash flow from financing activities 
amounted to SEK 15,780 M (–1). The 
increased borrowing in 2019 was mainly 
related to acquisitions carried out during 
the year. 
Five-year summary
SEK M 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Operating revenue 14,248 9,139 6,511 5,204 3,228
Cost of goods sold –3,335 –2,415 –1,854 –1,554 –1,221
Research and development costs –1,495 –1,090 –908 –778 –513
Operating profit (EBIT) 4,533 3,122 1,600 1,133 146
Net financial items –286 –40 –68 –85 –61
Profit for the year 3,304 2,418 1,149 802 83
Earnings per share, SEK 11.29 8.97 4.27 2.99 0.31
Diluted earnings per share, SEK 11.22 8.93 4.25 2.98 0.31
Number of shares, thousands 299,978 273,322 272,508 270,390 270,390
Equity ratio1, % 37 53 61 54 56
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions page 122.Revenue by business area
SEK M 2019 2018 Change
Elocta  4,508  3,261 38%
Alprolix  1,463  974 50%
Royalty  1,373  1,341 2%
Doptelet  34 — NA
Manufacturing 
revenue  376  436 –14%
Haematology  7,755  6,012 29%
Kineret  1,571  1,320 19%
Synagis  2,594 — NA
Gamifant  542 — NA
Immunology  4,706  1,320 257%
Speciality Care  1,787  1,807 –1%
Total revenue  14,248  9,139 56%
Sales by region
SEK M 2019 2018 Change
Europe 9,059 7,367 23%
North America 4,587 1,309 250%
Rest of the world 602 463 30%
Total 14,248 9,139 56%
Source of revenue by business area
Haematology Immunology Specialty Care
Elocta Kineret Akynzeo®
Alprolix Synagis Ammonaps®
Doptelet Gamifant Ammonul®
Royalty Deflux®
Manufacturing Kepivance®
Orfadin
Ravicti®
Relistor®
Ruconest®
Xiapex®
Other
dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
34Financial position
At 31 December 2019, cash and cash equiva-
lents and current investments amounted to 
SEK 737 M (2,999). 
The Group’s credit facilities (whereof 
SEK 16,243 M has been drawn) amounts to 
SEK 20,203 M and consist of credit facilities 
of EUR 1,540 M and SEK 4,135 M, of which 
EUR 670 M and SEK 3,000 M were raised in 
2019 to finance the acquisitions of ema-
palumab and Dova Pharmaceuticals. See 
Note 3 for more information. At 31 Decem-
ber 2019, net debt was SEK 15,404 M (2,999). 
The Group also has other non-interest 
bearing financing liabilites that are recog-
nised at discounted value and therefore carries an interest expense. These liabilities 
are not included in net debt/net cash. For 
contractual commitments regarding the 
above-mentioned liabilities, see Note 17.
Equity
At 31 December 2019, consolidated equity 
amounted to SEK 16,930 M (9,040). An issue 
of shares related to the Synagis acquisition 
increased equity by SEK 4,513 M. Other 
changes in addition to profit for the year 
consist of share-programme costs, hedge 
accounting and translation differences.
Revenues by business area
Revenue by regionParent Company
The Parent Company’s business model is 
to develop, register, distribute and market 
drugs for rare diseases. In 2019, Parent Com-
pany revenue amounted to SEK 12,991 M 
(8,221). Operating profit totalled SEK 4,536 M 
(3,492). Profit for the year totalled 
SEK 1,118 M (2,382), including excess depre-
ciation of SEK 400 M and Group contribu-
tions of SEK 2,766 M. At 31 December 2019, 
cash and cash equivalents amounted to 
SEK 431 M (2,762). At 31 December 2019, 
equity amounted to SEK 13,534 M (7,731). 
The change was attributable to an issue of 
shares, profit for the year, costs related to the 
company’s share programmes, and hedge 
accounting.
Development 
Sobi’s pipeline projects include develop-
ment programmes, primarily in the areas 
of Haematology and Immunology. Sobi is 
also conducting a number of projects to 
gather evidence for the company’s existing 
products.
In Haematology, R&D consists of among 
others expanded clinical activities to 
strengthen the already extensive scientific 
evidence related to Sobi’s approved hae-
mophilia products. In collaboration with our 
devel opment partner, we are conducting 
the BIVV001 project, for a novel factor 
VIII therapy in clinical development that is 
designed to extend protection from bleeds 
with once-weekly prophylaxis dosing for 
people with haemophilia A. BIVV001 entered 
phase 3 during the year. 
In addiation, avatrombopag, which came 
with the acquisition of Dova Pharmaceuti-
cals, is being studied in a phase 3 study for 
the treatment of chemotherapy-induced 
thrombocytopenia (CIT), a common side 
effect of chemotherapy.
Clinical programmes are ongoing in 
the area of immunology, with the aim of 
studying new applications for Kineret and 
emapalumab, which Sobi acquired in 2019. 
The SOBI005 product candidate was 
divested during the year. Due to Sobi’s 
strengthened focus on immunology and 
haematology and late-stage product devel-
opment, a decision was made to discontinue 
the early-phase research operations. As a /zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
Specialty Care Immunology Haematology–/six.tnum%+/two.tnum/three.tnum/one.tnum%+/two.tnum/four.tnum%SEK M
/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
Rest of the world North America Europe+/two.tnum/two.tnum%+/two.tnum/two.tnum/three.tnum%+/one.tnum/eight.tnum%SEK M Sales 2018
 Sales 2019
  Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2018
 Sales 2018
 Sales 2019
  Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2018dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
35result, Sobi explored during the year the pos-
sibilities to divest two projects: The SOBI006 
 programme in pre-clinical phase and the 
SOBI003 programme for potential treatment 
of MPSIIIA.
Development events during the year
Data for the long-term safety and efficacy 
of prophylactic therapy with Elocta and 
Alprolix in adults, teenagers and children 
with haemophilia A and B was presented 
at EAHAD
Analysis of the data from the A-LONG/
Kids A-LONG/ASPIRE and B-LONG/Kids 
B-LONG/B-YOND studies confirm the 
long-term safety and efficacy of Elocta 
(rFVIIIFc) and Alprolix (rFVIXFc) prophylaxis 
for all types of bleeds in people of all ages 
with severe haemophilia A each B. 
Interim data from the PUPs A-LONG study 
was presented at EAHAD 
Data on the incidence of inhibitors in previ-
ously untreated patients (PUPs) with severe 
haemophilia A shows that Elocta (rFVIIIFc) 
was well-tolerated and resulted in low 
bleeding rates in the PUP population. This 
interim analysis is the first data presented for 
PUPs for a product with extended half-life. 
The study is still ongoing and the final results 
will be presented at a future conference. 
New data for emapalumab showing 
treatment results after transplantation in 
patients with primary HLH were presented 
at the Transplantation & Cellular Therapy 
Meetings (TCT) 
In the phase 2/3 study, most of the patients 
treated with emapalumab proceeded to 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
(HSCT): 64.7 per cent of all patients treated, 
and 70.4 per cent of those patients who did 
not respond to previous conventional HLH 
treatment. The mean time to transplantation 
was 100 days for the entire patient cohort, 
and 83 days for the cohort that had not 
responded to previous conventional HLH 
treatment. Of the total patient cohort, 90.9 
per cent survived the stem cell transplanta-
tion (post-HSCT). Of the cohort that did 
not respond to previous conventional HLH 
treatment, the survival rate after transplanta-
tion was 89.5 per cent. AnaSTILLs study terminated
The AnaSTILLs trial was initiated to meet 
the regulatory requirements for an approval 
of Kineret for Still’s disease in the US. Only 
12 of 81 patients had been recruited after 
1.5 years. A decision was therefore made to 
discontinue the recruitment and terminate 
the study. The study will be completed for 
the recruited patients. 
New study data with emapalumab was 
presented at the 2019 Annual Scientific 
Congress of European League Against 
Rheumatism (EULAR)/Paediatric 
Rheumatology European Society (PReS) 
in Madrid
The interim analysis comprised data for the 
first six recruited patients with macrophage 
activation syndrome (MAS), or secondary 
HLH. MAS is one of the complications of 
systemic onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
(sJIA). The results showed that treatment 
with emapalumab led to rapid interferon-
gamma (IFN- ) neutralisation and all six 
patients who have participated in the study 
to date achieved a complete response. 
Emapalumab also demonstrated a good 
safety profile. 
Data from the phase 3 study of Orfadin 
(nitisinone) for the treatment of 
alkaptonuria
Based on promising data from the phase 3 
study of Orfadin (nitisinone) for the treat-
ment of alkaptonuria, Sobi decided to submit 
a marketing authorisation application to the 
EMA for this potential indication in the first 
half of 2020. 
The results from several ongoing studies 
were presented at the 27th ISTH Congress 
organised by the International Society on 
Thrombosis and Haemostasis in Melbourne, 
Australia:
Data from clinical studies in patients with 
haemophilia A and B who switched from 
on-demand treatment to prophylaxis with 
extended half-life (EHL) factor concentrates 
showed a positive effect in clinical outcome 
measures, such as improved quality of life 
(QoL), lower annual bleeding rates (ABR) 
and improved joint health. 
Positive interim results from verITI-8 – 
an ongoing prospective phase 4 study to 
investigare the efficacy of Elocta for first-
time Immune Tolerance Induction (ITI) in people with severe haemophilia A who have 
developed inhibitors – were also presented.
New study data of BIVV001 and results from 
a patient survey of Doptelet were presented 
at the 61st Annual Meeting of the American 
Society of Hematology (ASH) in Orlando: 
Final data from the phase 1/2 study of 
BIVV001 to evaluate the safety and pharma-
cokinetics of repeat doses in people with 
severe haemophilia A confirmed BIVV001’s 
potential to further improve treatment for 
haemophilia A patients. 
The results from a study evaluating the 
relative cost efficiency of avatrombopag 
compared with thrombocyte transfusion or 
treatment with lusutrombopag showed that 
the use of avatrombopag is a more effective 
strategy than both thrombocyte transfusion 
and lusutrombopag treatment, because it 
reduces both costs and the need for prophy-
lactic thrombocyte transfusions.
First patient dosed in the phase 3 study of 
BIVV001 
The first patient in the phase 3, open-label, 
interventional study of BIVV001 was dosed. 
The study is designed to investigare the 
efficacy, safety and tolerability of prophy-
lactic once-weekly dosing.
The FDA granted orphan drug designation 
to avatrombopag
The U.S Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) granted orphan drug designation 
to avatrombopag for the treatment of 
chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia 
(CIT). Avatrombopag is currently being 
studied for the treatment of CIT in a phase 
3 study and the results are expected in the 
second half of 2020.
Other information
Changes in Management
Paula Treutiger, Head of Communication & 
Investor Relations, and Sofiane Fahmy, Head 
of Southern and Western Europe & North 
Africa, joined management on 1 January 
2019. In addition, Amy Pott was appointed 
Head of North America in 2019. Torbjörn 
Hallberg also assumed responsibility for HR 
and Philip Wood assumed responsilibity for 
Northern Eastern Europe, Middle East and 
Russia during the year.
dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
36At 31 December 2019, the Executive 
 Committee consisted of: 
CEO: Guido Oelkers 
CFO: Henrik Stenqvist
General Counsel and Head of Legal 
Affairs, Head of HR: Torbjörn Hallberg 
Head of Haematology and Head of 
Northern Eastern Europe, Middle East 
and Russia: Philip Wood 
Head of Immunology: Norbert Oppitz 
Head of Southern and Western Europe 
& North Africa: Sofiane Fahmy
Head of North America: Amy Pott 
Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs:  
Armin Reininger
Head of Research & Development, 
Chief Medical Officer: Milan Zdravkovic
Head of Technical Operations:  
Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans
Head of Communication & Investor 
Relations: Paula Treutiger
Christian Dreger, Hege Hellström, Rami 
Levin and Fredrik Wetterlundh stepped down 
from the Executive Committee in 2019.
Risks and uncertainties
For a description of Sobi’s operational risks, 
see the section under Sustainability Report 
2019 and for financial risks see Note 3. 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Sobi has 
been and will continue to focus on disease 
the patients we serve, our customers and 
our employees. As the future spread of the 
disease is so uncertain, there is the potential 
for this to impact our underlying business. 
Sobi is evaluating and seeks to mitigate 
multiple operational risks, including but 
not limited to: workforce, product supply, 
research and development, marketing activi-
ties and product demand. Our workforce 
includes not only our internal employees, 
but our external manufacturing supply 
network partners across the globe, primarily 
in Europe. Interruptions in our product sup-
ply network have not yet materialized, but 
could impact any point in the supply chain 
and distribution.Sustainability Report
The statutory Sustainability Report is found 
on pages 22–25, 40–45 and 110–119 of this 
Annual and Sustainability Report, and has 
been prepared using the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines.
Corporate Governance Report
Under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, 
Sobi is required to prepare a Corporate 
Governance Report. In accordance with 
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 
6, Section 8, Sobi has decided to prepare 
a Corporate Governance Report that is 
separate from the Annual Report, refer to 
pages 94–100.
Environmental permits
Sobi’s production facility in Stockholm, 
Sweden, holds a permit for environmentally 
hazardous activities allowing the facility to 
produce a maximum of 1,000 tonnes of 
pharmaceuticals via industrial-scale chemi-
cal or biological reaction, including inter -
mediates, per calendar year. Compliance 
with the permit conditions is disclosed in an 
environmental report to the local regulator. 
In Solna, Sweden, the company conducts 
activities that are notifiable under the 
conditions for facilities that professionally 
produce organic or inorganic compounds 
via chemical or biological reactions in test, 
pilot or laboratory scale, or other non-
industrial scale. The conditions for these 
are mainly related to effluents and include a 
requirement to adjust the pH of the process 
water. In 2019, no breaches of the conditions 
were reported by either of the facilities. 
The company also has an import permit for 
animal by-products from the Swedish Board 
of Agriculture, and a permit for handling 
flammable products. While adaptation to 
current regulations has not, to date, had any 
adverse impact on Sobi’s competitiveness or 
operations, the company cannot predict the 
impact of future regulations. 
Share capital and ownership
At 31 December 2019, Sobi’s share capital 
amounted to SEK 164,599,935, distributed 
between 299,977,839 shares, with a par value 
per share of about SEK 0.55. At 31 December 
2019, the total number of ordinary shares 
outstanding, excluding shares in treassury, comprised 294,299,740, each carrying one 
vote. At 31 December 2019, Investor AB was 
Sobi’s largest single shareholder with a total 
of 107,594,165 shares, representing 35.9 
per cent of the votes and 35.9 per cent of 
the capital.
Share conversions
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 9 May 
2019 authorised Sobi’s Board to resolve on 
an issue of Class C shares, and to repurchase 
all Class C shares issued in order to hedge 
the long-term incentive programmes. The 
AGM also resolved to approve the Board’s 
proposed transfer of shares. 
At 31 December 2019, Sobi held 5,678,099 
ordinary shares in treasury. All Class C shares 
issued in 2019 were converted to ordinary 
shares during the year. For more detailed 
information about the total number of 
shares in the company, the number of diffe-
rent classes of shares and the votes carried 
by the company’s shares, refer to the section 
on shares on page 28.
The Board of Directors’ proposal 
for Guidelines for Executive 
Remuneration 
The members of the Executive Committee 
of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) fall 
within the provisions of these guidelines. 
The guidelines also cover any remunera-
tion to members of the Board of Directors, 
except fees resolved by the general meet-
ing1. The guidelines are forward-looking, i.e. 
they are applicable to remuneration agreed, 
and amendments to remuneration already 
agreed, after adoption of the guidelines by 
the Annual General Meeting 2020. These 
guidelines do not apply to any remuneration 
decided or approved by the general meeting.
The guidelines’ promotion of the 
Company’s business strategy, long-term 
interests and sustainability
At Sobi we are transforming the lives of peo-
ple affected by rare diseases. As a  specialised 
international biopharmaceutical company, 
we provide access to innovative therapies in 
the areas of Haematology, Immunology and 
specialty care. We bring something rare to 
rare diseases – a belief in the strength of 
focus, the power of agility and the potential 
of the people we are dedicated to serving. 
1. Any remuneration to members of the Board of Directors, except fees resolved by the general meeting, may only consist of consultancy fees.dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
37Sobi’s vision is to be recognised as a global 
leader in providing innovative treatments 
that transform lives for individuals with 
rare diseases. 
We aim to have a strong correlation 
between Sobi’s compensation elements, 
the long-term strategy and sustainability. 
To support our vision, we also have per -
formance measures such as growth and 
profitability as we aim to create long-term 
sustainable value for people with rare 
diseases, shareholders, employees and other 
stakeholders.
For more information regarding the 
Company’s business strategy, please see 
pages 10–11.
A prerequisite for the successful imple-
mentation of the Company’s business 
strategy and safeguarding of its long-term 
interests, including sustainability, is that the 
company is able to recruit and retain highly 
qualified personnel. As an international 
company, Sobi employs the majority of its 
personnel outside Sweden. Remuneration 
for the Executive Committee is designed on 
a total remuneration approach. The position 
of total remuneration should be market 
competitive relative to competitors in each 
local market. The market comparisons 
should be made against a set of peer group 
companies with comparable sizes, industries 
and complexity. The remuneration guide-
lines shall enable international hiring and 
support diversity within the Executive Com-
mittee. Employment contracts governed 
by rules other than Swedish may be duly 
adjusted to ensure compliance with manda-
tory rules or established market practice, 
taking into account, to the extent possible, 
the overall purpose of these guidelines.
Types of remuneration 
The remuneration shall be on market terms 
and may consist of the following compo-
nents: fixed base pay, variable pay, pension 
benefits and other benefits. Additionally, the 
General Meeting may – irrespective of these 
guidelines – resolve on, among other things, 
share-related or share price-related remu-
neration. The components are presented 
below. Fixed base pay 
The fixed base pay of the Executive Commit-
tee shall be based on competence, respon-
sibility and performance. The Company 
uses an international evaluation system to 
evaluate the scope and responsibility of the 
position. 
Variable pay
The annual Short-Term Incentive plan shall 
be based on the achievement of predeter -
mined and measurable annual financial (75 
per cent) and non-financial objectives (25 
per cent). The annual financial objectives 
shall be related to targets promoting growth 
and profitability (annual revenues and EBITA1 
). The annual financial objectives are recom-
mended by the Compensation and Benefits 
Committee and approved by the Board of 
Directors. The annual non-financial objec -
tives are related to strategic and business 
development goals as defined and approved 
according to the grandparent-manager 
principle.
The objectives are determined for the 
promotion of the Company’s business 
strategy, long-term development (including 
its sustainability), value creation and financial 
growth and shall be designed in a way that 
encourages compliant behaviour. The maxi-
mum annual Short-Term Incentive may vary 
but shall not amount to more than 100 per 
cent of the annual gross fixed base pay. To 
which extent the criteria for awarding annual 
Short-Term Incentive has been satisfied shall 
be evaluated and determined by the Board 
of Directors upon the recommendation from 
the Compensation and Benefits Committee. 
Further variable pay may also be paid out 
in extraordinary circumstances, provided 
that such arrangement is of a one-time 
nature and is agreed on an individual basis 
for management recruitment or retention 
purposes or as compensation for extraordi-
nary efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary 
assignment. Such compensation shall be 
in line with market practice and may for 
example include a one-time cash payment, 
retention bonus or severance payment in 
case of a change of control, or similar. The 
compensation shall not exceed the amount 
of the gross fixed base pay for three (3) 
years and shall not be paid more than once 
a year per individual. Resolutions on such 
compensation shall be made by the Board of Directors based on a proposal from the 
Compensation and Benefit Committee.
Long-term Incentives 
Long-term share-related incentive plans 
have been implemented in the Company. 
Such plans are proposed by the Board of 
Directors and presented to the Annual 
General Meeting for approval and are 
therefore excluded from these guidelines. 
The performance criteria used to assess the 
outcome of the long-term share-related 
incentive plan for the Executive Committee 
are distinctly linked to the business strategy 
and thereby to the Company’s long-term 
value creation. For more information about 
the Company’s long-term share-related 
incentive plans, including the criteria on 
which the outcome depends, please see 
https://www.sobi.com/en/annual-general-
meetings and note 11. 
Pension and benefits
The preferred pension plan design is defined 
contribution2. If the operating environment 
requires the establishment of a defined 
benefit pension plan under mandatory col-
lective agreement provisions, law or other 
regulations, such a plan may be established. 
The defined benefit level should in such 
cases be limited to the mandatory level. 
The pension premiums or allowance for 
pension shall amount to not more than 40 
per cent of the member’s pensionable salary, 
which may include a capped level of the 
variable pay to the extent required by man-
datory collective agreement provisions. 
Other benefits may include, for example, 
life insurance, health insurance, medical 
insurance, and company cars. Premiums and 
other costs relating to such benefits shall be 
based on market practice but amount to no 
more than 20 per cent of the annual gross 
fixed base pay.
Executives who are expatriates to or from 
Sweden may receive additional remunera-
tion and other benefits, such as a support 
package including relocation and tax filing 
support, tax equalization, to the extent rea-
sonable in light of the special circumstances 
associated with the expat arrangement, 
taking into account, to the extent possible, 
the overall purpose of these guidelines. Such 
benefits may not in total exceed 40 per cent 
of the annual gross fixed base pay.
1. Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
2. A defined contribution pension plan defines a percentage level of the employee’s annual gross fixed base pay as contribution that will be paid into the pension plan for each employee.
dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
38Termination of employment
The notice period may not exceed twelve 
(12) months. Fixed salary during notice 
period and severance pay, including pay-
ments for any restrictions on competition, 
shall in total not exceed an amount equiva-
lent to the gross fixed base pay for two (2) 
years. 
Consultancy fees to the members of the 
Board of Directors
The members of the Board of Directors 
elected by the general meeting may receive 
consultancy fees for services provided to the 
Company. Such services must contribute 
to the Company’s business strategy and 
long-term interests, including its sustain-
ability, and may not relate to regular board 
work. Any consultancy fee shall be based on 
market terms and may for each member of 
the Board of Directors not exceed the annual 
remuneration for the board assignment. The 
above applies correspondingly to services 
performed by a wholly-owned company of a 
member of the Board of Directors. 
Salary and employment conditions for 
employees
In the preparation of the Board of Directors’ 
proposal for these remuneration guidelines, 
salary and employment conditions for 
employees of the Company have been taken 
into account. Information on the employees’ 
total remuneration, the components of the 
remuneration and increase and growth rate 
over time, have been included in the Com-
pensation and Benefits Committee’s and the 
Board of Directors’ basis of decision when 
evaluating whether the guidelines and the 
limitations set out herein are reasonable. 
The decision-making process to determine, 
review and implement the guidelines
The Board of Directors has established a 
Compensation and Benefits Committee. 
The committee’s tasks include preparing 
the Board of Directors’ decision to propose 
guidelines for remuneration to the Executive 
Committee. The Board of Directors shall 
prepare a proposal for new guidelines at 
least every fourth year and present it to the 
Annual General Meeting. The guidelines shall 
be in force until new guidelines are adopted 
by the general meeting. The Compensa-
tion and Benefits Committee shall also 
monitor and evaluate programs for variable 
remuneration for the Executive Committee, the application of these guidelines as well 
as the current remuneration structures and 
compensation levels in the Company. The 
members of the Compensation and Benefits 
Committee are independent of the Com-
pany and the Executive Committee. The 
CEO and other members of the Executive 
Committee do not participate in the Board 
of Directors’ processing of and resolutions 
regarding remuneration-related matters in 
so far as they are affected by such matters.
Derogation from the guidelines
The Board of Directors may temporarily 
resolve to derogate from these guidelines, 
in whole or in part, if in a specific case 
there is special cause for the derogation 
and a derogation is necessary to serve the 
Company’s long-term interests, including 
its sustainability, or to ensure the Company’s 
financial viability. As set out above, the 
Compensation and Benefits Committee’s 
tasks include preparing the Board of Direc -
tors’ resolutions in remuneration-related 
matters. This includes any resolutions to 
derogate from these guidelines.
Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the 
Annual General Meeting:
SEK 000
Share premium reserve 8,904,692
Retained earnings 2,546,893
Profit for the year 1,117,739
Total 12,569,324
The Board of Directors proposes that no 
dividend be distributed for the 2019 fin-
ancial year. 
The Board proposes that the share 
premium reserve and retained earnings at 
their disposal, SEK 12,569,324 K be carried 
forward.
Events after the balance-sheet date
Sobi communicated the intention to 
initiate a clinical study to evaluate whether 
anakinra and emapalumab may relieve 
complications associated with severe 
COVID-19 disease
Sobi will begin a short-term clinical study to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of anakinra 
and emapalumab in the treatment of 
hyper-inflammatory syndrome, one of the most serious complications associated with 
severe COVID-19 disease. This is in response 
to a request from the National Institute for 
Infectious Diseases, the organisation which 
is acting as the coordinating site for the 
SARS-CoV-2 epidemic in Italy. 
Possible impact of Covid-19 disease
The COVID-19 “coronavirus”, a virus caus-
ing potentially deadly respiratory tract 
infections, was identified as a pandemic in 
March 2020. The full impact of this virus is 
still unknown, but it has already had a global 
socio-economic impact. The coronavirus 
did not impact Sobi’s 2019 financial report-
ing and is expected to have a limited impact 
on the financial performance in the first 
quarter of 2020. Sobi has strong liquidity 
reserves. At this time, the company cannot 
quantify the magnitude or duration of the 
business risk given the uncertainty in the 
current spread of the virus. A global man-
agement response team has been set-up 
and the Sobi management team and the 
board of directors are continuously moni-
toring the situation. More information will be 
provided with the first quarter, 2020 results. 
See further info in the key risk area section 
on page 44.
Financial outlook 20201
Revenue for the full-year 2020 is expected 
to be in the range of SEK 15,000–16,000 M 
reflecting double-digit growth in each of 
the two core business, Haematology and 
Immunology.
EBITA is expected to be in the range of 
SEK 5,000–6,300 M including the develop-
ment and launch of Doptelet which will 
affect EBITA negatively by around SEK 500 M 
in 2020.
For information about Forward looking 
statements, see the inside back cover.
1. At current exchange rates. 
The outlook was published on 13 February 2020.dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
39At Sobi our key contribution to sustainable 
development is closely aligned with our mis-
sion and our operations – to provide access 
to treatment for people with rare diseases.
Sustainability strategy
Business model and sustainable growth 
At Sobi, we are transforming the lives of 
people living with rare diseases. We provide 
access to innovative treatments in the areas 
of haematology, immunology and specialty 
care. Sobi’s business model (read more 
on page 10) spans from late-stage clinical 
research to international commercialisation. 
Our business model supports our key 
sustainability objectives – through expan-
sion we can increase reach and improve 
access to treatments for patients worldwide. 
If we are successful in our operations, we 
will positively impact the community we 
serve. This success must be reached in a 
responsible way in order to safeguard the 
safety of patients, our environment and the 
company’s reputation.Material sustainability topics 
Material sustainability topics are areas that 
reflect Sobi’s most significant impact on 
economic, environmental and social areas. 
It is essential that we understand the 
outcome of our materiality assessment 
as it highlights sustainability topics that 
are important to our stakeholders and our 
strategy. In 2019, we performed a compre-
hensive materiality assessment including 
web surveys and targeted interviews with 
internal and external stakeholders such as 
employees, internal and external experts, 
owners, suppliers, partners and patient 
organisations. The purpose was to identify 
and prioritise our most important sustain-
ability topics. 
The key elements of the findings have 
reiterated access to treatment as the key 
long-term sustainability goal, in line with the 
assessment performed in 2016. The evolu-
tion of Sobi’s corporate strategy, relying on 
sourced/acquired research and geographi-
cal expansion, has accentuated the need 
to focus on responsible partnerships and 
sourcing strategies. In the illustration below, 
the material sustainability topics as defined through stakeholder dialogues are con-
nected to the key areas of our sustainability 
strategy. These are:
• Commitment to patients
• Safety for patients and the environment
• Ethical and responsible behaviour
Commitment to patients 
For Sobi, meaningful engagement and 
cooperation with the rare disease com-
munity is key. 
Engaging with the rare disease community 
requires a specialised skill set and a high 
level of engagement. The community’s 
collaborative commitment to reach com-
mon goals is important, as rare diseases are 
still undefined in many areas and cannot be 
charted in isolation. 
To support Sobi’s growth strategy and 
market expansion, and thereby reach more 
patients with our treatments, regulatory 
approvals are necessary for commercialis-
ation in new markets. Pricing and reimburse-
ment are two essential areas of patient 
access following regulatory approval. Each 
market has its own regulations and demands 
regarding approval of the proposed price 
and the degree to which reimbursement 
is provided. Sobi strives to set a price that 
reflects the benefit that the innovation deliv-
ers to patients, healthcare systems, societies 
and payers. 
In 2019, Sobi received regulatory approval 
in countries such as United Arab Emirates, 
Tunisia and Chile, an example of how we aim 
to broaden access to treatments outside our 
key markets. For a total review of current 
approval and reimbursement status, see the 
table on pages 115–116. 
Safety for patients and the environment
The safety profile and monitoring of our 
products is another significant sustainability 
area in our business. By following phar -
maceutical standards we strive to provide 
products that meet the high quality and 
regulatory expectations of the pharmaceuti-
cal field. 
With a robust pharmacovigilance system 
in place, we continuously monitor the 
benefit/risk profiles of our products and Sustainability Report 2019
Sobi sustainability strategy with material sustainability topics
Commitment
to patients
Safety for 
patients and 
environment
– Patient safety and product quality
– Responsible procurement practices
– Greenhouse gas emissions 
– Use of input materials and chemicals 
– Medication adherence 
– Drug residues – Compliance and anti-corruption 
– Research ethics 
– Occupational health and safety 
– Responsible procurement practices
– Diversity and inclusion– Access to treatment
– Marketing and sales
– Medication adherence
– Training and education
– Impact on communities
Ethical and
responsible
behaviorAccess to  
treatment
dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
40ensure our alignment with the precautionary 
principle. The pharmacovigilance system 
complies with all global, national and local 
regulations. To support the increasing 
number of proprietary products for which 
Sobi is Market Authorisation Holder, our 
pharmacovigilance system was substan-
tially expanded in 2019. Annual training is 
provided for all employees to ensure that all 
safety information – such as adverse events, 
product complaints and incorrect use – in 
relation to our products is reported. 
Correct labelling is important to ensure 
proper use. No incidents of non-compliance 
in regard to product and service information 
or labelling were reported in 2019. 
Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are a grow-
ing worldwide problem. Governments all 
over the world are introducing regulations 
and systems to detect and prevent the 
distribution of counterfeit products. All 
Sobi products were serialised, given unique 
identification codes, in 2019. Sobi’s products 
have not yet been subject to falsification. 
To ensure sustainable and responsible 
sourcing, we have introduced a Responsible 
Sourcing Programme, including the intro-
duction of a Partner Code of Conduct and 
sustainability screening, starting in January 
2020. Sustainability screening of partners 
involves ensuring compliance with standards 
in the areas of governance, labour rights, 
human rights and environmental respon-
sibility. Our aim is to have all new partners 
acknowledge and support the Partner Code 
of Conduct and to systematically introduce our current top 100 partners to the Code 
and screening over the coming year. 
In December 2019, Sobi became a 
member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative (PSCI). 
Ethical and responsible behaviour 
Sobi promotes business ethics in all we do 
through high research standards, business 
ethics and policies. The aim is to build 
a sustainable organisation by enforcing 
compliance with our corporate principles, 
and by supporting a culture that promotes 
an open discussion of ethics in our opera-
tions and among key stakeholders.
Our internal processes and control 
measures involve scientific, regulatory and 
compliance training. In 2019, the organisa-
tion did not identify any incidents of non-
compliance concerning marketing commu-
nications that led to a fine, administrative or 
criminal penalty or warning by regulators.
All employees are required to undergo 
annual training in our Code of Conduct. 
Topics covered in the Code of Conduct 
include product safety and quality, com-
petition law, anti-corruption, data privacy, 
conflicts of interest, intellectual property, 
environmental responsibility and employ-
ment principles, with additional opportuni-
ties to focus on specific areas. In 2019, 
healthcare compliance was prioritised in 
the annual anti-corruption training. In 2019, 
95 per cent of our employees participated 
in the training.Sustainability governance 
Management
Sobi’s Board of Directors has the overall 
responsibility for Sobi’s sustainability perfor -
mance, which is reported each year in the 
Annual and Sustainability Report. The CEO 
and the Executive Committee approve Sobi’s 
sustainability strategy, ensure compliance, 
and decide on overall objectives and imple-
mentation of the sustainability programme. 
The leadership teams in each respective 
area are responsible for implementation and 
follow-up of the strategy. Risks are reported 
to the Executive Committee and are also 
included in the materiality assessment. 
All sustainability activities are guided by 
the Code of Conduct and other sustain-
ability related policies. The Director of 
Sustainability is responsible on behalf of the 
Executive Committee for communication 
and operationalisation of the programme in 
close collaboration with the business units.
The Sobi Code of Conduct provides 
a framework for what Sobi considers to 
be responsible and appropriate conduct. 
The Code of Conduct applies to all Sobi 
employees worldwide as well as temporary 
personnel. The most important policies 
guiding Sobi’s sustainability processes are 
listed below. 
Area Environment Social Ethics and Anti-corruption
Policies Code of Conduct 
Environment Compliance  
Programme
Environmental Health and Safety 
Policy
Travel PolicyCode of Conduct 
Discrimination Policy
Environmental Health and Safety PolicyCode of Conduct
Anti-corruption Policy
Insider Policy
Healthcare Interactions Policy
Policy on Processing Personal data
Policy on Investigations
Policy on Fair Competition
Focus areas Environmental performance
ComplianceChild and forced labour
Health and safety
Discrimination and harassment
Collective bargaining and freedom  
of associationConflicts of interest
Transparency 
Anti-corruption and antitrustdire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
41Important responsibilities for the gover -
nance of Sobi’s sustainability strategy are: 
• Legal Affairs, responsible for the imple-
mentation of anti-corruption and health-
care interaction policies, data privacy and 
the compliance hotline (whistleblower 
hotline).
• Technical Operations, responsible for 
environmental compliance and perfor -
mance regarding in-house operations.
Technical Operations is responsible for 
monitoring suppliers’ and partners’ adher -
ence to the Partner Code of Conduct.
• Internal Control evaluates and improves 
processes for management, internal 
control and risk management. 
• The Sustainability function evaluates 
materiality, creates guidelines and sup-
ports implementation of the programme. 
It is also responsible for maintaining a 
relevant Code of Conduct. 
• Business units are required to run the busi-
ness in compliance with the sustainability 
strategy and the Code of Conduct.
Risk management
The Sobi group risk management process 
is documented in the Sobi Group Risk 
Management Policy and the Sobi Group Risk 
Management Instructions.
Sobi applies an integrated business 
risk-management approach that contributes 
to our ability to achieve set objectives, 
and to follow the strategy adopted for the 
operations. Each business unit works actively 
to identify and address any uncertainties 
related to our ability to achieve our objec -
tives. Identified risks are analysed using 
relevant values for the operations, enabling 
subsequent prioritisation on a commercial 
basis, whereby uncertainties and untapped 
opportunities around the company’s strat-
egy can be identified and managed. Sobi’s 
Risk Manager reports the current risk status 
to the Executive Committee, and a review 
of this process is presented to the Board of 
Directors on a regular basis.As part of the strategic risk management 
process, the company’s critical flows are 
identified and business continuity plans for 
these are implemented.
Environmental impact
Sobi’s environmental impact can be broken 
down into direct and indirect impacts, 
through sourced activities and caused by our 
own operations. 
Environmental impacts from production 
and the laboratories, either in-house or out-
sourced, are mainly due to the use of energy, 
water, chemicals, generated waste and 
discharge of sewage. Our carbon footprint 
arises from energy consumption, business 
travel, logistics within the supply chain and 
the distribution of our products.
We continuously evaluate and monitor 
the energy and water consumption of our 
production facility. Sobi reports energy and 
water consumption annually and measures 
internal KPIs with the aim of improving 
environmental performance. The impact 
of our manufacturing plant in Stockholm, 
Sweden, is described in detail on pages 
110–112. To our knowledge, there have been 
no confirmed incidents resulting in admin-
istrative and judicial sanctions for failure to 
comply with environmental laws and/or 
regulations in 2019.
We work actively to phase out chemicals 
that may be harmful to the environment or 
human health, in line with the precaution-
ary principle. Chemicals regulations are 
extensive and continuously expanding; all 
handling of chemicals in our laboratory and 
manufacturing processes therefore follows 
strict instructions. We perform annual risk 
assessments and internal audits. The newly 
implemented Responsible Sourcing Pro-
gramme (see page 24) will be an important 
tool to influence, manage and follow up our 
supply chain.
The environmental hazards of a specific 
drug refer to its inherent properties, for 
example toxicity and its ability to be broken down by nature. According to existing EU 
and US guidelines on environmental risk 
assessments of medicinal products, bio-
pharmaceuticals composed of for example 
proteins and peptides are not considered to 
have a significant negative environmental 
impact. A high percentage of Sobi’s products 
are protein-based and are therfore consid-
ered not to have a significant impact on the 
environment. 
Sobi’s supply chain sources production 
from contract manufacturing organisations 
(CMOs) in Europe and the US, with distribu-
tion to over 70 markets worldwide. The 
environmental impact of the logistics and 
distribution of Sobi’s therapies is determined 
by the special needs of the products and 
the special characteristics of rare disease 
populations, such as the low numbers and 
dispersed nature of patients and treat-
ment centres. Sobi intends to increase our 
awareness of the environmental impact by 
mapping the supply chain and optimising 
it if possible. The safe and timely delivery 
of our products will always be the primary 
consideration for our distribution.
In 2019, Sobi expanded the reporting 
scope of business travel emissions to cover 
approximately 80 per cent of global opera-
tions. With a comprehensive understanding 
of the emissions, Sobi will set relevant 
related goals in 2020. 
Social impact
Our social impact is derived from the work 
we do to provide access to treatment as 
described in this report, but also through 
our interactions with our employees and 
the work opportunities and conditions 
we provide. 
Sobi is a value-driven company with a 
scientific and patient-centric organisation. 
As we continue to deliver on our strategic 
goals, high-performing teams have been 
identified as a key success factor to meet our 
ambitious strategic objectives. This involves 
developing our methods to help managers, 
dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
42leaders and colleagues facilitate continuous 
growth. We see strong leadership based 
on cross-functional capabilities as crucial. 
Sobi’s corporate values can be found on 
page 24 and are important components 
when assessing employee performance. 
Competitive terms of employment are 
a prerequisite for recruiting and retaining 
high-calibre people. We endeavour to offer 
competitive salaries and benefits, individually 
determined and adapted to the local labour 
market.
Every employee is offered equal oppor -
tunities regardless of ethnicity, age, gender, 
religion, sexual orientation or physical ability. 
Our guidelines clearly prohibit any sexual 
harassment.
All employees take part in relevant profes-
sional development that is supported and 
documented by a training matrix system. 
This system also meets regulatory require-
ments in the pharmaceutical field and serves 
as a comprehensive platform for ensuring 
individualised and specialised training as 
well as evidence of learning. All employees 
are offered regular performance and career 
development discussions. 
Ethics and anti-corruption 
Transparency and open dialogue about 
ethical issues form the foundation of 
strong collaborations. All engagements are 
governed by our Code of Conduct, while 
a majority are also covered by our more 
specific Policy on Healthcare Interactions. 
We also promote high ethical standards 
by supporting a corporate culture that 
promotes open discussions of ethics both 
in our operations and among key stakehold-
ers. To our knowledge there have been no 
confirmed incidents resulting in administra-
tive or judicial sanctions for failure to comply 
with laws and/or regulations in the social 
and economic area in 2019.
It is important that our customers, clinical 
study subjects, employees and others we 
interact with can trust that Sobi processes personal data in a responsible and secure 
manner. Data Privacy is part of Sobi’s Code 
of Conduct and a prioritised area across 
Sobi. Sobi has implemented a data privacy 
programme in order to promote data privacy 
compliance, including appointing a Data 
Protection Officer, written policies and 
procedures, and training and education. 
As an example, in order to raise awareness 
and understanding of data privacy in general 
and procedures within Sobi to protect 
individuals’ integrity, all Sobi employees have 
received online training on data protection. 
In relation to our external collabora-
tions and procured services, we apply the 
principles of our Policy on Anti-Corruption 
as well as processes for risk-based third 
party due diligence. We work regularly with 
risk identification within the corporate risk 
management process and in detail within 
day-to-day compliance. 
We work actively to prevent any form of 
corruption. As a pharmaceutical company, 
the most apparent risk lies within our inter -
actions with healthcare stakeholders. We 
have an established Healthcare Compliance 
(HCC), programme to minimise the risk of 
corruption; this includes policies, training 
for our own employees, as well as reporting 
and controls. Monetary transactions with 
healthcare providers and patient organisa-
tions follow local transparency initiatives 
and are made public on an annual basis on 
our website, www.sobi.com. 
Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery is 
described in our Code of Conduct as well as 
our Policy on Anti-Corruption. All employees 
are required to undergo annual training in 
our Code of Conduct. In 2019, 95 per cent 
of our employees and full-time consultants 
participated in and completed the training. 
To our knowledge, no confirmed incidents 
of corruption were reported in 2019.
Sobi’s employees are encouraged to 
report potential misconduct or unethical 
behaviour openly or by using the Sobi 
Compliance Hotline, run by a third party to allow for the possibility of anonymous 
reporting. All relevant reports are reviewed 
and investigated in accordance with Sobi’s 
Investigations Policy, and followed up 
with appropriate remediation measures as 
needed.
Material topics in the value chain 
Assessing Sobi’s material sustainability topics 
from a value chain perspective simplifies 
the process of identifying risks and setting 
strategic targets. See pages 44–45.
Sustainability reporting and 
communication
Sobi’s sustainability reporting and com-
munication aims to provide correct and 
relevant information regarding sustainability 
performance, goals and strategy to investors 
and stakeholders. 
Based on the outcome of the materiality 
assessment and the defined sustainability 
strategy, Sobi has identified material topics 
and their boundaries, taking into consid-
eration reporting principles such as stake-
holder inclusiveness, sustainability context, 
materiality and completeness. 
Sobi reports its sustainability performance 
on an annual basis, as part of the Annual 
and Sustainability Report. This sustainability 
report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core option, see pages 
117–119. It also meets the requirements for 
sustainability reporting under the Swedish 
Annual Accounts Act. 
Sobi has been a signatory to the UN 
Global Compact since 2017 and we conduct 
our business in a manner that is consistent 
with the Ten Principles of the UN Global 
Compact. Our sustainability report serves as 
our UN Global Compact Communication on 
Progress report. 
For questions regarding the Annual and 
Sustainability Report, please contact info@
sobi.com.dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
43Material topics in the value chain 
Sobi group’s risk management aims for a uniform process to 
identify, analyse, evaluate and address risks and effectively embed 
risk  management in decision making. By assesing Sobi from a value chain perspective, the process of describing risks and set-
ting strategic targets is simplified and the correlation with Sobi’s 
material topics is identified.
Product research  
& development 
Sobi’s ambition is to bring 
new products to market that 
address high medical needs 
and have strong commercial 
potential, and further develop 
current products. Careful 
evaluation of candidate 
drugs allows Sobi to acquire 
promising pipeline products 
for further late-stage develop-
ment. Close collaboration 
between Sobi and the patient 
community drives relevant 
patient-centric development. 
Risks: 
• An increasing com petitive 
market space for  late-stage 
acquisitions
• Missed opportunity due to 
delayed product develop-
ment 
• Reputational risk
Management: 
• Business intelligence 
• Maintain strong brand 
profile 
• Robust due diligence 
programme for potential 
acquisition objects
• Strong relationships with 
patient and healthcare 
stakeholders to map 
 medical need 
Influence: High
Value driver: By identifying, 
acquiring and developing 
products with a high medical 
need, robust scientific base 
and strong market potential, 
we can expand Sobi’s portfolio 
and serve the patient com-
munity. Contract manufacturing 
Sobi’s supply chain is mainly 
outsourced, and all contract 
manufacturing suppliers are 
currently based in Europe 
and the US. Focus lies on 
continuous monitoring of 
high pharmaceutical standards 
and estabishment of a network 
of contractors to serve our 
needs. 
Risks: 
• Non-compliance with 
good practices (GxP) in the 
pharmaceutical field 
• Dependence on third parties 
for product supply 
• Changes in environmental 
regulations 
• Pharmaceutical waste emis-
sions to the environment 
• Occupational health and 
safety of workers 
Management: 
• GxP audits of contract 
manufacturers to ensure 
strict adherence to 
 standards
• Quality management system 
monitors all issues relating 
to GxP deviations, corrective 
and preventive measures
• Implementation of Respon-
sible Sourcing Programme 
including screening of 
suppliers 
Influence: Medium 
Value driver: Strong collabor -
ations with specialised con-
tractors ensures high level of 
product quality and reliable 
supply. Sobi’s operations 
Sobi has 1,377 number of 
employees in more than 
30 countries. Approximately 
150 people work in our pro-
duction and laboratory facili-
ties in Stockholm and Geneva. 
Prioritised areas include high 
ethics and good working 
conditions. 
Risks: 
• Batch loss due to equipment 
malfunction or process 
deviations 
• Changes in environmental 
regulations
• Pharmaceutical waste 
emissions to water 
• Occupational health and 
safety of workers
• Difficulties to recruit and 
retain competent personnel
Management: 
• Standard operating proce-
dures and quality assurance 
• Training and leadership 
support to raise adherence 
to policies 
• Promote good working 
conditions, leadership and 
competitive compensation
Influence: Medium
Value driver: Sobi creates 
value for local communities 
by creating jobs, transferring 
knowledge and through 
economic possibilities. Positive 
relationships with our employ-
ees support development, 
wellbeing and job satisfaction 
which in turn creates pride 
among employees and 
strengthens the Sobi brand. Market access 
The approval and reimburse-
ment of medical treatments 
is fully dependant on external 
evaluation and can thus 
influence the ability to access 
markets. 
Risks: 
• Obtaining authorisation 
of new products or on 
new markets
• Obtaining pricing and 
reimbursement in each 
market in line with national 
guidelines 
• Managing policy changes
• Aligning with recom-
mendations and treatment 
guidelines
• Competition 
Management: 
• Strong regulatory submis-
sions 
• Product value dossiers with 
clear benefit and medical 
need
• Country-specific strategies
Influence: Low 
Value driver: By making 
treatments accessible in more 
markets and at a sustainable 
cost for society, Sobi can 
deliver treatments to more 
patients in more countries. 
dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
44Distribution & transport 
Logistics and distribution of 
Sobi’s therapies is character -
ised by the specific storage 
requirements of the products 
and the unique conditions 
governing rare diseases, ie 
few, geographically dispersed 
patients and treatment 
centres. The safe and timely 
delivery of our products 
will always be the primary 
consideration for efficient 
transportation.
Risks: 
• CO 2 emissions from trans-
portation 
• Non-compliance with GxP 
in the pharmaceutical field
Management: 
• Evaluate effective logistic 
 solutions 
• GxP audit to ensure stan-
dards are followed
• Implementation of Respon-
sible Sourcing Programme 
including screening of 
suppliers
Influence: Medium 
Value driver: Expand the reach 
of our distribution to provide 
patients with treatments in a 
timely and safe manner. Sobi 
intends to include transporta-
tion in its carbon emissions 
reporting. Use of products 
The correct use of Sobi’s 
products is essential for 
maintaining the risk-benefit 
balance of the products.
Pharmaceutical products 
may have environmental 
impacts, although the bulk of 
Sobi’s products are biological 
and thus generally biodegrad-
able with a low environmental 
impact. 
Risks: 
• Improper use leading to 
safety issues
• Environmental impact of 
products
• Falsification of products 
Management: 
• Regular product safety 
updates 
• Pharmacovigilance 
 monitoring 
• Education of healthcare 
professionals
• Serialisation of products 
Influence: Medium 
Value driver: Proper and 
optimal use of Sobi’s products 
increases the likelihood of 
successful treatment out-
comes and increases patient 
value. dire CTors' reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
45Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
SEK M Note 2019 2018
1–4
Operating revenue 5–6 14,248 9,139
Cost of goods sold –3,335 –2,415
Gross profit 10,913 6,723
Selling and administrative expenses –4,935 –2,511
Research and development costs –1,495 –1,090
Other operating income 8 68 6
Other operating expenses 9 –18 –6
Operating profit7, 10, 11, 12,  
13, 17, 18, 29 4,533 3,122
Financial income 14 5 20
Financial expenses 15 –291 –60
Net financial items –286 –40
Profit before tax 4,247 3,082
Tax on profit for the year 16 –942 –664
Profit for the year1 3,304 2,418
Other comprehensive income2
Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss
Actuarial gains/losses on defined-benefit plan –4  0
Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss
Translation differences –97 9
Cash flow hedges 55 –171
Tax effect of cash flow hedges –12 38
Other comprehensive income –57 –124
Comprehensive income for the year2 3,247 2,294
Earnings per share, SEK 34 11.29 8.97
Earnings per share, SEK, adjusted 34 11.89 8.97
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 34 11.22 8.93
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK, adjusted 34 11.81 8.93
Number of shares (ordinary) 299,977,839 273,322,117
Average number of shares 292,649,020 269,523,784
Number of ordinary shares held in treasury 5,678,099 3,423,726
Number of shares after dilution 301,857,247 274,365,601
Average number of shares after dilution 294,528,428 270,603,665
1. Everything attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 
2. Under the revised version of IAS 1, all changes in equity not arising from transactions with owners are recognised on the  
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Translation differences are wholly related to shares in foreign subsidiaries.Operating revenue
/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/nine.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK M 
/three.tnum,/two.tnum/two.tnum/eight.tnum/five.tnum,/two.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum,/five.tnum/one.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum,/one.tnum/three.tnum/nine.tnum/one.tnum/four.tnum,/two.tnum/four.tnum/eight.tnum
Adjusted EBITA1Operating revenue
Revenues for the full-year amounted to  
SEK 14,248 M (9,139), up 56 per cent. 
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK M 
/three.tnum,/five.tnum/seven.tnum/one.tnum
/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/five.tnum/three.tnum
/one.tnum,/five.tnum/four.tnum/three.tnum
/four.tnum/three.tnum/three.tnum/six.tnum,/one.tnum/four.tnum/five.tnum
Adjusted EBITA for the year rose 72 per cent to  
SEK 6,145 M compared with 2018.
Adjusted earnings/share1
/zero.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum/eight.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK
/zero.tnum./three.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum./nine.tnum/nine.tnum/four.tnum./two.tnum/seven.tnum/eight.tnum./nine.tnum/seven.tnum/one.tnum/one.tnum./eight.tnum/nine.tnum
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122.
finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
46Consolidated balance sheet
Equity/ratio1SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 17 37,412 10,159
Tangible assets 18 518 136
Financial assets 20 50 55
Deferred tax assets 21 354 231
Total non-current assets 38,335 10,581
Current assets
Inventories 22 1,772 1,284
Account receivables 23 3,736 1,665
Other receivables 23 530 93 
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 548 561
Cash and cash equivalents 25 737 2,999
Total current assets 26 7,323 6,602
TOTAL ASSETS 45,658 17,183
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 165 150
Other contributed capital 9,697 5,069
Other reserves –202 –144
Retained earnings 3,965 1,547
Profit for the year 3,304 2,418
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 16,930 9,040
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 21 3,726 664
Borrowings 27 16,141 —
Lease liabilities 10 320 3
Provisions 29, 30 179 97
Other liabilities, non interest bearing 28 2,620 428
Total non-current liabilities 26 22,987 1,192
Current liabilities
Account payables 681 487
Tax liabilities 281 395
Lease liabilities 10 99 1
Other liabilities 28 1,641 4,458
Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 3,039 1,610
Total current liabilities 26 5,741 6,951
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 45,658 17,183
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 32./zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum%
/five.tnum/six.tnum /five.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum/one.tnum
/five.tnum/three.tnum
/three.tnum/seven.tnum
Net debt (+)/net cash (–)
SEK M 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Cash and 
cash  
equivalents 904 786 1,478 2,999 737
Borrowings 815 497 — —16,141
Net debt 
(+)/net 
cash (–) –89 –289 –1,478 –2,999 15,404
Net debt increased, due to aqusitions done during 
the year.
1. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122.finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
47Consolidated statement of changes in equity
SEK M Share capitalOther  
contributed 
capitalOther  
reserves1Retained  
earningsTotal  
equity
Opening equity, 
1 Jan 2018 150 5,024 –20 1,548 6,701
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year — — — 2,418 2,418
Other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges — — –171 — –171
Tax cash flow hedges — — 38 — 38
Actuarial loss/gain — — 0 — 0
Exchange differences — — 9 — 9
Total comprehensive income — — –124 2,418 2,294
Shareholder transactions
Issue/repurchase of shares 0 — — 0 —
Share programmes — 46 — — 46
Total shareholder  
transactions 0 46 — 0 46
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 150 5,069 –144 3,965 9,040
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2019 150 5,069 –144 3,965 9,040
Comprehensive income  
Profit for the year — — — 3,304 3,304
Other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges — — 55 — 55
Tax cash flow hedges — — –12 — –12
Actuarial loss/gain — — –4 — –4
Exchange differences — — –97 — –97
Total comprehensive income — — –57 3,304 3,247
Shareholder transactions
Issue/repurchase of shares 15 4,498 — — 4,513
Share programmes — 80 — — 80
Tax deductions linked to share 
programmes3 — 50 — — 50
Total shareholder  
transactions 15 4,628 — — 4,642
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2019 165 9,697 –202 7,270 16,930
3. The Parent company has during the period been granted additional deductions for tax purposes related to incentive programmes 
vested in 2013–2018. The additional deductions relate to the difference  between the market value of vested shares and recognised 
IFRS 2 cost.Equity per share 4
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK
/one.tnum/seven.tnum./three.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum./eight.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum./six.tnum/three.tnum/three.tnum./one.tnum/five.tnum/six.tnum./four.tnum
Return on equity 4
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum%
/one.tnum./eight.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum./zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum./zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum./seven.tnum
/two.tnum/five.tnum./four.tnum
2Cash flow hedges
SEK M 2019 2018
Opening balance, cash-flow hedges –106 28
Change in value for the year, hedging  
instruments 44 –133
Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –62 –106
Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK –106 M (28) was transferred to the 
income statement. The entry is only reclassified to profit or loss because 
the hedged item has affected profit or loss. The hedging reserve consists 
solely of ongoing hedges.Return on equity
Return on equity amounted to 25.4 per cent.
1Other reserves
SEK M 2019 2018
Exchange differences –110 –12
Pensions in accordance with IAS 19 –30 –26
Cash flow hedges2 –62 –106
Other 0 0
Closing balance, other reserves –202 –1444. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122.
finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
48Consolidated cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2019 2018
Operating activities
Profit for the year 3,304 2,418
Adjustments for non-cash items 1,995 –77
Cash flow from operating activities before  
changes in working capital 5,300 2,341
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –459 –231
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –2,428 –679
Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 1,221 659
Cash flow from operating activities 3,634 2,090
Investing activities
Acquisition of business1 18, 33 –12,880 —
Investment of intangible assets2 17 –9,709 –537
Investment of tangible assets 18 –37 –41
Disposal of intangible assets3 17 941 —
Disposal of tangible assets 18 — 3
Disposal of financial assets 20 — 0
Cash flow from investing activities –21,685 –575
Financing activities
Borrowings 27 15,875 —
Lease payments –94 —
Repayment of loans — –2
Cash flow from financing activities 15,780 –2
Change in cash and cash equivalents –2,271 1,513
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,999 1,478
Exchange differences in cash flow 9 7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 737 2,999
1. Relates to business combination acquisitions of (i) Dova and (ii) emapalumab.
2. The largest investments during the year was SEK 13,869 M related to Synagis, with a cash flow impact of SEK –9,051 M  
and SEK 1,817 M related to the acqusition of the development and commercial rights to BIVV001 in Sobi’s territory with  
a cash flow impact of SEK –490 M.
3. Disposal of intangible assets stemming from the sale of a Priority Review Voucher (PRV), acquired in the business acquisition  
of  emapalumab, and the sale of SOBI005.Cash flow from operations per share  4
/zero.tnum/three.tnum/six.tnum/nine.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK M
/one.tnum./nine.tnum/one.tnum./three.tnum/five.tnum./zero.tnum/seven.tnum./eight.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum./four.tnum
Cash flow from operations  4
/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnumSEK M
/five.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum/three.tnum/four.tnum/three.tnum/one.tnum,/three.tnum/three.tnum/three.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/nine.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/six.tnum/three.tnum/four.tnum
4. Alternative performance measures, see Definitions page 122.finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
49Consolidated cash flow statement, cont.
Supplemental disclosures to the consolidated cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2019 2018
Interest paid and received
Interest received 5 3
Interest paid –114 –12
Income tax paid –520 –507
Adjustments for non-cash items
Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of intangible assets 7, 17 1,401 449
Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of tangible assets 7, 18 188 36
Cost of share programmes1 80 46
Deferred tax 21 411 –103
Elocta and Alprolix2 –454 –485
Translation differences 333 —
Other items 37 –19
Total 1,995 –77
1. IFRS 2 expense associated with share programmes that is recognised in equity.
2. Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled, and to interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi.
finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
50Parent Company statement of comprehensive income
SEK M Note 2019 2018
1–4
Operating revenue 5–6 12,991 8,221
Cost of goods sold –3,177 –2,349
Gross profit 9,814 5,872
Selling and administrative expenses –4,220 –1,445
Research and development costs –1,110 –932
Other operating income 8 62 5
Other operating expenses 9 –10 –7
Operating profit 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18 4,536 3,492
Financial income 14 348 35
Financial expenses 15 –287 –69
Net financial items 61 –35
Profit after financial items 4,597 3,457
Group contributions –2,766 63
Excess depreciations –400 –460
Appropriations –3,166 –398
Profit before tax 1,431 3,060
Tax on profit for the year 16 –313 –678
Profit for the year 1,118 2,382
Other comprehensive income
Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss
Cash flow hedges 55 –171
Tax effect of cash flow hedges –12 38
Other comprehensive income 44 –133
Comprehensive income for the year 1,161 2,248finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
51Parent Company balance sheet
SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 17 5,572 3,801
Tangible assets 18 65 112
Financial assets
Participations in Group companies 19 7,676 3,475
Receivables from Group companies1 18,389 — 
Other financial assets 20 47  52
Deferred tax assets 21 22 11
Total non-current assets 31,772 7,450
Current assets
Inventories 22 1,533 1,071
Current receivables
Account receivables 23 2,402 590
Other receivables 23 449 57
Receivables from Group companies 1,286 1,465
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 499 532
Cash and cash equivalents 25 431 2,762
Total current assets 6,601 6,476
TOTAL ASSETS 38,373 13,926
1. Receivables from group companies have increased as a result of the acquisitions of Synagis, emapalumab and Dova. 
finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
52SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Restricted equity
Share capital 165 150
Statutory reserve 800 800
Total restricted equity 965 950
Unrestricted equity
Share premium reserve 8,905 4,277
Retained earnings 2,547 122
Profit for the year 1,118 2,382
Total unrestricted equity 12,569 6,780
Total equity 13,534 7,731
Untaxed reserves
Excess depreciations 2,984 2,584
Total untaxed reserves 2,984 2,584
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 27 16,141 —
Other liabilities, non-interest bearing 28 1,273 428
Provisions 30 84 80
Total non-current liabilities 17,499 508
Current liabilities
Account payables 574 376
Liabilities to Group companies 1,358 644
Tax liabilities 230 382
Other liabilities 28 623 731
Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 1,570 969
Total current liabilities 4,356 3,103
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 38,373 13,926
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 32.finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
53Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Restricted equity Unrestricted equity
SEK MShare 
 capitalStatutory  
reserveShare premium 
reserveRetained  
earnings 
 and profit/loss 
for the year1Total  
equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2018 150 800 4,231 255 5,436
Cash flow hedges — — — –171 –171
Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — 38 38
Issue/repurchase of shares 0 — — 0 —
Share programmes — — 46 — 46
Profit for the year — — — 2,382 2,382
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2018 150 800 4,277 2,503 7,731
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2019 150 800 4,277 2,503 7,731
Cash flow hedges — — — 55 55
Tax effect of cash flow hedges — — — –12 –12
Issue/repurchase of shares 15 — 4,498 — 4,513
Share programmes — — 80 — 80
Share-based compensation to employees 
tax effect2 — — 50 — 50
Profit for the year — — — 1,118 1,118
Total transaction with shareholders 15 — 4,628 1,161 5,804
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2019 165 800 8,905 3,665 13,534
2. The Parent company has during the period been granted additional deductions for tax purposes related to incentive programmes vested in 2013–2018. 
The additional deductions relate to the difference between the market value of vested shares and recognised IFRS 2 cost.
1 Cash flow hedges
SEK M 2019 2018
Opening balance, cash-flow hedges –106 28
Change in value for the year, hedging 
instruments 44 –133
Closing balance, cash-flow hedges –62 –106
Regarding cash-flow hedges, SEK –106 M (28) was transferred to the income statement. The 
entry is only reclassified to profit or loss because the hedged item has affected profit or loss. The 
hedging reserve consists solely of ongoing hedges.
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to SEK 164,560 K distributed between 299,977,839 
ordinary shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55 and one voting right. At the balance-sheet date, 
the company held 5,678,099 ordinary shares in treasury, corresponding to 1.9 per cent of the total 
number of shares in the company.
finanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
54Parent Company cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2019 2018
Operating activities
Profit for the year 1,118 2,382
Adjustments for non-cash items 510 301
Cash flow from operating activities before changes  
in working capital 1,627 2,683
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in inventories –462 –177
Decrease (+) / Increase (–) in operating receivables –15,833 –864
Increase (+) / Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 970 400
Cash flow from operating activities –13,698 2,042
Investing activities
Acqusition of business 33 –4,201 –592
Investment of intangible assets1 17 –658 –43
Investment of tangible assets 18 –15 –26
Disposal of tangible assets 17 28 —
Cash flow from investing activities –4,846 –661
Financing activities
Borrowings 27 16,214 —
Cash flow from financing activities 16,214 —
Change in cash and cash equivalents –2,331 1,381
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,762 1,381
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 431 2,762
1. Cash flow investments for the year are lower than investments in the balance sheet, the difference is because the entire acquisition of development and 
commercialisation rights in Sobi’s territory linked to BIV001 has not yet been paid.
SEK M Note 2019 2018
Interest paid and received
Interest received 2 21
Interest paid –117 –12
Income tax paid –435 –434
Adjustments for non-cash items
Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of assets 7, 17, 18 381 321
Restructuring reserv 88 —
Deferred tax 21 –12 –21
Cost of share programmes1 129 46
Excess depreciations 400 460
Elocta and Alprolix2 –454 –485
Other items –22 –19
510 301
1. IFRS 2 expense associated with share programmes that is recognised in equity, and deductions for tax purposes, see Note 2 on previous side.
2. Pertains to royalty revenue with which the liability to Sanofi was settled, and to interest expense related to the liability to Sanofi.Supplemental disclosures to cash flow statement – Parent CompanyfinanCial sT aTemenTs
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
55Notes
1 General information
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number  
556038-9321, the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, collectively the Group, 
is a publicly listed international pharmaceutical company dedicated to rare 
diseases. 
The Parent Company is a limited liability company headquartered in 
 Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the head office is Tomtebodavägen 23A, 
Solna, Sweden.
The company has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, now 
 Nasdaq Stockholm, since 15 September 2006 and in OMX Stockholm Large 
Cap  segment, since 2 January 2014.
2  Significant accounting policies and basis  
of preparation for the financial statements  
of the Parent Company and the Group
Compliance with standards and laws 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s 
recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, Interna-
tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and IFRIC interpretations as adop-
ted by the EU. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using 
the cost method, except for financial assets and liabilities (including derivative 
instruments) which are measured at fair value through profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income (hedge). The signi ficant accounting policies applied 
for the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are presented 
below. These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
All values in parentheses () are comparative figures for the year-earlier 
period, unless otherwise stated. All amounts reported in the financial state-
ments (in the comments, statements, tables and notes) are presented in SEK M 
(millions of Swedish kronor), unless otherwise stated. Since the financial state-
ments and notes in the 2018 Annual Report were presented in SEK K (thousands 
of Swedish kronor), the tables and notes for the comparative year have been 
restated in SEK M. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest million.
Within the Group, assets and liabilities are classified as either current or 
 non-current. Current receivables and liabilities fall due within one year of the 
balance-sheet date. Non-current receivables and liabilities essentially consist 
of amounts expected to be settled later than one year from the balance-sheet 
date.
In 2019, the Parent Company fully adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, 
which is the same accounting policy that the Group has applied since 2018. For 
more information about the Parent Company’s accounting policies and where 
these differ from the Group’s, see below.
New and amended standards applied by the Group
The new reporting standard IFRS 16 Leases came into effect on 1 January 2019 
and superseded IAS 17 Leases. The standard provides new accounting require-
ments for lessees and stipulates that all leases must be recognised on the 
lessee’s balance sheet as a lease liability and corresponding right-of-use asset. 
Previous operating lease payments are replaced by depreciation and interest 
expenses. Lease payments are divided into a lease liability and interest expense. 
The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the expected lease term using the 
straight-line method. 
Sobi has elected to use the modified retrospective approach, with no impact 
on consolidated equity at 1 January 2019. Under the modified retrospective 
approach, right-of-use assets mainly comprising leases for premises and cars, 
are consistent with the lease liability on the transition date of 1 January 2019, 
taking prepaid rent into account. When transitioning to IFRS, Sobi has elected 
to apply the short-term lease and low-value lease exemptions. A short-term lease is defined as a lease that has a lease term of one year or less. A low-value 
lease essentially relates to computers, printers and copying machines. 
The lease liability is measured at the present value of outstanding lease pay-
ments. The weighted average discount rate (the lessee’s incremental borro-
wing rate) applied on the date of initial transition is 1.6 per cent, based on an 
estimate of the borrowing rate Sobi would have received from financial institu-
tions for corresponding maturities. Extension options are taken into account 
when the Group considers it likely that the option will be exercised. 
As an effect of the transition, the Group’s total assets rose SEK 397 M on the 
transition date of 1 January 2019, corresponding to 2 per cent of total assets. 
The Group’s financial liabilities rose SEK 397 M, also corresponding to 2 per 
cent of total assets. 
In 2019, IFRS 16 had an impact of SEK 2 M on operating profit, of which a 
decline in other operating expenses accounted for SEK 97 M and increased 
depreciation expense for SEK 95 M. As such, there was no significant effect on 
operating profit or earnings per share. However, the alternative performance 
measure EBITDA rose SEK 97 M due to a decrease in other operating expenses 
under IFRS 16. 
Summary of the Group’s new accounting policy due to the transition to IFRS 16: 
Leased assets (right-of-use assets) are capitalised on the lease commence-
ment date, which means the date on which the underlying asset is available for 
use. The right-of-use asset comprises the initial lease liability, including any 
lease payments made on or before the commencement date of the lease. The 
right-of-use asset is measured at cost less any depreciation, accumulated 
impairment losses and remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use 
asset is depreciated over the expected lease term using the straight-line method. 
The lease liability is measured at the present value of fixed payments less any 
lease incentives receivable, and of variable lease payments that depend on an 
index or rate that have not been paid on the commencement date. Lease pay-
ments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or the lessee’s 
incremental borrowing rate if the implicit rate cannot be readily determined. 
The carrying amount of the lease liability is remeasured when there is a change 
in the assessment of a lease term. 
Otherwise, the same accounting policies were applied as in the preceding 
year. Amendments to IFRS standards effective for reporting periods beginning 
in or after 2019 had no significant effect on the Group’s financial statements. 
New and amended standards and interpretations  
not yet adopted by the Group
Updated standards and interpretations from IASB and IFRIC interpretations that 
came into effect during the 2019 calendar year have had no material impact on 
the Group.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the 
Group’s accounting policies and include the financial statements for the Parent 
Company and all subsidiaries. When preparing Sobi’s consolidated financial 
statements, intra-Group transactions, balance-sheet items and unrealised 
gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is a company in which the Parent Company has a controlling inte-
rest. A controlling influence exists when the company has control over a com-
pany, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement in the com-
pany, and the ability to affect those returns through its controlling influence. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to 
the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. If a sub-
sidiary uses accounting policies that are not consistent with the Group’s, the 
appropriate adjustments are made to the subsidiary’s accounting policies.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the acquisition 
method. A business combination is therefore considered a transaction in which 
the Group acquires control over the subsidiary’s assets, and assumes its liabili-
ties. The identified assets and acquired liabilities are measured at fair value on 
the acquisition date. 
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
561
2Transaction costs arising from acquisitions are recognised in the income 
 statement as administrative expenses. Contingent consideration is classified 
as a liability and measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Conditional 
consideration is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date, with the 
change recognised in profit for the year. 
The difference between fair value of the purchase price and fair value of 
the Group’s share of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is 
recognised as goodwill. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined on the 
acquisition date when the controlling influence is obtained, and not in connec -
tion with previous acquisitions. To determine goodwill in step acquisitions, the 
previous holding of equity interests in the acquired company are included, 
adjusted to fair value, and any gains or losses arising from the remeasurement 
are recognised in profit or loss. In every acquisition, the Group determines 
whether non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at fair value, 
or at the holding’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. 
Goodwill is not amortised according to plan, but tested annually for impair -
ment. If the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and con-
tingent liabilities exceeds the cost, the excess (negative goodwill) is recognised 
directly in profit or loss. Any losses are considered an indication that the trans-
ferred asset may be impaired.
Foreign currency
Functional and reporting currency
Items included in the financial statements for each of the Group’s entities are 
measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated financial statements 
are presented in Swedish crowns (SEK), which is the Parent Company’s functio-
nal currency and the Group’s reporting currency.
Transactions and balance-sheet items
Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency 
using the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date, or on the date when 
the items are remeasured. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of 
such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currency at the closing day rate, are recognised in pro-
fit or loss. The exception is when the transactions are hedges that meet all 
hedge accounting criteria. These exchange-rate differences are recognised in 
other comprehensive income. Operating items are recognised as operating 
profit, while other items are recognised as financial income or expense. 
Translation of foreign subsidiaries
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are measured in their respective 
functional currency, meaning in the primary economic environment in which 
the company operates. For Sobi’s foreign subsidiaries, all assets, provisions and 
other liabilities are translated into the Group’s presentation currency (SEK) 
using the closing day rate, and all resulting exchange differences are recogni-
sed in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate line item 
under equity – foreign currency translation reserve. All items recognised in 
profit or loss are translated using the average rate for the year. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the 
 closing day rate.
SEGMENT REPORTING
Operating segments are presented using the management perspective, which 
means they are presented in the same manner as the internal reporting. The 
basis for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting system, 
whereby they are reported to, and monitored by, the chief operating decision-
maker. The Group has identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. 
In the internal reporting to the CEO, only one segment is used. For more infor -
mation, see Note 6. 
REVENUES
The Group’s revenues are mainly generated by sales of own products, for 
which Sobi holds the distribution and/or licensing agreements, and receives 
revenue from manufacturing and royalties. 
Revenues include invoiced gross revenue as agreed for goods sold, exclu-
ding VAT, discounts, pharmaceutical taxes and returns due to product or quality 
warranties or transport damage, and after the elimination of intra-Group sales. 
Revenues are recognised as follows:Operating revenue
Revenue from product sales is recognised when Sobi has satisfied its perfor -
mance obligations, which means that the customer has taken control over the 
product. In practice, this arises when the goods have been delivered from the 
company’s consignment stock to the end customer.
The performance obligations associated with the contracts between Sobi 
and its customers consist mainly of distinct goods that are transferred to the 
customer against payment. The products are not customised and can be used 
by the customers in the condition they are received. The products are thus 
considered distinct and separately identifiable. Upon delivery, the customer 
normally assumes responsibility for the goods, depending on the shipping 
terms, and the obligation to pay becomes unconditional. Standard payment 
terms vary between 30 and 90 days, are recognised as accounts receivable.
The price of the goods is identified in contract. The consideration is variable 
to some extent before deductions are made for agreed discounts and pharma-
ceutical taxes. Where the deductions cannot be estimated reliably, an assess-
ment is made and the amounts are reserved on the balance sheet.
Contract manufacturing revenue (ReFacto) is recognised when the goods 
have been delivered to the customer, meaning control of the goods has been 
transferred to the customer. The payment terms are 90 days.
Returns from customers do not generally arise within Sobi, since the return 
of expired goods does not constitute a reason for return. There are product and 
quality warranties for any defective goods, and a transport warranty if the pro-
duct is damaged during transport, provided that Sobi has arranged the trans-
port. Should the latter arise, a claim is made against the insurance company.
Royalty revenue is recognised according to agreement. Revenue is recog-
nised over time on a monthly basis, with quarterly reconciliation and invoicing. 
Sobi is entitled to royalties on pre-sold goods, as per agreement. Accrued 
 royalty revenue, which is also classified as contract assets under IFRS 15, is 
recognised on the balance sheet under prepaid expenses and accrued income. 
The payment terms are 45 days after the end of the quarter. 
Sobi has no customer contracts where the performance obligations extend 
beyond 12 months after the balance-sheet date. 
Revenues may also include revenue from licensing agreements, including 
out-licensing revenue and milestone payments. Milestone payments refer to 
partial payments received from partners triggered by the achievement of a spe-
cific part of a partnering agreement, such as regulatory approval of a jointly 
developed product. This type of revenue is recognised when the contracted 
event has occurred and there is reasonable assurance that payment will be 
 collected. Due to various contract formulations, the initial license fee can be 
recognised in two ways: either directly when the license fee is received, or allo-
cated over its estimated useful life. In 2019 and 2018, Sobi did not recognise 
any licence fees or milestone payments.
Service fees comprise consideration for sales and marketing services related 
to some Partner Products during a contractual term. Revenue is recognised 
over time.
When the Group has an obligation to carry out research and development 
assignments and the consideration pertains to services provided by the Group, 
the consideration is recognised over time as the services are performed. Reve-
nue from research collaborations is recognised in the period in which the work 
is performed.
Government grants
Government grants are recognised when the company fulfils the criteria 
attached to the grant and there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be 
received. Grants received are recognised on the balance sheet as deferred 
income and recognised in profit or loss in the period when the cost associated 
with the grant is recognised. 
Sobi mainly receives government grants in the form of reduced employer’s 
contributions for research for commercial purposes, which is fully utilised, and 
research grants from the EU. A minor share of Sobi projects is funded with 
government grants, which will cease in 2020.
Other operating income/expenses
Other operating income and expenses are revenues and costs arising from 
activities outside the normal operations. These items include exchange-rate 
effects on operating receivables and liabilities. Accumulated gains or losses 
 arising on cash-flow hedges in equity are reclassified to other operating 
income/expenses in the period in which the hedged item impacts profit or loss. 
For more information, see Notes 8 and 9. Note 2, cont.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
572CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAX 
Taxes in the statement of comprehensive income comprise current and defer -
red tax. Current tax refers to tax payable/received attributable to current/prior 
years. Deferred tax refers to tax attributable to future years and is calculated on 
the basis of temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases 
of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is measured using the applicable/substan-
tively enacted tax rates and tax rules for the period in which the reversal/reali-
sation is expected to occur. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences in consolidated 
goodwill, nor for temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidi-
aries, since it is unlikely that such a reversal will take place in the foreseeable 
future. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are divided 
between deferred tax liabilities and equity. Deferred tax assets for deductible 
temporary differences and loss carry-forwards are only recognised to the 
extent it is probable they will be utilised. Tax is recognised under Tax on profit/
loss for the year in the statement of comprehensive income except for those 
items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity. See Notes 16 and 21.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination comprises the difference between 
the cost of the business combination and the fair value of identifiable assets 
acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities recognised. Goodwill is 
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is alloca-
ted to the cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment in the 
fourth quarter, or whenever there is any indication of impairment. Impairment 
of goodwill is not reclassified. Goodwill arising from the acquisition of associa-
ted companies is included in the carrying amount of participations in associa-
ted companies.
Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights are measured at cost less accumulated amortisa-
tion. They have a limited useful life and are amortised to spread the cost over 
this period (5 to 20 years). Straight-line amortisation is carried out over the 
asset’s useful life, based on the expected earnings of each product and market-
ing right. Amortisation expenses are considered selling costs. See also Note 4.
Licenses and patents
Licence costs and amortisation expenses are treated in the same way as 
 product and marketing rights above. Cost for patents are expensed directly. 
Research and development costs
Costs for development projects are recognised as intangible assets if the com-
pany can demonstrate that it is technically possible to complete and profitably 
commercialise the results, and only if the costs for the project can be measured 
reliably. In practice, this means that the costs cannot be capitalised until the US 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the European Commission have gran-
ted approval. Acquired development projects are capitalised on the acquisition 
date. Amortisation is carried out to allocate the cost of development projects 
over their estimated useful lives, and does not commence until the project 
begins to generate revenue. Other research and development costs that do not 
meet the relevant recognition criteria of IAS 38 are recognised when incurred.
Capitalised costs
Software and IT projects in progress
Acquired software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred 
when the relevant software is acquired and available for use. These costs are 
amortised over the estimated useful life of the software. 
Costs associated with developing or maintaining software are recognised as 
an expense when incurred. Costs directly associated with identifiable software 
products developed specifically for Sobi that are controlled by the company 
and will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one 
year, are recognised as intangible assets. Direct costs include expenses for 
employees working on software development and a reasonable proportion 
of overhead costs.
Costs to enhance the performance of software or extend its useful life 
(development costs) beyond the original plan are capitalised and added to 
the initial cost of the software. 
Amortisation according to plan for software recognised as an asset is per -
formed using the straight-line method over its useful life up to a maximum of 
three years.Note 2, cont.
Manufacturing relocation costs
Costs are capitalised when the manufacturing of Sobi’s products are relocated 
and are classified as intangible assets. Amortisation commences when the asset 
is available for use. 
Amortisation of intangible assets
Amortisation of product and marketing rights, licenses, patents and acquired 
R&D is charged to selling and administrative expenses. Amortisation of capitali-
sed costs, etc, is also charged to selling and administrative expenses. For more 
information, see Note 7.
TANGIBLE ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment are recognised as assets on the balance sheet if 
it is probable that future economic rewards will accrue to the company and the 
cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 
All tangible assets are recognised at cost less depreciation. The cost includes 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Additional costs are 
added to the carrying amount of the asset or recognised as a separate asset, 
depending on which is appropriate, only when it is probable that the future 
economic rewards associated with the asset is beneficial to the Group and the 
cost of the asset can be measured reliably. All other forms of repair and main-
tenance are recognised as costs in profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation of tangible assets
Tangible assets are depreciated according to plan over their estimated useful 
life. They are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life, 
with consideration for residual value. The following depreciation periods are 
applied: 
Plant and machinery
• Laboratory equipment and other investments 3–7 years
• Other major investments, such as property refurbishment 5–20 years
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings
• Servers and other large computer hardware 3–5 years
• Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5–10 years
Land and buildings
• Buildings  20 years
• Land indefinite useful life
The residual value and useful life of the assets are assessed at each balance-
sheet date and adjusted if necessary. An asset’s carrying amount is immediately 
depreciated to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the asset 
exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. The gain or loss arising on the dis-
posal or retirement of tangible assets is determined by the difference between 
the selling price and the carrying amount less direct selling costs. The profit/
loss item is recognised as other operating income or other operating expenses.
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill, which has an indeterminable useful life, and intangible assets not yet 
available for use, are not depreciated but tested annually for impairment or 
when there is any indication that the value of an asset has declined. Product 
and marketing rights that are amortised are also tested annually for impairment 
since the carrying amount is significant for the Group. Other assets that are 
depreciated/amortised are tested for impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An asset is impaired if its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An 
impairment is thus the difference between the carrying amount and the reco-
verable amount where the recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an 
asset’s net realisable value and value in use. When determining the value in use, 
the cash flows expected to be generated by the asset are discounted at a rate 
equivalent to Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC). 
When assessing the goodwill impairment, this is grouped at the lowest levels 
for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Sobi has made the 
assessment that the Group’s operations as a whole comprise a cash-generating 
unit. Any impairment of goodwill is not reversed. An impairment loss for an 
asset other than goodwill is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates 
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount. A reversal must not exceed 
the carrying amount that would have been determined, less depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognised. Impairment testing of goodwill, product 
and marketing rights, and development projects is described in Note 17.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
582LEASES
The Group’s accounting policies have been changed due to the new financial 
reporting standard, IFRS 16. The new reporting and disclosure requirements for 
lessees are described above under New and amended standards applied by the 
Group and in Note 10 and Note 18. Prior to 2018, leased assets were recognised 
in the consolidated financial statements as either a finance or operating lease. 
Leased non-current assets, for which Sobi held the same risks and rewards as 
owning the asset, were classified as a finance lease. The asset was recognised 
as a non-current asset on the balance sheet. The corresponding obligation for 
future lease payments was recognised as a current or non-current liability. The 
leased assets were depreciated according to plan, while the lease payments 
were recognised as interest and repayment of debts. Leased assets where the 
lessor essentially retained ownership of the asset were classified as operating 
leases and lease payments were expensed on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one 
company, and a financial liability or equity instrument in another.
Classification of financial instruments
Financial instruments include contract-based rights to receive cash, such as 
account receivables.
The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories:
1. Assets measured at amortised cost
2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost
4. Liabilities measured at fair value
5. Derivatives
The classification depends on the purpose for which the instruments were 
acquired and the type of financial instrument. Management determines how 
the instruments will be classified in connection with initial recognition and 
reviews this decision on each reporting date. Assets expected to mature or be 
sold within twelve months, and liabilities with no unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance-sheet date, 
are classified as current assets or current liabilities. Other assets and liabilities 
are classified as non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss are 
measured at fair value on the transaction date, including transaction costs on 
the balance sheet. Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit 
or loss are initially measured at fair value, while related transaction costs are 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Financial instruments recognised on the balance sheet include such assets as 
cash and cash equivalents, account receivables and endowment policies. Finan-
cial liabilities mainly include borrowings, account payables and other liabilities.
1. Assets measured at amortised cost
Assets are classified in this category if both of the following criteria can be met:
1. The business model objective for the financial asset is to collect its cont-
ractual cash flows
2. The terms of the financial asset give rise to fixed or determinable pay-
ments and these are solely payments of interest and principal amounts
The Group’s assets in this category consist of account receivables, other recei-
vables, cash and cash equivalents. These are measured at amortised cost less 
any impairment. The maturities of account receivables are mainly short, which 
is why they are initially measured at nominal value without discounting. Any 
impairment of account receivables in the Group will use a model based on 
expected future losses, which have been calculated using historical losses and 
forward-looking estimates. Any impairment of account receivables based on 
expected future losses, which are assessed individually like account receiva-
bles, is recognised in operating expenses. 2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss  
(excluding derivatives)
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets 
that are not derivatives or that do not meet the requirements for being measu-
red at amortised cost (see above). This category includes the Group’s endow-
ment policies. 
3. Liabilities measured at amortised cost 
This category includes financial liabilities not available for sale including loans, 
account payables and lease liabilities. Liabilities in this category are measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Borrowings are initially 
measured at fair value, net after transactions costs. Borrowings are subse-
quently measured at amortised cost and any difference between the amount 
received and the repayment amount is recognised in profit or loss over the 
term of the loan, using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified 
as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement 
of the liability until twelve months after the balance-sheet date.
4. Liabilities measured at fair value 
This category includes liabilities that are not derivatives and that are not 
recognised at amortised cost. Liabilities are measured both initially and in 
 subsequent periods at fair value in the balance sheet. This category includes 
conditional purchase prices related acqusition of business combinations, 
where changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. The 
 components of the change in fair value relating to interest and exchange rate 
effects are recognized in net financial items and other changes in fair value 
are reported in operating profit or loss.
5. Derivatives 
Derivatives are only used for hedging and not for speculative purposes. Sobi 
differentiates between derivatives included in an effective hedging relationship 
and other derivatives held for sale. Derivatives are measured at fair value on the 
balance sheet, both initially and in subsequent remeasurements, and recogni-
sed as either an asset or a liability, depending on whether their fair value is posi-
tive or negative. 
Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are recogni-
sed in profit or loss. Derivatives held to manage risk in the financial operations 
are recognised in net financial items, while derivatives held to manage risk in 
the operational results are recognised in other income/expenses. See below 
for accounting of derivatives that meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
Hedge accounting
The Group applies hedge accounting for currency risk and uses derivative 
instruments and loans in these hedging relationships. The method for recog-
nising the resulting gains or losses from the remeasurement of loans or deri-
vatives in hedge accounting depends on whether the instrument has been 
identified as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, fair value hedge or 
net investment hedge. 
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in fair value of a derivative instrument identi-
fied as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The 
gain or loss pertaining to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. Accumulated gains or losses in equity are reclassified to profit or 
loss in the periods in which the hedged item affects the results. If a hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting and there are accumulated gains or losses from hedging in 
equity, these gains or losses remain in equity and are transferred to the income 
statement when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. If a loan is 
designated as a hedging instrument for foreign-exchange risk, the effective 
portion of the remeasurement effects pertaining to exchange rate fluctuations 
is recognised in the same way as for derivatives, while other parts of the loan 
are recognised as a loan not included in a hedge relationship.
Fair value hedges
Fair value hedges are only made with derivative instruments. When hedging fair 
value, derivatives are recognised in profit or loss together with changes in the 
fair value of the hedged item pertaining to the portion that is exposed to the 
hedged risk and included in the hedging relationship. Note 2, cont.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
592Net investment hedge
Hedging of net investments is done using financial liabilities denominated in 
foreign currency. The accounting for the liability is analogous with a loan in 
cash flow hedge.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is 
calculated using the first in, first out principle (FIFO). Net realisable value is the 
expected selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling costs. 
Obsolescence risk and confirmed obsolescence have been taken into account 
in the measurement. 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The cash and cash equivalents of the Parent Company and the Group include 
the balances of the consolidated accounts and other bank accounts, and invest-
ments with a maturity of less than three months from the acquisition date. 
EQUITY
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction costs directly attributable 
to the issue of new shares or options are recognised in equity, net after tax, as a 
deduction from the proceeds.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised on the balance sheet when Sobi has a legal or con-
structive obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and where it is 
 probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. 
It must also be possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount. Provisions 
are recognised in the amount corresponding to the best estimate of the pay-
ment required to settle the obligation. If the outflow of resources is expected 
to take place at a point far in the future, the expected future cash flow is dis-
counted and the provision is recognised at its present value. The discount rate 
corresponds with the market rate before tax, and the risks associated with the 
liability. Provisions are recognised on the balance sheet under other current 
and non-current liabilities. 
Provisions for restructuring which substantially change the way in which 
Sobi works are recognised when a detailed and formal restructuring plan has 
been established and publicly announced, at which point clear expectations 
are created that the plan will be implemented. Provisions for restructuring often 
include benefits at termination, which can be either voluntary or involuntary. 
Termination benefits are recognised as described above, except in those cases 
in which a requirement for service is linked to the benefit, in which case costs 
are distributed over the period in which the services are carried out. Restructur -
ing provisions entail estimates of the time and cost of planned future activities. 
The most significant estimates relate to those costs required for severance pay 
or other obligations in connection with termination of employment, as well as 
costs for the termination of agreements and other costs for withdrawal. Such 
estimates are based on the actual situation in negotiations with the affected 
parties and/or their representatives. Salaries relating to periods following the 
termination of duty to work are expensed when the decision is made and com-
municated.
Sobi recognises endowment policies gross on the balance sheet as a finan-
cial asset and a provision. Cash-based programmes for employees are treated 
as a provision until the programme expires, refer to the section on direct pen-
sions under Remuneration of employees.
Sobi has a provision for site restoration related to restoration of the leased 
property Paradiset 14 when the lease expires. The company recognises this 
item as a provision on the balance sheet.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pensions
Sobi has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans, and the 
vast majority of employees are covered by and recognised in the defined-con-
tribution pension plans. At 31 December 2019, employees in the Norwegian 
subsidiary, in the Swedish Parent Company, and all employees in the company 
in Switzerland that was acquired during the year were covered by defined-
benefit plans. All other employees were covered by defined-contribution 
 pension plans. See Note 29 for more information.Recognition of defined-contribution pension plans and management  
by Alecta
The CEO and management are mainly covered by defined-contribution plans. 
A defined-contribution pension plan provides a contribution to a pension plan, 
determined as a percentage of the pensionable salary. The level of pension 
benefits at retirement is determined by premiums paid and the return on 
investments, less management costs.
Pension expenses for the defined-contribution plans are reported in the 
income statement as earned. The obligations are calculated without discoun-
ting, since the payments for these plans fall due within 12 months. 
Obligations for retirement pensions and family pensions for white-collar 
employees in Sweden are insured through Alecta. According to the Financial 
Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for ITP 2 plans financed by 
insurance in Alecta, this is a defined-benefit plan covering multiple employers. 
For the financial years of 2005–2019, the company did not have access to the 
information required to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan, which is 
why the ITP pension plan insured through Alecta is recognised as a defined-
contribution plan. 
A special employer’s contribution is calculated on pension premiums.
Recognition of defined-benefit pension plans
In defined-benefit plans, the pension is determined as a percentage of the pen-
sionable final salary, based on the employee’s length of service and average 
final salary. The Group is responsible for ensuring that the established benefits 
are paid out. 
The defined-benefit pension obligations are recognised on the balance 
sheet as the net total of the estimated present value of the obligations and 
the fair value of the plan assets, which are recognised as a provision or a non-
current financial receivable. 
For defined-benefit plans, pension expense and commitments are calcula-
ted using the applicable principles of IAS 19. This calculation is performed 
annually by independent actuaries. 
The company’s obligations are measured at the present value of expected 
future payments. When discounting obligations in Sweden, a discount rate 
equal to the interest on mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the 
relevant obligations is applied. The most important actuarial assumptions are 
described in Note 29. 
Actuarial gains and losses may arise in connection with the determination of 
the present value of the obligations and the fair value of plan assets. These arise 
either because the fair value differs from the previous assumption, or the 
assumptions change. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other com-
prehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Interest expense, less the estimated return on plan assets, is classified as a 
financial expense. Other cost items in the pension expense are charged to 
 operating profit. 
The accounting principle for defined-benefit pension plans described above 
applies only to the consolidated financial statements.
Direct pensions 
For some senior executives, their pension plan has been supplemented with 
direct pension obligations. In these cases, the Parent Company, over time, has 
taken out endowment policies pledged to the employee as collateral for the 
agreement. Endowment policies taken out by the Parent Company are classi-
fied as a financial asset on the balance sheet, since they are a long-term hol-
ding, and measured at fair value, while the pension obligation to the employee 
is recognised under provisions for pensions. A provision for special payroll tax is 
also recognised for the endowment policies. Premiums paid into the endow-
ment policies are not deductible. However, the payment to the beneficiary is 
deductible. 
Long-term incentive programmes
Sobi currently has five active share programmes and one share option pro-
gramme for senior executives. The fair value of the allotted share programmes 
is estimated on the issue date using a generally accepted modelling technique, 
the Monte Carlo simulation model, and taking market conditions into account, 
and the fair value of the employee option programme is estimated on the issue 
date using the Black & Scholes model. The 2019 Share Programme, which covers 
the CEO, senior executives and managers, includes a revenue component Note 2, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
602whereby the fair value of the allotted shares may fluctuate, depending on the 
assumptions of target achievement. The total amount to be expensed is based 
on the fair value of the shares allotted. 
The total amount is recognised as a personnel cost in profit or loss, allocated 
over the vesting period, and corresponding adjustments are made in equity. At 
the end of every quarter, the Group reviews its assessments of how many sha-
res are expected to be vested based on the service condition. The shares are 
delivered to the employee when vested under the framework of the programmes. 
The Group also has three long-term cash-based incentive programmes, 
which are not classified as share-based payment awards, covering all employ-
ees in the US and Canada. Since awards under these programmes are contin-
gent upon continued employment at the company, the costs are recognised 
continuously over the vesting period. A liability is calculated on each balance-
sheet date based on the market value, renewed assessments of target fulfil-
ment and how much has been vested. The net of these effects is recognised as 
a personnel cost in the consolidated income statement. 
The social security contributions are remeasured at the end of every quarter 
until settlement takes place, and allocated using the same principles as the cost 
for shares. 
A more detailed description of the long-term incentive programmes can be 
found in Note 11.
Compensation for termination
A provision for the termination of employees is only recognised if the company 
is demonstrably obliged to terminate a position before the normal period of 
service has ended, or if compensation is offered to encourage voluntary resig-
nation, such as a retirement package. In cases where the company terminates 
employment, a detailed plan is prepared that, at a minimum, contains informa-
tion about the workplace, positions and approximate number of individuals 
concerned, as well as the compensation for each employee category or posi-
tion and the schedule for the plan’s implementation.
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible commitment ari-
sing from past events and whose existence is confirmed by only one or more 
uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised 
as a liability or a provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will 
be required.
THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), has prepared its 
Annual Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the 
Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for 
Legal Entities, and applicable statements for listed companies. According to 
RFR 2, the Parent Company is to prepare its annual financial statements using 
all of the IFRSs and statements adopted by the EU as far as possible within the 
framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Pension Obligations Vest-
ing Act, and with consideration for the relationship between accounting and 
taxation. The recommendation sets out the exemptions from, and amend-
ments to, IFRS that must be made. 
In 2019, the Parent Company changed its accounting policies and transitio-
ned to the full adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The Group has applied 
IFRS 9 since 2018. At 31 December 2019, the transition to IFRS 9 affected a lia-
bility to Sanofi which, after the transition, was measured at fair value and due to 
that decreased in value. It also meant that the ntangible asset is affected to the 
same extent as the liability. Since both of these transactions arose during the 
financial year, the accounting policy change in this respect did not have any 
effect on prior years. Otherwise, the transition to IFRS 9 did not have any signi-
ficant effect on the amounts recognised in the Parent Company’s financial sta-
tements compared with prior years. 
As in prior years, the Parent Company has assets and liabilities that are mea-
sured at historical cost, except for some financial assets and liabilities that are 
measured at fair value. The Parent Company applies the same accounting poli-
cies as the Group with the following exceptions:
Employee benefits/defined-benefit plans
The Parent Company applies the provisions of the Pension Obligations Vesting 
Act when calculating defined-benefit pension plans, which is a prerequisite for Note 2, cont.
tax deductibility. The most significant differences compared with the rules for 
IAS 19 are how the discount rate is determined, that the calculation of the defi-
ned-benefit obligation is based on current salary levels without assumptions 
on future salary increases, and that all actuarial gains and losses are recogni-
sed in other comprehensive income as they arise. See Note 29 for more 
 information.
Right-of-use assets
All of the Parent Company’s leases are recognised according to the rules for 
operating leases. 
Group contributions
The Parent Company applies the alternative approach and, consequently, 
reports all Group contributions received/provided as appropriations.
Taxes
Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal entities. 
Subsidiaries
Participations in subsidiaries are recognised using the cost method. The value 
of subsidiaries is tested when there is an indication of a decline in value. 
 Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised as revenue. Transaction 
costs associated with the acquisition of companies are expensed. Contingent 
considerations are recognised as part of the cost if it is probable that they will 
be realised. If the initial assessment needs to be revised in subsequent periods, 
the cost must be adjusted.
3 Financial risk management
Financial risks and risk management
Through its operations, Sobi is exposed to various kinds of risks that may impact 
the company’s earnings, cash flow and financial position. The risks can be divi-
ded into operational risk and financial risk. Financial risk refers to a potentially 
negative impact resulting from changes in the financial risk factors. Below is a 
description of the financial risk factors deemed most significant for Sobi, and 
how they are managed. Operational risks are also described in a separate 
 section of the Directors’ Report.
Financial risk is managed at central level by Sobi’s treasury function, which in 
addition, is responsible for the Group’s financing, ensures that solutions are in 
place for liquidity monitoring and payments, continuously monitoring financial 
risk and supporting the business operations in treasury-related issues.
The Treasury Policy, which is adopted by the Board, establishes the division 
of responsibilities and control of treasury matters between the Board, CEO, 
CFO and the treasury function. The Board has appointed an Audit Committee 
to monitor the structure of the Treasury Policy and, if necessary, suggest chan-
ges to the Board. The main objective of the Treasury Policy is to maintain a low 
level of financial risk and to manage risk safely.
Financial risk factors
Currency risk – Commercial transaction risk
Transaction risk arises when sales and purchasing transactions are denomina-
ted in different currencies, which may affect the company’s profitability, cash 
flow and financial position. This risk is limited in the subsidiaries as their com-
mercial flows are denominated in their local currencies. This risk is significant 
for the Parent Company, since the company has considerable flows of foreign 
currencies, primarily EUR and USD. The currency surplus in EUR is most signifi-
cant as the vast majority of sales is denominated in EUR while purchasing is 
spread between several currencies. In the event of a depreciation of SEK 
against other currencies of 1 per cent, sales in 2019 would have increased by 
SEK 135 M (85) and EBITA by SEK 85 M (56).
Financial instruments, such as currency forwards, are used to manage the 
transaction exposure. Sobi also applies hedge accounting and uses cash flow 
hedges to reduce some of the transaction risk in EUR and USD. These flows are 
primarily related to the products Synagis, Elocta and Alprolix. This means that 
the currency revaluation component from the remeasurement of liabilities are 
recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated gains or losses noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
612
3from these remeasurements are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged 
inflows affect profit or loss. See Notes 17 and 28 for more information about 
these liabilities.
The currencies with the largest net exposures are shown  
in the diagram below.
Commercial transaction exposure, yearly volume
SEK M
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000
Other USD EUR2019 
2018 4,142
2,795
299630849
150
Currency risk – translation exposure
Translation risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will have a negative 
impact on equity when the Group’s net assets denominated in foreign currency 
are translated into SEK. In 2019, translation risk increased for Sobi as a result of 
the acquisitions that were made. The changes in equity are considered accep-
table and not managed by using currency derivatives. The risk is partly mana-
ged by limiting the net assets by raising loans in foreign currency. The diagram 
of translation risk shows the Group’s sensitivity to this risk. The diagram shows 
that the translation effect on the Group’s equity would be positive if SEK depre-
ciated, and vice versa. If SEK, for example, were to depricate 2 per cent against 
all currencies, the translation effect on consolidated equity would be 
SEK –99 M (18). 
Translation risk
Currency change in SEK
SEK M, 
Eﬀect on 
equity-5-4-3-2-1012345
/two.tnum/four.tnum/nine.tnum /one.tnum/nine.tnum/nine.tnum /one.tnum/four.tnum/nine.tnum/nine.tnum/nine.tnum -/five.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum -/five.tnum/zero.tnum -/nine.tnum/nine.tnum -/one.tnum/four.tnum/nine.tnum -/one.tnum/nine.tnum/nine.tnum -/two.tnum/four.tnum/nine.tnum%
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Sobi cannot raise financing on acceptable terms, or 
meet its payment obligations due to factors beyond Sobi’s control. How the 
liquidity risk should be managed is described in the Treasury Policy. Both short-
term and long-term forecasts of the Group’s liquidity are regularly compiled to 
ensure there is sufficient cash and undrawn credit facilities to meet the needs 
of the day-to-day operations. According to the poliy, Sobi shall maintain an 
appropriate liquidity reserve. The liquidity reserve comprises bank balances, 
current investments and undrawn committed credit facilities. At 31 December 
2019, the company’s undrawn committed credit facilities totalled SEK 3,959 M 
(10,075). At 31 December 2019, SEK 16,243 M of the facilities had been drawn. 
See the distribution in the table in the next column.Credit facilities, maturity structure
GROUP 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total
Credit facilities,  
undrawn 1,135 103 2,595 0 126 3,959
Credit facilities; drawn 0 6,053 900 3,495 5,795 16,243
Credit facilities, total 1,135 6,156 3,495 3,495 5,921 20,203
The following table shows the contractual, non-discounted cash flows from 
the Group’s financial liabilities, divided according to the time remaining on the 
balance-sheet date until the contractual maturity date.
Maturity analysis
AT 31 DECEMBER 2019,  
GROUPLess than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Derivatives1 60 — — —
Borrowings — 6,953 9,290 —
Account payables 681 — — —
Lease liabilities 99 320 — —
Other liabilities2 1,124 1,218 2,430 —
Total 1,964 8,491 11,721 —
AT 31 DECEMBER 2018, 
GROUPLess than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Derivatives1 8 — — —
Account payables1 487 — — —
Other liabilities2 3,640 1,130 1 —
Total 4,136 1,130 1 —
1. Part of other liabilities in balance sheet.
2. Other liabilities primarily relate to liabilities to Sanofi and AstraZeneca. The liabilities in the table 
are presented at nominal value according to an assessment of the contracts at 31 December 2019. 
For information in the balance sheet, see Note 26.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that Sobi would be adversely impacted by changes in 
interest rates, either in earnings resulting from increased interest costs, or from 
adverse effects on market value on instruments with fixed interest rates. Chan-
ges in market values are considered acceptable since Sobi’s general principle is 
to minimise its earnings volatility. Sobi’s exposure to interest rate risk mainly 
occurs through external loans and cash.
Sobi’s financing sources primarily consist of equity, cash flow from operating 
activities and borrowings. In the case of interest-bearing borrowings, the 
Group is exposed to interest rate risk. Borrowings are normally done with fixed 
interest period of three months. At the end of the year, the average fixed inte-
rest period was one month.
The liabilities to Sanofi and AstraZeneca are non-interest bearing by agree-
ment, but are discounted in the accounts and therefore incur an interest 
expense.
There were no outstanding interest rate derivatives on the balance sheet 
date. 
The sensitivity to interest rate changes in earnings is measured by assuming 
a lasting interest rate change of 1 percentage point. At 31 December 2019, such 
a change would have had an annual impact of SEK 161 M (0) on net financial 
items excluding effects from changes in fair value. At 31 December 2019, Sobi’s 
interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 16,141 M (4). The loans  raised are 
managed with variable interest, which is deemed most favourable for Sobi.Note 3, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
623Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if a counterparty is unable to meet its obliga-
tions. Credit risk can be divided into credit risk arising from account receivables, 
and financial credit risk.
Sobi’s credit risk is mainly related to account receivables. At the balance-
sheet date, these amounted to SEK 3,736 M (1,665), of which SEK 685 M (518) 
were overdue, see Note 23 for information about overdue account receivables. 
Sobi’s customers are mainly large distribitours with low risk, hospitals and 
government administrations, which means that these are largely funded by the 
government of each respective country. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not 
be paid, a provision is made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the 
principles described in Note 2. At 31 December 2019, these amounted to 
SEK 69 M (70). Only a small portion of the account receivables are secured 
with trade finance solutions.
Credit rating reports are obtained for both distribution agreements and 
 larger individual transactions, when the customer is not previously known 
or when other circumstances give rise to uncertainty regarding credit worthi-
ness. The credit ratings must be obtained from a reputable credit rating orga-
nisation. A credit limit is set for every customer, and continuously monitored 
and evaluated. 
In its Treasury Policy, Sobi has established principles that limit the amount of 
exposure to financial credit risk per counterparty. To further limit financial cre-
dit risk, financial transactions are primarily conducted with counterparts with 
a high credit rating. Any investment of surplus liquidity is done in instruments 
with a low level of credit risk and a high level of liquidity. Investments are only 
permitted in instruments issued by the Swedish Government and municipali-
ties, or by banks, financial institutions and companies with a minimum credit 
rating of A from Standard & Poor’s, or an equivalent rating from another rating 
agency. A high level of liquidity means that investments can be converted into 
cash at any given time.
Capital risk
The goal of Sobi’s capital structure is to generate high shareholder returns, 
value for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure in 
order to keep capital costs at a reasonable level. The capital structure can be 
adapted to the needs that arise by, for example, paying dividends to sharehol-
ders, repaying capital to shareholders, issuing new shares or repaying debts. 
The Group’s equity/assets ratio forms the basis of the Group’s capital struc -
ture assessment. At 31 December 2019, the equity/assets ratio was as follows: 
GROUP 2019 2018
Equity 16,930 9,040
Total assets 45,658 17,183
Equity/assets ratio, % 37.1 52.6Note 3, cont.
4  Significant accounting judgements, estimates  
and assumptions
The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the future, and accounting 
judgements. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
entailing a considerable risk of material adjustments in the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the upcoming financial year are presented below. 
For significant accounting judgements regarding fair value, see Note 26.
ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS 
Revenues
The Group assesses the likelihood of future economic rewards accruing to the 
Group on the basis of several factors, including a customer’s payment history 
and credit rating. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be paid, a provision is 
made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the principles described 
in Note 2. 
When revenue is recognised, each agreement is interpreted separately and 
the company makes an assessment of any obligations. Revenue is recognised 
when control has been transferred to the buyer, depending on the shipping 
terms. Revenues are calculated as invoiced gross revenue according to agree-
ment less variable pay corresponding to actual and estimated discounts to 
public and private customers, pharmaceutical taxes. 
Since actual and final conditions for discounts and pharmaceutical taxes on 
sales in the current period are not always known on the balance-sheet date, 
some of the deductions from gross revenue are based on estimates. See also 
Note 2 on revenue recognition of license fees and milestone revenue.
Inventories
Production costs
Costs for production consist of direct production costs, such as raw materials, 
consumables, media and manpower, as well as indirect costs, such as person-
nel costs, depreciation and maintenance. 
Calculation of indirect production costs is based on a method for calculating 
standard costs. This method is regularly revised in order to ensure reasonable 
calculation of the utilisation rate, lead times and other relevant factors. Changes 
in the method may have an impact on gross margins and the overall valuation 
of inventories.
Research and development costs
The company conducts research and development as internal projects and 
with external partners. In cases where the company carries out projects with an 
external partner and both parties share certain costs, the costs are estimated 
when the project commences. This cost is then used as a basis for settlement 
with the external partner. The calculation is assessed and updated regularly. 
In some collaboration agreements, the company agrees to make milestone 
payments. These payments are capitalised as research and development, and 
amortisation does not commence until the project has reached the commerci-
alisation phase and meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Evalua-
tion of a project’s progress and impairment testing are performed regularly, at 
least annually. During 2019 one of the early-phase clinical programmes were 
written down with M 18 SEK.
Costs for internal development and payments for projects and substances 
under agreement with third parties are expensed when incurred if they do not 
meet the requirements of IAS 38. Rules and uncertainty usually mean that the cri-
teria are not fulfilled. However, in cases where the requirements are met, intan-
gible assets are capitalised and amortised according to plan. Capitalisation com-
mences when the company can demonstrate that it is technically feasible and 
profitable to commercialise the results. For a sensitivity analysis, see Note 17.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
633
4ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Intangible assets
The Group’s intangible assets are essentially attributable to goodwill, develop-
ment projects and licence, product and marketing rights. Goodwill arose from 
the acquisition of Swedish Orphan, Dova and emapalumab that were acquired 
during 2019. Annual impairment testing of goodwill, development projects, 
product and marketing rights is based on their recoverable amounts, including 
key assumptions such as sales growth, margins and discount rates. See below 
and Note 17.
Goodwill
The Group conducts regular goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with 
the policy described in Note 2. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit is determined by calculating the value in use. This calculation requires cer -
tain estimates to be made, see Note 17. At 31 December 2019, Sobi’s goodwill 
amounted to SEK 6,678 M (1,554). The testing showed no indication of impair -
ment. 
Acquired development projects 
The Group makes annual impairment assessments of acquired development 
projects in accordance with the principle described in Note 2. When testing for 
impairment, a number of assumptions are made. These assumptions are speci-
fied in Note 17.
Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights have a limited useful life and amortisation is used 
to spread the cost over this period. The amortisation period ranges from 5 to 20 
years, and is adapted to the expected earnings of each product right. 
As the carrying amounts of these product and marketing rights are highly 
significant for the Group, they are tested annually for impairment. The com-
pany has determined that most of the amortisation is attributable to selling 
costs, as the intangible assets classified as product rights are primarily related to 
marketing rights. The product and licensing rights are not related to any inven-
tory cycle or production, nor is it necessary to otherwise bring the product to 
its current location and condition. The rights enable Sobi to market and sell 
certain products. The use of rights is not consumed in a manufacturing process 
but over a useful life that corresponds to the related product’s length of rele-
vance on the market. 
The assumption that has the greatest impact on the future value is projected 
sales growth. It is based on assumptions about underlying growth and future 
product development, and expanded applications for the drug. If the 
company’s assumptions regarding product development and expanded appli-
cations for any drugs prove incorrect, this could indicate that the product right 
is impaired. The other assumptions made when testing product rights for 
impairment are presented in Note 17. Taxes
Deferred tax is estimated and measured according to the principles described 
in Note 2. Under Swedish tax rules, any future tax losses may be carried forward 
indefinitely. Deferred tax assets on losses are recognised when it is probable 
they can be utilised against future taxable profit. Previously recognised deferred 
tax assets on losses that are not likely to be of benefit to the Group are reduced. 
Foreign tax rates were used for measurement.
Assumptions for the calculation of pension benefits
The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension expenses is 
based on the actuarial assumptions specified in Notes 2 and 29.
Inventory
Obsolescence
Sobi operates within the pharmaceuticals industry, an industry regulated and 
controlled by several authorities within Sweden and internationally. The com-
pany also cooperates with external parties within Sweden and internationally 
which monitor and evaluate its operations. All stocks of finished products are 
evaluated continuously in terms of product shelf life. Inventories consist of raw 
materials for production, drug substance and finished product for stocks of 
Alprolix, Ammonaps, Doptelet, Elocta, Gamifant, Kepivance, Kineret, Orfadin, 
Synagis and other products. No provision is made for obsolescence of these 
stocks. The shelf life of inventory stocks can vary over time. This can lead to an 
increased risk of obsolescence: significant changes in demand for a product or 
changes to shelf life can potentially lead to an impairment. Products that are not 
approved by Quality Control are written off immediately. The remainder of the 
inventory is largely comprised of Refacto. Production of Refacto is carried out in 
two stages: cultivation and purification. If a proportion of the inventory is not 
approved by either Sobi’s or Pfizer’s Quality teams, the material is written down 
immediately. Assessments of obsolescence are adjusted regularly based on his-
torical figures and sales forecasts. Note 4, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
6445  Distribution of operating revenue
GROUP 2019 2018
Operating revenue by major revenue type
Product sales 12,441 7,362
Manufacturing 376 436
Royalties1 1,373 1,341
Service fees 58 —
Total 14,248 9,139
GROUP 2019 2018
Revenues by geographic market2
France 2,004 1,503
Germany 1,254 999
Italy 793 555
Rest of Europe 3,636 2,969
Europe 3 7,686 6,026
North America 4,587 1,309
Rest of the world 602 462
Royalties1 1,373 1,341
Total 14,248 9,139
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Operating revenue by major revenue type
Product sales 11,198 6,444
Manufacturing 376 436
Royalties1 1,373 1,341
Service fees 45 —
Total 12,991 8,221
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Revenues by geographic market2
France 1,815 1,354
Germany 1,002 866
Italy 703 438
Rest of Europe 3,377 2,860
Europe 3 6,897 5,518
North America 4,266 1,021
Rest of the world 455 341
Total 11,618 6,880
Royalties1 1,373 1,341
Total 12,991 8,221
1. Royalty revenue includes royalties related to our haemophilia products that are not attributable to 
a specific region according to the distribution above. All royalty refer to Sanofi sale of Eloctate and 
Alprolix.
2. The geographic distribution is based on where end-customers are located.
3. Sales in Sweden amounted to SEK 240 M (199).
The accounts of the Group and the Parent Company do not include revenues 
for 2019 or 2018 relating to performance obligations in previous years. Further -
more, there are no customer contracts with performance obligations that are 
recognised as contract liabilities. 
In 2019, revenues for the Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ), amounted to SEK 12,991 M (8,221) of which SEK 6,154 M (4,554) pertai-
ned to sales to Group companies. 
Estimated, unbilled accrued royalty revenue is to be classified as a contract 
asset under IFRS 15. see Note 2 and 24. GROUP 2019 2018
Operating revenue per Business Area
Elocta 4,508 3,261
Alprolix 1,463 974
Royalties 1,373 1,341
Doptelet 34 —
Manufacturing 376 436
Haematology 7,755 6,012
Kineret 1,571 1,320
Synagis 2,594 —
Gamifant 542 —
Immunology 4,706 1,320
Specialty Care 1,787 1,807
Total revenues 14,248 9,139
GROUP 2019 2018
Gross to Net
Product revenue, gross 17,192 8,933
Mandatory and contractual price reductions –4,750 –1,571
Product revenue, net 12,441 7,362
Manufacturing 376 436
Royalty 1,373 1,341
Service fee 58 —
Operating revenue 14,248 9,139
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Gross to Net
Product sale, gross 14,050 6,795
Mandatory and contractual price reductions –2,852 –351
Product sale, net 11,198 6,444
Manufacturing 376 436
Royalty 1,373 1,341
Service fee 45 —
Operating revenue 12,991 8,221
6  Segment reporting
The Group reports one operating segment, sales of pharmaceuticals. The basis 
for identifying reportable segments is the internal reporting system, whereby 
they are reported to, and monitored by, the chief operating decision-maker. 
The Group has identified its chief operating decision-maker as the CEO. Sobi 
reports revenue by geographic area. See Note 5 for more information about 
the distribution of revenues per revenue type and geographic area.
In 2019, Sobi’s largest customers are MedImmune LLC (Synagis), with reve -
nue of SEK 2,843 M (0) and Sanofi (Alprolix/Eloctate), with revenue of SEK 1,049 
M (825), corresponding to 20 and 7 per cent, respectively, of the company’s 
total revenues. 
Of the fixed assets, 51 per cent (59) are found in Sweden, 31 per cent (0) in 
the US and 14 per cent (41) in Switzerland.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
655
67  Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs of intangible and tangible assets1
GROUP 2019 2018
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of asset
Licenses and patents –38 –39
Product and marketing rights –1,305 –387
Capitalised costs –39 –23
Plant and machinery –22 –19
Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –13 –15
Other intangible and tangible assets –2 –2
Right-of-use-assets –89 —
Total –1,508 –485
Write-downs by type of asset2
Licenses and patents –18 —
Plant and machinery –32 —
Right-of-use-assets –30 —
Total –80 —
Total depreciations, amortisations and  
write-downs by type of asset –1,588 –485
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of function
Cost of goods sold –34 –13
Selling and administrative expenses –1,445 –463
Development costs –28 –9
Total –1,508 –485
Write-downs by type of function2
Cost of goods sold –16 —
Selling and administrative expenses –18 —
Utvecklingskostnader –47 —
Total –80 —
Total depreciations, amortisations and  
write-downs by type of function –1,588 –485PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of asset
Licenses and patents –3 –6
Product and marketing rights –262 –262
Capitalised costs –39 –23
Plant and machinery –19 –19
Equipment, tools and fixtures and fittings –7 –10
Other intangible and tangible assets –1 –1
Total –331 –321
Write-downs by type of asset2
Licenses and patents –18 —
Plant and machinery –32 —
Total –50 —
Total depreciations, amortisations and 
 write-downs by type of assets –381 –321
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan  
by type of function
Cost of goods sold –11 –13
Selling and administrative expenses –312 –299
Development costs –8 –9
Total –331 –321
Write-downs by type of function2
Cost of goods sold –16 —
Selling and administrative expenses –18 —
Development costs –17 —
Total –50 —
Total depreciations, amortisations and  
write-down by type of function –381 –321
1.  See Note 17 and 18 for further information. 
2. Refers to one of the clinical programmes in early stage as well as tangible assets and right-of-use 
assets for premisis used in early research that were discontinued 2019
8  Other operating income
GROUP 2019 2018
Re-invoiced costs to partners 8 5
Disposal of clinical program in early stage 46 —
Other 14 1
Total 68 6
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Re-invoiced costs to partners 8 5
Exchange-rate gains1 8 —
Disposal of clinical program in early stage 46 —
Other — —
Total 62 5
1. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2019 constituted a small loss for the group and a 
gain for the parent company, see Note 9.9  Other operating expenses
GROUP 2019 2018
Exchange-rate losses on operating  
receivables/liabilities — –2
Exchange-rate losses1 –1 —
Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets –12 –4
Other –6 0
Total –18 –6
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Exchange-rate losses on operating  
receivables/liabilities — –5
Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets –10 –3
Total –10 –7
1. . Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and in 2019 constituted a small loss for the group and a 
gain for the parent company, see Note 8.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
667
8
910  Leasing
As of 1 January, 2019, Sobi has applied IFRS 16 leases. For a description of the 
Group’s accounting policy, as applied in 2019, see further in Note 2. The Group 
reports right-of-use assets, linked to lease agreements, in the balance sheet 
under the heading tangible assets, see Note 18. The Group recognises lease 
 liabilities in the balance sheet under separate headings. For maturity analysis, 
see Note 3.
The Group mainly leases offices and cars. The contract length for premises 
is usually about 2–10 years, for cars 36–48 months. Extension options are in 
many cases entered into contracts for premises. Every quarter, an assessment 
is made of whether it is reasonable and likely that the agreements will be exten-
ded and whether any index clauses are activated for future rents. Invoiced 
 service is not included in capitalised amounts under IFRS 16. 
Reported amounts in the balance sheet related to lease agreement
GROUP 2019
Right-of-use assets
Premises 364
Vehicles 31
Total Right-of-use assets 395
Lease liabilities
Short term 99
Long term 320
Total lease liabilities 419
Reported amounts in the income statement
GROUP 2019
Depreciation and write-down of right-of-use assets
Premises1 –110
Vehicles –9
Total –119
Interest expenses –6
Short term leases and assets of low values (in administration) –7
Total amount recognised in profit for the year –132
Reported amounts in the cash flow statement
Lease payments –94
1. Write-down of SEK 30 M relates to right-of-use premises used for early-phase clinical program-
mes, terminated during the year.
Previous year lease assets and lease liabilities attributable to financial leases 
were reported in accordance with IAS 17 Leases. The assets were presented 
as part of tangible fixed assets and the liabilities as part of the Group’s liabilities 
to credit institutions. For adjustments reported at the transition to IFRS 16 as of 
1 January, 2019, see Note 28. 
Additional right-of-use assets in 2019 amounted to SEK 102 M, of which 
SEK 10 M was acquired through acquisitions. 
Changes in accounting policies
GROUP 2019
Operating lease commitments disclosed  
as at 31 December 20181 426
Reassessments –4
Discounted using the group’s incremental  
borrowing rate of 1.5% –19
Short-term leases recognised as expense –6
Lease liability, 1 January 2019 397
1. Total leasing fees for operating leases reported in 2018 in table “Lease payment  
for operating leases”.GROUP 31 Dec 2018IFRS 
adjustment 1 Jan 2019
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10,159 — 10,159
Tangible assets 136 412 548
Financial assets 286 — 286
Total non-current assets 10,581 412 10,993
Current assets
Current assets 6,602 –15 6,587
Total current assets 6,602 –15 6,587
Total assets 17,183 397 17,580
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity 9,040 — 9,040
Non-current liabilities
Lease liabilities 3 320 323
Non-current liabilities,  
non-interest bearing 1,189 –2 1,187
Total non-current liabilities 1,192 318 1,510
Current liabilities
Lease liabilities 1 81 82
Current liabilities, non-interest  
bearing 6,950 –2 6,948
Total current liabilities 6,951 79 7,030
Total equity and liabilities 17,183 397 17,580
LEASE PAYMENT FOR OPERATING LEASES
Contracted future rental payments for premises related  
to non-terminable contracts fall due:
Parent Company Group
2019 2018 2018
Within one year 60 61 81
Between 1–5 years 226 222 293
Later than 5 years — 15 24
Total 286 298 399
Rental costs premises  
for the year 61 58 76
Other contracted future minimum lease payments related  
to non-terminable contracts fall due: 
Parent Company Group
2019 2018 2018
Within one year 0 0 12
Between 1–5 years — 0 15
Later than 5 years — — —
Total 0 0 27
Rental costs other  
for the year 0 0 11noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
671011  Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of Board members and senior executives
No. of employees1
GROUP 2019of whom  
 women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
% 2018of whom 
 women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
%
Sweden2 435 66 34 468 64 36
Denmark 15 67 33 15 60 40
Finland/Baltics 8 50 50 9 56 44
Norway 5 80 20 5 80 20
UK 47 44 56 45 56 44
France 55 64 36 54 61 39
Germany 51 59 41 45 64 36
Italy 46 54 46 44 55 45
Greece 4 75 25 4 75 25
Spain 37 63 37 35 60 40
Belgium 22 45 55 22 45 55
Russia 4 75 25 5 60 40
Switzerland3 128 66 34 13 48 52
Austria 6 46 54 6 67 33
Central and  
Eastern Europe 25 49 51 21 52 48
US3 414 58 42 80 54 46
Canada 6 33 67 5 40 60
United Arab  
Emirates 27 22 78 26 15 85
Total 1,335 60 40 902 59 41
1. At 31 December 2019, the number of full-time employees was 1,335 people, while the number of 
employees at the same date was 1,377.
2. During the year, the early-phase R&D operations that were based in Sweden were discontinued.
3. Companies were acquired in the US and Switzerland during the year, which is the reason for the 
increase in staff in these countries. For further information see Note 33.
Gender composition of the Board and management
The information in the table does not include the employee representatives. 
The information refers to the conditions on the balance-sheet date.
GROUP 2019 2018
Board
Men 5 5
Women 3 3
Total 8 8
CEO and senior executives
Men 8 9
Women 3 2
Total 11 11
60% 40%GENDER COMPOSITION EMPLOYEESSalaries, other remuneration and social security costs
2019 2018
GROUP AND  
PARENT COMPANYSalaries and 
remune-
rationSocial 
 security 
costsSalaries and 
remune-
rationSocial 
 security 
costs
Parent Company 577 273 444 281
(of which pension expense) — (103) — (89)
Subsidiaries 1,171 202 647 125
(of which pension expense) — (58) — (30)
Group, total 1,748 475 1,092 406
(of which pension expense) — (161) — (119)
Salaries and other remuneration divided between Board members,  
the CEO and other employees
2019 2018
Board  
and CEOOther 
employeesBoard  
and CEOOther 
employees
Parent Company
Salaries and other  
remuneration 24 553 20 424
(of which bonus) (8) (67) (6) (69)
Subsidiaries
Salaries and other  
remuneration — 1,171 — 647
(of which bonus) — (239) — (145)
Group, total 24 1,724 20 1,071
(of which bonus) (8) (306) (6) (214)
Guidelines and remuneration 2019
The 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) resolved on remuneration guide-
lines for the company’s senior executives as set forth below, that will apply 
until the 2020 AGM. Senior executives refer to the Chief Executive Officer 
of  Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) and the managers who report to the 
Chief   Executive Officer and are members of the Executive Committee.
Objective
The objective of the guidelines is to ensure that the company can attract and 
retain the best people in order to support the vision and strategy of the com-
pany. The remuneration of senior executives is based on a total remuneration 
approach. The total remuneration should be market based, but not leading in 
relation to competitors in each local market. The peer comparisons should 
be made against a group of companies of similar size, that operate in a similar 
industry, and with similar complexity. The guidelines should enable internatio-
nal hiring and support diversity amongst the senior executives. The remunera-
tion may consist of the following components: 
• A, Base salary 
• B, Variable pay (short-term incentives) 
• C, Long-term incentives
• D, Pensions
• E, Other benefits
To the extent a member of the Board performs assignments on behalf of the 
company or another Group company, in addition to Board duties, consulting 
fees and/or other remuneration for such work shall be payable. 
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
6811Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, SEK K
2019 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chair of the Board
Håkan Björklund 1,542 1,542
Other Board members
David Allsop  585 585
Annette Clancy 632 632
Matthew Gantz 677 677
Lennart Johansson 630 630
Helena Saxon 627 627
Hans GCP Schikan 677 677
Elisabeth Svanberg 585 585
Executive Committee, 2019
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,524 8,385 2,781 0 12,722  3 33,412
Other senior executives (10–12 people)2 43,840 18,225 5,796 5,7014 8,162 3 81,724
Total 59,319 26,610 8,577 5,701 20,884 121,092
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, consisting of ten individuals in addition to the CEO, at 31 December 2019. Additional people were included in the management team during the 
year. Their remuneration is included in the table. For information on changes in management, see the Directors’ Report. The table shows the company’s costs (excluding social security contributions). For 
more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report.
2. Base salary and other benefits include agreed severance pay of SEK 4,951 K. 
3. See also allotment and fulfilment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2016 share programme, the year’s cost for Sobi is not to be equated with remuneration to employee. 
4. Other benefits includes cost for relocation.
Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, SEK K
2018 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chair of the Board
Håkan Björklund 1,388 1,388
Other Board members
David Allsop 2 367 367
Annette Clancy 592 592
Matthew Gantz 610 610
Lennart Johansson 577 577
Helena Saxon 567 567
Hans GCP Schikan 627 627
Elisabeth Svanberg2 377 377
Executive Committee, 2018 
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,107 6,278 2,516 0 7,8143 25,714 
Other senior executives (10 people)3 31,6034 16,519 3,235 1,7014 3,5813 56,639 
Total 45,815 22,797 5,751 1,701 11,395 87,458 
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, consisting of ten individuals in addition to the CEO, at 31 December 2018. The table shows the company’s costs  
(excluding social security contributions). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report.
2. David Allsop and Elisabeth Svanberg were elected new Board members at the AGM on 9 May 2018. 
3. See also allotment and fulfilment of long-term incentive programmes for the 2015 share programme.
4. Base salary and other benefits include agreed severance pay of SEK 4,463 K.Note 11, cont.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
6911Base salary
The base salary of senior executives shall be based on competence, responsi-
bility and performance. The company uses an international evaluation system 
to assess the scope and responsibilities of the various positions. 
Variable pay
The annual short-term incentive programme is based on the fulfilment of 
annual performance objectives (company-specific and individual). Payment is 
based on the fulfilment of pre-determined objectives. The annual performance 
objectives are defined in advance by the Compensation & Benefits Committee 
and approved by the Board of Directors.
These objectives are determined for the promotion of the company’s long-
term development, value creation and financial growth and shall be designed in 
a way that does not encourage an excessive risk-taking. Short-term incentives 
are limited to 100 per cent of annual gross salary for the CEO, and 60 per cent 
of fixed annual salary for other senior executives. 
Long-term incentives 
The company may introduce long-term incentive programmes for all or 
some of its employees. The aims of such a programme should be to align the 
employees’ interests with those of the shareholders, to create a long-term 
commitment to the company, to be a tool to retain and attract managers and 
top talent, to enable the participants to share the company’s long-term success 
and value creation, and to contribute to competitive total remuneration. 
Pensions
The preferred pension plan design is defined-contribution. Defined-benefit 
pension plans may be established if required by law or other regulations. In 
such cases, the defined-benefit level shall be limited to the mandatory level. 
Other benefits
Fixed salary during notice periods and severance pay, including payments for 
any restrictions on competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent 
to the base salary for two years. In addition to this restriction, the total seve-
rance payment shall be limited to the current monthly salary for the remaining 
months up to the age of 65.
Other remuneration may also be paid in extraordinary circumstances, provi-
ded that such arrangements are one-off and only concluded on a case by case 
basis for the purpose of recruiting or retaining senior executives, or as compen-
sation for extraordinary efforts in addition to the person’s ordinary duties. Such 
remuneration shall be market-based and may, for example, include a one-time 
cash payment, a support package including relocation and tax filing support, a 
retention bonus or severance payment in the event of a change in ownership, 
or similar. The remuneration shall not exceed an amount corresponding to the 
base salary for three years and not be paid more than once per year per indivi-
dual. Decisions on such remuneration shall be made by the Board based on a 
proposal from the Compensation & Benefits Committee.
Deviations from the guidelines 
The Board may decide to deviate from the above guidelines if there are special 
reasons to justify such a decision in an individual case.
Senior executives’ employment terms and remuneration
Sobi aims to offer market-based terms, which enables the company to recruit 
and retain competent personnel (for a proposal for the complete guidelines for 
2020, see the Director’s Report).
Remuneration to the Board members elected by the AGM is paid in accor -
dance with a resolution adopted by the 2019 AGM. No pensions are paid to the 
Board. 
The CEO’s remuneration is reviewed and proposed by the Chair of the Board 
together with the Compensation & Benefits Committee and approved by the 
Board. Remuneration to other members of the Executive Committee is propo-
sed by the CEO in close cooperation with the Compensation & Benefits Com-
mittee and approved by the Board. Remuneration to the CEO and other senior 
executives consists of fixed salary, variable pay in the short and long term, other 
benefits and pensions. Other senior executives refers to those individuals who 
together with the CEO form the Executive Committee. Fixed salary
Each senior executive’s area of responsibility, experience and performance 
is taken into account when determining the fixed salary. The fixed salary is 
reviewed every year.
Short-term variable pay
For the CEO, short-term variable pay in 2019 was capped at 100 per cent of 
annual gross salary. Variable pay was based on Group targets and individual 
targets established by the Board. For other senior executives, short-term 
variable pay was capped at 60 per cent of fixed salary and based on Group and 
individual targets. The expected outcome is reviewed continuously throughout 
the year and reserves are adjusted monthly. The outcome of variable pay is 
assessed on each reporting date. 
Retirement benefits
The CEO is entitled to a defined-contribution pension solution amounting to 
30 per cent of base salary. In 2019, Sobi paid out a premium of SEK 2,781 K. 
The retirement age is 65 years.
Other senior executives employed in Sweden are covered by the ITP 
plan with a retirement age at 65. They are also covered by a supplementary 
 defined-contribution pension obligation of 27 per cent of pensionable salary, 
including ITP. 
Incentive programmes
At the balance-sheet date, Sobi had five (five) active share programmes. 
To  participate in the share programmes, employees must be permanently 
employed. All programmes run for three years. The company also has three 
active cash-based programmes for employees in the US. The programmes 
have a four-year vesting period.
Long-term incentive programmes 
The 2016–2019 AGMs adopted the Board’s proposal to establish long-term 
incentive programmes. The aim has been to create long-term commitment to 
Sobi, to offer participants the opportunity to share in Sobi’s long-term success 
and value creation, and to enable the company to attract and retain senior 
executives and senior managers. The company’s long-term share-based 
 remuneration programmes are described below.
The share programmes for 2016–2019 are structured according to similar 
principles. 
• The programmes have a three-year vesting period.
• The programmes for the employees require a personal investment in Sobi 
shares, and matching shares may be allotted free of consideration. 
• The Management Programmes requires no personal investment in Sobi 
shares, but performance shares are only allotted if the programme criteria 
are met. 
• The number of performance shares that employees are entitled to receive 
differs according to the organisational level.
• One requirement for all programmes is that the employee must be per -
manently employed throughout the entire vesting period and, in the case 
of investment shares, that these are retained throughout the entire vesting 
period.
• The performance targets for the Management Programme are that the share 
price increases by a certain rate over a three-year period, and that actual 
annual sales during the vesting period must meet or exceed the budget for 
annual sales.
In 2019, the AGM resolved to introduce a share option programme for senior 
executives. The performance targets for the share option programme are a 
strike price of 105 per cent and that actual average sales must meet or exceed 
the budgets for the financial years during the vesting period. 
The relevant employees and how performance targets are formulated differ 
between programmes. Note 11, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
70112016 Share Programme (paid in 2019)
The 2016 share programmes expired in 2019. For 2016, the Board resolved that 
the following performance conditions and other vesting terms were fully met 
when the 2016 share programme was redeemed on 28 October 2019. In the 
Management Programme, 153,250 shares with a market value of SEK 23.5 M 
were allotted. In the All Employee Programme, 55,007 shares with a market 
value of SEK 8.4 M were allotted. The performance target was a 15–75 per cent 
increase in the share price from the volume-weighted share price ten days 
prior to roll-out of the programme. The performance outcome is 0 if the share 
price is below 15 per cent, with a straight-line allotment for 15–75 per cent. 
When Sobi’s 2016 share programme was introduced, a number of employ-
ees, including former CEOs and other senior executives in the Group, were 
legally prohibited from participating in the programme as they had access to 
insider information at that particular time. In view of the legal obstacles and 
to safeguard Sobi’s ability to attract and retain senior executives, the Board 
decided to establish a long-term cash-based incentive programme instead, 
effective from 1 January 2017. The programme expired on 31 December 2019 
and the targets for 2017, 2018 and 2019 were fully met.
2016 Cash-Based Programme (paid in 2019)
The 2016 AGM approved a long-term cash-based programme for all employ-
ees in the US and Canada. The programme consists of two components: a 
time-based component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component 
(50 per cent) based on two performance targets. The first performance target 
(50 per cent) is that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent over 
a four-year period. The second performance target (50 per cent) is that sales 
in North America must be at least 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a 
four-year period. The programme expired in 2019 and the outcome for share 
price performance was 100 per cent, the outcome for sales was also achieved 
in full. 
2017 Share Programme
The 2017 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and one programme for other employees. 
Participation in the programme for other employees requires personal invest-
ment in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the Management Pro-
gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price 
performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, 
the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 
at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased 
by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line 
allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 
40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenues during the vesting 
period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenues. The performance 
target was achieved for 2017, 2018 and 2019. The maximum possible allotment 
of shares is 740,059. Participants in the All Employee Programme are allotted 
two matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of 
matching shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares 
they have acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 41,668.
2017 Cash-Based Programme
The 2017 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all 
employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in 
the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based 
component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) 
based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perfor -
mance target (50 per cent) is that sales in North America must be at least  
95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period.2017 Share Programme
Number of 
performance 
sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue 
 in SEK K
CEO and other senior executives  
in the Group (5) 228,130 — 7,521 
Total 228,130 — 7,521 
2018 Share Programme
The 2018 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Par -
ticipation in the programme for other employees requires personal investment 
in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the Management Pro-
gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price 
performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, 
the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 
at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased 
by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line 
allotment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 
40 per cent of performance shares, actual annual revenues during the vesting 
period must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenues. The performance 
target was achieved for 2018 and 2019. The maximum possible allotment of 
shares is 715,346. Participants in the All Employee Programme are allotted two 
matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching 
shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have 
acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 38,490. 
During the roll-out of the 2018 share programme, a number of employees 
were insiders and not therefore eligible to participate in the programme. In light 
of this, the Board approved the roll-out of LTI 2018B for these employees and 
for new employees since the roll-out of LTI 2018A. The maximum allotment 
of shares in LTI 2018B programme is 31,944 for mangement and 3,838 for 
employees. 
2018 Cash-Based Programme
The 2018 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all 
employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in 
the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based 
component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) 
based on two performance targets. The first performance target (50 per cent) 
is that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year 
period. The second performance target (50 per cent) is that sales in North 
America must be at least 95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year 
period.
2018 Share Programme
Number of 
performance 
sharesNumber of 
matching 
sharesValue 
 in SEK K
CEO and other senior executives  
in the Group (9) 238,523 — 11,317
Total 238,523 — 11,314Note 11, cont.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
7111Expensing of the 2017–2019 Share Programmes is calculated using the following parameters:
Start date End dateNumber of 
matching 
sharesNumber of 
performance  
sharesService, 
in monthsFair value of 
matching 
shareFair value of  
performance  
share 1Fair value of  
performance  
share2Expected  
employee 
turnover, %Max. 
allotment  
of sharesForfeited 
shares 
2019
2017 Share Programme:1 
All Employee 9 May 2017 9 May 2020 41,668 n/a 36 136.85 n/a n/a 5 41,668 2,598 
2017 Share Programme:2 
Management 19 May 2017 19 May 2020 n/a 740,059 36 n/a 54.95 136.85 6740,059 26,470 
2018 Share Programme:1 
All Employee 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 38,490 n/a 36 184.32 n/a n/a 7 38,490 2,460 
2018 Share Programme:2 
Management 11 May 2018 11 May 2021 n/a 715,346 36 n/a 79.75 184.32 7715,346 26,686 
2018B Share Programme: 
All Employee 1 Nov. 2018 1 Nov. 2021 3,838 n/a 36 185.6 n/a n/a 7 3,838 152 
2018B Share Programme: 
Management 1 Nov. 2018 1 Nov. 2021 n/a 31,944 36 n/a 66.92 185.6 7 31,944 1,817
2019 Share Programme:1 
All Employee 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 41,726 n/a 36 179.26 n/a n/a 7 41,726 560 
2019 Share Programme:2 
Management 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 n/a 807,824 36 n/a 67.75 173.5 7807,824 18,963 
1. Fair value of performance shares linked to share price development, see 2017, 2018 and 2019 Share Programmes above.
2. Fair value of performance shares linked to revenues, see 2017, 2018 and 2019 Share Programmes above.
Volatility is measured as the standard deviation of the expected return on the share price, based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices for Sobi’s  
ordinary share over the past three years. 2019 Share Programme
The 2019 AGM approved a long-term share programme covering the CEO, 
senior executives and managers, and a programme for other employees. Par -
ticipation in the programme for other employees requires personal investment 
in Sobi’s ordinary shares, referred to as “saving shares” in the programme. 
After a three-year lock-up period: Participants in the Management Pro-
gramme are allotted performance shares contingent upon a certain share price 
performance. For a maximum allotment of 60 per cent of performance shares, 
the price of Sobi’s ordinary share, adjusted for any dividends, must increase by 
at least 50 per cent. If the share price, adjusted for any dividends, has increased 
by 15–50 per cent, the programme participants will receive a straight-line allot-
ment of performance shares. For a maximum allotment of the remaining 40 per 
cent of performance shares, actual annual revenues during the vesting period 
must meet or exceed the budget for annual revenues. 100 per cent of the per -
formance target for 2019 was achieved. The maximum possible allotment of 
shares is 807,824. Participants in the All Employee Programme are allotted two 
matching shares for each saving share. To qualify for the allotment of matching 
shares, programme participants must have retained the saving shares they have 
acquired. The maximum possible allotment of shares is 41,726.
2019 Employee Option Programme
In May 2019, the AGM resolved that, in addition to the right to a long-term share 
programme, a share option programme would be launched in accordance with 
the Board’s proposal covering the CEO and a maximum of 15 members of the 
Sobi Group’s Executive Committee, and 15 pre-selected key individuals in the 
Sobi Group. The programme comprises 25 people. The total number of options 
issued was 1,420,154. The vesting period is three years, followed by a two-year 
redemption period. One condition for the granting of options is a strike price 
of SEK 180.65, corresponding to 105 per cent of the volume-weighted average 
price for the Sobi share (SEK 172.05). In addition, the performance target must 
be met – that the Sobi Group’s actual average sales meet or exceed the Sobi 
Group’s target for average sales in the budget determined by the Board during 
the vesting period. The maximum value per share that may be obtained through the redemption of 
share options is limited to an amount that is five times the strike price. Should 
the share value exceed this level, the conditions must be recalculated. In the 
programme, those employees qualifying for options in Sweden may request 
that their share options be settled by the company making a cash payment 
corresponding to the excess amount of the closing price for the shareholders, 
compared with the strike price on the redemption date less any administrative 
expenses. Due to the possibility of such a choice for employees in Sweden, 
share options are classified as settled in cash for accounting purposes, in 
accordance with IFRS 2.
2019 Cash-Based Programme
The 2019 AGM adopted a long-term cash-based programme to cover all 
employees in the US and Canada, of which one senior executive participates in 
the programme. The programme consists of two components: a time-based 
component (50 per cent) and a performance-based component (50 per cent) 
based on two performance targets.
The first performance target (50 per cent) is that the share price must 
increase by at least 10 per cent over a four-year period. The second perfor -
mance target (50 per cent) is that sales in North America must be at least  
95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period.
2019 Share Programme
Number of 
performance 
sharesNumber of 
matching 
 sharesValue in  
SEK K
CEO and other senior executives  
in the Group (10) 210,891 — 8,573
Total 210,891 — 8,573Note 11, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
721112  Remuneration of auditors
GROUP 2019 2018
EY
Auditing assignments1 –9 –5
Audit activities in addition to the auditing  
assignment –1 –1
Tax consultancy 0 0
Other services 0 0
Total EY –10 –6
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
EY
Auditing assignments1 –4 –2
Audit activities in addition to the auditing  
assignment –1 –1
Tax consultancy 0 0
Other services 0 –1
Total EY –5 –4
1. Auditing assignment refers to the statutory audit in order to submit an auditor’s report and provide 
audit advice. 
13  Costs according to type of cost
GROUP 2019 2018
Raw materials and consumables –2,962 –2,056
Other external costs –2,763 –1,860
Costs for remuneration of employees –2,452 –1,616
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –1,588 –485
Other operating expenses –18 –6
Total –9,783 –6,023
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Raw materials and consumables –2,831 –1,995
Other external costs –4,404 –1,646
Costs for remuneration of employees –891 –765
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment1 –381 –321
Other operating expenses –10 –7
Total –8,517 –4,734
1. Increase in depreciation during the year is explained by acquired assets.
The above costs correspond to: Cost of goods sold, selling and administrative 
expenses, research and development costs and other operating expenses 
in the income statement classified by function of expense.14  Financial income
GROUP 2019 2018
Interest income1 5 3
Exchange-rate gains2 — 17
Total 5 20
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Interest income, Group companies 346 20
Interest income, other 2 1
Exchange-rate gains2 — 13
Total 348 35
1. According to effective interest method. 
2. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net and amounted to a loss in 2019, and a gain in 2018.  
See Note 15. For 2019, SEK 0 M (–48) is attributable to derivatives measured at fair value through 
profit or loss. Other items are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
15  Financial expenses
GROUP 2019 2018
Interest expense, borrowings1 –182 –16
Interest expense, other2 –59 –40
Exchange-rate losses3 –31 —
Management costs1 –18 –2
Other –1 –1
Total –291 –60
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Interest expense, Group companies –11 –11
Interest expense, borrowings1 –184 –16
Interest expense, other2 –30 –40
Exchange-rate losses3 –42 —
Management costs1 –18 –2
Other –1 –1
Total –287 –69
1. According to effective interest method. 
2. Refers to interest expense on loans from Sanofi and AstraZeneca.
3. Includes realised and unrealised exchange-rate effects of SEK –42 M (0) from derivatives in 2019. noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
7312
13
14
1516  Income tax
Tax expense (–) / tax income (+) in earnings
GROUP 2019 2018
Current tax
Current tax on profit for the year1 –449 –765
Adjustment of tax prior years1 1 –1
Total current tax reported for the Group –449 –767
Deferred tax
Excess depreciation2 –805 –65
Inventories 137 65
Sale of PRV (priority review voucher)3 125 —
Acquired product rights 81 –10
Other intangible assets –8 –8
Tax loss carry-forwards –43 84
Pharmaceutical tax 11 3
Change in depreciation method — 20
Other 7 13
Total deferred tax reported for the Group –494 103
Total tax reported for the Group –942 –664
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Current tax
Current tax on profit for the year1 –318 –698
Adjustment of tax prior years1 2 –1
Total current tax reported for  
the Parent Company –316 –700
Deferred tax
Change in depreciation method — 20
Other 4 2
Total deferred tax reported for  
the Parent Company 4 22
Total tax reported for the Parent Company –313 –678Reconciliation of effective tax
GROUP 2019 2018
Profit before tax 4,247 3,082
Tax at applicable tax rate for the  
Parent Company4 –909 –678
Tax effect from non-deductable/non-taxable 
items
Utilisation of non-capitalised tax losses carry  
forward 49 —
Non-capitalised tax losses carry forward –73 —
Changed tax rate in Sweden4 31 41
Difference foreign tax rates 0 –11
Non-deductible expenses –49 –24
Adjustment of tax prior years 1 –1
Other 8 10
Total recognised effective tax for the Group –942 –664
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Profit before tax 1,431 3,060
Tax at applicable tax rate for the  
Parent Company4 –306 –673
Tax effect from non-deductable/non-taxable 
items
Changed tax rate in Sweden4 0 –1
Controlled Foreign Company taxation –2 –2
Non-deductible expenses –7 –5
Adjustment of tax prior years 2 –1
Other 1 4
Total recognised effective tax for the  
Parent Company –313 –678
1. In addition to current tax recognised in earnings, current tax of SEK –12 M (38) has been recogni-
sed in other comprehensive income, related to exchange rate effects on the Parent Company’s 
liabilities/derivates in other comprehensive income. Additionally, current tax of SEK 42 M (–) 
has been recognised directly in equity, related to the Parent Company’s long-term incentive 
programme (deferred tax of SEK 8 M has also been recognised directly in equity, see note 21 for 
other deferred tax items).
2. The increase in excess depreciation compared to 2018 relates to products aquired during the year.
3. See also note 33.
4. The current tax rate for the Swedish Parent Company amounts to 21.4 per cent (22), but is reduced 
to 20.6 per cent from 2021. Deferred tax has been valued using the applicable tax rate for the 
period that reversal/resolution is expected to occur.
Non capitalised tax loss carry-forwards
GROUP 2019 2018
Tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax 
asset has been recognised  2,212 —
Potential tax benefit  480 —
Of non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards, SEK 1,246 M are due within the 
next seven years and the other tax loss carry-forwards have an unlimited life. 
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised as it is considered uncertain if the 
tax loss carry-forwards, attributable to subsidaries and previous years, have a 
tax value to the Group.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
741617  Intangible assets and impairment testing
GROUP GoodwillLicenses  
and patentsProduct and  
marketing rights Capitalised  
costs5Ongoing  
capitalised  
costs5 Total
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 1,554 561 6,797 139 51 9,102
Investments1 — — 4,186 16 27 4,229
Disposals2 — –11 — — — –11
Reclassification — — –75 72 –2 –5
Exchange differences — 0 –59 0 — –59
Closing cost 1,554 550 10,850 227 76 13,256
Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –388 –2,172 –97 — –2,657
Amortisation — –39 –387 –23 — –449
Disposals2 — 8 — — — 8
Exchange differences — 0 — 0 — 0
Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –418 –2,559 –120 — –3,097
Closing carrying amount 1,554 132 8,291 106 76 10,159
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening accumulated cost 1,554 550 10,850 227 76 13,256
Investments1 — 3 15,686 74 260 16,023
Acquisition of business3 5,293 35 7,555 11 — 12,895
Disposals2 — –16 — –58 — –74
Reclassification — — — 3 0 3
Exchange differences –169 0 –88 0 — –257
Closing cost 6,678 572 34,003 258 336 41,846
Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –418 –2,559 –120 — –3,097
Amortisation — –38 –1,305 –39 — –1,382
Write-downs4 — –18 — — — –18
Disposals2 — 7 — 57 — 65
Exchange differences — 0 0 0 — 0
Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs — –467 –3,864 –102 — –4,434
Closing carrying amount 6,678 104 30,139 155 336 37,412
1. Investments 2019 refer to the acqusition of Synagis SEK 13,689 M, BIVV001 rights of SEK 1,817 M and capitalised IT costs. Investments 2018 were mainly related to investments in emapalumab.
2. Disposals 2019 refer to licences and various IT projects. Disposals 2018 referred to terminated contracts. 
3. Acquisition of business 2019 refers to goodwill, SEK 4,391 M related to the acquisition of Dova and SEK 902 M related to the acquisition of emapalumab. (Priority Review Voucher (PRV) was not classified 
as intangible asset). Acquired product and marketing rights refers to Doptelet, SEK 7,555 M, see Note 33. 
4. Refers to write-down of one of the early-phase clinical programmes.
5. Capitalised costs comprises IT projects and costs to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
7517PARENT COMPANY Licenses  
and patentsProduct and  
marketing rights Capitalised  
costs1Ongoing  
capitalised
 costs1 Total
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 65 4,851 132 50 5,099
Investments2 — — 16 27 43
Disposals3 –11 — — — –11
Reclassification — –75 72 –2 –5
Closing cost 54 4,776 220 75 5,125
Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs –25 –923 –93 — –1,041
Amortisation –6 –262 –23 — –292
Disposals 8 — — — 8
Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs –23 –1,185 –116 — —1,325
Closing carrying amount 30 3,591 104 75 3,801
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening accumulated cost 54 4,776 220 75 5,125
Investments2 3 1,817 74 207 2,101
Disposals3 –16 — –58 — –74
Reclassification — — 3 0 3
Closing cost 40 6,593 240 282 7,155
Opening accumulated amortisation and write-downs –23 –1,185 –116 — –1,325
Amortisation –3 –262 –39 — –304
Write-downs4 –18 — — — –18
Disposals3 7 — 57 — 65
Closing accumulated amortisation and write-downs –37 –1,447 –98 — –1,583
Closing carrying amount 3 5,146 141 282 5,572
1. Capitalised costs comprises IT projects and costs to relocate manufacturing of active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan. 
2. Investments 2019 mainly refer to the acqusition of product and marketing rights, BIVV001 of SEK 1,817 M and capitalised IT costs. Investments 2018 were mainly IT related.
3. Disposals 2019 refer to licences and various IT projects. Disposals 2018 referred to terminated contracts. 
4. Refers to write-downs of one of the early-phase clinical programmes.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
The assessment of the value of the Group’s goodwill is based on value in use for 
the smallest cash-generating unit, which for Sobi is deemed to be the Group 
(excluding ReFacto).
Cash flows are based on financial plans established by management and 
cover a five-year period. The financial plans have been established on the basis 
of past performance, experiences and market expectations. The plans includes 
assumptions about the current product development and future product 
launches. The financial plans also include assumptions of price trends, sales 
performance and cost trends. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have 
been extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2 per cent. At 31 Decem-
ber 2019, Sobi’s goodwill amounted to SEK 6,678 M (1,554). There is no indica-
tion of goodwill impairment at Group level.
The following table shows the growth rate and discount rate used before 
and after tax:
PARAMETER, % 2019 2018
Growth rate beyond the initial five-year period 2 2
Discount rate before tax 10.2 11.5
Discount rate after tax 8.0 9.0
Assumptions regarding Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC):
• Risk-free interest rate: ten-year treasury bills or comparable financial invest-
ment with the lowest possible risk. 
• Market risk premium: 6.6 per cent (6.3). 
• Beta coefficient: Sobi’s beta coefficient is 1.26 (1.31).• Interest expense: according to Sobi’s borrowing cost.
• Tax rate: according to the tax rate in Sweden, except where revenues are 
taxed in another country.
Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following variables in the 
impairment testing of goodwill: the discount rate, margin, sales volume and 
eternal growth rate. The sensitivity analysis indicates that there are good mar -
gins in the calculation.
Product and marketing rights
Significant product and marketing rights and their related development projects 
are tested annually for impairment. Products were reviewed for impairment indi-
vidually. The assessment of the value of product and marketing rights is based on 
the value in use of each individual asset. The value in use is based on cash 
flows that are expected to be generated over the remaining life of the asset.
When discounting future cash flows, the discount rate is used as described 
in the table.
When product and marketing rights are tested for impairment, a number of 
assumptions are made. These refer to forecasts of future sales revenue, costs 
attributable to each individual product, the life of the products and the discount 
rate. The review of product and marketing rights showed no indication of 
impairment.
When testing development projects for impairment in relation to product or 
marketing rights, the key parameters are future cash flows from the individual 
asset, the likelihood of achieving positive outcomes in clinical trials and 
assumptions of the best commercial outcomes. Future cash flows are esti-
mated with regard to the long and short-term development of the project and 
adjusted for the likelihood that the project will be commercialised. The earlier Note 17, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
7617in the chain of development the project is, the higher the risk. As it passes 
through the defined phases of development, the likelihood of reaching the 
market increases. The likelihood of a project passing through the relevant 
development phase successfully is assessed on the basis of the project’s scien-
tific potential to demonstrate positive results in the individual phase of the 
development process. A best-case assumption is made on the basis of the 
parameters with the greatest effect on whether the project will develop into a 
drug with the highest possible commercial potential, and on the basis of what is 
reasonable to assume about the project’s scientific profile using the informa-
tion that is currently available. The forecast period is based on the product’s 
estimated market life.
Write-downs in 2019  
In 2019, write-down of SEK 18 M was recognised for one of the early-phase 
clinical programmes. The write-down had a negative impact on intangible 
assets. There were no write-downs in 2018.
CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS RELATED TO INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Sobi has undertaken to make additional payments under certain acquisition 
and licensing agreements (often referred to as milestone payments) linked to 
the achievement of certain defined targets. The most significant agreements 
are listed below.
AGREEMENT WITH SANOFI, FORMERLY BIOVERATIV
Under the agreement between Sobi and Sanofi regarding the development 
and commercialisation of Elocta and Alprolix, Sanofi took full responsibility for 
development and production, plus associated costs, until Sobi exercised its 
opt-in right to the programmes. There are similar arrangements in place with 
Sanofi for programmes BIVV001 and BIVV002. Sobi exercised its opt-in rights 
to BIVV001 in 2019.
Under Sobi’s opt-in rights to the development and commercialisation of the 
programmes, Sobi obtained the commercial rights for Europe, North Africa, 
Russia and certain countries in the Middle East (Sobi’s territory). Sanofi has 
commercialisation rights for North America (Sanofi’s North American territory) 
and for the rest of the world excluding Sobi’s territory (Sanofi’s direct territory 
and Sanofi’s distribution territory). Sobi and Sanofi receive a royalty on each 
other’s sales of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix in the respective company’s terri-
tory according to the royalty rates set out in the table below.
Sobi elected to assume responsibility for the final regulatory process and 
other commercialisation activities in Sobi’s territory by paying a deposit of USD 
10 M per programme – for Elocta in 2014, and Alprolix in 2015.Liability arising from development programmes
On taking over commercialisation and the regulatory process, Sobi became lia-
ble to reimburse Sanofi for 50 per cent of the development and production 
costs arising for each programme from 1 October 2009.
Sobi reimbursed 100 per cent of the development activities that only bene-
fited Sobi’s territory.
Debt settlement
Sobi’s reimbursement to Sanofi for each development programme takes the 
following three forms:
• When regulatory approval was granted in the EU, a deposit of USD 10 M per 
product was transferred to Sanofi and offset against Sobi’s liability.
• With the first commercial sales of each of its products, Sobi was able to 
credit retroactive royalty revenue corresponding to the difference between 
the base rate and the 2 per cent Sobi had already received on Sanofi’s sales. 
This amount was offset against the liability and generated non-recurring 
revenue that did not affect cash flow.
• From Sobi’s first commercial sales, the royalty rates between the companies 
are adjusted until the liability has been repaid in full (see the table).
• If full payment has not been made within six years of Sanofi’s first commer -
cial sales for each programme, Sanofi is entitled to request that Sobi pay the 
remaining amount within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of the date of 
Sanofi’s first commercial sales.
Elocta
On 24 November 2015, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the European Com-
mission approved Elocta for the treatment of haemophilia A in all 28 EU mem-
ber states as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The liability for the 
development and commercialisation of Elocta was repaid in full in the third 
quarter of 2019. 
Alprolix
The total liability for the development and commercialisation of Alprolix is 
USD 185 M. On 13 May 2016, Sobi and Sanofi announced that the European 
Commission approved Alprolix for the treatment of haemophilia B in all 28 EU 
member states, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In connection with the 
approval, the deposit was transferred to Sanofi and offset against the liability. In 
connection with its first commercial sales in June 2016, Sobi credited a retro-
active royalty revenue of SEK 386 M against the liability. At 31 December 2019, 
the remaining liability was SEK 475 M (USD 51 M), corresponding to the dis-
counted value of the nominal liability, which amounted to USD 52 M.
Percentage rates for royalties and reimbursement between the companiesPercentage rates after initial commercial sales in  
Sobi’s territory if Sobi exercises its opt-in right1
Method Base rate1, %Adjusted  
royalty rate during repay-
ment period1Net royalty payment during 
the repayment period2, %
From Sobi to Sanofi based on 
net sales in Sobi’s territoryRoyalty on sales 
12 Base rate plus 5% 17
Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales  
in North AmericaRoyalty on sales 
12 Base rate minus 5% 7
Sanofi to Sobi based on net sales  
in Sanofi’s territories outside North AmericaRoyalty on sales 
17 Base rate minus 5% 12
Sanofi to Sobi based on net profit3  
from Sanofi’s distribution territory 4Royalty on net profit 
50 Base rate minus 15% 35
1. Base rate impacts earnings. Repayment of the liability comprises the difference between the base rate and the adjusted royalty.
2. Actual payments that impact cash flow.
3. Net profit relates to Sanofi’s revenue before tax from distributors (third parties), less costs incurred by Sanofi for supporting this sale.
4. Sanofi’s distribution territory pertains to the territory in which sales are conducted through a third party.Note 17, cont.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
7717BIVV001 (rFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN)
In September 2014, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development pro-
gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia A treatment BIVV001 
(rFVII-IFc-VWF-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement 
 between Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi has an exclusive opt-in right to the programme, 
and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s territory accord-
ing to the principles described above.
This right was exercised in autumn 2019 through a contract with Sanofi for 
BIVV001 where Sobi, conditional upon marketing authorisation from the Euro-
pean Commission, will pay a milestone payment corresponding to 50 per cent 
of the total development costs, estimated to be USD 280–290 M less USD 50 M 
that has already been paid. For 2019, Sobi recognised SEK 1,817 M as an intangi-
ble asset and corresponding liability, less SEK 490 M (USD 50 M) that was paid in 
2019. Fair value of the liability amounted to SEK 1,273 M at 31 December 2019.
BIVV002 (rFIXFc-XTEN)
In February 2017, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development pro-
gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia B treatment BIVV002 
(rFIXFc-XTEN) in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement between 
Sobi and Sanofi, Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the pro-
gramme, and the possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s terri-
tory according to the principles described above.
OTHER AGREEMENTS 
Doptelet
On 12 November 2019, Sobi acquired all of the outstanding shares in Dova 
Pharmaceuticals. Through the acquisition, Sobi received access to Dova’s 
commercial product Doptelet. After the acquisition, Sobi’s commitments in 
relation to Doptelet were as follows:
• Under a contract with Eisai, Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M (approximately 
SEK 1.3 billion) based on annual net sales of Doptelet, calculated per calen-
dar year. This obligation is recognised as a financial liability in Sobi’s balance 
sheet.
• Under the license agreement with Astellas, Sobi will make additional mile-
stone payments of up to USD 3 M (approximately SEK 28 M) to Astellas if cer -
tain regulatory milestones are achieved. In addition, Sobi will pay royalties to 
Astellas based on net sales of Doptelet in the corresponding mid-to-high 
single-digit percentage range.
• Under a contract with Eisai regarding commercial sales of Doptelet, Sobi will 
place some binding orders in the coming period. The minimum possible 
purchasing requirement is about USD 13 M (approximately SEK 123 M).Synagis and MEDI8897
On 23 January 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of the rights to Synagis 
(palivizumab) in the US from AstraZeneca, as well as the rights to 50 per cent of 
future earnings from the candidate drug MEDI8897 (Nirsevimab) in the US mar -
ket. The upfront consideration was approximately USD 1,500 M (SEK 13.5 bil-
lion). In addition, Sobi will pay USD 20 M (approx. SEK 186 M) in cash per year 
for 2020 and 2021 at the end of each year. These obligations are recognised as 
financial liabilities on the balance sheet. 
Provided that some terms related to sales of Synagis are met, sales-related 
milestones of up to USD 470 M (approximately SEK 4.4 billion) may be paid as 
of 2026. Sobi may also pay USD 175 M (approximately SEK 1.6 billion) when a 
Biologics License Application (BLA) for MEDI8897 is submitted to the FDA. The 
agreement also includes possible net payments of about USD 110 M (approx. 
SEK 1.0 billion) on achievement of other MEDI8897 profit and development-
related milestones. If payable, these are expected from 2023 onwards.
Emapalumab
On 18 July 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of a newly established com-
pany that owned emapalumab and related assets. Due to the acquisition, the 
previously announced license agreement with Novimmune was replaced by 
this agreement. At 31 December 2019, there were no other obligations remain-
ing from previous agreements.Note 17, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
781718  Tangible assets
GROUPPlant and 
machineryEquipment,  
tools, fixtures  
and fittingsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction 
in progressRight-of-use 
assets Total
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 463 234 15 21 — 733
Investments 2 10 2 26 — 41
Reclassification 33 6 — –39 — 1
Disposals –33 –6 –6 — — –45
Exchange differences 0 1 — — — 1
Closing cost 466 245 12 9 — 731
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and write-downs –392 –202 –5 — — –599
Depreciation –19 –15 –2 — — –36
Reclassification — –1 — — — –1
Disposals 33 6 3 — — 42
Exchange differences 0 –1 — — — –1
Closing accumulated depreciation and write-downs –377 –212 –5 — — –594
Closing carrying amount 88 33 7 9 — 136
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening accumulated cost 466 245 12 9 — 731
Changed accounting principle — — — — 412 412
Investments 18 16 — 3 92 129
Acquisition of business 19 3 3 — 10 35
Disposals –19 –85 –2 — –2 –108
Reclassification –1 –2 4 –3 — –2
Exchange differences 0 1 — — 2 3
Closing cost 483 178 16 8 515 1,200
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and write-downs –378 –212 –5 — — –594
Depreciation –22 –13 –2 — –90 –128
Write-downs1 –32 — — — –30 –62
Acquisition of business — 0 –1 — 0 –1
Disposals 18 84 1 — 0 104
Reclassification — 1 –1 — — —
Exchange differences –5 5 0 — 0 0
Closing accumulated depreciation and write-downs –418 –135 –8 — –120 –682
Closing carrying amount 65 43 8 8 395 518
1. Write-downs 2019 refer to write-down of plant and machinery and right-of-use assets related to premises used for early-phase clinical programmes terminated during the year. 
As defined in the table above, property, plant and equipment also includes right-of-use assets, i.e. leased assets prior to the adoption of IFRS 16, which came 
into effect on 1 January 2019. Associated lease liabilities are presented in Note 28 and additional information regarding leases in Note 10.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
7918PARENT COMPANYPlant and 
machineryEquipment,  
tools, fixtures  
and fittingsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction  
in progress Total
1 January–31 December 2018
Opening accumulated cost 458 202 5 21 686
Investments — — — 26 26
Disposals –33 –6 — — –39
Reclassification 33 6 — –39 —
Closing cost 458 202 5 9 674
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and write-downs –385 –185 –2 — –572
Depreciation –19 –10 –1 — –29
Disposals 33 6 — — 39
Closing accumulated depreciation  
and write-downs –371 –189 –3 — –562
Closing carrying amount 87 14 3 9 112
1 January–31 December 2019
Opening accumulated cost 458 202 5 9 674
Investments 11 1 — 3 15
Reclassification –18 –83 — — –101
Disposals — 0 — –3 –3
Closing cost 451 121 5 8 585
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and write-downs –371 –189 –3 — –562
Depreciation –19 –7 –1 — –27
Write-downs1 –32 — — — –32
Disposals 18 83 — — 101
Closing accumulated depreciation  
and write-downs –404 –113 –3 — –520
Closing carrying amount 47 8 2 8 65
1. Write-downs 2019 refer to write-down of plant and machinery used for early-phase clinical programmes terminated during the year.
19  Participations in Group companies
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Accumulated cost
At beginning of year 4,652  4,060
Investment1 4,201 592
Total 8,853 4,652
Closing book value
Accumulated impairment
At beginning of year –1,177 –1,177
Total –1,177 –1,177
Carrying amount at end of period 7,676 3,475
1. Investment for the year, SEK 4,201 M, relates to the acquisition of Dova and the investment in Sobi US Holding Corp. made up 
of three legal entities shown in the following specification. In the sub-group, the parent company Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
International AB has created two new subsidiaries, Sobi Pharma (Guangzhou) Company Limited, in China, and Swedish 
Orphan Biovitrum Unipessoal Lda, in Portugal. Last years investment of SEK 592 M referred to the acqusition of the rights to 
emapalumab, made through the swiss subsidiary. Through an internal restructuring in 2019, this subsidiary is now a subsidiary 
company to Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB. Note 18, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8018
19Specification of Parent Company and Group holdings of participations in Group companies
SUBSIDIARY/CORP. REG. NO./REGISTERED OFFICENumber of  
participations Participations, %1Carrying amount 3
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, 556329-5624, Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 3,248,584
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S, 19179079, Copenhagen, Denmark
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum SARL, 490259405, Paris, France
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic
 Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, 1024811, Turku, Finland
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.l, 5288990962, Parma, Italy
 OOO Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 5087746194520, Moscow, Russia
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS, 976313682, Trollåsen, Norway
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum S.L., B84710623, Madrid, Spain
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ltd, 4369760, Cambridgeshire, UK
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, HRB 226770, Martinsried, Germany
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AG, 284.917.678, Basel, Switzerland
  Novimmune B.V. 27278836, Amsterdam, Netherlands
 Florio GMBH, HRB 249347, Munich, Germany
 Sobi Pharma (Guangzhou) Company Limited, 91440101MA5D2D0A6G, Guangzhou, China
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Unipessoal Lda, 980 670 152, Lisbon, Portugal
SOBI Middle East FZ-LLC, 91193, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 1,000 100 132
Arexis AB, 556573-5130, Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 225,137
Sobi, Inc EIN 68-0682244, Delaware, US 1,000 100 7
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic2 1 1 8
BVBA Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 0536.217.087, Brussels, Belgium 100 100 166
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, 416986, Vienna, Austria 100 100 313
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI) Canada, Inc. 949375-1, Oakville, Canada 10,000 100 65
Sobi Single Member I.K.E, 142300401000, Athens, Greece 20,000 100 195
Sobi US Holding Corp., 7626060, Delaware, US 1,000 100 4,201,329
 Dova Pharmaceuticals Inc., 5997129, Delaware, US
  AKaRx, Inc., 20-1990243, Delaware, US
  Dova Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited, 610709, Dublin, Ireland
Total 7,675,935
1. The participation refers to the ownership of capital, which also corresponds to the proportion of the votes.
2. The remaining portion is owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB.
3. Book value i SEK K.
20  Financial assets
GROUP 2019 2018
Accumulated cost
At beginning of year 55 35
Endowment insurance1 0 14
Financial receivables 2 2
Returned deposit –3 –1
Fair value hedges –5 5
Accumulated cost 50 55
Carrying amount at end of period 50 55
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Accumulated cost
At beginning of year 52 32
Endowment insurance1 0 14
Fair value hedges –5 5
Accumulated cost 47 52
Carrying amount at end of period 47 52
1. Endowment insurance amounts to SEK 47 M as per dec 2019, for corresponding debt see Note 30.Note 19, cont.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8119
2021  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
GROUP 2019Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax 
liabilities Net
Excess depreciation — –1,338 –1,338
Inventories 318 — 318
Acquired product- and market-
rights — –2,524 –2,524
Other intangible assets 53 — 53
Tax loss carry-forwards 47 — 47
Pharmaceutical tax 17 — 17
Other 54 — 54
Total 489 –3,862 –3,372
Offsetting –136 136 —
Tax assets/liabilities, net 354 –3,726 –3,372GROUP 2018Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax 
liabilities Net
Excess depreciation — –532 –532
Inventories 181 — 181
Acquired product rights — –263 –263
Other intangible assets 61 — 61
Tax loss carry-forwards 86 — 86
Pharmaceutical tax 6 — 6
Other  28 — 28
Total 362 –795 –433
Offsetting –131 131 —
Tax assets/liabilities, net 231 –664 –433
The Parent Company’s total deferred tax asset amounted to SEK 22 M (11), 
mainly comprising a deferred tax asset of SEK 13 M (12) related to pension 
 provisions and a deferred tax asset of SEK 8 M (–) related to long-term incen-
tive programmes. Deferred tax has been valued at enacted future tax rate in 
Sweden, see Notes 2 and 16. 
Change in deferred tax
GROUP 2019Amount at  
beginning  
of yearRecognised  
in profit or lossRecognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
incomeRecognised 
directly through 
equityIncrease through 
acqusition  
of businessAmount at  
end of year
Excess depreciation –532 –805 — — — –1,338
Inventories 181 137 — — — 318
Sale of PRV (priority review voucher) — 125 0 — –125 0
Acquired product rights1 –263 81 –54 — –2,288 –2,524
Other intangible assets 61 –8 — — — 53
Tax loss carry-forwards2 86 –43 3 — — 47
Pharmaceutical tax 6 11 0 — — 17
Other 28 7 0 9 10 54
Total –433 –494 –51 9 –2,404 –3,372
1. The increase in acquired product rights compared to 2018 refer to product rights acquired during the year.
2. This year's deferred tax on loss carry-forwards relates to foreign losses accumulated during the year expected to be utilised as well as resolution of last year's deferred tax on loss carry-forwards, that has 
either been utilised or deemed to no longer have any value, see also Note 4.
GROUP 2018Amount at  
beginning  
of yearRecognised  
in profit or lossRecognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
incomeRecognised 
directly through 
equityIncrease through 
acqusition  
of businessAmount 
 at end of year
Excess depreciation –467 –65 — — — –532
Inventories 116 65 — — — 181
Acquired product rights –252 –10 –1 — — –263
Other intangible assets 69 –8 — — — 61
Tax loss carry-forwards — 84 2 — — 86
Pharmaceutical tax 3 3 0 — — 6
Change in depreciation method –20 20 — — — —
Other 15 13 0 — — 28
Total –536 103 1 — — –433
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
822122  Inventories
GROUP 2019 2018
Raw materials and consumables 13 17
Work in progress 775 581
Finished goods and goods for resale 985 686
Total 1,772 1,284
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods 
sold and amounted to SEK 2,962 M (2,056). 
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Raw materials and consumables 13 17
Work in progress 775 581
Finished goods and goods for resale 745 472
Total 1,533 1,071
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense is included in cost of goods 
sold and amounted to SEK 2,831 M (1,995).
23 Account and other receivables
GROUP 2019 2018
Account receivables 3,804 1,735
Minus:  
Provision for expected credit losses –69 –70
Account receivables, net 3,736 1,665
Tax assets 35 15
Other receivables 495 78
Total other receivables 530 93
Total account and other receivables 4,266 1,758
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Account receivables 2,410 598
Minus:  
Provision for expected credit losses –8 –8
Account receivables, net 2,402 590
Tax assets 27 1
Other receivables 422 56
Total other receivables 449 57
Total account and other receivables 2,851 647
Sobi’s single largest customers are MedImmune LLC and Sanofi, in addition to 
these, Sobi largest customers are primarily large distributors, hospitals and gov-
ernment authorities. The large customer base has a wide geographic spread, 
with no specific concentration of receivables. The Group’s exposure to future 
credit losses is continuously monitored by country and by type of counterparty. 
If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be paid, a provision is made for an 
expected credit loss in accordance with the principles described in Note 2. 
This Note also includes information about customers’ payment terms. 
At 31 December 2019, overdue customer receivables for the Group 
amounted to SEK 685 M (518), on which SEK 69 M (70) are included in the pro-
vision for future credit losses. Actual credit losses of SEK 751 K were charged to 
profit for the year, of which SEK 275 K was attributable to the Parent Company. Changes in the provisions for expected credit losses are as follows:
Expected credit losses
GROUP 2019 2018
At beginning of year –70 –35
Provision for expected credit losses –24 –41
Reversed provisions 25 6
At end of year –69 –70
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
At beginning of year –8 –8
Provisions for expected credit losses –22 –2
Reversed provisions 22 2
At end of year –8 –8
Maturity analysis
GROUP 2019 2018
Not past due 3,051 1,147
Past due 1–30 days 459 371
Past due 31–90 days 130 80
Past due 91–120 days 53 10
Past due > 121 days 43 56
Total 3,736 1,665
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Not past due 2,246 439
Past due 1–30 days 141 142
Past due 31–90 days 13 6
Past due 91–120 days 2 2
Past due > 121 days 0 1
Total 2,402 590noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8322
23Recognised amount per currency for account receivables and other 
receivables
GROUP 2019 2018
CHF 136 44
CZK 9 2
DKK 10 34
EUR 1,003 1,134
GBP 117 122
NOK 36 38
RON 7 10
SEK 807 191
USD 2,138 162
Other currencies 2 20
Total 4,266 1,758
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
CHF 85 38
CZK 9 1
DKK 10 34
EUR 238 294
GBP 0 —
NOK 36 38
RON 7 10
SEK 807 192
USD 1,662 26
Other currencies –1 14
Total 2,851 64724  Prepaid expenses and accrued income
GROUP 2019 2018
Accrued royalty revenue1 358 364
Prepaid rents 15 22
Prepaid insurance expenses 22 1
Accrued interest income 1 43
Prepaid IT licenses 25 18
Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities — 19
Other prepaid expenses 127 94
Total 548 561
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Accrued royalty revenue1 358 364
Prepaid rents 20 16
Prepaid insurance expenses 10 —
Accrued interest income — 43
Prepaid IT licenses 25 18
Prepaid fees, regulatory authorities — 19
Other prepaid expenses 86 71
Total 499 532
1. These are to be classified as contract assets under IFRS 15, no significant changes between the years. 
25  Cash and cash equivalents
2019 2018
GROUP Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 737 737 2,999 2,999
Total 737 737 2,999 2,999
2019 2018
PARENT  
COMPANY Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 431 431 2,762 2,762
Total 431 431 2,762 2,762
Cash and cash equivalents refer to funds held in bank accounts.Note 23, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8423
24
2526  Financial assets and liabilities per category
Assets measured at 
amortised costAssets measured at 
fair value through 
profit or loss Derivatives Total
31 December 2019
Assets on the balance sheet
Account receivables 3,736 — — 3,736
Endowment insurance — 47 — 47
Derivatives1 — — 57 57
Cash and cash equivalents 737 — — 737
Total 4,473 47 57 4,577
31 December 2018
Assets on the balance sheet
Account receivables 1,665 — — 1,665
Endowment insurance — 47 — 47
Derivatives1 — — 15 15
Fair value hedges — 5 — 5
Cash and cash equivalents 2,999 — — 2,999
Total 4,664 52 15 4,731
Liabilities at  
amortised costLiabilities measured  
at fair value Derivatives Total
31 December 2019
Liabilities on the balance sheet
Borrowings 16,141 — — 16,141
Lease liabilities 419 — — 419
Derivatives2 — — 60 60
Account payables 681 — — 681
Liability Sanofi — 1,273 — 1,273
Contingent consideration — 388 — 388
Milestone obligation 1,177 — — 1,177
Other liabilities 1,363 — — 1,363
Total 19,782 1,661 60 21,503
31 December 2018
Liabilities on the balance sheet
Lease liabilities 4 — — 4
Derivatives2 — — 8 8
Account payables 487 — — 487
Other liabilities 4,887 — — 4,887
Total 5,378 — 8 5,386
See Note 2 for more information about what is included in the various categories. 
1. Of the 2019 derivatives, SEK 57 M (8) is measured at fair value through profit or loss, and SEK 0 M (7) is included in cash-flow hedges. Classified as other liabilities in the balance sheet.
2. Of the derivative liabilities 2019, SEK 60 M (5) is a fair value hedge and SEK 0 M (3) is included in cash-flow hedges. Classified as other liabilities in the balance sheet.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8526Financial instruments measured at fair value
The following table shows financial instruments measured at fair value, based 
on their classification in the fair value hierarchy.  
The different levels are defined as follows:
• Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2: Observable data for the asset or liability other than the quoted prices 
included in Level 1.
• Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable 
 market data.
Fair value using significant, non-observable data (level 3) 
The table below shows the significant, non-observable data used for determin-
ing fair value in level 3 instruments.
Fair value Effect on fair value if
2019 2018Espected 
cash flowDiscount 
rateDiscount 
rate +1%Notional 
cash flow 
+10%
Contingent  
consideration 388 0 417 5% –5 39
Liability to Sanofi 1,273 0 1,473 4% –51 127
AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss
Derivatives held for sale — –4 — –4
Endowment insurances — — 47 —
Liabilities — — –1,661 —
Total assets — –4 –1,614 –4
AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss
Derivatives held for sale 2 — 2
Derivative instruments used for  
hedging purposes 4 — 4
Total assets 7 — 7
All derivatives are measured at fair value based on market data in accordance 
with IFRS. At 31 December 2019, the carrying net amount of derivatives on the 
balance sheet was SEK  –4 M (7).27 Borrowings 
During 2019, Sobi raised new credit facilities to finance the company’s acqui-
sitions of emapalumab and Dova. The loan agreement of EUR 390 M raised 
in July matures in 2021. In November, loans of additional EUR 280 M and 
SEK 3,000 M with a term of five years were raised. The company has since ear -
lier one loan agreement of EUR 870 M from 2018, as well as SEK 1,000 M that 
was originally raised in 2016. For time of expiry, see further under Note 3. The 
acqusition of Synagis in January 2019 was partly financed through the loan 
agreement of EUR 870 M from 2018. Sobi also has an overdraft facility of 
SEK 135 M with a term of up to three months.
GROUP 2019 2018
Debt to banks and credit institution 16,141 —
Total 16,141 —
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Debt to banks and credit institution 16,141 —
Total 16,141 —
Specification per currency, converted to SEK M
GROUP 2019 2018
Currency
EUR 7,669 —
SEK 5,398 —
USD 3,074 —
Total 16,141 —
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Currency
EUR 7,669 —
SEK 5,398 —
USD 3,074 —
Total 16,141 —Note 26, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8626
2728  Other liabilities, current and non-current
GROUP 2019 2018
Non-current
Liability to Sanofi 1,273 428
Liability to AstraZeneca 170 —
Milestone obligation1 1,177 —
Total 2,620 428
Current
Liability to Sanofi 475 677
Liability to AstraZeneca 178 —
Liability to Novimmune — 3,640
Unbilled goods received 77 29
Contingent consideration Dova2 388 —
Other 523 114
Total 1,641 4,459
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Non-current
Liability to Sanofi 1,273 428
Total 1,273 428
Current
Liability to Sanofi 475 677
Unbilled goods received 77 29
Other 72 26
Total 623 731
1. Under a contract with Eisai, Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M (approximately SEK 1.3 billion) based on 
annual net sales of Doptelet, calculated per calendar year. This obligation is reported as a financial 
liability of SEK 1,177 million in the balance sheet.
2. Contigent Value Right (CVR), see Note 33 for more information.
The acquisition of the rights to Synagis included a contract for Sobi to pay 
USD 20 M to AstraZeneca at the end of 2020 and 2021. These liabilities are 
measured at amortised cost on the balance sheet. 
In autumn 2019, Sobi entered into a contract with Sanofi for BIVV001, see 
further Note 17, where Sobi, conditional upon marketing authorisation from the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA), will pay a milestone payment correspond-
ing to 50 per cent of the total development costs, estimated to be USD 280–
290 M less USD 50 M that has already been paid. For 2019, Sobi recognised 
SEK 1,817 M as an intangible asset and corresponding liability, less SEK 490 M 
(USD 50 M) that was paid in 2019. The liability corresponds to expected dis-
counted liability until payment is received, and fair value amounted to 
SEK 1,273 M at 31 December 2019. 
Following EU approval of Elocta and Alprolix, Sobi acquired the rights to 
market the products in certain markets. The cost of marketing rights corre-
sponds to 50 per cent of Sanofi’s development costs for each product. After 
revision, the original nominal amounts were USD 211 M for Elocta and USD 
185 M for Alprolix. As these liabilities will be repaid over a number of years, it is 
the discounted values after the repayments that are reflected on the balance 
sheet, USD 0 M for Elocta and USD 51 M for Alprolix. Alprolix is now recognised 
as a current liability of SEK 475 M, and Elocta was repaid in full in the third quar -
ter of 2019. The right to market the products in certain markets, recorded as 
intangible assets, is initially recognised at the same value as the liabilities. If full 
payment has not been made within six years of the first commercial sale of 
each product, Sanofi is entitled to request that Sobi pay the remaining amount 
within 90 days of the sixth anniversary of Sanofi’s first commercial sale. 29  Post-employment benefits
Group employees have various forms of pension benefits, either defined-con-
tribution or defined-benefit plans. In Sweden, post-employment benefits are 
mainly funded by defined-contribution plans. At 31 December 2019, five peo-
ple in the Norwegian subsidiary, two people in the Swedish Parent Company 
and 114 people in the Swiss company acquired during the year were covered by 
defined-benefit plans, while all other employees were covered by defined-
contribution pension plans.
Defined-contribution plan by Alecta and pension benefits
For white-collar employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pen-
sion obligations for retirement and family pensions are insured through Alecta. 
According to the Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting for 
ITP 2 Plans Financed by Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined-
benefit plan. For the 2019 financial year, the company did not have access to 
sufficient information to report its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, 
plan assets and expenses, which meant that it has not been possible to report 
the plan as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore reported 
as a defined-contribution plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retire-
ment and family pension is calculated individually, and is based on factors that 
include salary, previously earned pension and expected remaining period of 
service. In the next reporting period, expected contributions for ITP 2 plans 
insured through Alecta amount to SEK 24 M (25). The Group’s share of the total 
plan contributions and the Group’s share of the total number of active mem-
bers in the plan are insignificant. 
The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a per -
centage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial 
methods and assumptions, which are not consistent with IAS 19. The collective 
funding ratio is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alec -
ta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent, 
measures should be taken to create the right conditions for the ratio to return 
to the normal range. If the ratio is low, an appropriate measure could be to raise 
the agreed price for new policies and extensions of existing benefits. If the ratio 
is high, premium reductions could be introduced. At the end of 2019, Alecta’s 
surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 148 per cent (142).
Some current and former executives are not covered by the premium, so 
a direct pension is used for that part of the premium which is not deductible. 
A direct pension is secured by the company undertaking an endowment insur -
ance policy which is credited to the executive. 
Defined-benefit pension plan 
The defined-benefit pension obligations are calculated annually on the bal-
ance-sheet date, based on actuarial principles. Sobi has a defined-benefit pen-
sion plan for the subsidiaries in Norway, Switzerland and for two persons in the 
Parent Company in Sweden.
The present value of the obligation includes special payroll tax, in accord-
ance with IAS 19, for the Swedish, Norwegian and Swiss pension plans.
Pension expenses are recognised under the items of selling costs, adminis-
trative expenses and research and development costs. 
Risks connected to defined-benefit pension plans
Through its defined-benefit pension plans for post-employment benefits, the 
Group is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are:
Life expectancy assumption: Most of the pension commitments entail that 
the employees covered by the plan will receive life-long benefits and, accord-
ingly, the longer life expectancy assumptions will result in higher pension liabil-
ities. This is particularly significant in the Swedish plan, in which inflation 
increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy assumptions.
Inflation risk: Some of the plan’s pension commitments are linked to infla-
tion. Higher inflation leads to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, a ceiling 
has been set for the level of inflation to protect the plan against exceptional 
increases in inflation). Most of the plan assets are either unaffected by (fixed-
rate bonds), or weakly correlated with (shares) inflation, which means that an 
increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8728
29Discount rate: A decrease in the interest rate on corporate bonds will increase 
the liabilities of the plan, although this will partially be offset by an increase in 
the value of the bond holdings.
The Norwegian pension plan is covered by the Norwegian Corporate 
 Pension Act (Foretagspenjonsloven), the Swiss pension plan is covered by The 
Swiss Federal Act on Occupational Retirement, Survivor’s and Disability Pension 
Plans (BVG), and the Swedish plan is covered by the Pension Obligations Vest -
ing Act and the consortium agreement. Under the con sortium agreement, Sobi 
is required to allocate the funds required to ensure that the pension assets cor -
respond to Sobi’s share of the pension liability.
The Swedish, Norwegian and Swiss plans are based on final salary.
Changes in the defined-benefit pension obligations during  
the year are as follows: 
1 JANUARY- 
31 DECEMBER 2019Present value of 
obligationsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –39 32 –7
Acquired pension liability 
Switzerland 20191 –174 104 –69
Current service cost –6 — –6
Interest expense –1 — –1
Remeasurements:
  Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts included in interest 
expense — 1 1
  Changed financial 
 assumptions –5 — –5
  Experience-based  
assumptions –3 2 –2
Contributions:
 Employer — 6 6
 Settlements — — —
Exchange differences 1 –1 —
At end of year –227 145 –83
1. Related to business acquisition of emapamulab, see Note 33.
1 JANUARY- 
31 DECEMBER 2018Present value of 
obligationsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year –41 33 –9
Current service cost –2 — –2
Interest expense –1 — –1
Remeasurements:
  Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts included in interest 
expense — 1 1
  Changed financial  
assumptions –1 0 –1
  Experience-based  
assumptions 5 –2 4
Contributions:
 Employer 1 0 1
 Settlements — 0 0
Exchange differences 0 0 0
At end of year –39 32 –7Net obligation per country
2019 2018
Sweden –1 1
Norway –10 –8
Switzerland –72 —
Total –83 –7
Actuarial assumptions on the balance-sheet date
SWEDISH PENSION PLAN 2019 2018
Discount rate, % 1.2 2.3
Expected annual inflation, % 2.0 2.0
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age,  
male, years 20.8 20.8
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, 
female, years 23.4 23.4
NORWEGIAN PENSION PLAN 2019 2018
Discount rate, % 2.6 2.6
Expected annual inflation, % 1.5 1.5
Remaining life expectancy  
after retirement age, male, years 21.3 21.3
Remaining life expectancy  
after retirement age, female, years 24.4 24.4
SWISS PENSION PLAN 2019 2018
Discount rate, % 0.2 — 
Expected annual inflation, % 0.7 — 
Remaining life expectancy  
after retirement age, male, years 22.6 — 
Remaining life expectancy  
after retirement age, female, years 24.7 — 
Demographic assumptions 
Mortality assumptions for the Swedish plans correspond to the Swedish Finan-
cial Supervisory Authority’s recommendations, which came into force on 31 
December 2007 for the Swedish pension plan, while assumptions for the Nor -
wegian plan are based on the K2013 BE mortality table, and the assumptions for 
the Swiss plan are based on the BVG2015 mortality table. On the balance-sheet 
date, Norway had five active employees and Sweden had no active employees 
and two retired employees. The retirement age is set at 65 years. 
Distribution by plan assets
2019  Quoted, % 2018  Quoted, %
Equity funds1 19 100 12 100
Interest-bearing securities 64 100 17 100
Properties 19 — 1 —
Other funds 43 — 3 —
Other — — 0 —
Total 145 32
1.  The pension and its assets are managed by Procordias Pensionsstiftelse. Some of their selected 
equity funds, such as AMF Aktiefond Sverige, have shareholdings in Sobi. Note 29, cont.
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8829Note 29, cont.
Sensitivity analysis
2019 2018
Pension commitments under current  
assumptions 227 39
Discount rate –0.5% 249 43
Discount rate +0.5% 205 36
Inflation +0.5% 235 43
Inflation –0.5% 220 39
Life expectancy after retirement –1 year 221 36
Life expectancy after retirement +1 year 231 41
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption, with 
all other assumptions remaining constant. 
In practice, this is highly unlikely to occur and some of the changes 
 in the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the 
defined-benefit obligations to significant actuarial assumptions, the same 
method (present value of the defined-benefit obligation applying the projected 
unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when 
calculating the pension liability recognised on the balance sheet.
Other information
For the 2020 financial year, contributions to plans for post-employment bene-
fits are expected to be SEK 1,641 K (1,439). The weighted average maturity of 
the obligation is an estimated 33.5 years. 
30  Provisions
Group Parent Company
2019 2018 2019 2018
Provision at beginning of year 97 98 80 82
Endowment insurance1 0 14 — 14
Cash-based incentive  
programme2 0 –17 0 –17
Commitments, leases 0 0 0 —
Restoration reserve3 — 0 0 0
Changes in pension commit-
ments 79 –2 4 —
Other 2 4 0 —
Provisions at 31 December 179 97 84 80
1. On the balance-sheet date in 2019, endowment insurance amounted to SEK 47 M. For cor -
responding assets, see Note 20.
2. The Long-Term Cash-Based Incentive Programme in 2018 referred to programmes expired in 
2019 and was therefore reclassified during 2018. See Note 11 for further information.
3. Sobi will restore the rented property Paradiset 14 to an acceptable condition with consideration for 
the operations conducted by the company, in accordance with the Rental Agreement (IAS 16). At 
31 December 2019, the company recognised a provision of SEK 34 M on the balance sheet.
Group Parent Company
2019 2018 2019 2018
Non-current portion 177 96 84 80
Current portion 2 2 — —
Total provisions 179 97 84 8031  Accrued expenses and deferred income
GROUP 2019 2018
Provision for vacation pay and  
bonuses, incl. social security contributions 426 322
Accrued social security contributions 155 139
Accrued royalty expense 230 184
Accrued manufacturing costs 152 107
Accrued R&D costs 181 129
Accrued interest expense 98 4
Accrued consulting and travel costs 72 59
Accrued discounts 650 260
Pharmaceutical tax 108 140
Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report1 24 3
Accrued costs of items sold 36 23
Co-Promotion 277 77
Other accrued expenses 632 163
Total 3,039 1,610
1. Accrued audit costs for 2019 includes audit costs related to aquisitions during the year.
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Provision for vacation pay and bonuses, 
 incl. social security contributions 171 182
Accrued social security contributions 94 83
Accrued royalty expense 226 184
Accrued manufacturing costs 152 107
Accrued R&D costs 172 99
Accrued interest expense 70 4
Accrued consulting and travel costs 15 29
Accrued discounts 83 66
Pharmaceutical tax 74 53
Accrued costs for audit and Annual Report1 5 1
Accrued costs of items sold 5 4
Co-Promotion 277 76
Other accrued expenses 227 81
Total 1,570 969noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
8929
30
3132  Pledged assets and contingent liabilities
GROUP 2019 2018
Pledged assets
Endowment insurance 47 47
Other pledged assets 1 1
Total 48 48
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Pledged assets
Endowment insurance 47 47
Other pledged assets 0 0
Total 47 47
PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018
Contingent liabilities
Guarantee commitment 24 96
Total 24 96
Guarantees for 2019 for subsidiaries relate to general guarantees up to a speci-
fied amount and relate to all types of credit, such as rental guarantees, credit 
cards, etc., that the subsidiary in question may hold.
TAX AND LEGAL DISPUTES
Legal disputes
Sobi is involved in a number of disputes, a not-uncommon situation for 
 pharmaceutical companies. None of these is currently considered material. 
33 Acquisitions
Dova
Sobi completed the acquisition of Dova 12 November 2019. Following the 
completion of Sobi’s tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding shares of 
Dova for USD 27.50 per share plus one non-transferable contingent value right 
(CVR) entitling Dova’s previous shareholders to an additional USD 1.50 per 
share, conditional upon the FDA’s approval of Doptelet for the treatment of 
chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT). Through the acquisition, 
Sobi received access to Dova’s commercial product Doptelet. Dova became an 
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sobi through the aqusition.
 If Dova had been included in the Group throughout 2019, sales would have 
increased by SEK 121 M and EBITA decreased by SEK 472 M. Transaction costs 
of SEK 92 M were paid and are included under administrative expenses in the 
income statement, and are part of operating cash flow on the cash flow state-
ment.
GROUP Final PPA
Agreed purchase price 8,414
Contingent Value Right (CVR) 404
Consideration transferred 8,818
Assets
Intangible assets 7,555
Other assets 61
Cash 444
Total assets 8,060
Other liabilites and provisions –1,687
Deferred tax –1,946
Total liabilities –3,633
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 4,427GROUP Final PPA
Goodwill 1 4,391
Consideration transferred 8,818
Analysis of cash flows in asqusition
Contingent consideration purchase price2 –404
Net cash acquired with the business –444
Acquisition of business, net of cash 7,969
1. Recognised goodwill is mainly attributable to securing know-how and employees with cutting-
edge expertise for future development, and earning potential related to follow-up indications for 
Doptelet. 
2. Contingent Value Right (CVR).
Emapalumab
18 July 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of emapalumab and related assets 
and liabilities. 
As part of the acquisition of emapalumab, Sobi obtained:
• All emapalumab-related assets, including intellectual property (IP), patent 
rights, data and know-how.
• All employees involved in the clinical and biopharmaceutical development 
of emapalumab.
• Options for the shared financial rights of the immuno-oncology product 
candidates NI-1701 and NI-1801.
• A priority review voucher (PRV) in the FDA’s expedited review programme for 
companies investing in orphan drugs, which reduces application fees for 
future products and shortens the review period. In September 2019, the PRV 
was sold for a total consideration of USD 95 M. 
The acquisition consideration amounted to CHF 515 M (SEK 4,911 M), of which 
CHF 400 M was already committed under the exclusive license agreement for 
emapalumab. 
GROUP Final PPA
Agreed purchase price 4,914
Redemtion of previous commitment1 –3,802
Deferred tax 469
Consideration transferred 1,581
Assets
Intangible assets 88
Tangible assets 19
Inventories 34
Priority Review Voucher (PRV)2 892
Cash 3
Total assets 1,037
Liabilities
Other liabilities and provisions –245
Deferred tax –113
Total liabilities –358
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 679
Goodwill3 902
Consideration transferred 1,581
Analysis of cash flows in acquisition
Net cash acquired with the business –3
Cash paid 4,914
Acquisition of business, net of cash 4,911
1. Refers to a prior commitment of 400 MCH under the exclusive license agreement for emapalumab 
and was recognised as a current liability.
2. The PRV was sold in September 2019.
3. Recognised goodwill is mainly attributable to securing know-how and employees with cutting-
edge expertise for future development, and earning potential related to follow-up indications for 
emapalumab. 
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
9032
33Sobi’s costs did not increase after the acquisition of emapalumab and related 
assets and liabilities, compared with the periods after the acquisition of the 
global rights.
Transaction costs of SEK 18 M were expensed and are included in adminis-
trative expenses in profit or loss and are part of operating cash flow on the cash 
flow statement.
GROUP Dova Emapalumab Total
Compilation of acquired assets 
and liabilities
Goodwill 4,391 902 5,293
Other intangible assets 7,555 88 7,643
Priority Review Voucher (PRV) — 892 892
Other assets 61 53 114
Cash 444 3 447
Total assets 12,451 1,938 14,389
Other liabilites and provisions –2,091 –3,557 –1,466
Deferred tax –1,946 582 2,528
Total liabilities –4,037 –2,975 1,062
Total acquired assets and  
liabilities 8,414 4,913 3,327
Net cash acquired with the  
business –444 –3 –447
Acquisition of business  
net of cash 7,969 4,911 12,880
34  The share
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital was SEK 165 M, distributed between 
299,977,839 shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55. The issue of 24,193,092 
shares related to the Synagis acquisition has increased equity by SEK 4,513 M. 
All shares issued on the balance-sheet date were ordinary shares. Ordinary 
shares carry one vote per share. The company held 5,678,099 ordinary shares 
in treasury on the balance-sheet date. The own shares item corresponds to 
1.9 per cent of the total number of shares in the company.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before dilution is calculated by dividing earnings attributable 
to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding during the period, excluding shares held in treasury.
To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential 
ordinary shares.
2019 2018
Earnings attributable to Parent Company share-
holders (in SEK K) 3,304,479 2,417,795
Weighted average number of ordinary  
shares outstanding (000s) 292,649 269,524
Weighted average numbers of ordinary shares 
outstanding exclusive the issue regarding the 
acquisition of Synagis (000s) 269,980 —
Undiluted earnings per share  
(SEK per share) 11.29 8.97
Undiluted earnings per share, adjusted  
(SEK per share) 11.89 8.97
Diluted earnings per share  
(SEK per share) 11.22 8.93
Diluted earnings per share, adjusted  
(SEK per share) 11.81 8.9335  Related-party transactions
Apart from what is stated in the Notes on remuneration of senior executives 
and intra-group transactions, there have been no related party transactions.
See Note 5 for internal transactions between the Group’s subsidiaries.
36  Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting:
SEK 000S
Share premium reserve  8,904,692
Retained earnings 2,546,893
Profit for the year 1,117,739
Total 12,569,324
The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for the 2019 financial year. 
The Board proposes that the share premium reserve and retained earnings of 
SEK 12,569,324 K be carried forward.
37  Events after the balance-sheet date 
A clinical study to evaluate whether anakinra and emapalumab may relieve 
complications associated with severe COVID-19 disease was initiated.
See the Directors’ report for more information relating to COVID-19.Note 33, cont.noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
9133
34
35
36
37The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards 
(IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s 
financial position and results. The Annual Report has been prepared in accord-
ance with generally accepted accounting principles and provides a true and fair 
view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results.The Director’s Report for the Group and the Parent Company provides a fair 
view of the development of the Group and the Parent Company’s operations, 
financial position and results and describes the material risks and uncertainties 
faced by the Parent Company and the companies in the Group.
The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the  
Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2020 for adoption. 
Stockholm, 25 March 2020
 Håkan Björklund David Allsop Annette Clancy 
 Chairman Board member Board member
 Matthew Gantz Lennart Johansson Helena Saxon 
 Board member Board member Board member
 Hans GCP Schikan Elisabeth Svanberg
 Board member Board member
 Pia Axelson Kristin Strandberg
 Employee representative Employee representative
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Our auditor’s report was submitted on 25 March 2020
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorised Public Accountant
noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
92Sobi is undergoing a transformation, 
reshaping the company in order to provide 
long-term growth and value generation. This 
transformation is an essential step in achiev-
ing the vision of being recognised as a global 
leader in rare diseases.
The Board’s role in this transformation 
includes providing advice so the company 
can pursue opportunities that move it 
towards this vision. During 2019, one of 
the most important steps was the decision 
to discontinue early-stage research and 
increase focus on late-stage R&D and com-
mercialisation. That move, together with the 
acquisition of additional assets that allow the 
creation of two strong, balanced therapeutic 
areas, will power future growth.
These acquisitions were largely debt-
financed, but the Board is confident that the 
strong operating cash flow will allow the repayment of debt, strengthening the bal-
ance sheet and allowing for further expan-
sion organically and through continued 
acquisitions.
As Sobi’s governance body, the Board also 
plays an important role in managing risk. A 
certain level of risk is necessary as a company 
evolves – for example moving into new 
markets, taking on debt, and acquiring com-
panies or products – and such risks must be 
well managed and balanced. We continue to 
work with the Executive Committee to assess 
and monitor risk, and find the right balance.
The composition of the Board is a major 
asset in this respect. The majority of Board 
members have expertise from the medical 
sector, and this deep and broad knowledge 
is an advantage both in terms of good cor -
porate governance and for identifying and 
assessing new avenues for value creation.Sobi made significant progress during 2019 
in the area of Sustainability, a key area of 
interest for the Board. The implementation 
of the Responsible Sourcing Programme 
will allow Sobi to ensure compliance with 
the highest standards across the value chain, 
while expanded reporting on key perfor -
mance indicators in line with Sobi’s commit-
ments under the UN Global Compact and 
the Global Reporting Initiative are improving 
transparency.
I am confident that Sobi is well placed for 
continued growth during 2020.Letter from  
the Chairman
The transformation of Sobi continued during 2019, preparing the company for 
long-term growth and value creation. By providing a clear governance structure, 
the Board supports Sobi on its growth journey.
Håkan Björklund
Chairman of the Board
leTTer from The Chairman
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
93Corporate Governance Report
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) (“Sobi”) 
is a Swedish public limited liability company 
with its registered office in Solna, Sweden. 
Sobi is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. In addi-
tion to the rules under laws or other regula-
tions, Sobi applies the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code (www.bolagsstyrning.se) 
without any deviations. This report for the 
2019 financial year is part of Sobi’s Director’s 
Report and has been audited. 
1. General meeting
Sobi’s highest decision-making body is the 
General Meeting through which shareholders 
have the right to make decisions on the com-
pany’s affairs. The Annual General Meet ing 
(AGM) must be held within six months of the 
end of the financial year, and Extraordinary 
General Meetings (EGM) may be held if the 
Board of Directors deems it necessary, or at 
the request of Sobi’s auditors or shareholders 
holding at least 10 per cent of all shares in 
the company. The AGM adopts the income 
statement and balance sheet, resolves on 
the appropriation of profits and elects Board 
members, the Chair and auditors.
The company does not apply any special 
arrangements with regard to the function of 
the general meeting, either on the basis of 
provisions in the Articles of Association or, to 
the extent they are known to the company, 
shareholder agreements.The Articles of Association state that the AGM 
is to be held in Stockholm or Solna. Sobi has 
presently not found that the composition of 
shareholders justifies any special measures 
for shareholders being able to follow the 
AGM remotely. Notice of the AGM is pub-
lished in Post- och Inrikes Tidningar and on 
the company’s website. When this has been 
done, an announcement to this effect is 
published in Svenska Dagbladet.
2019 AGM
The AGM was held on 9 May 2019 in Stock -
holm. The Meeting was attended by 385 
shareholders (264), in person or by proxy, 
representing 64.6 per cent (69.6) of the  
total number of votes. Lawyer Eva Hägg 
 was elected to chair the meeting.
The full minutes and information  
from the 2019 AGM are available at 
 www.sobi.com.
2020 AGM
The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 13 May 
2020 at Norra Latin, Drottninggatan 71B, 
Stockholm, Sweden. For more information 
about the AGM, see page 120.
Shareholders, share capital, the share  
and voting rights
At year-end, Sobi had a total of 25,227 
(23,435) shareholders. Investor AB was the largest shareholder, with 35.9 per cent (39.4) 
of the share capital and 35.9 per cent (39.4) 
of the votes. The 15 largest shareholders 
accounted jointly for 78.1 per cent (73.3) of 
the share capital and 78.1 per cent (73.3) of 
the votes. No shareholders other than Inves-
tor AB and EdgePoint Investment Group Inc. 
have a direct or indirect shareholding that 
represents one-tenth or more of the votes 
for all shares in the company. 
Sobi’s Articles of Association do not con-
tain any restrictions on how many votes each 
shareholder may cast at a general meeting. 
Nor do they contain any specific provisions 
on the appointment and dismissal of Board 
members or on amendments to the Articles 
of Association.
Conversion of shares and authorisations for 
the Board of Directors
In order to secure commitments under long-
term incentive programmes, the AGM on 
9 May 2019 adopted (i) a private placement 
of redeemable and convertible C shares, 
(ii) authorisation for Sobi’s Board to make 
decisions regarding the repurchase of issued 
C shares, and (iii) the transfer of Sobi’s own 
shares to participants in the programme.
The AGM also resolved to transfer a 
maximum of 85,775 of Sobi’s own shares in 
order to cover some expenses, mainly social 
security contributions, that may arise due to 
CHAIR  
OF THE BOARD
AND THE BOARDGENERAL MEETING1
PRESIDENT  
AND CEO
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE  SCIENTIFIC 
  COMMITTEE NOMINATION  
 COMMITTEEAUDITORS
COMPENSATION &  
BENEFITS COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE8 2
3 4 6
7 5
Corporate GovernanCe report
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
94the 2016 Incentive Programme. The AGM 
also resolved to authorise the Board of Direc -
tors to make decisions regarding the issue of 
shares and/or convertibles and/or warrants. 
At 31 December 2019, Sobi held 5,678,099 
ordinary shares in treasury. In 2019, all previ-
ously issued C shares were converted into 
ordinary shares. For more detailed informa-
tion about the total number of shares in the 
company, the number of different classes 
of shares and the votes carried by the com-
pany’s shares, refer to the section on shares 
on page 28.
Dividend policy
One of Sobi’s most important business 
objectives is to create long-term shareholder 
value. Sobi’s Board bases its evaluation of 
future dividends on several factors, including: 
• The company’s sustainable earnings trend
• The company’s expansion potential and 
access to capital
• The company’s operational risk, and 
• The dividend’s impact on liquidity
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid 
for 2019. In the short term, the company 
intends to use accrued profits to finance the 
continued development and expansion of its 
operations.
Important internal regulations
• Articles of Association
• Charter of the Board
• CEO Instructions
• Policy documents, including the Sobi 
Code of Conduct and Ethics
• Charters of the Board’s committees
Important external regulations
• Swedish Companies Act
• Swedish and international accounting law
• Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book
• Swedish Corporate Governance Code2. Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee represents 
Sobi’s shareholders and is tasked with pre-
paring the AGM’s resolutions on election and 
remuneration matters.
According to the instructions and statutes 
adopted by the AGM on 9 May 2019, the 
Nomination Committee shall consist of 
four members: the Chair of the Board and 
one representative from each of the three 
largest shareholders in terms of votes in the 
company on the last banking day of August, 
based on the shareholder register maintained 
by Euroclear Sweden AB. The composition 
of the Nomination Committee is to be 
announced at least six months before the 
AGM. The Nomination Committee observes 
the rules on the independence of Board 
members according to the Swedish Corpo-
rate Governance Code. 
In the period up to the 2020 AGM, the 
Nomination Committee has had the follow-
ing composition: Petra Hedengran (Investor 
AB), Chair of the Nomination Committee, 
Lennart Francke (Swedbank Robur Fonder 
AB), Anders Oscarsson (AMF and AMF Funds) 
and Håkan Björklund, Chair of the Board of 
Sobi. Prior to the 2020 AGM, the Nomination 
Committee held three minuted meetings 
with telephone contact between these 
meetings. As a basis for its work, the Nomina-
tion Committee has taken note of the Chair’s 
account of the Board’s work. The Nomina-
tion Committee has prepared proposals 
for the AGM, including proposals for Board 
members, the remuneration of Board and 
Committee members, an auditor and auditor 
fees, and the Chair of the AGM.
3. Board/Chair of the Board
Sobi is a biopharmaceutical company with a 
focus on marketing, developing and produc -
ing pharmaceutical products to treat rare 
diseases. The product portfolio contains both 
marketed products as well as products in 
various development phases. It is therefore 
crucial that Board members have relevant experience from marketing and research in 
the pharmaceutical industry, as well as solid 
financial expertise. The Board is responsible 
for the Group’s organisation and manage-
ment. The Board also decides on overall 
objectives, strategies, the financial structure, 
policies, appointment of the CEO, remunera-
tion of the Executive Committee, acquisi-
tions, divestments and major investments. 
The Board produces annual and interim 
reports and proposes dividends to the AGM.
The Board’s work is based on its charter, the 
CEO instructions and the principles for the 
division of work between the CEO, Chair of 
the Board, Board members and committees 
established by the Board. The Board Charter 
and the CEO instructions are revised and 
updated once a year.
Composition of the Board
The company’s Board shall comprise a 
minimum of three and a maximum of twelve 
members. The Nomination Committee 
represents the shareholders and is respon-
sible for preparing the AGM’s decisions on 
matters related to election and remuneration 
and, when applicable, procedural matters 
for the next Nomination Committee. The 
Nomination Committee has applied rule 4.1 
of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code 
as diversity policy. The objective of the policy 
is that the Board shall have an appropriate 
composition with regard to the company’s 
business, stage of development and situation 
in general, characterised by versatility and 
breadth in respect of the competence, expe-
rience and background of members elected 
by the AGM, and that efforts shall be made to 
achieve an even gender distribution. As set 
out in the Nomination Committee’s moti-
vated opinion to the 2019 AGM, the Nomina-
tion Committee has taken into account the 
importance of a well-functioning Board in 
terms of diversity, including sex, nationality, 
professional experience and experience of 
sustainability work, with the aim of achieving 
and maintaining an even gender distribution. 
Nomination Committee prior to the 2020 AGM 
Name/RepresentingVotes 
31 Dec 2019, % Votes 
31 Aug 2019, %
Petra Hedengran (Chair of the Nomination  
Committee)  
Investor AB 35.9 36.2
Lennart Francke 
Swedbank Robur Fonder AB 4.7 4.8
Anders Oscarsson 
AMF & AMF Funds 2.7 2.9
Håkan Björklund 
Chair of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 0.0 0.0
Total 43.3 43.9Corpora Te governanCe reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
95The current composition of the Board is 
the result of the Nomination Committee’s 
work prior to the 2019 AGM. The 2019 AGM 
adopted the Nomination Committee’s 
proposal that, as of the 2019 AGM, the 
Board would consist of eight AGM-elected 
members (eight re-elected at the 2019 AGM) 
and two employee representatives appointed 
by the trade union organisations (plus two 
deputies for the employee representatives). 
Three of the eight AGM-elected members 
are women. 
For more information about the Board, 
refer to pages 102–103.
Resolutions 2019 AGM
The following resolutions were adopted by 
the 2019 AGM:
• Re-election of eight Board members 
• Re-election of the Chair
• Re-election of EY as auditor
• Remuneration of the Board  
and auditors
• Remuneration guidelines for senior execu-
tives
• Discharge from liability for the Board and 
CEO for the 2018 financial year
• Instructions and Charter for the Nomina-
tion CommitteeChair of the Board
In addition to leading the Board’s work, the 
Chair of the Board’s duties include monitor -
ing the company’s performance and ensur -
ing that any important matters are addressed 
if required, in addition to those already on the 
agenda. The Chair shall consult with the CEO 
on strategic matters, participate in important 
external relationships and represent the 
company in ownership issues. The Chair is 
also responsible for ensuring that the Board’s 
work is regularly evaluated and that new 
Board members receive adequate training. 
Independence
The company meets the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code’s independence require-
ments in that a majority of the AGM-elected 
Board members are independent of the 
company and its management, and at least 
two of them are independent of major 
shareholders. The table on page 97 shows 
the independence of Board members on the 
publication date of this report.
Number of meetings
The Board shall meet at least four to six times 
per year, generally in connection with the 
publication of interim, year-end and annual 
financial statements and the AGM. Additional meetings or teleconferences are convened 
as necessary. The Board conducts an in-
depth strategic review of operations during 
at least one of the Board meetings each year. 
In 2020, the Board has planned a total of nine 
meetings. 
Board work in 2019
In 2019, the Board held a total of 13 meet-
ings, of which nine were scheduled and four 
extra meetings. Sobi’s CEO and President 
attends Board meetings, as does Sobi’s 
General Counsel, who serves as secretary at 
the meetings. Other Sobi employees have 
attended in a reporting capacity. The number 
of extra Board meetings was motivated by 
discussions concerning business develop-
ment projects. The matters addressed are 
shown in the illustration below. 
Board fees 
At the AGM on 9 May 2019, the Board 
resolved that for the period until the next 
AGM, a fee of SEK 490 K would be paid to 
each of the AGM-elected Board members 
except for the Chair, who would be paid a fee 
of SEK 1,500 K. The fees for Audit Committee 
work would be SEK 160 K to the Chair and 
SEK 100 K to each of the other members. 
Fees for the Compensation & Benefits 
Important events in Board work in 2019
BOARD MEETING  
•  Discussion around business  
development project
•  Adoption of Q4 report 
and year-end report for 2018
•  Adoption of 2019 STI programme  
and remuneration guidelines for  
Sobi’s senior executives
BOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of Q2 report 
for 2019BOARD MEETING  
•  Discussion around 
business development 
project2 BOARD MEETINGS
•  Discussion around 
business develop -
ment project, DovaBOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of Q3 
report for 2019
AUDIT COMMITTEE
•  Review of Q1 report  
for 2019AUDIT COMMITTEE  
•  Review of Sobi’s financial 
policies, and statutes and 
instructions for the Audit 
Committee
• 2018 Annual ReportBOARD MEETING  
•  Discussion around busi -
ness development project
•  Adoption of  
2018 Annual Report
BOARD MEETING
•  Discussion around business 
development project 
• AGM
2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Acquisition of emapalumab and 
related assets 
•  Strategy meetingBOARD MEETING 
•  Discussion around business 
development project, 
 emapalumab
•  Adoption of Q1 report for 2019
AUDIT COMMITTEE
•  Review of Q2 report  
for 2019AUDIT COMMITTEE  
•  Review of Q3 report 
for 2019BOARD MEETING
• Complete the acquisition of SynagisBOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of  
2020 budget
AUDIT COMMITTEE
• 2018 year-end report
• Audit report
• Review of Q4 report for 2018AUDIT COMMITTEE
•  Final audit report  
for third quarter 2019
•  Review of internal control 
and impairment testing
Corpora Te governanCe reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
96Committee’s work would be SEK 110 K to 
the Chair and SEK 60 K to each of the other 
members. Fees for Scientific Committee 
work would be SEK 110 K to the Chair and 
SEK 60 K to each of the other members. In 
2019, Board fees of SEK 5,955 K were paid, 
including remuneration for committee work. 
It was further resolved that for each physical 
Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K would be 
paid to Board members residing in Europe 
but outside the Nordic region, and USD 3 K 
to Board members residing outside Europe.
For more information about the remunera-
tion of Board members, see Note 11 and the 
table below.
Evaluation of the Board’s work 
The Board conducts an annual evaluation 
of its work. The evaluation covers working 
methods and climate, and the main focus 
of the Board’s work. This evaluation also 
focuses on access to, and the need for, 
specific skills on the Board. The evaluation 
is used as a tool for developing the Board’s 
work, and serves as input for the Nomination 
Committee’s work. Every year, the Chair initi-
ates and leads the evaluation of the Board’s 
work. In 2019, the evaluation took the form of 
individual discussions between the Chair and 
individual Board members. The evaluation 
was discussed at a Board meeting. The Chair 
presented the results of the evaluation for the 
Nomination Committee. 4. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s main task is to 
address issues related to the company’s 
accounting, auditing and financial reporting, 
and matters related to internal governance 
and control. Sobi’s Audit Committee consists 
of three members, all of whom are inde-
pendent of management: 
• Lennart Johansson (Chair)
• Hans GCP Schikan
• Helena Saxon
Sobi’s CFO serves as secretary of the Com-
mittee, but is not a member. Sobi’s CEO 
attended the meetings but is not a formal 
member. The Committee held six meetings 
during the year. Sobi’s auditor attended five 
of the meetings. The matters addressed 
are presented in the illustration on page 
96. The Committee reports regularly to the 
Board about its work. The Board members’ 
attendance and remuneration for Committee 
meetings is presented in the table below.
5. Compensation & Benefits 
 Committee
The Compensation & Benefits Committee’s 
task is to recommend guidelines and prin-
ciples for Sobi’s remuneration programmes. 
This includes a review of and proposals 
for the remuneration of senior executives, 
the long-term incentive programmes, 
pension plans and other issues related to remuneration of the company’s employees. 
Sobi’s Compensation & Benefits Committee 
consists of four members who are all inde-
pendent of management:
• Håkan Björklund (Chair)
• Helena Saxon
• David Allsop
• Matthew Gantz
Sobi’s Head of HR serves as secretary of the 
Committee, but is not a member. The Com-
pensation & Benefits Committee met seven 
times during the year. At these meetings, the 
Committee discussed and monitored annual 
salary revisions and bonus outcomes for the 
CEO and senior executives, and proposed 
guidelines and allotments for the long-term 
incentive programme. The Committee 
reports regularly to the Board about its work. 
The proposed remuneration guidelines for 
the CEO and senior executives will be pre-
sented at the AGM in May 2020 for approval 
by the shareholders. The Board members’ 
attendance and remuneration for Committee 
meetings is presented in the table below. For 
information about salaries and remuneration 
of the CEO and senior executives, see Note 11.
Remuneration, (SEK 000s) Attendance1
Independence FeesAudit  
CommitteeComp-
ensation  
& Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee Other4 Total BoardAudit  
CommitteeComp-
ensation  
& Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee
David Allsop x 482 — 53 — 50 585 12/13 — 7/7 —
Håkan Björklund x 1,442 — 100 — — 1,542 13/13 — 7/7 —
Annette Clancy x 482 — — 100 50 632 11/13 — — 4/4
Matthew Gantz x 482 — 53 — 142 677 13/13 — 6/7 —
Lennart Johansson2 482 148 — — — 630 13/13 6/6 — —
Helena Saxon2 482 92 53 — — 627 12/13 6/6 7/7 —
Hans GCP Schikan x 482 92 — 53 50 677 12/13 6/6 — 4/4
Elisabeth Svanberg x 482 — — 53 50 585 13/13 — — 4/4
Pia Axelson3 — — — — — — 7/13 — — —
Emily Chamberlain3 — — — — — — 4/13 — — —
Kristin Strandberg3 — — — — — — 2/13 — — —
Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand3 — — — — — — 10/13 — — —
1. The figures in the table show the totals for attendance/meetings. In 2019, the Board held a total of 13 meetings, of which nine were scheduled and four extra meetings. 
In 2019, the Audit Committee held six meetings, the Compensation & Benefits Committee held seven meetings and the Scientific Committee held four meetings.
2. Board member does not qualify as independent in relation to major shareholders.
3. Employee representatives. Emily Chamberlain was appointed ordinary employee representative at the AGM on 9 May 2019. Pia Axelson was appointed deputy employee representative 
at the same meeting. In October 2019, Pia Axelson and Kristin Strandberg were appointed ordinary members when Emily Chamberlain and Bo-Gunnar Rosenbrand ended their employment.
4. For each physical Board meeting, a fee of SEK 10 K is paid to members who live in Europe but outside the Nordic region, and of USD 3 K to each member who lives outside Europe. Corpora Te governanCe reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
976. Scientific Committee
The Scientific Committee’s task is to provide 
advice on scientific matters, to evaluate the 
company’s R&D strategies and to monitor 
and report to the Board on scientific trends 
and new fields of R&D. The Scientific Com-
mittee consists of three members who are 
all independent of management:
• Annette Clancy (Chair)
• Hans GCP Schikan
• Elisabeth Svanberg
Sobi’s CEO and Chief Medical Officer/Head 
of Research & Development attended the 
meetings, but are not formal members. 
Chief Medical Officer/Head of Research 
& Development served as secretary of the 
Committee. During the year, the Committee 
held four meetings. The following issues 
were discussed at these meetings:
• Development of the company’s  
R&D portfolio
• The R&D organisation
• Review of individual projects
• Review and follow-up of the  
organisation’s targets
• Budget
• Business development opportunities 
The Committee reports regularly to the 
Board about its work. 
The Board members’ attendance and 
remuneration for Committee meetings is 
presented in the table on page 97.7. CEO/Executive Committee
Sobi’s Executive Committee consists of the 
CEO and managers of the most important 
functions and regions. The Executive Com-
mittee has a broad composition of members 
with extensive experience in R&D, the mar -
kets in which Sobi operates and the produc -
tion and sale of drugs. In addition, members 
of the Executive Committee hold the 
required competence in accounting, finance, 
law and HR. In 2019, the Executive Commit-
tee held one meeting every month For more 
detailed information about the Executive 
Committee, refer to pages 104–105
Each year, the Board defines the division of 
work between the Board, the Chair and the 
CEO. Operational management is based on 
the decision-making procedure adopted by 
the Board, which is reflected in the organisa-
tional form and business model that govern 
Sobi and how the company works.
Remuneration of senior executives 
To attract and retain talented and motivated 
employees, Sobi has established long-term 
incentive programmes. All employees receive 
fixed and variable pay. The variable compo-
nent, derived from a system adopted by the 
Board, is based on both company goals and 
individual goals. The maximum outcome of 
the variable component is 100 per cent of 
gross annual salary for the CEO, and 60 per 
cent of fixed annual salary for other senior 
executives. For more information, see 
Note 11.8. Auditors
Sobi’s auditor is the auditing firm Ernst & 
Young (EY), with Authorised Public Account-
ant Björn Ohlsson as chief auditor. EY was 
elected as Sobi’s auditor until the end of 
the 2020 AGM and has been Sobi’s auditor 
since the 2014 AGM. The external auditors 
discuss the external audit plan and risk 
management with the Audit Committee. The 
auditor conducts a review of the Q3 interim 
report and an audit of the annual accounts 
and consolidated financial statements. The 
auditor also expresses an opinion on whether 
this Corporate Governance Report has been 
prepared, and whether certain disclosures 
herein are consistent with the annual 
accounts and consolidated financial state-
ments. The auditor reports the results of their 
audit of the annual accounts and consoli-
dated financial statements and their review 
of the Corporate Governance Report in the 
auditor’s report, with a separate opinion on 
the Corporate Governance Report, which 
they present to the AGM. In addition, the 
auditor presents detailed findings from their 
reviews to the Audit Committee three times 
a year, and to the full Board once a year. 
For information about remuneration of 
the company’s auditors, see Note 12.
Internal control and risk management in 
relation to financial reporting
The Board is responsible for internal control 
in accordance with the Swedish Companies 
Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board presents the most impor -
tant elements of Sobi’s internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to the 
financial reporting process below. 
Sobi has had one employee with respon-
sibility for strengthening the Group’s internal 
control since 2017. The function reports to 
the CFO and prepares an annual internal 
control plan, which is approved and moni-
tored by the CFO.
Björn Ohlsson 
Authorised Public 
Accountant
Corpora Te governanCe reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
98COSO framework
Sobi’s internal control environment follows 
the established COSO1 framework, compris-
ing the following five components:
1. Control environment
2. Risk assessment
3. Control activities
4. Information and communication
5.  Supervision including monitoring and 
evaluation
The description below shows how the five 
components of the COSO model work 
together to improve the operations’ ability 
to achieve set targets.
1. Control environment
The control environment constitutes the 
basis of Sobi’s internal control. The control 
environment mainly comprises the culture 
on which the Board and management base 
their work and communication. It is the 
foundation for all other internal governance 
and control components, bringing order and 
structure in the form of manuals, processes 
and policies.
The basis for internal control over financial 
reporting consists of a clear organisational structure, decision-making channels, powers 
and responsibilities that are documented and 
communicated in governing documents.
The guidelines for Sobi’s business activi-
ties have been compiled on the company’s 
intranet and include the following:
• The Group’s mission, vision, strategies, 
objectives and values
• Sobi’s Code of Conduct and Ethics
• Organisational structure and descriptions 
of positions
• Administrative processes, guidelines and 
instructions such as authorities, authori-
sation instructions, risk management 
policy, purchasing and investment policy, 
workplace health and safety policy, and 
accounting and reporting instructions
• Information about the company’s ethics 
and core values, expertise matters and 
the regulatory environment in which the 
company operates
2. Risk assessment
Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s busi-
ness opportunities and profits with share-
holders’ and other stakeholders’ demands for 
stable, long-term value growth and control. 
The aim of Sobi’s risk management process is to help the company create profitable 
business opportunities combined with good 
control over risk taking, and to secure and 
strengthen stakeholder confidence in Sobi, 
thereby supporting the implementation 
of the business strategy adopted by the 
company. The risk management process 
contributes with structures and systems 
to proactively identify and manage risks 
that could have a negative impact on the 
company’s ability to achieve its set targets. 
Material risks identified by Sobi are described 
on pages 44–45. 
As part of risk management, annual risk 
assessments are carried out to determine 
measures for ensuring good control of 
identified risks and, if necessary, to take 
measures to reduce risk. In regard to financial 
reporting, the operational units perform risk 
assessments together with the responsible 
controllers to identify, analyse and ensure 
control over risks in the accounting and 
reporting processes.
Corporate culture 
Management’s behaviour is 
important Governing documents
Overall framework and 
policies are in place and 
implemented
Evaluation, monitoring and follow-up
1.  Implement a process for ongoing follow-up
2.  Evaluation and reporting  
of identified deviations
Internal
Clearly functioning two-way commu-
nication between management and 
 operations 
External
Correct information to external  
stakeholders within the prescribed time1.  Identify and analyse risks that  
may impede target achievement
2.  Identify the risks with a material 
effect on operations
3.  Decide on measures and the  
people responsible
Implement control activities that 
reduce, eliminate or monitor material 
risks identified.Control  
environment
Risk  
assessmentMonitoring
Information and 
 communicationControl  
activitiesADOPTED OBJECTIVES 1
2
3 45Sobi’s COSO framework
1 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations.Corpora Te governanCe reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
993. Control activities
The aim of the control activities is to prevent 
and detect errors and deviations, and to pro-
pose corrective actions for identified control 
deficiencies. These activities include analyti-
cal monitoring and comparison of earnings 
performance, reconciliation of accounts, 
monitoring, reconciliation of Board deci-
sions, approval and accounting of business 
transactions and collaboration agreements, 
proxy and authorisation instructions, and 
recognition and measurement principles. 
The controls are carried out manually 
or are incorporated into the systems used 
(IFS, Cognos, Business Intelligence etc.).
Controllers are responsible for maintaining 
internal control in each area and ensuring 
that this is developed as necessary. They 
follow up activities using a variety of control 
measures, such as forecasting and monitor -
ing budgets, analysing earnings and balance-
sheets, reconciliations, trend analyses and 
market intelligence. The results of this work 
are reported back to the management of 
each business area, and to management and 
the Board.
4. Information and communication
Sobi has internal information and communi-
cation channels aimed at ensuring effective 
and accurate information disclosure with 
respect to financial reporting. Effective com-
munication is important for all the company’s 
employees. Guidelines for financial reporting 
are set out in the communication policy, 
which are communicated to employees and 
are available on the company’s intranet.
Meetings are held within the company 
at Executive Committee level, and at the 
level that each department head considers 
appropriate. There are also a number of large 
meetings which all employees attend.
The Board receives regular financial 
reports on the Group’s position and 
 performance.
Procedures for external information 
disclosure aim to provide the market with rel-
evant, reliable and correct information about 
Sobi’s performance and financial position. 
Sobi has a communication policy that meets 
the requirements for a listed company.Financial information is presented regularly 
in the form of:
• Year-end and interim reports
• Annual report
• Press releases about important news and 
events that could significantly affect the 
valuation of the company and the share 
price
• Presentations and telephone conferences 
for financial analysts, investors and media 
representatives on the publication date for 
year-end and interim reports and in con-
nection with the release of other important 
information
• Meetings with investors and financial 
analysts
•  All reports, presentations and press 
releases are simultaneously published on 
the Group’s website www.sobi.com when 
communicated to the market
5. Supervision, including monitoring 
and evaluation
Forms of supervision for internal control are 
determined by the Board and the Audit Com-
mittee. Sobi’s CFO is responsible for ensuring 
internal control is conducted in accordance 
with the Board’s decisions. Group-wide 
monitoring takes place at various levels.
The Board deals with all interim reports 
and annual report prior to publication, and 
monitors the review of internal control 
through the Audit Committee. The informa-
tion that is published is evaluated on a regular 
basis. The company’s external auditor reports 
their observations and their assessment of 
the internal control to the Audit Committee.
Activities in 2019 that strengthened  
internal control 
• Implementation of a new risk-manage-
ment process for the Group and an update 
of the Group’s risk management policy
• Update of the Group’s crisis management 
process, crisis plan and crisis policy
• Local visits by the internal control function 
to selected subsidiaries to provide support 
for the development of their internal 
control processes
• Development of a process for analysing 
Sobi’s partners from an ethical perspective• Creation of a Partner Code of Conduct
• Establishment of a process for incorporat-
ing the finance functions of acquired 
operations efficiently
• Mapping of processes for functions out-
side the finance function
Activities in focus for 2020 to further 
strengthen internal control
• Implementation of a new process for 
analysing Sobi’s partners
• Implementation of the Partner Code of 
Conduct
• Implementation of a new contract man-
agement system
• Continued efforts to map processes for 
functions outside the finance function
• Implementation of control activities for the 
management of material risks identified
• Local visits by the internal control function 
to selected subsidiaries to provide sup-
port for the development of their internal 
control processes
Internal audit
Sobi does not have a separate internal 
audit function, but has chosen to conduct 
monitoring and the annual evaluation of 
compliance with the internal control and risk 
management related to financial reporting 
through the existing organisation. The Board 
and the Audit Committee regularly examine 
the issue of whether an internal audit func -
tion should be established.
Breaches
Sobi did not breach any rules or generally 
accepted market practices of the trading 
venue on which its shares are traded.
Corpora Te governanCe reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
100Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2019 on pages 94–100 and that it has 
been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate 
governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in 
scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in 
Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 
2–6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and 
the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
Stockholm, March 25 2020
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorised Public Accountant audiT or’s reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
101Hans GCP Schikan 
Born 1958. 
Board member since 2011. 
Member of the Audit Commit -
tee and Scientific Committee.
Pharm D, Utrecht University. 
Other assignments: Chair of 
the Board of Directors of 
InteRNA, The Netherlands, and 
Complix, Belgium. Member of 
the Board of Directors of Phar -
varis, The Netherlands, Vicore 
Pharma, Sweden, VectivBio, 
Switzerland as well as of the 
Dutch Top Sector Life Sciences 
& Health, The Netherlands. 
Chair of the Investor Board of 
Swanbridge Capital, The 
Netherlands.
Previous positions: CEO of 
Prosensa, Director of the 
Supervisory Board of Prosensa, 
Member of the Board of Direc -
tors of Hansa Medical, Wilson 
Therapeutics and Asceneuron. 
Various senior management 
positions within former 
 Organon and Genzyme.
Shares: 4,000Kristin Sandberg
Born 1989. 
Employee representative
Board member since 2019.
Deputy board member 
since December 2018.  
Deputy representative of 
the council for negotiation and 
cooperation.
MSc Biotechnology.
Global regulatory affairs mana -
ger.
Shares: 368Håkan Björklund 
Born 1956.
Chair. Board member  
since 2016.  
Member of the Compensation 
and Benefits Committee 
(Chair).
Ph.D. from  Karolinska  Institutet, 
Stockholm.
Other assignments: Industry 
 Executive at Avista Capital 
Partners.
Previous positions: CEO of 
Nycomed. Extensive interna -
tional background in the life-
science industry, from both 
R&D and sales and marketing. 
Member of the Board of Direc -
tors of several international 
life-science companies includ -
ing Alere, Coloplast, Danisco, 
and Lundbeck. Member of the 
Board of Directors for 
 Biovitrum 2001–2007.
Shares: 15,800Elisabeth Svanberg
Born 1961.
Board member since 2018. 
Member of the Scientific 
 Committee.
MD and PhD from the Univer -
sity of Gothenburg, Sweden, 
Associate  Professor of surgery.
Other assignments: Chief 
Development Officer at Ixaltis 
SA in France since 2016. Mem -
ber of the Board of Directors 
of PledPharma AB.
Previous positions: Board 
member of Follicum AB and of 
the Swedish American Cham -
ber of Commerce New York. 
Head of the Established 
 Products Group at Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals, Development 
Leader and Head of Medical 
Affairs (Intercon) at Bristol 
Myers Squibb. Various senior 
R&D management roles at 
Serono International, 
 Switzerland.
Shares: 1,550Lennart Johansson
Born 1955. 
Board member since 2010. 
Member of the Audit 
 Committee (Chair). 
MBA from Stockholm School 
of  Economics. 
Other assignments: Member 
of the management team and 
Senior Advisor at Patricia 
Industries (division of Investor 
AB). Chair of the Board of 
Bone support AB, board mem -
ber of Vectura Fastigheter AB, 
HI3G, Atlas Antibodies AB, 
Chalmers Ventures and 
Fastighets AB Tingshuset 13.
Previous positions: Chair of 
the Board of Vectura Fastig-
heter AB, CEO in b-business 
partners and  Emerging Tech -
nologies AB. Board member 
of SAAB AB, IBX Group AB 
and Gambro Holding AB.
Shares: 21,200The Board 
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
102David Allsop
Born 1963.
Board member since 2018. 
Member of the Compensation 
and Benefits Committee.
BSc Hons Chemistry from 
Coventry University, UK. 
Other assignments: Director 
U-R-NOT Ltd.
Previous positions: Head of 
International in Amicus 
 Therapeutics Ltd. A number 
of senior positions in Biogen 
1998–2015.
Shares: 1,314Pia Axelson
Born 1962. 
Employee representative. 
Board member since 2019. 
Deputy Board member 2019. 
Board member 2017. 
 Deputy board member 2009. 
Representative of the council 
for negotiation and 
 cooperation. 
Medical laboratory scientist.
Laboratory engineer.
Shares: 7,021Annette Clancy
Born 1954. 
Board member since 2014. 
Member of the Scientific  
Committee (Chair).
BSc Hons Pharmacology 
from Bath University UK. 
Other assignments: Non-  
executive Chair of the Board, 
Enyo SA. Member of the Board 
of Directors, Obseva SA. 
 Investor at Jeito Capital, France.
Previous positions: Senior 
 Advisor, Biopharmaceutical 
Team of Frazier Healthcare. 
Chair of the Board of Directors, 
Genable  Therapeutics and 
Lysogene SA. Non-Executive 
Board Director, Silence Thera -
peutics plc. and Clavis Pharma. 
Head of Trans action and 
 Alliance Management at 
Glaxo SmithKline.
Shares: 3,414Matthew Gantz
Born 1965. 
Board member since 2012. 
Member of the Compensation 
and Benefits Committee.
BA Princeton University and 
MBA from Harvard Business 
School. 
Other assignments: CEO of 
 OxThera AB. Member of the 
Board for Pennsylvania Life 
Sciences Association and 
Marine Corps Scholarship 
Foundation.
Previous positions: Executive 
Vice President of BTG Plc, 
Founder and previously CEO 
of Acureon  Pharmaceuticals, 
President and CEO of Hydra-
biosciences Inc., VP Europe 
for Chiron’s Biopharmaceutical 
Division and General Manager 
for  PathoGenesis Europe. 
Prior to  Chiron/PathoGenesis, 
a variety of US sales and 
 marketing roles at Abbott Lab -
oratories Diagnostic Division.
Shares: 0Helena Saxon
Born 1970. 
Board member since 2011. 
Member of the Audit   
 Committee and Compensation 
and Benefits Committee.
MSc from Stockholm School 
of  Economics. 
Other assignments: CFO at 
Investor AB. Board member 
of SEB. 
Previous positions: CFO of 
 Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Vice 
President at Investor AB and 
financial analyst at Goldman 
Sachs. Board member of Aleris 
and Mölnlycke Health Care.
Shares: 15,500
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
103Executive committee
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Born 1965
Employed since 2017
PhD in Strategic Management,  University of South 
Australia, Master of Economics, South Bank Univer -
sity, London, Complementary  studies in Economics, 
London School of Economics and Political Science.
Other assignments: Chair of the Advisory Committee 
of Zentiva Group, Industrial Advisor EQT, Member of 
the Board of Directors at Sartorius AG.
Previous positions: CEO BSN Medical, President 
& CEO Gambro, EVP Commercial Operations 
Nycomed, CEO Invida, Global Head of Healthcare 
DKSH, previous managerial roles at Aventis and 
 preceding entities, member of the Board of Directors 
at Meda.
Shares: 49,000Sofiane Fahmy
Head of Southern and Western Europe  
& North Africa
Born 1972
Employed since 2013
Degree in Marketing, University of Paris XI France, 
Degree in Pharmacy University of Poitiers, France
Previous positions: General Manager Sobi France 
and North Africa, Managerial roles at Pfizer, Com -
mercial roles at GSK, Brand Manager Hospital 
 Products Roche.
Shares: 0
Torbjörn Hallberg
General Counsel and Head of Legal Affairs, Head of 
Human Resources
Born 1969 
Employed since 2018
Master of Laws from  University of Lund, Sweden.
Previous positions: Vice President, General Counsel, 
Emerging Markets at Takeda Pharmaceuticals. 
 Corporate Counsel, Nycomed Pharma. Corporate 
Counsel, Ferring Pharmaceuticals. Senior Associate/
Lawyer, Advokatfirman Lindahl.
Shares: 8,500Anne Marie de Jonge Schuermans
Head of Technical Operations
Born 1972
Employed since 2018
PhD from Swiss Federal Institute of Technology 
Zurich (ETHZ); MSc. degrees in Agriculture & Natural 
Environment from Wageningen Agricultural Univer -
sity in the Netherlands and in Environmental 
 Management & Technology from the Ecole Poly -
technique Féderale Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland.
Previous positions: Vice President Global Supply 
Chain Operations & Strategic Partnerships, Vice 
 President Global Manufacturing, Executive Board 
Member of Biogen International GmbH; more than 
20 years of experience in the life-sciences industry 
from Biogen, Stryker and Novartis. 
Shares: 0
Norbert Oppitz
Head of Immunology
Born 1967 
Employed since 2017
Dipl. BW (FH)/Business Administrator, FH Rhenania 
Palatina/Mainz, Germany
Previous positions: Member of the Executive Com -
mittee of BSN Medical in charge of Latin America. 
Member of the Executive Committee of Endo 
 Pharmaceuticals, Emerging Markets. Head of Latin 
America, Takeda/Nycomed as well as country 
 management roles at Roche Pharmaceuticals 
and Aventis Pharma.
Shares: 12,000
SOFIANE FAHMY ANNE MARIE DE JONGE SCHUERMANS
TORBJÖRN HALLBERG NORBERT OPPITZ GUIDO OELKERS
exe CuTive C ommiTTee
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
104Amy Pott
Head of North America
Born 1976
Employed since 2019
Master of Science, European Policy & Intl Relations, 
London School of Economics & BA (Hons), History, 
University of Bristol, UK.
Other assignments: Board Member Wave Life 
 Sciences.
Previous positions: Group Vice President, US 
 Franchise Head Internal Medicine & Oncology as 
well as Head of Commericial Operations at Shire. 
Vice President, Global Market Access, & Vice 
 President, Strategy, Planning & Analytics at Baxalta, 
Several managerial roles at Baxter Healthcare.
Shares: 0
Armin Reininger
Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs
Born 1957 
Employed since 2017
MD, PhD, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, 
Germany; certified specialist in Trans fusion  Medicine.
Previous positions: Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Haemophilia, Baxter. Head of Global Medical Affairs 
Haematology, Baxalta. Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Haematology, Baxalta/Shire. Senior Physician Univer -
sity Clinic Munich. Harvard Medical School & Mass. 
General Hospital,  Boston, MA. The Scripps Research 
Institute, La Jolla, CA. Professor of  Anatomy at the 
Ludwig Maximilians-University Munich, Germany.
Shares: 0Henrik Stenqvist
Chief Financial Officer
Born 1967
Employed since 2018
Degree in Finance and Business Administration from 
the University of Linköping, Sweden.
Other assignments: Board member of Midsona AB.
Previous positions: CFO Recipharm, CFO Meda, 
Regional Finance Director AstraZeneca, Finance 
Director Astra Export &Trading. Board member of 
MedCap AB
Shares: 28,000
Paula Treutiger
Head of Corporate Communication & Investor 
 Relations
Born 1967
Employed since 2019
Degree in Finance and Business Administration, 
Stockholm University, Sweden.
Previous positions: Director Corporate Communica -
tions & Investor Relations Medicover, Corporate 
Communications, IR and Sustainability Meda, 
 Portfolio Manager Swedbank, VP Corporate Com -
munications Gambro, Financial Analyst Carnegie 
and Alfred Berg.
Shares: 2,500Philip Wood
Head of Haematology, Head of North Eastern 
Europe, Middle East and Russia.
Born 1968
Employed since 2012
BSc Joint Honours degree in  Geology and Physical 
 Geo graphy, Chartered Institute of Marketing 
 certification, UK.
Previous positions: Head of European Strategic Asset 
team, Haemophilia, and Business Unit Head 
 Haemophilia, UK, Pfizer.
Shares: 29,014
Milan Zdravkovic
Head of Research & Development,  
Chief Medical Officer
Born 1970 
Employed since 2016 
MD, PhD University of Aarhus, Denmark, MSc 
 Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Surrey, UK.
Other assignments: Board member of Selma 
 Diagnostics Aps and Empros Pharma.
Previous positions: Corporate Vice President, 
Novo Nordisk. 18 years in R&D organisation, Novo 
Nordisk, responsible for diabetes, devices, growth 
hormone deficiency, obesity and immunology. 
Shares: 8,820
PHILIP WOOD HENRIK STENQVIST
PAULA TREUTIGER ARMIN REININGERAMY POTT
MILAN ZDRAVKOVICexe CuTive C ommiTTee
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
105Auditor’s report
TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SWEDISH ORPHAN BIOVITRUM AB, CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556038-9321 
Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
Opinions
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2019. The annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included 
on pages 32–92 in this document.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accord -
ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 Decem -
ber 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then 
ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated 
accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts 
Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
the group as of 31 December 2019 and their financial performance 
and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the 
Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent 
with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders 
adopts the statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet for 
the parent company and the group.Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report 
that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in 
accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the par -
ent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics 
for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes 
that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited 
services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have 
been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent 
company or its controlled companies within the EU.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profes -
sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the 
matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s respon -
sibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, 
including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included 
the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The 
results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed 
to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion 
on the accompanying financial statements. 
Valuation of product and marketing rights and goodwill 
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
Per 31 December 2019 the majority of (80 per cent or SEK 36,511 M) the Group’s 
(below referred to as the Company) total assets consist of product- and market-
ing rights as well as goodwill (hereafter referred to as “the assets”). The Company 
performs an impairment test of the assets on an annual basis and when events 
or changes in conditions indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may 
fall below the recoverable amount. Testing of impairment for the assets involve 
a number of significant assumptions and assessments, among other assessing 
the value in use through identifying cash generating units, estimating expected 
future cash flows including the growth rate and calculating weighted average 
cost of capital (“WACC”) used to discount future cash flows. The Company’s 
process for assessing impairment requirements also includes the use of manage-
ment’s and the board of director’s business plans and forecasts.
For additional information refer to the Group’s accounting principles in Note 2, 
significant assessments and assumptions in Note 4 as well as information about 
the product and marketing rights and goodwill in Note 17.
We focused on this area as the book value of the assets are significant and the 
impairment test is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Therefore, we considered 
this a key audit matter in our audit.Our audit was conducted together with our valuation specialists and included 
but was not limited to the following audit procedures:
•  obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for identifying 
 indicators of impairment,
•  evaluation of methods used by management when performing the 
 impairment test including the sensitivity analysis, and 
•  review of the assessments made by the Company when testing the 
 impairment with our focus on assumptions for which the result of 
 impairment testing is most sensitive to,
•  we have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
audiT or´s reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
106Revenue – Claw back tax and discount adjustments
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
The Group (below referred to as the Company) operates in a number of countries 
where sales to customers take place under various commercial and governmen-
tal contracts and regulations where pharmaceutical taxes and discounts exist as 
conditions for certain products. Net sales are reported after deductions from 
pharmaceutical taxes and discounts. Therefore, an estimate of the unsettled rev-
enue adjustments for pharmaceutical taxes and discounts needs to be made at 
year end.
The unsettled revenue adjustments recorded at 31 December 2019 are based 
on the Company’s best assessment of the expected outcome of future settle-
ment of the commitments at year end. The assessment is complex and often 
requires access to both internal and external market and sales data that may be 
limited at the time of assessment.
Refer to Note 2, 4 and 31 in the annual report for a detailed description of the 
revenue adjustments and the liabilities reported.
Due to the significant amount that the revenue adjustments represent in rela-
tion to the Company’s comprehensive income for the period and the complex 
assessments, revenue adjustments is a key audit matter in our audit.We have in our audit obtained an understanding of the Company’s process to 
identify and assess the unsettled revenue adjustments. We have also evaluated 
the Company’s previous accuracy in preparing forecasts and the Company’s 
calculation of liabilities for the revenue adjustment and assessed the reasona-
bleness of the assumptions and data that the Company used in its assessment. 
In certain countries we have also been supported by our internal specialists in 
our audit.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
Business combinations and asset deals
 Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
The Company and the Group (below referred to as the Company) has during 
2019 made two business combinations through acquisition of all shares in Dova 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and EmaCo SA. As described in Note 2, the Company’s 
acquisition values are determined through a purchase price allocation in con-
nection with the acquisition. Contingent consideration is included in the acquisi-
tions values and is reported at fair value at the time of acquisition. Subsequent 
effects of revaluations of contingent consideration are recognised in the state-
ment of comprehensive income. Acquired identifiable assets and liabilities 
assumed are initially recognised at fair value at the time of acquisition and the dif-
ference between the acquisition value and the fair value of identifiable assets and 
liabilities assumed is recognised as Goodwill.
In addition to the business combinations, the Company has made two for the 
Company large asset deals in the form of the marketing rights and related assets 
to Synagis in the US and the future marketing rights in Europe for BIVV001. As 
described in Note 2, asset deals are initially recorded at cost which represents the 
fair value of the paid purchase price and if applicable contingent considerations. 
Subsequent effects of revaluations of contingent considerations are recognised 
against the value of the asset excluding foreign exchange movements and inter -
est expenses. 
As described in Note 4 and 33, management is required to make assessments 
and assumptions in order to estimate the fair value of acquired assets and liabili-
ties, especially when identifying and valuing intangible assets and accounting for 
contingent consideration. In some cases, the contingent consideration is deter -
mined on the basis of the financial performance of the acquired business or asset 
over a predetermined period. The fair value measurement attributable to busi-
ness combinations and contingent considerations involves, to a large extent 
management’s judgment based on the company’s own assumptions and there-
fore constitutes a key audit matter in our audit.
Established fair values for the Company’s acquisitions are reported in Note 26, 
28 and 33. Important assumptions used in the determination of fair value are 
described in Note 4, 26, 28 and 33.Our review has included, among other things, the following audit procedures; 
• Review of significant acquisition agreements including any contingent 
considerations.
• Evaluation of management’s process for preparing purchase price allocations 
and valuation of acquired assets and liabilities.
• Evaluation of management’s assessments and valuation of identified assets 
and liabilities assumed, including contingent considerations.
• Reconciliation of purchase price allocation to accounting records.
• Evaluating, using valuation experts, used valuation methods and manage-
ment assessments and assumptions.
• We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.audiT or´s reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
107Other Information than the annual accounts  
and consolidated accounts
This document also contains other information than the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 2–31, 93 
and 102–105 and 121–124. The Board of Directors and the Managing 
Director are responsible for this other information. 
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
does not cover this other information and we do not express any form 
of assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoli-
dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified 
above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent 
with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proce-
dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in 
the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informa-
tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 
this regard.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for 
the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accord-
ance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and 
the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control 
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The 
Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the 
assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the com-
pany, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of 
Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things 
oversee the company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assur -
ance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing 
standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are consid-
ered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profes-
sional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout 
the audit. We also:• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant 
to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropri-
ate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the 
Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We 
also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and 
the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw atten-
tion in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and 
consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the 
disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities within the 
group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. 
We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of 
significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant 
deficiencies in internal control that we identified.
We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our inde-
pendence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most 
important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter.
audiT or´s reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
108Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
Opinions
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the 
company’s profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the 
profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statu-
tory administration report and that the members of the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for 
the financial year.
Basis for opinions
We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those 
standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities sec -
tion. We are independent of the parent company and the group in 
accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and 
have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropria-
tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this 
includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable consid-
ering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of 
operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s 
and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and 
position in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organiza-
tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes 
among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and 
the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s 
organization is designed so that the accounting, management of 
assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in 
a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongo-
ing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and 
instructions and among other matters take measures that are neces-
sary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and 
handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.Auditor’s responsibility
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby 
our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence 
to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any mem-
ber of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material 
respect:
• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which 
can give rise to liability to the company, or
• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, 
the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations 
of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is 
to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal 
is in accordance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions 
or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the 
proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in 
accordance with the Companies Act.
As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and main-
tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination 
of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the com-
pany’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. 
Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional 
judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that 
we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships 
that are material for the operations and where deviations and viola-
tions would have particular importance for the company’s situation. 
We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, 
actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our 
opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion 
on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s 
profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in accordance 
with the Companies Act.
Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Björn  Ohlsson 
as auditor in charge was appointed auditor of Swedish Orphan 
Biovitrum AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 
9th of May 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the 8th of 
May 2014.
Stockholm, March 25, 2020 
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorized Public AccountantaudiT or´s reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
109Sustainability Notes
Sobi performed a materiality assessment of sustainability issues 
during the autumn of 2019. For a detailed description of stakeholder 
groups and outcomes of the assessment see page 40. The assess-
ment has defined the scope of Sobi’s sustainability reporting.
Economic performance
Total revenue for 2019 was SEK 14,248 M, up 56 per cent year-on-year. The 
Immunology business was strengthened by the business acquisitions of the 
US rights for Synagis and of emapalumab. Sobi also expanded into Haema-
tology with the business acquisition of Doptelet. The growth of the portfolio 
directly contributes to our key sustainability commitment – enabling access 
to treatments to more patients in more markets. 
Direct economic value generated 
SEK M 2019 2018
Revenue 14,248 9,139
Operating costs 6,430 3,601
Employee wages & benefits 1,748 1,092
Payments to providers of capital 86 12
Payments to government1 520 507
Community investments2 23 19
Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive  
income. 
1. Includes corporate income tax (CIT) payments (i.e. no special payroll tax on pensions,  
VAT or social security contributions). Does not include other taxes such as pharmaceutical, 
environmental and individual employee’s income tax.
2. Community investments are based on costs for financial  support to patient organisations. 
The largest recipients are the World Federation of Hemophilia and the European Haemophilia 
Consortium. Patient organisations receiving support are made public on www.sobi.com. 
Indirect economic impact
Sobi reports on the humanitarian aid donation of haemophilia factor treat-
ments as a significant indirect economic impact in the stakeholder community 
and developing countries. 
Sobi and Sanofi have pledged to donate up to 1 billion IUs of coagulation 
factor to humanitarian aid between 2015–2025. Of this, 500 million IUs have 
been allocated over five years in support of the World Federation of Hemophil-
ia’s (WFH) Humanitarian Aid Program. 
Sobi’s impact is reported in accordance with the WFH’s progress report for 
this programme and is the result of Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution to the pro-
gramme. 
Number 2019 2018 2017
Total MIUs1 delivered 449 362 262
Total patients treated (cumulative) 17,223 16,885 15,072
Acute bleeds treated 42,881 37,896 40,557
Surgeries 355 461 709
Paediatric patients, % 37 39 39
1. International unitsEnvironmental performance
The scope of Sobi’s environmental impact reporting is limited to its biological 
manufacturing operations and headquarters in Sweden, and business travel. 
Reporting for 2019 includes more environmental data than has been available 
in previous reports. 
During 2019, Sobi acquired emapalumab and a laboratory operation in 
 Switzerland. In 2020, reporting will include data from all Sobi-owned pro-
duction and laboratory operations. 
Sobi’s Responsible Sourcing Programme will report on management of 
environmental impact in the contract manufacturing supply chain as of 2020.
E1. GHG Emissions 
Scope 1 and 2 include data from Sobi’s biological manufacturing operations 
and headquarters in Sweden. Reported Scope 1 emissions have reduced due to 
fewer cars in the Swedish fleet. Scope 2 emissions have over time reduced due 
to more effective use of energy at the production site in Stockholm as well as 
lower production volumes. 
The reporting base for Scope 3 was expanded in 2019 to include travel cov-
ering approximately 80 per cent of Sobi’s operations. Scope 3 has increased in 
correlation with the increasing size of the organisation as well as a more com-
prehensive data reporting base. Travel emissions originating from Sweden 
remain relatively constant compared with previous years (963 tonnes).
Greenhouse gas emissions (CO 2) (tonnes)
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Own activities  
(direct and indirect)
Total 4,326 1,323 1,204 1,334 1,097
Scope 1- Direct  
 emissions
Facilities’ energy use 2 — 3 — —
Fleet vehicles1 98 129 156 167 —
Total 100 129 159 167 —
Scope 2- Indirect 
 emissions
District heating 155 213 221 222 236
Cooling 0 0 0 0 0
Electricity 0.02 0.02 — — —
Total 155 213 221 222 236
Scope 3- Indirect 
 emissions 
Business travel 4,0702 9813 8303 9453 8613
Total 4,070 981 830 945 861
1. Includes fleet vehicles in Sweden. 
2. Includes business travel data for flight originating in Germany (DACH), Sweden (incl train and taxi), 
US, UAE, France, UK, Denmark, Belgium, Russia, Finland, Norway and Poland in falling order of 
contribution.
3. Includes business travel data for flight and taxi originating in Sweden. 
susT ainabiliTY  noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
110E3.1 Total amount of energy directly consumed
The direct energy produced on-site and consumed is generated by an emer -
gency generator that is tested each month. 2019 is the first year the generator’s 
fuel consumption at the production facilities is reported upon.
E3.2 Total amount of energy indirectly consumed
Energy consumption is regularly followed up in relation to internal perfor -
mance indicators. 
Energy-saving possibilities are regularly evaluated at the production facilities 
in Stockholm, Sweden. During 2019, ventilation adjustments were made which 
led to lower consumption of electricity. Increased use of district cooling is due 
to warmer weather over the past two years. 
E4. Energy intensity 
Total direct energy usage for in-house manufacturing per output scaling factor. 
Total direct energy usage (MWh/SEK M)
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Energy (MWh) 5,867 6,313 6,480 6,425 5,135
Revenue manufacturing 
(SEK M) 376 436 559 569 504
MWh/SEK M 15.6 14.5 11.6 11.3 10.2
E5. Energy mix
Energy consumption by source of origin and the proportion that is renewable 
are reported in note E3. 
Energy consumption
 2015   2016   2017   2018   2019   Of which renewable03,0006,0009,00012,00015,000
Electricity
renewableMWh
District
heatingFossil
fuel (oil)Cooling Total
of which
renewableEmission factors used 
Aspect Emission factor Source
Electricity, Sweden 0.003 g CO 2/kWhA mix of certified renewable 
energy sources 
Cooling, Sweden 0 g CO 2/kWhAnnual environmental report, 
District heating supplier
Heating, Sweden 77.3 g CO 2/kWhAnnual environmental report, 
District heating supplier
Heating values  
fossil fuel con-
sumption in   
facility, Sweden 35.82 GJ/m3Emission factors and heating 
 values 2020, Swedish Environ-
mental Protection Agency 
(Naturvårdsverket)
Emission factor 
fossil fuel con-
sumption in   
facility, Sweden 74.26 kg CO 2/GJEmission factors and heating val-
ues 2020, Swedish Environmen-
tal Protection Agency 
(Naturvårdsverket)
Air travel —Emission factors provided by 
flight operators and US Environ-
mental Protection Agency
Car travel —Individual factors depending on 
type of car
Rail travel —Emission factors provided by  
different train operators
E2. Emissions intensity
Emissions intensity is not considered material to Sobi and is thus not reported on.
E3. Energy usage
Energy consumption refers to operations in Sweden which includes contract 
manufacturing, in-house manufacturing and office space. The laboratory facil-
ity in Switzerland acquired in 2019 has not yet been included. 
Energy consumption (facilities’ energy use) (MWh)
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Electricity 7,518 7,694 7,852 7,687 7,048
of which renewable 7,518 7,694 7,852 7,687 7,048
District heating 2,550 2,596 2,690 2,713 2,879
of which renewable 2,015 2,051 1,991 2,116 2,130
Fossil fuel (oil)1 0.0072
Cooling 3,059 3,167 2,793 2,745 2,232
Total 13,127 13,457 13,335 13,145 12,159
1. Direct energy susT ainabiliTY  noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
111E6. Water usage
Water consumption refers to Sobi’s head office, production and research facili-
ties in Solna and Stockholm, Sweden. Water consumption is regularly followed 
up in relation to internal performance indicators. 
Water in the production facilities is not reclaimed but warm water is recycled 
from the production of steam to extract heating and cooling. 
Water consumption increased in 2018 due to a technical issue but has stabi-
lised to a normal level during 2019. 
Water consumption
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Purchased water 31,776 57,374 45,913 40,491 34,988
Reclaimed water — — — — —
Total 31,766 57,374 45,913 40,491 34,988
E7. Environmental operations
The EHS policy emphasises the importance of EHS management and states the 
basic overall principles and guidelines for managing Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) issues within Sobi. To our knowledge, there have been no con-
firmed incidents resulting in administrative and judicial sanctions for failure to 
comply with environmental laws and/or regulations in 2019.
Management of water and energy consumption, chemicals, waste and 
emissions has high priority in our production and research facilities. More 
 specific and detailed environmental guidance for the facilities is given in 
 specific standard operating principles and in the environment compliance 
 programme, which aims to support control of the environmental impact 
of the production. 
In an effort to reduce energy and water consumption by half at the Stock -
holm production site a number of initiatives in 2014 reduced energy use by 
45 per cent and water use by 60 per cent over a two-year period. The reduc -
tions achieved in 2014 remain to a great extent despite increased production 
volumes (see Sobi’s Annual Report 2016 and 2017 for details). 
E8–9. Climate oversight 
Sobi’s operations are not substantially impacted by climate-related risks. 
Related partners in the value chain with high impact are monitored within the 
risk analysis regarding climate-related risk.
E10. Climate risk mitigation 
No investment has been made in climate-related infrastructure, resilience or 
product development.E11. Waste 
Waste reporting is based on Sobi’s head office, production and research facili-
ties in Solna and Stockholm, Sweden. Waste data does not include waste from 
marketing and sales offices outside Sweden.
As of 2019, reporting of waste includes a breakdown of different waste types 
and final treatment. It can be noted that the amount of non-hazardous waste 
has decreased in recent years as a result of several measures, including digitali-
sation of deviation management and change of available archive spaces.
Office and production sites waste (tonnes)
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Total amount of waste 40 42 72 61 82
Non-hazardous waste
Recycling 6
Combustion with 
energy recovery 12.9
Other treatment 0.6
Landfill1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.021 1.6
Total 20 24 50 46 69
Hazardous waste
Recycling 12
Combustion with 
energy recovery —
Other treatment 9.1
Landfill —
Total 21 18 22 16 13
1. A limited amount of Sobi’s waste cannot be recycled and is therefore sent to landfill. The waste 
is non-hazardous and consists for example of insulation, bricks, ceramics and tiles. All waste is 
disposed of and treated by authorised companies.
Office and production sites waste
 Non-hazardous waste  Hazardous waste020406080100
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015TonnesWater consumption
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,000
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015m3
susT ainabiliTY  noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
112Social performance 
During 2019, Sobi’s commercial operations were based in Europe, North 
 America, northern Africa and the Middle East with manufacturing and labora-
tory operations in Sweden and laboratories Switzerland. In terms of number of 
employees, Sobi has grown organically as well as through acquisitions in 2019. 
The social data reported below reflects employees with a high level of educa-
tion, career opportunities and fair and respectful working conditions. In 2020, 
we will continue to monitor employee satisfaction and support organisational 
growth and further internationalisation. 
S1. CEO Pay Ratio
See note 11 for further details on CEO remuneration. 
S2. Gender pay ratio
In Sweden, our annual salary survey allows us to carry out a gender equality 
analysis, designed to prevent discrimination and promote equal rights and 
opportunities. We carefully evaluate the results in collaboration with trade 
unions, and take action when needed. We also map roles and responsibilities 
proactively to ensure that salaries and development opportunities are provided
in an equitable manner. 
S3. Employee turnover
In 2019, the business acquisition and integration of emapalumab, the Synagis 
US franchise, and Dova has added 371 new employees. The expanded fran-
chises and markets have also increased the need for additional personnel. 
 During 2019, early-stage research at the Stockholm office was discontinued 
to increase focus on and investment in late-stage development.
S4. Gender diversity
Every employee is offered equal opportunities regardless of ethnicity, age, 
 gender, religion, sexual orientation or physical ability.
Gender diversity
2019 2018 2017
% Female Male Female Male Female Male
Board 38 62 38 62 38 62
Executive 
 management 27 73 18 82 22 78
All employees 60 40 59 41 59 41
S5. Temporary worker ratio 
Typically, Sobi does not have part-time positions. Employees may be granted 
voluntary part-time equivalent employment for personal needs such as child 
care. 
Employees, contract type 
Employees1 Male Female SwedenOther 
RegionsTotal 
2019
Employees 532 803 435 900 1,335
Permanent contract 470 758 418 891 1,309
Fixed-term contract 7 19 17 9 26
1. Employee numbers are expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE). 
S6. Non-discrimination 
Sobi enforces a open and respectful workplace. Sobi’s statement against sexual 
harassment and non-discrimination is described in the Code of Conduct and 
outlined in the Discrimination policy and Global EHS Policy.S7. Injury rate 
Total number of accidents includes reports that have not led to a lost workday, 
but can include accidents that need medical treatment. Statistics include the 
Swedish operations and some contractors in Sweden. 
Investigating and identifying the cause(s) of an accident, dangerous situation 
or near miss makes it possible to take action to prevent a similar occurrence in 
the future. All employees are required to report EHS-related incidents to their 
employer; this is done through an electronic system. Managers are required to 
report serious incidents and significant EHS risks and ensure that regulatory 
requirements and internal procedures for reporting of incidents are followed. 
Injury rate 
Incidents: 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
No. of accidents 26 28 23 22 15
Lost workday injury (LWI) 0 1 0 0 0
Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0 0.39 0 0 0
LWI – Accidents that led to sick leave (in addition to the day of the accident)
LTIR – Lost time incident rate per million hours worked
S8. Global Health & Safety
Sobi enforces a global environmental health and safety policy. EHS manage-
ment is integrated in overall activities and operational control as an ordinary 
part of daily work. EHS should be regularly addressed at meetings and any EHS 
aspects regarding activities considered. All employees should be included and 
participate in day-to-day EHS work. Managers are responsible for addressing 
any concerns raised.
The joint management-worker health and safety committee operates from 
the head office and includes representatives from all operations. The commit-
tee meets quarterly and reports to the Executive Committee.
S9. Child & Forced Labour
Sobi’s statement against child and forced labour is described in the Code of 
Conduct and, specifically addressing the supply chain, in the Partner Code of 
Conduct, both of which are publicly available on www.sobi.com.
S10. Human rights
Sobi’s human rights statement is described in the Code of Conduct and, specif-
ically addressing the supply chain, in the Partner Code of Conduct, both of 
which are publicly available on www.sobi.com. 
S11. Training and education 
All Sobi employees have access to the Sobi Learning Management system and 
are assigned training based on role. The system also lists available business, 
management and product training. Sobi applies a 70:20:10 learning and devel-
opment model. Training opportunities are offered as part of the role (70), 
through interactions with others (20), and formal educational events (10). 
A strong connection between Sobi’s corporate goals and individual goals is 
important. All Sobi’s employees receive regular performance and career 
develop ment reviews. Training documentation and performance management 
is digitalised. 97 per cent completed their performance management process 
(PMP) in 2019. susT ainabiliTY  noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
113Governance performance
In 2020, we will expand the scope of our monitoring to include partners and 
suppliers within the scope of the Responsible Sourcing Programme. 
G1. Board diversity
The Nomination Committee applies Clause 4.1 of the Rules for Corporate 
 Governance in Swedish Corporate Governance Code in regard to diversity 
of the Board.
Board diversity  
2019 2018 2017
Male 5 5 4
Female 3 3 2
Nationalities 4 4 4
30–50 years 1 1 1
Over 50 years 7 7 5
Committee chairs 
Male 2 (3) 2 (3) 2 (3)
Female 1 (3) 1 (3) 1 (3) 
G2. Board Independence
See Corporate Governance Report. 
The company fulfils the Swedish Corporate Governance Code’s independence 
requirements in that a majority of the Board members elected at the Annual 
General Meeting are independent of the company and its management, and 
at least two of them are independent in relation to the Company’s major 
 shareholders.
G3. Incentivised Pay
Executives are formally incentivised to perform on sustainability in accordance 
to Renumeration guidelines in Note 11.
G4. Collective bargaining
All Sobi employees are free to form, join or refrain from joining organisations 
which represent their interests as employees. All employees are also allowed to 
bargain collectively. 48 per cent of Sobi’s employees (Sweden, Austria, France, 
Italy, Spain) are covered by collective agreements.
Employees covered by collective bargaining
Region 2019
Sweden 100 %
Europe1 28 %
North America2 0
Rest of the world 0
Total 48 %
1. Excluding Sweden
2. US and CanadaG5. Suppier Code of Conduct
In 2019, Sobi introduced a Partner Code of Conduct for vendors,  suppliers and 
partners. The Code is made publicly available on www.sobi.com. 
The Partner Code of Conduct is being implemented starting January 2020. 
The percentage of suppliers who have formally certified their compliance with 
the Code as well as the number of suppliers who have agreed to sustainability 
screening will be reported from 2020 onwards. 
G6. Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Sobi’s ethical standards are described in the Code of Conduct and, specifically 
regarding the supply chain, in the Partner Code of Conduct. Sobi’s anti-corrup-
tion policy applies to all employees.
95 per cent of Sobi’s workforce has formally certified its compliance with the 
Code of Conduct. Due to recent integration of acquired companies, this num-
ber does not take into account those employees. 
To our knowledge, no confirmed incidents of corruption were reported 
in 2019.
G7. Data privacy 
Sobi follows a Data Privacy policy made available through training. Data Privacy 
is also covered in Sobi’s Code of Conduct and is a prioritised area across Sobi.
Sobi has implemented a data privacy programme in order to promote data 
privacy compliance, including appointing a Data Protection Officer,  written 
policies and procedures, and training and education. 
In 2019, 15 personal data breach incidents were reported and resolved. 
The incidents were identified and handled within the scope of internal revi-
sions. No external actions were needed. 
G8. ESG Reporting 
Sobi publishes an annual sustainability report in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act. The report is available on www.sobi.com. 
Sustainability data is included in Sobi’s regulatory filings.
G9. Disclosure practices 
Sobi provides sustainability data to GRI Standards: Core option and UN Global 
Compact Communication on Progress. See GRI Index on pages 117–119. 
Reports and links are available on www.sobi.com. 
Sobi focuses on UN Sustainable Development Goals 3: Good health and 
well-being, 12: Responsible consumption and production and 17: Partnerships 
for the goals. See page 23. 
Sobi has begun to report progress on the UN SDGs, see pages 117–119. 
G10. External assurances 
Sobi’s Sustainability Report has not been subject to external assurance. The 
Legal sustainability report has been approved by Sobi’s auditors in line with 
requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act.
susT ainabiliTY  noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
114Regulatory approval and availability of Sobi products
Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2019
Region Alprolix1 Elocta1 Doptelet  Kineret Gamifant Orfadin
EU and EFTA states Haemophilia B Haemophilia A CLD* RA, CAPS, Still’s MAA submitted HT-1
Austria x x x x
Belgium x x x x
Bulgaria x x x x
Croatia x* x x x
Cyprus x
Czech Republic x* x x x
Denmark x x x x
Estonia x* x x
Finland x* x x x
France x x x x
Germany x x x x
Greece x x x x
Hungary x x x x
Iceland x
Ireland x x x x
Italy x x x x
Latvia x
Liechtenstein x x x x
Lithuania x
Luxembourg x x x x
Malta
Netherlands x x x x
Norway x x x x
Poland x* x x x
Portugal x* x x x
Romania x* x x
Slovakia x x x x
Slovenia x x x x
Spain x x x
Sweden x x x x
UK2 x x x xThe regulatory approvals and indications for Sobi’s products vary 
depending on geographical region. As well as regulatory approval, 
local agreement must be reached on pricing and reimbursement. 
The table below shows in which countries Sobi has marketing 
authorisation approval (MAA), including for which indication, as 
well as pricing and/or reimbursement in place (marked with x), 
thereby showing in which countries Sobi’s products are available 
through the regular healthcare pathways. Sobi commercialises the following proprietary products: Alprolix, 
Elocta, Doptelet, Synagis, Gamifant, Kineret and Orfadin. Sobi only 
has rights to Synagis in the US and it is therefore not included in 
the table. 
See Glossary on page 123 for definitions of listed indications. 
1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia. 
2. Sobi has applied for local regulatory approval of products to secure market authorisation approval after formal exit from the EU.susT ainabiliTY  noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
115Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2019
Region Alprolix1 Elocta1 Doptelet  Kineret Gamifant Orfadin
Europe – other Haemophilia B Haemophilia A RA, CAPS HT-1
Russia x x
Switzerland x x x x
Turkey
Ukraine x
North America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory HT-1
Canada RA, NOMID  
xx
Mexico x
US CLD, ITP* 
xRA, NOMID 
 xpHLH 
xx
Asia HT-1
China Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory Out-licensed
Kuwait x x
Israel Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory x x
Japan Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory x
Palestine x*
Saudi Arabia x x x* x
United Arab Emirates x* x* x*  
(named-patient use)
Africa HT-1
Algeria x
Jordan x
Tunisia x* x*,3
South America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory HT-1
Argentina
Chile x*,4
Australia Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory RA, CAPS, Still’s
x x*,4
1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia. 
2. Sobi has applied for local regulatory approval of products to secure market authorisation approval after formal exit from the EU.
3. Additional approvals of capsule strength 20 mg. 
4. Additional approvals of oral formulation and capsule strength 20 mg.Regulatory approval and availability of Sobi products, cont.
susT ainabiliTY  noTes
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
116Sobi’s Sustainability Report 2019 is defined in the GRI Index below. 
Its main components are found in the following sections of the 
Annual and Sustainability Report 2019:
• Business Model is found on page 10.
• Description of sustainability approach, activities and performance 
2019 are found on pages 22–25, 40–43 and 110–114.
• Information on performance is reported in the Sustainability notes 
section, on pages 110–114.
This  sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core option. It also fulfils the requirements 
on  sustainability reporting in the Annual Accounts Act.Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, as part 
of the Annual and Sustainability Report. The indicators below have 
been selected on the basis of a materiality analysis, which is  further 
described on page 40. All page references below refer to pages in 
Sobi’s 2019 Annual and Sustainability Report or at www.sobi.com. 
Our sustainability report serves as our UN Global Compact Commu-
nication on Progress report. 
For questions regarding the Annual and Sustainability Report, 
please contact info@sobi.com.Global Reporting Initiative Index
 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global   
Compact Principle
GENERAL DISCLOSURES – 102
Organisational Profile
102-1 Name of the organisation 56, 94
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 32–35, 56
102-3 Location of headquarters 56, 94
102-4 Location of operations 18–19, 81
102-5 Ownership and legal form 28–29, 56, 94–95
102-6 Markets served 18–19, 32–35, 65
102-7 Scale of the organisation, including total number of employees, 
operations, net sales, and capitalisation2–3, 5, 30, 32–35
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 68 6
102-9 Supply chain 18, 44–45
102-10 Significant changes to the organisation  
and its supply chain4, 32
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 40–43
102-12 External initiatives 40–45
102-13 Membership of associations www.sobi.com
Strategy and analysis
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7, 93
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards,  
and norms of behaviour24, 41 10
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 41–43, 94–100
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 28, 40
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 114
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 40 3
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 40–41
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 40
Reporting methodology
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement 56–61
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 40, 50–61
102-47 List of material topics 40, 117
102-48 Restatements of information 42–43, 110–114
102-49 Changes in reporting 40gri index
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
117 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global   
Compact Principle
102-50 Reporting period 94
102-51 Date of most recent report April 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle 94, 114
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 43
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 22, 43, 114
102-55 GRI content index 117–119
102-56 External assurance 120
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 41–43 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
103-2 The management approach and its components 41–45 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 110–114 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES – GRI 200: ECONOMIC
GRI 200: Economic performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 110
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 110
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 114 10
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption  
policies and procedures 24, 41, 43, 114 10
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 43, 114 10
GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 
and monopoly practices 41, 43
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES – GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 110–111
302-3 Energy intensity 111
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 112
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018
303-1 Water withdrawal by source 112
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 110 7, 8
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 110 7, 8
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 110
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 110
GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 112 8
GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 42, 112
GRI 306: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 114
gri index
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
118 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
reference 
CommentUN Global   
Compact Principle
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES– GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 401: Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 113 6
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 
days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 113
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 113 6
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programs 113
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance  
and career development reviews 42–43, 1136
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 113, 114
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 113 6
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
 assessments, and development programs 1101
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 114 2
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and ser -
vice categories 40–41
GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 40–41
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 
information and labelling 41
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
 communications 41
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
 privacy and losses of customer data 114
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and  economic area 43gri index
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
119Auditor’s report on the statutory  
sustainability statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2019 on pages 22–25, 
40–45 and 110–119 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding 
the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different 
and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally 
accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared.
Stockholm, 25 March 2020
Ernst & Young AB
Björn Ohlsson
Authorized Public Accountant 
audiT or’s reporT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
1202020 Annual General Meeting
2020 Annual General Meeting
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) will hold its Annual General 
Meeting on Wednesday, 13 May 2020 at Norra Latin,  
Drottninggatan 71B, Stockholm, Sweden.
To participate
Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting must be 
recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB 
on Thursday, 7 May 2020. Shareholders must notify the company of 
their intention to participate no later than Thursday, 7 May 2020 in 
one of the  following ways:
• On Sobi’s website: www.sobi.com 
• By phone: +46 (0)8-697 31 91, Monday to Friday 9:00–16:00
•  By mail: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ),  
“Annual General Meeting”, SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
The notification should include the shareholder’s:
• Name
• Personal/corporate identity 
• Address and telephone number (daytime)
• Number of shares held
• Where applicable, information about any  
representatives/advisors
Nominee shares
Shareholders who have registered their shares with a bank or another 
nominee must, to be entitled to participate in the Annual General 
Meeting, register their shares in their own name, so that the person 
concerned is recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear 
Sweden AB on Thursday, 7 May 2020. Shareholders wishing to regis-
ter their shares in their own name should inform the nominee in good 
time before this date. Such registration may be temporary.Proxy
Shareholders who intend to be represented by proxy must issue a 
written and dated power of attorney for the proxy. If the power of 
attorney is issued by a legal entity, a certified copy of the registration 
certificate or equivalent for the legal entity must be attached. The 
power of attorney is valid for one year from the date of issuance, or 
until the date of expiry shown on the power of attorney, but not later 
than five years. The registration certificate shall state the circum-
stances prevailing at the date of the meeting and should not be older 
than one year on the date of the meeting. The original power of 
attorney and any registration certificate should be sent to the com-
pany by mail at the address indicated below well in advance of the 
meeting. A proxy form is available on the company’s website,  
www.sobi.com, and can also be sent to shareholders upon request.
Financial calendar 2020
January–March Interim Report 29 April 
Annual General Meeting 13 May 
January–June Interim Report 16 July 
January–September Interim Report 22 October 
The Annual Report can be downloaded in PDF format from  
www.sobi.com, as well as previous annual reports, interim reports 
and press releases.
Contact details
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)  
SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Phone: +46 (0)8697 20 00
Email: info@sobi.com
Website: www.sobi.comannual general meeTing
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
121CER
Constant exchange rate.
Earnings per share
Profit/loss divided by the average number of shares.
EBIT
Earnings before interest and tax (operating income).
Full-time equivalent (FTE)
A unit that indicates the number of hours worked by an employee on 
a full-time basis, used to make workloads comparable across various 
contexts.
Gross profit
Operating revenue less cost of goods sold.
Gross margin
Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. 
Gross to net
Operating revenue less mandatory and contractual price reductions
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Alternative performance measures
Financial measures not defined according to IFRS
Sobi uses certain financial measures in the interim report that are 
not defined according to IFRS. The company considers that these 
measures provide valuable supplementary information for investors 
and company management, as they enable an assessment and 
benchmarking of the company’s reporting. Since not all companies 
calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always 
comparable to measures used by other companies. These financial 
measures should therefore not be regarded as substitutes for 
measures defined according to IFRS. The following key ratios are 
not defined according to IFRS. 
Capital employed
Total assets less non-interest-bearing  liabilities. 
Cash flow from operating activities per share
Cash flow from operating activities divided by the weighted average 
number of outstanding shares.
Cash flow per share
Changes in cash and cash equivalents divided by the weighted 
average number of outstanding shares.
Debt-to equity ratio
Relative proportion of shareholders equity and debt used to finance 
the company’s assets.EBITA
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITA adjusted
EBITA less non-recurring items.
EBITA margin, %
EBITA as a percentage of total revenue.
EBITA margin adjusted, %
EBITA adjusted as a percentage of total revenue.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EPS, SEK adjusted
Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by average number of ordinary 
shares.
EPS after dilution, SEK adjusted
Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by average number of ordinary 
shares after dilution.
Equity per share
Equity divided by the number of ordinary shares.
Equity ratio
Shareholders’ equity as a proportion of total assets.
Net debt (+)/Net cash (-)
Borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Organic growth, % CER
Total revenue adjusted for Synagis and Doptelet measured at CER 
compared with previous period.
Return on capital employed
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT)/ Capital Employed.
Return on equity
Profit/loss after tax as a percentage of  average equity.
Return on total capital
Profit/loss after financial items plus financial income as a percentage 
of average total assets.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)
Risk-free interest rate plus Beta multiplied with a risk premium. 
The risk-free rate is an average of 10-year  Treasury bill over the last 
five years. Beta is the correlation between Sobis share and stock 
exchange index. Risk premium is calculated as an average over five 
years of the market expectations of growth and return. A flat rate tax 
of 21.4 per cent has been used.Definitions
definiTions
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
122Glossary
Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor IX therapy approved in the EU, 
Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland, 
as well as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United 
States and other countries, for the treatment of haemophilia B. 
BIVV001
A novel, investigational factor VIII therapy designed to extend pro-
tection from bleeds with prophylaxis dosing of once weekly or longer 
for people with haemophilia A. Builds on the Fc fusion technology by 
adding a region of von Willebrand factor and XTEN polypeptides to 
potentially extend its time in circulation. 
CAPS
Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, constitutes a group of 
rare autoinflammatory diseases with an incidence estimated to 
be 1:1,000,000 worldwide. CAPS is characterised by uncontrolled 
 overproduction of interleukin-1 (IL-1) which induces a number of 
inflammatory responses such as fevers, rash, joint pain, headaches, 
conjunctivitis and many other symptoms.
Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia (CIT)
A common side effect of chemotherapy that results in a low number 
of platelets.
Chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)
A rare autoimmune bleeding disorder characterised by a low number 
of platelets, affecting approximately 60,000 adults in the United 
States.
Chronic liver disease (CLD)
Liver disease becomes chronic when it has been present for more 
than 6–12 months without signs of resolution. Chronic liver disease 
can be inherited (genetic) or caused by a variety of factors such as 
viruses, auto-immunity, obesity and alcohol use. 
Doptelet
A second generation small-molecule thrombopoietin receptor (TPO) 
agonist used in the treatment of thrombocytopenia by increasing 
platelet count.
EHL
Extended half-life, which means that the circulation in the body is 
prolonged. Sobi’s haemophilia treatments, Elocta and Alprolix, are 
EHL products.Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor VIII therapy approved in the EU, 
Iceland, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland 
for the treatment of haemophilia A. It is also approved in Australia, 
Brazil, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United States and other 
countries, where it is known as ELOCTATE®.
EMA
European Medicines Agency.
FDA
The US Food and Drug Administration.
Gamifant (emapalumab)
An anti-interferon-gamma (IFN- )monoclonal antibody (mAb), 
approved by the FDA and currently under EMA review for the treat-
ment of primary haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a 
life-threatening syndrome of immune activation. 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)
A rare and life-threatening syndrome of extreme immune activation. 
The primary form (inherited) of the disease mainly occurs in infants 
and young children and the secondary form (acquired) of the 
disease is acquired from or associated with autoimmune diseases 
or malignancy. 
Haemophilia
A rare, genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to 
clot is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male 
births annually, and haemophilia B occurs in about one in 25,000 
male births annually. Both occur more rarely in females. People 
with haemophilia experience bleeding episodes that may cause 
pain, limited mobility, irreversible joint damage and life-threatening 
haemorrhages.
Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) 
People with HT-1 have problems breaking down an amino acid called 
tyrosine. Toxic by-products are formed and accumulate in the body, 
which can cause liver, renal and neurological complications.
IL-1
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a key mediator of inflammation and driver of 
autoinflammatory diseases.
ITI – Immune tolerance induction 
A therapy used when haemophilia patients develop inhibitors to 
treatment. Factor concentrate is given regularly and at high doses 
over a period of time until the body is trained to recognise the treat-
ment product without reacting to it. glossar Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
123Kineret (anakinra)
A recombinant protein drug that blocks the biological activity of 
interleukin-1 a and b (IL-1  and IL -1 ) by binding to IL-1 type 1 recep-
tors (IL-R 1), expressed in a variety of tissues and organs, thereby 
blocking the IL-1 signalling. IL-1 is a key mediator of inflammation 
and a significant contributor to autoinflammatory diseases. 
LRTI 
Lower respiratory tract infections.
MAH – Marketing authorisation holder
The company in whose name the marketing authorisation has been 
granted and who is responsible for all aspects of the product.
MEDI8897 (nirsevimab)
A single dose extended half-life anti-RSV F monoclonal antibody 
(mAb) being developed for the prevention of lower respiratory tract 
infections (LRTI) caused by RS-virus in all infants entering their first 
RSV season and children with chronic lung disease or congenital 
heart disease entering their first and second RSV season. MEDI8897 
is being developed for passive immunisation of a broad infant popu-
lation, and engineered to have a long half-life so that only one dose 
will be needed for the entire RSV season, . 
Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type IIIA (Sanfilippo A syndrome) 
A progressive, life-threatening and rare inherited metabolic disorder 
affecting children from a young age. Belongs to a group of diseases 
called lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs). 
NOMID
Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease, the most severe 
form of CAPS, also associated with chronic meningitis, hearing loss, 
craniofacial abnormalities, bone lesions and increased mortality.
Orfadin (nitisinone)
A drug used to treat hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1). It blocks 
the breakdown of tyrosine, thereby reducing the amount of toxic 
tyrosine by-products in the body. Patients must maintain a special 
diet in combination with Orfadin treatment as tyrosine is not 
 adequately broken down.
Orphan drugs
Medicinal products targeting rare, life-threatening diseases or 
dis orders in very small patient populations. They are called “orphan 
drugs” because, under normal market conditions, there is little 
incentive for the pharmaceutical industry to develop a treatment for 
such a small patient population. Revenues would not be expected 
to meet the extremely high costs of bringing such a treatment to 
market. Governments often provide economic incentives to encour -
age companies to develop and market medicines for rare diseases.Real world evidence
Real world evidence is gained by examining how approved medicines 
and treatments are working in the healthcare system. Real-world 
evidence studies use observational data such as electronic medical 
records, insurance claims information and patient surveys. Real- 
world analyses can assess how various treatments impact actual 
patient outcomes.
ReITIrate
An open-label, multicentre study designed to investigate the 
immune tolerance induction (ITI) potential of Elocta in patients with 
haemophilia A who have developed inhibitors which have failed to 
be resolved with other therapies.
RSV
Respiratory syncytial virus. A common virus and the most common 
cause of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) in young children. 
The RSV season usually occurs from early fall until late spring and 
peaks during the winter.
SOBI003 
A product candidate and a chemically modified variant of a recom-
binant human sulfamidase, intended as an enzyme-replacement 
therapy in the lysosomal storage disease MPS IIIA, aimed at reducing 
heparan sulfate storage materials in affected cells. 
Still’s disease 
An autoinflammatory disease that affects both children and adults, 
characterised by persistent high spiking fevers, recurring rashes 
and arthritis. Still’s disease is also known as systemic-onset juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) or adult-onset Still’s disease (AOSD). 
Synagis (palivizumab)
Indicated for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract 
infections (LTRI) caused by RS-virus in infants and young children 
at high risk of RSV disease. RSV is the most prevalent cause of LRTI 
among infants and young children. Synagis is a RSV F protein inhibitor 
monoclonal antibody (mAb) that acts as a prophylaxis against serious 
RSV disease. It is the only medicine approved for the prevention of 
serious RSV disease. 
WFH
World Federation of Hemophilia, an international not-for-profit 
organisation.
XTEN
XTEN is a technique used to extend the half-life of  proteins.
glossar Y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
124Sobi, Elocta, Alprolix, Kepivance, Kineret, Orfadin and Gamifant are  trademarks of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ).  
All third party trademarks are the property of their respective owners. ©2020 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All rights reserved.
Production: Sobi in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson.
Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet.
Photos: Martin Botvidsson, Paulina Westerlind, Morten Lasskogen/Kunde & Co, Stock images/Getty, Sobi.Forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements. Actual results 
may differ from those stated. Internal factors such as the successful 
management of research programmes and intellectual property 
rights may affect future results. There are also external conditions 
such as the economic climate, political changes and competing 
research programmes that may affect Sobi’s results.Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)
SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00
www.sobi.com
Email: info@sobi.com