Annual and Sustainability Report 2021Contents
Introduction
This is Sobi 2
Year in brief 4
From the CEO 6
Business overview
Market 8
Business model 10
Strategy 11
Haematology 12
Immunology 15
Specialty Care 17
Geographical expansion 18
Research & Development 20
Sustainability 23
The share 28
Five-year summary 30
Reporting
Directors’ report 32
Financial statements 42
Notes 51
Auditor’s report 88
Corporate governance
Letter from the Chairman 92
Corporate Governance Report 93
Auditor’s report on the Corporate 
 Governance statement 
99
The Board 100
Executive Committee 102
Sustainability
Sustainability report 104
Sustainability notes 118
GRI Index 125
Auditor’s report on the statutory  
 Sustainability statement 128
Additional information
2022 Annual General Meeting 129
Definitions 130
Glossary 132This is Sobi’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2021. The audited 
Annual Report includes pages 32–91. The Sustainability Report is 
on pages 23–27 and 104–127 and  consists of the Company and   
the Group’s legally  required  sustainability report according to the 
Annual Accounts Act. The report is also Sobi’s Communication on 
Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact.SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20211
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business model
We bring something rare 
to rare diseases – a rare 
expertise and a strength 
in access that allows 
us to  be a partner in 
care for those otherwise 
overlooked.Sobi is an  international 
biopharmaceutical 
 company  
specialising  
in rare diseases.2 SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelThis is Sobi
EBITA, SEK million5,575
Number of employees11,559
Total revenue, SEK million15,529Specialising in rare diseases, we develop and provide access to innovative medicines 
in the areas of haematology, immunology and specialty care. 
• Two therapeutic areas – Haematology 
and Immunology – and medicines 
within Specialty Care
• Strong portfolio of on-market medi-
cines and pre-market pipeline
• Our factor replacement treatments 
Elocta® and Alprolix® are the most 
prescribed extended half-life 
 treatments for haemophilia A and B 
respectively in several markets• We focus on where we can have the 
greatest impact: on in-licensing,  
 clinical development, commercialisa-
tion and patient access
• We continue our expansion into new 
regions, bringing our medicines to 
more patients in previously under-
served markets • Global Head Office in Stockholm, 
Sweden, with own presence in over 
30 countries, delivering treatments to 
patients in more than 70 countries
• The Sobi share (STO:SOBI) is listed in 
the Large Cap segment of Nasdaq 
Stockholm
1.  Employee numbers are expressed as full-time  
equivalents (FTE).SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20213
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelSolid revenue growth in both therapeutic areas
Revenue and adjusted EBITA
SEK M
/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum
 Revenue
 Adjusted EBITARevenue per business area
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017SEK M
 Haematology
 Immunology
 Specialty CareRevenue per geographic region
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnumSEK M
 Europe
 North America
 Rest of the world
 Royalty Strong pre-market pipeline and  
strong portfolio of on-market medicines
1. Developed and, if approved, will be commercialised in collaboration with Sanofi. 2. In collaboration with Apellis.  
3. Financial interest only, in collaboration with AstraZeneca. 4. Strategic licensing agreement with Selecta.Pre-market
On-market
Specialty Care 
(on-market)Tegsedi® – hATTR amyloidosis polyneuropathy
Waylivra® – familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS)
Orfadin® – hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1) and alkaptonuria (AKU)Haematology 
Dealing with  
diseases of the blood  
and blood marrowImmunology
Addressing problems  
affecting or stemming from 
the immune system 
Efanesoctocog alfa/BIVV0011  
–  haemophilia A
Pegcetacoplan2 – multiple indications
Elocta® – haemophilia A
Alprolix® – haemophilia B
Aspaveli®/Empaveli – paroxysmal 
nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
Doptelet® – ITP, CLDGamifant®/emapalumab – secondary HLH
Nirsevimab3 – RSV
Pegcetacoplan – multiple indications 
SEL-2124 – chronic refractory gout 
Gamifant – primary HLH 
Kineret® – multiple indications
Synagis® – RSV 
Jyseleca® – multiple indicationsSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20214
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelYear in brief
As much of the world began to emerge from the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Sobi returned to solid growth during 2021. Geographical expansion took our medicines 
to new parts of the world, and new treatments were approved and launched. 
Key figures
SEK M 2017 2018  2019 2020 2021
Total revenue 6,511 9,139 14,248 15,261 15,529
Gross profit 4,657 6,723 10,913 12,036 12,045
Gross margin1, % 72 74 77 79 78
Operating expenses 3,057 3,601 6,430 7,575 8,288
EBITA1 2,053 3,571 5,933 6,700 5,575
Adjusted EBITA 1,2 2,053 3,571 6,145 6,301 5,575
EBIT 1,600 3,122 4,533 4,818 3,733
Profit for the year 1,149 2,148 3,304 3,245 2,679
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK 4.27 8.97 11.29 11.01 9.08
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK adjusted 1,2,3 4.27 8.97 11.89 9.66 9.08
Cash flow from operations4 1,333 2,090 3,634 4,926 5,470
Equity per share 1,2,3 SEK 24.6 33.1 56.4 66.5 75.6
Equity/assets ratio1, % 61 53 37 42 48
No. of employees (full-time equivalents) 800 902 1,335 1,509 1,559
1. Alternative Performance Measures (APMs). See Definitions p 130. 
2. EBITA 2020 excluding non-recurring item; other operating income related to the reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. EBITA 2019 excluding non-recurring items; transaction costs 
related to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of SOBI005 of SEK 37 M.  
3. EPS 2020 excluding the reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. EPS 2019 excluding impairment of intangible assets of SEK 18 M related to restructuring.
4. During 2021, Sobi has reclassified hedging arrangements for financing from cash flow from operating activities to cash flow from financing activities. Comparative figures for 2020 have 
been recalculated, see Note 2 for more information.7%
Revenue growth at CER36%
EBITA marginSignificant progress  
in all strategy areas 
  Europe 45%  
  North America 40%
  Rest of the world 7%  
  Royalty 8%Revenue per geographic region
  Haematology 55%  
  Immunology 37%
  Specialty Care 8%Revenue per business area
  Haematology 60%  
  Immunology 34%
  Specialty Care 6%EBITA by business areaSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20215
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelContinued patient growth in haemo-
philia A and B. Recovering activity levels 
and a successful awareness campaign 
encouraged patients to return to higher 
factor levels after a reduction during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.  
Read more, p 12
  
Aspaveli/Empaveli (pegcetacoplan) has 
now been approved in the United 
States, the European Union and Saudi 
Arabia for the treatment of patients with 
 paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria, 
and is under review in other markets. 
A targeted C3 therapy, pegcetacoplan 
is also being developed by Apellis and 
Sobi for several other indications.  
Read more, p 13
  
   Sobi continued its support for the WFH 
(World Federation of Hemophilia) 
Humanitarian Aid Program, where 
we together with Sanofi are Founding 
Visionary Contributors. During 2021, 
the programme marked the milestone of 
1 billion international units of replacement 
factor distributed.  
Read more, p 24Successful Doptelet launches in  
Germany, the UK & Ireland, and Iberia 
are providing people living with ITP and 
CLD with a new treatment alternative 
without dietary restrictions. Sales of 
Doptelet in Europe, North America and 
the International region have increased 
by 104 per cent at CER over the past year.  
Read more, p 12
  
   Kineret was approved in the EU for 
treatment of COVID-19 in adult patients 
with pneumonia who are at risk of devel-
oping severe respiratory failure.  
Read more, p 15
  
   
Geographic expansion. Filings and 
approvals in Russia, filings in China and 
Japan, filing and approvals in Australia. 
Agreement with Pint Pharma providing 
access to Sobi medicines in up to 
seven countries in Latin America, 
 including Brazil.   
Read more, p 14, p 18–19
  
    
Grow Immunology 
and Specialty Care
Lead in  
HaematologyBusiness strategy 
Sustainability strategy
Go global Capture the value  
of our pipeline
Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviour6 SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelBuilding for growth
When we look back, we will see the current period as a time 
when we built the foundation for Sobi’s future growth.
Our four strategy pillars – Lead in 
 Haematology, Grow in Immunology and 
Specialty Care, Go global, and Capture 
the value of our pipeline – remain central 
to our business. We also see opportunities 
to bring in new medicines within Specialty 
Care that can add value to our portfolio 
and address unmet medical need.
We are increasing our emphasis on in- 
licensing and acquisitions, which have 
long been part of our success. This com-
mitment to collaboration has allowed us 
to bring our ground-breaking extended 
half-life (EHL) factor replacement thera-
pies for haemophilia to thousands of 
people around the world, protect vulne-
rable babies from RSV, and save and 
transform the lives of people with immu-
nological, haematological, genetic and 
metabolic diseases. 
I am proud that we are known as an 
honest and trustworthy partner, in bring-
ing medicines to more patients, in colla-
boration with our suppliers and distri-
butors, and in our dealings with health-
care professionals, patient organisations 
and other stakeholders. 
As we build for growth, we will be 
selective regarding where we invest, 
committing to prioritised areas that 
enable long-term growth.
Solid financial performance
As many of Sobi’s markets began to 
emerge cautiously from the COVID-19 
pandemic, we saw clear signs of a recov-
ery in sales. We delivered a strong year, 
with revenue once again showing sus-
tainable growth. Revenue for the year 
reached SEK 15 529 million, with growth 
of 7 per cent at CER. Our launch medi-
cines Doptelet and Gamifant grew by a 
combined 75 per cent for the year. EBITA 
for 2021 reached SEK 5 575 million, with 
an EBITA margin of 36 per cent.Haematology
We were able during 2021 to make 
Doptelet (avatrombopag) available for 
people in the EU and the UK living with 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and 
chronic liver disease (CLD), as well as 
expanding access in the United States 
and other global markets. In December, 
we received approval for Aspaveli/
Empaveli in the EU – the only targeted 
C3 inhibitor on the market – as a new 
treatment option for people living with 
PNH who continue to experience anae-
mia after three months of treatment with 
a C5 therapy, and in Saudi Arabia for 
adults with PNH. For many people 
with PNH, anaemia and related fatigue 
can have a serious effect on their lives 
despite C5 therapy, and I am proud we 
can now offer a new treatment option.  
Haemophilia
Elocta and Alprolix, our EHL factor 
replacement therapies, continue to lib-
erate life for more people with haemo-
philia A and B respectively, and we saw 
patient growth in several markets over 
the year. We remain committed to factor 
replacement as an fundamental treat-
ment option for people living with 
 haemophilia, as shown in https://link.
springer.com/article/10.1007/s40265-
021-01615-w. We see further growth for 
both medicines, and are optimistic that 
efanesoctocog alfa has the potential to 
be a transformative treatment for people 
with haemophilia A.
Immunology
I am particularly proud of December’s 
approval in the EU of Kineret (anakinra) 
as a treatment for adult patients with 
COVID-19-related pneumonia who are 
at risk of developing severe respiratory 
failure. COVID-19 is the medical chal-
lenge of this generation, and I am 
pleased that we have been able to make such a significant contribution to saving 
lives. We continue to work to make 
Kineret available for COVID-19 in other 
countries. Kineret is a central part of our 
Immunology portfolio and is a trans-
formative medicine for many thousands 
of people living with autoimmune dis-
eases. 
Gamifant (emapalumab) continues to 
be a life-saving treatment for haemop-
hagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) in 
the US and other countries. In China, 
Gamifant was approved in March 2022 
for primary HLH. We see Gamifant as 
having utility in a broader HLH context 
and continue to pursue an extended 
label in the US.
Synagis continues to play a vital role in 
protecting vulnerable children from 
serious respiratory illness stemming 
from RSV, and Synagis sales increased 
slightly in 2021.
I am pleased that we were able to sign 
an agreement with Galapagos NV to 
commercialise Jyseleca ® (filgotinib), 
an oral JAK1 preferential inhibitor, in 
Central and Eastern Europe, Greece, 
Portugal and the Baltics. Jyseleca is 
 approved for the treatment of rheuma-
toid arthritis (RA) and ulcerative colitis 
in the EU and UK, and for RA in Japan. 
A phase 3 study is currently ongoing to 
investigate Jyseleca for Crohn’s disease. 
I see Jyseleca as an exciting addition 
to our Immunology portfolio.
Geographical expansion
We continued to expand our geographi-
cal footprint in 2021 and are now pres-
ent in Australia and represented in large 
parts of Latin America.  
Through a new distribution agreement 
with Pint Pharma, we are now able to 
provide treatment to people living with 
rare diseases in Latin America: Argentina, 
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico 
and Peru. LETTER FROM THE CEO7SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelWe have also seen favourable early 
 progress of our presence in Japan, China 
and Australia. In China, partnerships will 
be important for us to expand our reach, 
while an increased presence in Japan is 
paving the way for us to gain approvals. 
In Australia, we brought Orfadin and 
Kineret back under Sobi’s stewardship, 
while approval of Aspaveli early this year 
as a treatment for PNH provides an 
important new treatment option for 
patients currently on C5 therapy.
Future-ready pipeline
I see our development pipeline as the 
engine driving our growth, by taking 
newly licensed or acquired projects 
through clinical development to the 
patient, by taking existing medicines 
into new indications and new markets, 
and by providing the expertise we need 
to assess acquisition and in-licensing 
targets. 
Gaining approval for Aspaveli as a 
 treatment for PNH in Europe was a major 
achievement, as was the extension of the Kineret label in the EU to COVID-19 
in patients at risk of developing severe 
respiratory failure. 
We are adapting our competences in 
this area to be an optimal resource for 
the demands of the future. 
Sustainability
Sustainability is a natural part of our overall 
company mission and strategy, and we 
continue to work in the two prioritised 
areas where we can make a difference: 
commitment to patients and acting 
responsibly. 
During 2021, we saw evidence of our 
improved performance in several external 
rankings. We continue to be committed 
to the UN Global Compact principles and 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals, 
and we are steadfast in our support for 
the WFH (World Federation of Hemo-
philia) Humanitarian Aid Program, together 
with Sanofi. Since the initial pledge, 
over 18,880 people with haemophilia 
have been treated with factor products 
donated through our collaboration.
We have also strengthened and for -
malised our sustainability governance 
internally and towards our supplier part-
ners. This will help us accelerate our 
 sustainability efforts even further and 
 prepare for a coming formal commit-
ment to science-based targets and the 
European Green Deal. I am fully commit-
ted to continuing to support our efforts 
and ensure continued progress.  
Post-pandemic future
As we and the world begin to adapt to a 
post-pandemic future, we continue to 
support our teams all around the world to 
make this an even better place to work. 
Sobi is comprised of great people doing 
great things. I want to thank the entire 
Sobi team for their efforts during 2021. 
We as a company can be justifiably proud 
of what we do.
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive OfficerSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20218
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelRare diseases 
More than 6,0001 identified rare diseases are estimated to affect 300 million  
people around the world.
High unmet medical need 
Up to 70 per cent of identified rare dis-
eases have a paediatric onset and many 
can have a devastating effect on life 
expectancy and quality of life. The severe 
nature of many rare diseases often leads 
to a great burden for patients and their 
families, and for healthcare systems.
Rare challenges
Those living with rare diseases face spe-
cific challenges, including that of obtain-
ing a correct diagnosis. Many physicians 
may never have seen a specific rare con-
dition before and symptoms may not be 
assessed correctly, which is why cases 
can go undiagnosed for years. This is 
often a time of uncertainty, frustration 
and worry, of being sent from one spe-
cialist to another in search of an answer. 
Another challenge is the search for 
information and a community. Isolation, both physical and mental, is a major 
issue for people living with rare diseases 
and contributes both to stress and dis-
ease burden. The effects of the COVID-
19 pandemic intensified the problems of 
isolation and difficulty in accessing treat -
ment for many during 2020 and 20212. 
Much focus has been placed on the 
high costs of treating rare diseases. 
However, leaving conditions untreated 
can lead to higher costs for patients, 
health systems, social services and 
 governments. Without appropriate treat-
ment and care, rare disease patients and 
carers are unable to achieve their full 
potential in society.
A lack of established clinical endpoints 
and expert knowledge about many con-
ditions, as well as unclear comparator 
treatments, also make orphan drug 
development and approval challenging. 
This uncertainty means there is a high level of risk associated with the develop-
ment of orphan drugs or medicines, and 
many projects fail, even in late-stage 
development.
Incentives for investment
The term “orphan drugs” describes med-
icines designed to treat diseases so rare 
that companies would be reluctant to 
develop them under normal market 
conditions. 
To address the unique set of chal-
lenges, regulatory bodies such as the US 
Food & Drug Administration (FDA) and 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
have developed incentives such as spe-
cial programmes and regulations to 
encourage pharmaceutical companies 
to develop treatments for rare diseases. 
Since the European Commission pub-
lished its roadmap on the revision of the 
orphan and paediatric legislation in 
1. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41431-019-0508-0. Excluding malignancies 
2. Research and Management of Rare Diseases in the COVID-19 Pandemic Era: Challenges and Countermeasures (nih.gov)
3. https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/pages/31/faqs-about-rare-diseases
4. https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/research-area/health-research-and-innovation/rare-diseases_en#:~:text=EU%20research%20on%20rare%20
diseases,million%20people%20in%20the%20EU.Worldwide orphan drug market growth
 
High unmet need: More than 6,000 rare diseases globally – around 95 per cent have 
no approved treatment.
Great need outside EU and US: Of the 300 million people affected by rare diseases 
around the world, around 250 million are thought to be outside the US and EU3, 4.
Attractive opportunity: Pricing reflects the investment needed and allows a return 
on capital to enable further investment in research and development of treatments.
Shorter time to market: Multiple ways to speed up R&D projects (including orphan 
drug designation, breakthrough therapy designation/PRIME designation, priority 
review by FDA and EMA, conditional approvals in case of unmet medical needs).
Limited competition: Few companies active in orphan indications – translating to 
sustainable market share advantage for early entrants.
Limited generic threat: Orphan drugs are less likely to face generic competition 
because of their often-biological nature and are less attractive targets for biosimilars 
because of the small patient population.Global orphan drug market, USD Bn
/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/six.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum11.5% CAGR
/one.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/five.tnum/eight.tnum
Source: EvaluatePharma® Market Explorer February 2022
(including oncology)SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20219
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business model
November 2020, Sobi together with 
European and national pharmaceutical 
trade associations have been engaging 
with different stakeholders from the 
European Commission, European Parlia-
ment, payers, patient advocacy groups 
and healthcare professionals to find 
common policy solutions for the issues 
outlined in the report. 
Sobi has called on European policy-
makers to consider supporting an envi-
ronment which fosters rare disease 
innovation in Europe, with the message 
that to address the remaining 95 per cent 
of rare diseases with no approved treat-
ment, policymakers need to create a 
broad regulatory framework that attracts 
developers in these under-served areas2. 
Furthermore, Sobi believes that with-
out appropriate incentives, or if current incentives are reduced, there is a risk of 
decreased investment in R&D into rare 
disease therapies, which could ultimately 
leave many patients without a treatment.
Growing market
In 2021, the size of the orphan drugs 
market was USD 150 billion (including 
oncology) and is projected to reach 
USD 258  billion by 2026, a 72 per cent 
increase over the next five years. This 
is double the growth forecast for the 
non-orphan market3. 
Many people living with a rare disease 
live in countries outside Sobi’s existing 
markets. Expanding our geographical 
presence allows more people to access 
our medicines and takes Sobi into new 
markets with major growth potential. Raising rare voices
Sobi has important, long-standing 
 relationships with the rare disease 
 community including top-level regional 
organisations such as EURORDIS (Rare 
Diseases Europe) and NORD (the US 
National Organization for Rare Diseases). 
Sobi’s participation in the EURORDIS 
European Round Table of Companies, 
financial support for EURORDIS, the 
Black Pearl Awards, ECRD (European 
Conference on Rare Diseases) and 
 further contributions towards NORD 
and EURORDIS events are helping to 
elevate the voice of the rare disease 
community.What is a rare disease?
In Europe, a rare disease is defined as one affecting fewer than one person 
per 2,0001. In the US, the Orphan Drug Act of 1983 defines a rare disease 
as a condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the country. 
1. https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/research-area/health-research-and-innovation/rare-diseases_en 
2. OMP-Position-Paper_final.pdf (eucope.org)
3. EvaluatePharma® Market Explorer February 2022SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202110
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelBusiness model
Sobi’s business model spans from clinical research to patient access 
and commercialisation.
An integrated, patient-centric model 
Across the entire value chain, Sobi works 
in close dialogue with stakeholders such 
as patient organisations, healthcare sys-
tems, government authorities, regulatory 
bodies, payers and business partners in 
developing treatments that transform 
the lives of people living with rare dis-
eases. Our strengths include evaluating 
and developing clinical projects, com-
mercialisation and bringing treatments 
to patients as quickly as possible. 
Partnership and cooperation
Partnership has long been a part of 
Sobi’s success, in areas as varied as 
licensing of medicines and acquisition of 
projects to contract research and con-
tract manufacturing. We see partnership 
as essential in our efforts to build and 
expand our clinical pipeline into new 
indications and areas within haematol-
ogy and immunology, and in expanding 
into new geographical markets.Patient access and commercialisation 
Cross-functional teams bring together 
our many disciplines. By bringing in 
patient access specialists as early as pos-
sible into due diligence and develop-
ment projects, approval applications and 
pricing negotiations, we are ensuring 
speedy access to life-changing and 
life-saving medicines for patients.
Our commercial, medical, patient 
access and R&D teams work with health-
care professionals, external researchers, 
patient organisations and other stake-
holders to increase understanding of 
patients’ and healthcare professionals’ 
changing needs. This provides insight 
into needs that we continuously feed 
back into the system to improve our 
treatments and systems. 
Ensuring that patients never risk going 
without their medicine is of the utmost 
importance. That is why we have built up 
robust processes and systems for delivery 
and distribution in all our markets. Understanding the landscape, using 
patient insights and generating robust 
evidence enable development of appro-
priate access strategies and responsible 
pricing. This is vital in ensuring fast and 
sustainable access to treatment. It 
requires us to balance the roles of a sus-
tainable company with being a sustaina-
ble part of a healthcare system. Through 
continuous dialogue with rare-disease 
stakeholders, we continue to provide 
treatments to patients efficiently and 
responsibly. 
In all price-setting and subsequent 
negotiations, we consider the following 
basic principles: unmet medical need, 
the benefits the innovation brings to 
patients, benefits for the healthcare 
system, sustainability and affordability of 
access, and the cost required to con-
tinue innovation and meet future medi-
cal needs.
Patient and 
community value
Financial value 
(cash flow)Ongoing operational efficiency improvements
Partnerships and acquisitionsDeveloping and  
evaluating projects in  
clinical-stage assetsCommercialisation  
and making treatments  
available to patientsContinuous dialogue with patients, patient associations, healthcare providers, 
regulators and payers to make products and treatments available to patientsSobi’s business modelSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202111
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelStrategy
Vision
Our vision is to be recognised as a global 
leader in providing innovative treatments 
that transform life for people living with 
rare diseases. 
Mission
Our mission is to develop and deliver 
innovative therapies and services to 
improve the lives of people living with 
rare diseases.
Growth and strength
We will continue to be a leader in hae-
matology. In haemophilia, we continue 
to expand access to our extended half-
life factor replacement therapies Elocta 
and Alprolix, reaching more people with 
haemophilia A and B in more countries. 
We see efanesoctocog alfa, formerly 
known as BIVV001, as a future growth 
driver, with the potential to change the 
treatment paradigm for haemophilia A. 
In haematology outside of haemo-
philia, we are expanding access to 
Doptelet, taking it to more countries in 
both indications, ITP and CLD. And with 
the approval of Aspaveli/Empaveli (peg-
cetacoplan) in the EU and Saudi Arabia 
for the treatment of PNH, we continue 
to expand our scope in haematology. 
We will continue to grow in Immun-
ology and Specialty Care. Work will 
 continue to maximise the value of our 
existing medicines – for Kineret and 
Gamifant in new markets and new  
 indications – and we will continue 
to look for licensing and acquisition 
opportunities. Further development 
of  pegcetacoplan in indications within 
 neurology and nephrology will continue. 
In Speciality Care, we are continuously 
looking for new in-licensing opportuni-
ties to complement our portfolio, in 
areas that match both our geographic footprint and our expertise, and where 
we can address unmet medical need. 
Geographically, our expansion contin-
ues. We expanded further during 2021, 
reaching a distribution agreement that 
will initially expand access to Brazil, 
Colombia and Argentina. The contract 
with Pint Pharma also covers Chile, 
Ecuador, Mexico and Peru. This is our first 
official step into the region and marks 
another stage in our journey towards 
becoming a global company. Latin 
America follows our expansion into the 
Asia-Pacific in 2020, with offices estab-
lished in China, Japan and Australia, and 
a presence in Russia. We are now exam-
ining other potential markets in Central 
and South America, as well as in South-
East Asia. 
We continue to capture the value of 
our development pipeline by concen-
trating on mid and late-stage opportuni-
ties that address unmet medical needs 
and have significant market potential. With around 10 programmes focused on 
five medicines, we expect to see more 
than 60 launches in key geographies 
over the coming years.
Sustainable access
Our sustainability strategy is closely 
linked to the business and based on two 
main priorities – our Commitment to 
Patients and our Responsible Behaviour. 
By expanding our geographical reach, 
investing in the development of novel 
medicines and deepening our engage-
ment in the areas of haematology and 
immunology, we can improve access to 
rare disease treatments for patients 
worldwide.
We see responsible behaviour as 
non-negotiable and expect the highest 
ethical standards from our employees 
and partners.
Success in our operations will posi-
tively impact the communities we serve.
Business strategy 
Sustainability strategyTransform lives within rare diseases
Lead in  
HaematologyGrow  
Immunology and 
Specialty CareGo globalCapture the value  
of our pipeline
Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviour
Sobi’s strategy remains firm.SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202112
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelHaematology
In Haematology, we continued to build on the success of our market-leading 
haemophilia medicines Elocta and Alprolix, expand access to Doptelet for ITP 
and CLD, and are bringing a new targeted C3 therapy, Aspaveli/Empaveli to the 
market for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH).
Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix1 
Elocta/Eloctate2 and Alprolix, our 
extended half-life factor replacement 
medicines for haemophilia A and B, con-
tinued to show growth, notwithstanding 
competitive challenges in most of the 
markets, and a recovery from lower 
levels during the peak of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
As pandemic restrictions ease and 
patients return to normal activities, they 
are also resuming their usual, optimised 
therapy and their contacts with health-
care providers. Clinical management of 
people with haemophilia is also return-
ing to pre-pandemic levels. This includes elective surgical procedures for these 
patients, and the associated need for 
treatment optimisation.
As part of the Take Control campaign 
during 2021, Sobi worked with the hae-
mophilia community, HCPs and patients 
to emphasise the importance of physical 
activity for sustaining joint health and 
helping prevent pain. The campaign 
included a series of educational and sup-
portive activities in almost all markets, 
assisting people with haemophilia and 
their treaters to have valuable conversa-
tions around how to manage the return 
to normality. This contributed to a return 
to optimal factor consumption levels for patients, with individualised treatment 
empowering their active lives. 
Doptelet 
Doptelet (avatrombopag) was approved 
in the EU in January 2021 for the treat-
ment of primary chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP) in adult patients 
who are refractory to other treatments. It 
had previously been approved for ITP in 
the United States, and in the US and EU 
for the treatment of thrombocytopenia 
in adult patients with chronic liver disease 
(CLD) who are scheduled to undergo an 
invasive procedure.
Revenue per product, Haematology
SEK M 2020 2021 Change at CER
Elocta 4,585 3,960 –11%
Alprolix 1,705 1,764 7%
Royalty1 1,301 1,251 3%
Doptelet 587 1,116 >100%
Aspaveli/Empaveli – 1 n/a
Manufacturing2 481 445 –8%
Total 8,660 8,536 3%
1. Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
2. Manufacturing of the drug substance for ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for Pfizer.Total revenue, Haematology
SEK M
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum
 Total revenue
1. Sobi and Sanofi collaborate on the development and commercialisation of Alprolix and Elocta/Eloctate
2. Marketed by Sobi as Eloctate in Russia8,536
Sales in SEK M55%
of total revenue3%
Growth at CERSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202113
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelDoptelet was launched successfully in 
Germany, the first European market for 
both ITP and CLD, and has had good 
starts in CLD in Ireland, the Nordic coun-
tries, Netherlands and Belgium. All coun-
tries that have launched in ITP report 
good uptake and positive feedback from 
physicians. Targeting and segmentation 
adjustments are counteracting a slow 
start in the UK, Spain and Italy. Failure to 
reach agreement on reimbursement in 
France for either indication was a setback. 
In CLD, a global omnichannel marke-
ting project was launched in early 2022. 
As a non-orphan indication, CLD 
requires a different approach from most 
of Sobi’s indications.  
Aspaveli/Empaveli
With the approval of Aspaveli (pegceta-
coplan) in the EU in December 2021, 
people living with PNH who are still 
anaemic after treatment with C5 inhibi-
tors gained access to a new treatment. 
The medicine was previously approved 
in the US under the brand name 
Empaveli in May 2021, and is marketed in 
the United States by Sobi’s collaboration 
partner Apellis. It was also approved in 
Saudi Arabia, under the name Empaveli, 
for adults with PNH in December.PNH is a rare, chronic, life-threatening 
blood disorder caused by an acquired 
mutation, which leads to uncontrolled 
activation of the complement cascade 
within the immune system, and the 
destruction of red blood cells through 
intravascular haemolysis and extravas-
cular haemolysis. People with PNH 
experience anaemia, blood clots and 
reduced bone marrow function in which 
the marrow cannot produce enough 
blood cells. It affects 0.5-1.5 people per 
million, and people with PNH are usually 
diagnosed during their 30s.3 
Current treatments include medicines 
such as C5 inhibitors that suppress the 
immune system and help to slow the 
breakdown of red blood cells. In addi-
tion, blood transfusions may be needed. 
However, despite improvements during 
treatment with C5 inhibitors, up to 85 
per cent of people living with PNH con-
tinue to experience anaemia, and have 
persistently low haemoglobin and 
fatigue4; as many as 36 per cent require 
one or more blood transfusions. The 
only cure currently available is a 
bone-marrow transfusion, but this is 
associated with high levels of morbidity 
and mortality.5 Aspaveli is the only targeted C3 therapy 
available. In the Pegasus phase 3 study, 
published in the New England Journal of 
Medicine in March 20216, pegcetacoplan 
demonstrated superiority to the C5 
inhibitor eculizumab with a statistically 
significant improvement in haemoglobin 
levels and improvements in key clinical 
outcomes – such as reduced fatigue and 
less need for transfusions – in adults 
with PNH who had persistent anaemia 
at 16 weeks following treatment with 
eculizumab.  
Aspaveli is expected to be launched 
first in Germany in early 2022, followed 
by the UK and other countries.
To support upcoming launches in the 
EU and Middle East, Sobi can draw on 
the experience of Apellis’ presence in 
the US, including positive insights from 
treaters and patients. 
Aspaveli is the only treatment in the 
EU to be granted orphan drug designa-
tion for PNH from the Committee for 
Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP), 
which found that it demonstrated “statis-
tically significant and clinically meaning-
ful increase in haemoglobin levels and 
reduced the need for transfusions as 
compared to the currently authorised 
products”. 
3. https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/paroxysmal-nocturnal-hemoglobinuria
4. Risitano AM, Peffault de Latour R. How we(‘ll) treat paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria: diving into the future. Br J Haematol. 2021 Aug 5. doi: 10.1111/bjh.17753
5. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2878778/
6. https://www.sobi.com/en/press-releases/nejm-publishes-phase-3-pegasus-study-results-comparing-pegcetacoplan-eculizumab-pnhSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202114
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business model
Log 
injections
Log 
bleeds
Log 
wellbeingLog 
pain
Capture 
activitiesManage 
stockSee 
estimated 
plasma 
factor l evel
Sobi’s subsidiary Florio develops next-generation digital 
solutions for patients and healthcare professionals that 
capture and visualise disease and treatment-related 
data in real time to enable better decision making and 
ultimately better care. 
Florio HAEMO, a product for people with haemophilia, 
their caregivers and healthcare professionals, is available in 24 countries across Europe and the Middle East. In 
2021 Florio launched florio ITP, a digital diary for patients 
with ITP in the US in partnership with PDSA (Platelet 
 Disorder Support Association). 
Florio continues to develop the app in co-creation with 
doctors and patients in line with Sobi’s development 
portfolio.Efanesoctocog alfa 
Together with Sanofi, we continue to 
see progress in the clinical study 
 programme for efanesoctocog alfa 
(BIVV001), a potential future treatment 
for haemophilia A, with topline phase 3 
results released in March 2022. Read 
more in R&D, page 20.
Growth 
The confidence of the haemophilia 
community in the benefits of Elocta and 
Alprolix helped preserve the leading 
positions of these medicines. Growth 
was largely attributable to patients 
upgrading from other treatments, par -
ticularly from standard half-life factor, 
leading to a significant increase in vol-
umes in most markets, including Spain, 
Italy, Germany and the Nordic countries, 
reaching double digits in some countries.
This positive volume development 
was however partially offset by price 
decreases in some markets, particularly 
Germany. Sobi’s willingness to adjust prices illustrates our commitment to 
secure the broadest access to Elocta and 
Alprolix.  
We are also seeing expanded access 
outside Europe. Patient support pro-
grammes were rolled out in the Middle 
East, and expansion into new markets is 
allowing more people with haemophilia 
to access our medicines. After the 
launch in Russia, new launches in other 
countries including Turkey, Algeria and 
Israel are scheduled for 2022. 
Commitment to factor replacement
At Sobi we remain fully committed to 
factor replacement as an irreplaceable, 
biologically meaningful and safe treat-
ment option to secure elevation of 
 protection. This conviction is supported 
by a recently published review1 which 
reite-rated the role of factor VIII as the 
mainstay of haemophilia A treatment, 
with factor VIII prophylaxis as the stand-
ard of care for severe disease.We see further growth potential for both 
Elocta and Alprolix, and remain committed 
to making them available to more people 
who can benefit from their advantages. 
For the same reason, we are dedicated 
to the development of efanesoctocog 
alfa as a potential transformative treat-
ment for people with haemophilia A.
World Federation of Hemophilia 
Humanitarian Aid Program
Together with Sanofi, we continue our 
commitment to the WFH (World Federa-
tion of Hemophilia) Humanitarian Aid 
Program. Our commitment to the Pro-
gram and to the benefits of replacement 
factor underline our determination to 
provide the broadest possible access to 
the advantages of factor replacement 
 therapy.
1.  https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40265-021-01615-wSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202115
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelImmunology
2021 was a year of strong performance in Immunology, with our medicines 
 reaching more patients than ever before. 
All three on-market medicines – Kineret, 
Gamifant and Synagis – expanded to 
provide benefits to more patients and 
demonstrated strong growth, the result 
of solid underlying performance in 
 existing markets and expansion to new 
territories.
The foundation for future growth has 
been strengthened with several ongoing 
clinical development programmes for 
Kineret, Gamifant and SEL-212 (read 
more in R&D), and with a new licensing 
agreement for commercialisation of 
JAK1 preferential inhibitor Jyseleca (fil-
gotinib) in selected European markets.
Sobi’s Immunology portfolio covers 
a spectrum of diseases in both children 
and adults, from respiratory tract infec -
tions to debilitating autoinflammatory 
diseases and hyperinflammation. The company remains committed to 
strengthening the portfolio by investing 
in the continued development of exist-
ing treatments and by adding strategic 
partnerships and acquisitions.
Kineret
Kineret (anakinra) is an interleukin-1 α/β 
receptor antagonist marketed in differ -
ent countries for several autoinflamma-
tory diseases, including CAPS (cryopy-
rin-associated periodic syndrome), RA 
(rheumatoid arthritis), FMF (familial Med-
iterranean fever), DIRA (deficiency of 
interleukin-1 receptor antagonist) and 
Still’s disease, including systemic juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) and adult-onset 
Still’s disease (AOSD)1.
It was also approved in the EU in 
December 2021 for the treatment of COVID-19 related pneumonia in adult 
patients at risk of developing severe res-
piratory failure. An application for emer -
gency use in COVID-19 in the US is 
planned for submission to the FDA in 
2022.
The EU approval came after results 
from the landmark SAVE-MORE phase 3 
study were published in the journal 
Nature Medicine2. The study showed 
that early treatment with Kineret had 
considerable efficacy and reduced the 
risk of disease progression and death 
by 64 per cent. Kineret’s potential as a 
COVID-19 treatment was also acknowl-
edged by the European Commission, 
which listed Kineret as one of the 
ten most promising pharmaceuticals 
for tackling COVID-193. In the US, 
Sobi anticipates making a regulatory 
Revenue per product, Immunology
SEK M 2020 2021 Change at CER
Kineret 2,079 2,290 16%
Synagis 2,726 2,650 6%
Gamifant 609 840 48%
Total 5,415 5,780 15%Total revenue, Immunology
SEK M
/zero.tnum/one.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum
1. Note that the approved indications may vary by country.
2. Nature Medicine publishes phase 3 anakinra study results in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia | Sobi
3. https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_53665,780
Sales in SEK M37%
of total revenue15%
Growth at CERSOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202116
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelsubmission for emergency use authori-
sation in COVID-19 with agency 
 validation expected during the first 
half of 2022.
We see Kineret as an important, life- 
saving addition to the treatment armoury 
against COVID-19 and are proud to con-
tribute to the global efforts to reduce the 
impact of the pandemic.
2021 was yet another year of  double- 
digit sales growth for Kineret. Growth of 
16 per cent was driven by strong under -
lying growth in all regions, with the largest 
share stemming from COVID-19- related 
sales in Russia, Romania and Turkey. 
Other contributing factors were several 
market approvals, as well as FDA approval 
in the DIRA indication in December 2020. 
For more on Russia, see the Directors’ 
Report, p38.
The strong interest in Kineret from the 
scientific and medical community, seen 
in several ongoing investigator-spon-
sored studies, indicates potential utility in 
a broad spectrum of diseases. We expect 
Kineret to continue to make a significant 
contribution to the Immunology disease 
area. 
Gamifant
Gamifant (emapalumab) is an interferon 
gamma (IFNγ) blocking monoclonal 
antibody used for treating primary hae-
mophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH), a rare genetic disease characte- 
rised by life-threatening inflammatory 
symptoms. 
Since Gamifant’s launch in the US in 
2018, our US team has continued to 
drive strong growth, helping to treat 
hundreds of patients. More institutions 
have begun to use Gamifant, and exist-
ing ones are expanding its use.Global access to Gamifant also made 
progress in 2021 with approval in the 
United Arab Emirates for the treatment 
of primary HLH, which will significantly 
expand the number of patients who are 
able to access this medicine.  
In 2021, global sales rose by 48 per 
cent at CER to SEK 840 million. 
Beyond primary HLH, we believe 
Gamifant has expansive potential given 
its targeted mechanism of action and 
ability to help control hyperinflammation 
in patients with clinically relevant over -
expression of IFNγ. We continue to 
pursue Gamifant’s potential utility across 
HLH and other disease states. A form of 
secondary HLH, driven by rheumato-
logic diseases, is the next planned indi-
cation for Gamifant. Read more in R&D, 
page 20. 
Synagis
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a 
common and highly contagious sea-
sonal virus contracted by nearly all 
babies by the age of two. In most cases, 
RSV causes only a mild respiratory infec -
tion, but can be much more serious for 
some, especially babies considered high 
risk. RSV is the leading cause of hospital 
admission in infants aged less than one 
year in the United States. 
Synagis (palivizumab) is the only 
approved medicine for the prevention of 
serious lower respiratory tract infections 
caused by RSV in high-risk infants, and 
significantly reduces the risk of RSV hos-
pitalisation. Sobi has the US rights to 
Synagis. 
RSV is a seasonal virus which has a 
major effect on sales, with the vast 
majority occurring during RSV season. 
With COVID-19 measures such as social distancing and reduced travel reducing 
the severity of the 2020-21 RSV season, 
Synagis sales were lower than usual in 
the first half of 2021. Extensive public 
awareness and educational activities, 
combined with an early start to the RSV 
season in Q3 2021, led to strong growth 
in Synagis sales in Q3 and Q4 compared 
with the same period of the previous 
year. 
Jyseleca
In 2021, Sobi entered an agreement with 
Galapagos NV to commercialise Jyse-
leca in Central and Eastern Europe, 
Greece, Portugal and the Baltics. Jyse-
leca is a novel, oral once-a-day JAK1 
preferential inhibitor approved by the 
European Commission for the treatment 
of rheumatoid arthritis and ulcerative 
colitis, and with a global phase 3 pro-
gramme ongoing in Crohn’s disease. We 
expect first sales from 2022, following 
local pricing and reimbursement 
approvals.  
The introduction of Jyseleca into 
Sobi’s portfolio strengthens the compa-
ny’s offering in Immunology while also 
allowing us to harness synergies from 
our existing contacts with customers 
and clinics. SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202117
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business model1. Zatkova A, Ranganath LR, and Kadasi L. Alkaptonuria: Current Perspectives. Appl Clin Genet. 2020; 13: 37–47. doi: 10.2147/TACG.S186773
2. Ref: Schmidt H et al, Muscle & Nerve, May 2018, 829-837
3. Waylivra (volenorsesn) SMPC
4. Gaudet et D, et al. Lipids Health Dis. 2020;19(120):1–13Specialty Care
As well as Orfadin – a treatment for HT-1 and alkaptonuria – the Specialty Care 
 portfolio now includes Tegsedi and Waylivra, allowing us to meet unmet medical 
need among people living with hATTR amyloidosis polyneuropathy and FCS.
Orfadin (nitisinone), which has played a 
key role for many years in the health of 
people living with hereditary tyrosinae-
mia type 1 (HT-1), is now the first phar -
macological treatment approved for 
treatment of alkaptonuria (AKU). 
Sobi continues as the market leader to 
support those living with HT-1 and the 
healthcare professionals working to pro-
vide optimal management of this rare 
genetic disorder that can cause liver, 
renal and neurological complications. 
Orfadin is approved in the US, the EU, 
Latin America and Asia-Pacific markets 
for the treatment of HT-1, in combina-
tion with dietary restriction of tyrosine 
and phenylalanine. 
Recently, generic competition has had 
an impact, with lower revenue mainly 
due to price decreases, but Orfadin has 
retained its role as the main treatment in 
the management of HT-1.
Following EU approval of Orfadin in 
2020 as the first pharmacological treat-
ment for adults with alkaptonuria (AKU), 
patients across Europe have been get-
ting access to treatment for the first 
time.  
AKU is a serious, multifaceted, debili-
tating and slowly progressive disease affecting approximately 1 in every 
250,000 to 1 million people. Also known 
as black bone disease or black urine dis-
ease due to its characteristics, it is an 
extremely rare genetic condition that 
can cause significant damage to the 
bones, cartilage and tissue, and eventu-
ally lead to joint disease. The AKU Soci-
ety in the UK has reported 777 identified 
patients in Europe1 but because many 
with this disease are undiagnosed or 
misdiagnosed, the number in need is 
expected to be higher.
Launch, reimbursement and access 
activities are ongoing and some markets 
already have full access and have 
launched Orfadin for the new indication. 
Sobi continues to work to ensure sus-
tainable access to Orfadin for patients 
with HT-1 and AKU.
Tegsedi and Waylivra
In December 2020, Sobi signed a licens-
ing deal with US-based Akcea, adding 
Tegsedi and Waylivra to our portfolio for 
Europe, the Middle East, some Central 
European countries and Russia. In April 
2021, the Tegsedi agreement was 
extended to include the United States.Tegsedi (inotersen) is approved in the 
EU, the US and other markets as a treat-
ment for polyneuropathy in hereditary 
transthyretin-mediated (hATTR) amyloi-
dosis in adults. hATTR-PN is a rare, pro-
gressive and debilitating genetic disease 
caused by a mutation or change in the 
gene coding for the transthyretin (TTR) 
protein, and is estimated to affect 40,000 
people globally.
Underdiagnosed and sub-optimally 
treated, hATTR-PN is estimated to affect 
around 3,500 patients in Europe2, with 
the highest prevalence in Portugal and 
Sweden, and large populations in Ger -
many, Italy and France.
For people living with familial chylo-
micronaemia syndrome (FCS), Waylivra 
(volanesorsen) is approved in the EU and 
other markets for use in conjunction 
with an extremely low-fat diet. Waylivra 
significantly reduces triglycerides, 
decreases the risk of pancreatitis and the 
intensity of abdominal pain, and 
improves quality of life3. 
Prevalence is around 1–2 per million, 
with an estimated 3,000–5,000 patients 
worldwide. Waylivra is the only treat-
ment globally indicated for FCS4.1,213
sales in SEK M8%
of total revenue8%
Growth at CER    
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
18
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelGeographical 
 expansion
Sobi continues to expand into new geographies. With significant 
unmet medical need in regions outside our current territories, 
we are committed to reaching more patients with our treatments.
As a rare disease company, we serve a 
relatively small proportion of the popu-
lation and address areas of high unmet 
medical need. Expanding our geograph-
ical presence takes us into new markets 
with major growth potential while allow-
ing more people living with rare diseases 
to access treatment. 
One of our objectives is to reach twice 
as many patients with our treatments 
long term, with an established presence 
in selected new markets and partner -
ships in others. We are planning a large 
number of launches in markets outside 
the EU and North America within the 
same timeframe, and expect those 
geographies to make an important con-
tribution to Sobi’s long-term growth.
In 2021, a partnership was established 
in Latin America, following expansion 
into China, Japan, and Australia. For 
more on Russia, see the Directors’ 
Report, p38.
Sobi operates within three regional 
clusters: Europe, North America and 
International. International includes all 
countries outside of North America and 
Western Europe.
In both China and Japan, develop-
ments in recent years have led to an 
increased focus on the needs of people 
living with rare diseases. These two 
countries represent the second and 
third-largest pharmaceutical markets in 
the world. 
We continue to grow in Europe, the 
Middle East and North Africa, as well as 
in North America where operations have 
grown from 54 to 441 employees (FTE) 
in four years. The US, the single largest 
rare disease market in the world, is now 
home to Sobi’s largest affiliate. Increased attention to rare diseases
The rare disease market in China and 
Japan is developing rapidly, with increas-
ing attention and awareness from 
 governments, and with patient commu-
nities’ support to increase access to 
orphan drugs. This means that there is 
both momentum for addressing the 
unmet medical need, and opportunities 
for growth from providing medicines to 
more patients.
To address the unmet medical needs 
of roughly 17 million patients in China 
with rare diseases, the Chinese National 
Medical Products Administration has 
been carrying out reforms, including 
allowing clinical study data from abroad 
to be submitted for the Chinese registry 
of rare disease drugs approved overseas, 
shortening the review and approval pro-
cess, and extending clinical data exclu-
sivity, ranging from six to twelve years.
In Japan, the Ministry of Health, 
Labour and Welfare has requested that 
Kineret be developed and submitted for 
approval in the country, a request Sobi 
aims to meet. In addition, Sobi started 
regulatory submission activity for 
Empaveli in Japan. 
Both China and Japan generally 
require that medicines submitted for 
approval have been studied in local pop-
ulations, contributing to greater scien-
tific understanding of the challenges 
facing ethnic populations. In China, 
medicines with an urgent clinical need 
that have recently been approved over -
seas can be granted a waiver, but require 
post-market studies to confirm condi-
tional approval.Extended presence in new markets
In Russia, Sobi has expanded its pres-
ence in recent years with the approval 
of Eloctate (Elocta) and the launch of 
Orfadin as a treatment for HT-1 and 
additional indications for Kineret.
In Australia, Kineret was re-integrated 
into the Sobi portfolio from a partner in 
2020. Sobi sees further potential for 
growth in the Australian market. Empaveli 
was recently approved for PNH follow-
ing submission last year and launch 
preparations are under way. 
In 2021, Sobi took another strategic 
step with expansion into Latin America 
through a new commercial partner, 
Pint Pharma, to take our medicines to 
patients in seven countries in Latin 
America.     
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
19
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business model»One of our long 
term objectives is  
to reach twice as 
many patients, 
with an established 
 presence in selected 
new markets, and 
partnerships to 
serve others.« Sobi’s markets 2021
USADoptelet Orfadin
Kepivance®
TegsediSynagis
Gamifant 
Kineret
Europe
Middle East Elocta
Alprolix
Doptelet 
Elocta
Alprolix
Doptelet 
Doptelet1 Orfadin KineretHaematology Immunology
Orfadin
Tegsedi, Waylivra
Partner Products Kineret
Orfadin
Tegsedi, WaylivraKineret
Gamifant
Rest of the  
world
Specialty Care
See p 123–124 for full details. 
1. Out-licensed in China. Expanded market presence  
outside Europe and North America
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202120
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelFuture-ready pipeline
Sobi’s broad and exciting pipeline is contributing to growth in several 
dimensions. With several programmes underway or planned, the pipe -
line is set to enable more than 60 launches over the coming years. 
As we bring in new medicines through 
in-licensing or acquisitions, we increase 
the number of indications and conse-
quently the number of patients who 
potentially can benefit from our 
 medicines. 
We are also growing geographically, 
with new medicines and indications 
taking us into new markets. And we con-
tinue to expand our collaborations with 
other companies, academics and stake-
holder organisations. 
Our Research & Development team is 
evolving to suit the changing needs of 
Sobi and the rare disease space. We must 
continue to innovate and deliver, and 
increase our efficiency and agility, 
emphasising a growth mindset that 
allows us to be competitive in the speed 
and quality of what we do. 
Innovation characterises our opera-
tions: our portfolio is composed of first-
in-class or best-in-class medicines, and 
we continue to innovate in both the 
design and execution of clinical studies. 
This can also be seen in our innovative 
approach to patient selection, using bio-
markers to identify patients who will 
benefit most from our medicines, in a 
step closer to precision medicine. For 
example, the anakinra programme in 
COVID-19 related pneumonia used the 
SuPAR biomarker to identify patients 
most at risk of developing severe com-
plications. 
We continue to make progress in 
increasing patient involvement in both 
design and execution of clinical studies, 
allowing us to gain a better understand-
ing of the unmet need and the diseases 
themselves. Studies driven by Patient 
Access & Community Engagement and 
Global Medical & Scientific Affairs are looking for example at the unmet need 
in terms of anaemia and transfusion 
dependence among PNH patients 
treated with C5 inhibitors, among other 
areas. 
 We are working to bring in patients to 
our steering committees and involve 
them in reviewing protocols. 
Haematology
Efanesoctocog alfa
We are convinced that efanesoctocog 
alfa has the potential to advance the 
treatment of people with haemophilia A. 
Top-line results were released in March 
2022 for the phase 3 study of efanesoc -
tocog alfa (fFVIIIFc-VWF-XTEN) in 
adults. The paediatric study is ongoing, 
with expected read-out in 2023. The 
progress in both studies during the 
COVID-19 pandemic has been a signifi-
cant achievement.
Doptelet
Launched in the US and Europe, Dopte-
let (avatrombopag) will be submitted in 
Japan as a potential treatment for 
chronic liver disease (CLD) in 2022, with 
a study in ITP expected later in the year. 
Approval in Japan requires data from 
Japanese patients.
Immunology
The approval in the EU of Kineret (anak -
inra) as a treatment for COVID-19-re-
lated pneumonia in adult patients who 
are at risk of developing severe respira-
tory failure marked the culmination of 
intense efforts throughout much of 2021 
by Sobi’s R&D, Global Medical & Scien-
tific Affairs, and colleagues in Greece and Italy, as well as close collaboration 
with Professor Giamarellos-Bourboulis 
and his team, and Virogates, the com-
pany behind SuPAR.  
By utilising SuPAR, a robust biomarker, 
physicians are able to identify the right 
patient at the right time, intervening 
during a window of opportunity to stop 
the patient from progressing to more 
severe disease. The SAVE-MORE study 
showed that Kineret can keep patients 
out of intensive care, and get them 
home more quickly. 
In the US, Sobi anticipates making a 
regulatory submission for emergency 
use authorisation with agency validation 
expected during the first half of 2022.  
In 2021, Kineret was also approved in 
Russia for Still’s disease (adult and juve-
nile) and will be submitted in China 
during 2022 for Still’s, CAPS and FMF 
based on existing studies.
SEL-212
SEL-212 is a novel combination candi-
date treatment designed to sustain con-
trol of serum uric acid (SUA) levels in 
patients with chronic refractory gout, 
potentially reducing harmful tissue urate 
deposits which can lead to debilitating 
gout flares and joint deformity when left 
untreated. 
The DISSOLVE phase 3 programme 
consists of two double-blind, place-
bo-controlled studies of SEL-212. 
Recruitment for the first study is com-
plete and the second is progressing well. 
We expect data readout by the end of 
2022, ahead of submission in 2023. SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202121
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelOverlap between Haematology 
and Immunology
Aspaveli/Empaveli
Approval in the EU, the UK, Australia and 
Saudi Arabia for complement C3 inhibi-
tor Aspaveli/Empaveli (pegcetacoplan) 
as a treatment for PNH was a major 
advance in care for people living with 
this serious disease. A large majority of 
patients under treatment with C5 inhibi-
tors continue to experience serious 
symptoms such as anaemia and related 
fatigue, and subsequently require regular 
transfusions. 
The introduction of C5 inhibitors as a 
treatment for PNH 15 years ago was a 
revolution, allowing patients to survive 
their disease. We see Aspaveli/Empaveli as 
an important treatment option for those 
who fail to respond to C5 treatment. 
We continue to work on taking 
Aspaveli/Empaveli to PNH patients in 
other countries. We have also filed in some countries in the Middle East, with 
approval and launch in Saudi Arabia, and 
a plan to file in Japan. 
Aspaveli/Empaveli is also under investi-
gation for other diseases. We activated 
sites for our phase 2 study in thrombotic 
microangiopathies (TMA) and phase 3 
study in cold agglutinin disease (CAD) in January, and recruited our first patients to 
the CAD study. Based on advice regarding 
the patient population, we are seeking a 
broader label in CAD, focused on our ter -
ritories and specifically Russia and Japan. 
The phase 2 dose study in TMA will pave 
the way for a phase 3 study planned to 
start in the second half of 2022.
Our pipeline1
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration
Kineret (anakinra) 
COVID-19 patients at risk of 
developing severe respiratory 
failureEfanesoctocog alfa  
(BIVV001)3 
Haemophilia A
Nirsevimab5 
Respiratory syncytial virus 
preventionSEL-2124 
Chronic refractory goutAspaveli/Empaveli 
(pegcetacoplan)2
Paroxysmal nocturnal 
haemoglobinuria, PNH
Gamifant (emapalumab)
Primary haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis, HLHAspaveli/Empaveli 
(pegcetacoplan)2 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS)
Gamifant (emapalumab) 
Secondary haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)/
macrophage activation 
syndrome in children)
Gamifant (emapalumab) 
Graft failureAspaveli/Empaveli 
(pegcetacoplan)2 
Transplant-associated 
thrombotic microangiopathy 
after allogenic haematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation
Gamifant (emapalumab) 
Macrophage activation 
syndrome in rheumatological 
diseasesNirsevimab
Nirsevimab is a long-acting antibody 
currently in development for passive 
immunisation against respiratory syn-
cytial virus (RSV). As part of Sobi’s 
acquisition of US commercial rights to 
Synagis from AstraZeneca in Novem-
ber 2018, Sobi also acquired rights to 
participate in payments received by 
AstraZeneca from the US profit or loss 
for nirsevimab. Sobi does not have any 
active role in the development or 
commercialisation of nirsevimab. AstraZeneca and Sanofi are develop-
ing and planning to commercialise nir -
sevimab for use in all infants, in com-
parison to Synagis which is limited to 
infants at high risk. AstraZeneca 
announced positive results of its phase 
2/3 (Medley) and phase 3 (Melody) 
study in 2021 and communicated 
plans to file in the US in the second 
half of 2022. The Melody trial will con-
tinue until Q2 2022 to collect addi-
tional safety data.
Aspaveli/Empaveli 
(pegcetacoplan)2 
C3 glomerulopathy (C3G)
1. Shows studies that have started.
2. In collaboration with Apellis Pharmaceuticals.
3. In collaboration with Sanofi.
4. In collaboration with Selecta Biosciences.
5. Financial participation by Sobi. Haematology      Immunology SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202122
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelOur partner Apellis is developing 
Aspaveli/Empaveli in the indications C3 
glomerulopathy (C3G), which is in phase 
3, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS), which is in phase 2. 
Gamifant
We see an opportunity to expand the 
label for Gamifant (emapalumab) 
beyond its indication of primary HLH. 
We recently started a multi-centre 
global phase 3 study, EMERALD, in mac -
rophage activation syndrome (MAS) in 
paediatric and adult patients with under -
lying rheumatological diseases, to 
expand Gamifant utility across the spec -
trum of HLH disease. EMERALD currently 
has sites in the US, Canada, France, Spain 
and Poland, and we are looking at possi-
ble sites in other countries including 
Japan. The first patient was dosed in 
January 2022. 
In prospective studies in acute graft 
failure, we are focusing on the relevant 
biomarker CXCL9, and have adopted a 
stage-gate approach.
Phase 4 studies
Sobi is undertaking or supporting several 
phase 4 studies in haematology, immu-
nology and specialty care.
In haematology, these include studies 
of the effectiveness of Elocta and Alpro-
lix in patients with haemophilia A and B, 
the effects of prophylaxis on joint out-
comes in haemophilia A and B, and the 
impact of systematic joint examinations 
on physicians’ treatment decisions in 
haemophilia A; and in ITP, a study to 
evaluate the use and effectiveness of 
Doptelet in adult patients.   
In the area of immunology, studies 
include post-approval efficacy studies 
of Kineret in Chinese patients with Still’s 
disease, colchicine-resistant familial 
Mediterranean fever (FMF) and cryopy-
rin-associated periodic syndrome 
(CAPS).
Post-approval commitments include 
a study on the safety and efficacy of 
emapalumab for the treatment of pri-
mary HLH in Chinese patients, and one 
describing the outcome of Orfadin 
 treatment in HT-1 patients in China.
»We are using 
the business 
 priorities we 
have to drive 
the change 
we need.« SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202123
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelSustainability
Our mission is to improve the lives of people with rare diseases.  
This is also our main contribution to  sustainable development.
Commitment to the 2030 Agenda, the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals and the Paris AgreementTransform lives within rare diseases
Business strategy 
Grow Immunology  
and Specialty CareLead in  
HaematologyGo globalCapture the value  
of our pipelineSobi’s sustainability strategy is focused 
on two main areas, each supporting our 
mission to improve lives for people living 
with rare diseases:
• Commitment to patients –by support-
ing the rare disease community,  
 enabling connectedness, ensuring 
sustainable and secure access to care, 
and by giving a voice to patients. A 
strong pipeline and expanded access 
through geographical expansion are 
key elements of our commitment, 
which puts patient safety first by 
adhering to the highest pharmaceuti-
cal standards. 
• Responsible behaviour – through 
strong business ethics and measures 
aimed at creating a healthy and 
well-functioning organisation 
designed to serve the community. 
We show our commitment by under -
standing and mapping our impact 
throughout the value chain, by setting 
ambitions and targets for ourselves, 
by working together with our partners 
to reduce our total environmental 
footprint, and by striving to make a 
positive contribution to individuals 
and societies.
Sobi is a signatory to the UN Global 
Compact, and we have integrated the 
ten principles of the Global Compact 
into our core business operations. Our 
sustainability strategy is based on our 
commitment to realisation of the 2030 
Agenda as defined by the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals and the Paris 
 Agreement.Our R&D is ethical and  
focused on medical need
We expand access to treatment
We are patient-centric and  
engage with our communities
We contribute to knowledge to  
enhance the practice of medicine 
We focus on patient safetyWe help our people develop  
and keep them safe and healthy 
We have zero tolerance for  
corruption
We source responsibly
We reduce our environmental 
footprint Sustainability strategy
Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviour
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202124
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelCommitment to patients
Over 18,800 people 
reported treated  
in 41 countries
Over 213,000 
acute bleeds 
treated
Over 3,200 surgeries, 
including  
limb-saving
588 million IU of 
factor donated
10
programmes in  
rare diseases 
5
novel mechanisms 
of action
Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution to the WFH Humanitarian Aid ProgramOur business strategy reflects our ambi-
tion and commitment to reach more 
patients in more countries with novel 
and transformative treatments in areas 
of high unmet medical need.
R&D focused on medical need
In 2021, our R&D portfolio was expanded 
to include more new medicines and 
studies in multiple indications and coun-
tries, increasing the potential to make 
more treatments available to more 
patients.
To realise the potential of the portfo-
lio, the R&D budget was increased to 
13 per cent of revenue for 2021, com-
pared with 10.4 per cent in 2020. 
Five medicines are now under devel-
opment, in more than ten programmes 
planned to allow for more than 60 
launches in multiple countries in coming 
years; all medicines in the pipeline either 
have novel mechanisms of action or are 
first-in-class. 
Orphan drug regulations can shorten 
time to patient. See chapter Rare diseases, 
pages 8–9. 
The development strategy also 
includes exploring innovative 
approaches that help optimise treatment 
outcomes. In the digital health area, 
Sobi’s subsidiary Florio provides a digital 
medical device florio HAEMO and the 
florio HAEMO kids app. In 2021, Florio 
launched several new features for adults 
and children. The digital diary app for ITP, 
which helps patients to organise, track 
and record their health and treatment 
information, was launched in collabora-
tion with the Platelet Disorder Support 
Association (PDSA) in the United States. Patient access
In 2021, we expanded the potential for 
access to treatments through a distribu-
tion agreement covering seven coun-
tries in Latin America, and by enlarging 
our operations in Russia, Japan, China 
and Australia. One of our objectives for 
2025 is to reach twice as many patients 
with established presence or partner -
ships as in 2020. 
The EU Pharmaceutical Strategy, 
adopted in 2020, is a policy document 
aiming to tackle important challenges 
for European patients and the health 
sector, and sets out a comprehensive set 
of actions to ensure access to affordable 
medicine and facilitate collaboration on 
unmet needs and evidence generation, 
among other things. Sobi has partici-
pated in these collaborations for many 
years. We also advocate for support for 
people living with rare diseases through 
collaboration within trade organisations 
to drive knowledge and expertise sharing. 
Humanitarian aid 
In 2020, together with Sanofi, we 
announced an extension of our support 
for the WFH (World Federation of Hemo-philia) Humanitarian Aid Program, with 
an  additional donation of up to 500 mil-
lion international units (IU) of factor ther -
apy for humanitarian use, fulfilling the 
2014 pledge to donate up to an unprec -
edented 1 billion IU over a 10-year 
period. As Founding Visionary Contribu-
tors, Sobi and Sanofi continued the sup-
port for the Program throughout 2021. 
Since the initial pledge, over 18,880 
people with haemophilia have been 
treated with factor donated by Sobi and 
Sanofi.
By providing a more predictable and 
sustainable flow of treatment, the WFH 
Humanitarian Aid Program allows 
patients to receive consistent and relia-
ble access to therapy and care. In addi-
tion, the educational training for treaters 
and patients made possible by the Pro-
gram are critical for developing domes-
tic capacities to improve diagnosis and 
treatment monitoring and enabling 
long-term sustainable change. 
Because donations do not provide 
sustainable or long-term access to treat-
ment we strive to transform donations to 
access within the regulated healthcare 
system.SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202125
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business model
Community engagement
Sobi has long-standing relationships 
with the rare disease community includ-
ing bodies such as patient organisations 
EURORDIS (Rare Diseases Europe) and 
NORD (the US National Organization for 
Rare Diseases), and provides support for 
their events, such as the 2021 Black Pearl 
Awards. 
Other engagements include digital 
outreach such as Liberate Life, a Sobi-
run digital resource centre and website 
that provides support and information 
for people with haemophilia, available in 
21 local and regional versions. In 2021, 
Sobi continued to support social media 
and online communities as well as net-
working events and patient summits with 
a specific focus on COVID-19. Informa-
tional tools and materials for patient car -
egivers and healthcare personnel to 
facilitate knowledge  sharing were part of 
this  support.Medical advancements
Sobi regularly participates in scientific 
meetings to share medical advance-
ments to enhance the practice of medi-
cine. We also arrange advisory boards to 
seek input in key clinical and scientific 
topics, continuing to develop our 
 medicines. 
Sobi is a long-term supporter of the 
WFH and the European Haemophilia 
Consortium (EHC). Sobi’s annual support 
to the WFH Corporate Partner Program 
continues to enable country develop-
ment programmes, educational resources, 
training for healthcare professionals, 
capacity building and training for 
patients and patient organisations as 
well as support for the World Bleeding 
Disorder Registry (WBDR). Our sponsor -
ship of the EHC enables capacity build-
ing across Europe, including youth 
 leadership and activation of the youth 
community in Europe.Focus on patient safety 
Providing treatment for rare diseases 
adds another dimension to patient 
safety, because less information is avail-
able than for more widespread illnesses, 
and advanced analytical thinking is 
required.
Patient safety is part of a medicine’s 
journey from development and into real-
world use. Our global safety organisation 
focuses on detection, assessment, 
understanding and the prevention of 
adverse effects, and the correct man-
agement of safety information is a topic 
for regular employee training. SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202126
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business model80% 
renewable energy in  
Sobi operations
95%
completed Code of  
Conduct  trainingSobi aims always to act ethically and 
expects the highest standards of ethical 
behaviour from our employees. We offer 
a healthy workplace with continuous 
professional development opportunities.  
Caring for our employees 
Our workforce is key to our ability to 
deliver on the Sobi strategy. Over the 
course of 2021, we welcomed over 364 
(400) individuals to Sobi,and finished the 
year with more than 1,580 (1,500) highly 
skilled employees in more than 30 coun-
tries around the world.
During the year, the COVID-19 pan-
demic continued to affect employees 
across the world. Sobi contributed to 
protecting the health of employees by 
promoting working from home and 
allowing only business-critical interna-
tional travel while continuing precau-
tions in the workplace, flexible working 
hours and office attendance planning.
Employee surveys
In 2021, further efforts were made to 
improve within areas identified in the 
2020 Global Engagement Survey. Work-
life balance continued to be a high prior -
ity, and follow-up surveys conducted 
during the year showed good results for 
improved employee wellbeing. To fur -
ther improve wellbeing, employees have 
been encouraged to participate in devel-
oping the principles and set-up of the 
future, post-pandemic workplace. Zero tolerance for corruption
Responsible behaviour is promoted by the 
company values and Code of Conduct. In 
2020, a new, updated Code of Conduct 
was launched and made available to 
internal as well as external stakeholders, 
and the whistleblower hotline was 
extended to include external parties. In 
2021, efforts were put into increasing 
internal awareness of the whistleblower 
reporting channel, and 14 cases were 
reported. During 2021, the Corporate 
Compliance Committee consisting of the 
CEO, CFO, General Counsel and Chief 
Compliance Officer assumed oversight of 
compliance investigations, ensuring both 
non-retaliation against whistleblowers 
and organisational fairness in the applica-
tion of sanctions. To further underline 
Sobi’s commitment to compliance, a 
global Ethics and Integrity Week was con-
ducted including live global events with 
senior management and local awareness 
activities. 
Expansion into new markets and the 
introduction of new employees into the 
company require continuous revision of 
policies, systems and training to ensure 
high standards are maintained, and that 
compliance is introduced to all new 
employees and included as a topic in 
induction programmes. 95 per cent of eli-
gible Sobi employees completed the 
Code of Conduct training in 2021 and 96 
per cent completed the Anti-Corruption 
and Anti-Bribery training. Both training 
modules are required for all personnel 
every second year. Responsible behaviour
Responsible sourcing
As Sobi’s supply chain is outsourced to a 
large extent, we depend on sustainable 
and dependable suppliers to produce, 
pack and distribute our products. As a 
consequence, a large part of our sus-
tainability impact occurs outside Sobi’s 
own operations.
Since 2020, Sobi has been part of the 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative 
(PSCI), a non-profit business member -
ship organisation driving excellence in 
safety, environmental and social out-
comes for the entire global 
 pharmaceutical and healthcare supply 
chain. The PSCI brings together mem-
bers to define, establish and promote 
responsible supply chain practices, 
human rights, environmental sustaina-
bility and responsible business.  
We also use the EcoVadis sustainability 
reporting platform to monitor and drive 
Proportion of suppliers with implemented practices
Calculated as share of suppliers reporting in EcoVadis who have   
implemented these principles. For more details, see page 115.
CSR-issues Whistleblowing Energy consumption and GHGs
n  Share of suppliers with actions on 
energy consumption and GHGs, 88%n  Share of suppliers performing 
audits or assessments of suppliers 
on CSR-issuers, 75%n  Share of suppliers with active  
whistleblowing procedures, 88%SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202127
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelperformance and progress of our sup-
plier partners across the four dimensions 
of Environment, Labour & Human Rights, 
Ethics and Sustainable Procurement.
Supplier status and progress is fol-
lowed up in our regular business review 
meetings with each supplier, and 
improvement targets are set. 
Reducing our environmental footprint 
Sobi’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
from our own operations are limited. In 
2021, we continued to expand our 
reporting practice by introducing a 
common reporting platform including 
all global operations and entities.
All electricity consumed at the 
 Stockholm facility has been generated 
from a mix of certified renewable energy 
sources. The impacts of our global oper -
ations are described in detail on pages 
118–120. 
By avoiding, reducing and substituting 
we aim to achieve net zero emissions from our sites and ground fleet no later 
than 2030 and we are working to set tar -
gets for our operations and our Category 
6 Scope 3 emissions (business travel). 
We have begun mapping our Category 
1, 4 and 9 Scope 3 emissions and are col-
lecting data from a limited number of 
contract manufacturers and logistics 
partners. For 2022, Sobi plans to com-plete the mapping of our value chain 
emissions and set priorities with Scope 3 
emission targets based on identified 
reduction opportunities. 
In 2021, as a part of our Responsible 
Sourcing Programme, we started com-
municating our ambitions to suppliers, 
and integrating reporting and target 
reviews in business follow-ups. Sobi’s greenhouse gas emissions
3.3
Direct emissions 
production facilityDirect emissions 
fleet carsContract 
manufacturingDistribution  
& logistics 701 To map & actTo map & act
99 4,357To map & act To map & actEmissions directly controlled by Sobi1 Sobi’s value chain emissions2
Purchased  
electricity Business  
travelRaw materials Capital goods  
& services
2. Remaining scope 3 emissions to be mapped by 2022. Details in Sustainability notes, p 118 1.Full scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, and scope 3 business travel. Details in 
Sustainability notes p 118. 
The Responsible Sourcing Programme has been gradually implemented since  
it was introduced in 2019. It is based on three pillars: 
1) Alignment of values and principles
We secure alignment between ourselves 
and our partners through the Partner Code 
of Conduct, a document Sobi suppliers 
must sign and adhere to as stated in our 
contracts.  
2) Supplier risk assessment and 
 qualification
We evaluate prospective and current part-
ners and perform due diligence and 
screening for compliance with manage-
ment, labour, human rights and environ-mental standards. We customise our 
approach, depending on the geographic 
and supplier category risk profile as well as 
the strategic importance of the supplier.  
3) Performance management and 
 monitoring 
We strive to reduce complexity by using 
common platforms to drive supplier per -
formance, where targets, activities and 
progress can be shared more effectively 
between suppliers and customers within 
the pharmaceutical industry. Sobi's GHG emissions mapping (tonnes CO 2)SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202128
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelThe share
In 2021 the highest price paid was SEK 
245.40 on 2 September, and the lowest 
was SEK 127.10 on 6 May. Sobi’s market 
capitalisation at year-end 2021 was SEK 
56.8 billion. Over 2021, the share price 
increased by 13.2 per cent.
Turnover and trading locations
The Sobi share is traded on several ex- 
changes and trading platforms, including 
Nasdaq Stockholm, Bats CXE and 
Bats BXE. In 2021, trading on Nasdaq 
Stockholm accounted for 63 per cent 
of the total turnover. 
Average daily total turnover in Sobi 
shares was 917,044 in official trading on 
Nasdaq Stockhol, and a total of 232 mil-
lion shares were traded during 2021, 
corresponding to a value of approxi-
mately SEK 41.2 billion.Share capital
At 31 December 2021, the total  number 
of ordinary shares outstanding, exclud-
ing shares in treasury, was 295,155,297. 
All issued shares are ordinary shares and 
carry one vote per share. 
At year-end, the share capital was SEK 
168,520,825, distributed between 
307,114,495 shares with a par value of 
approximately SEK 0.55.
Incentive programmes
Sobi has launched several share-based 
incentive programmes for senior execu-
tives and employees. Currently, there are 
six active share programmes, all vesting 
within three years. The programmes  
 represent a total maximum of 2,868,185 
shares, or 1.0 per cent of the total 
number of shares in the company. For 
more information, see Note 10.Shareholders
At year-end, the number of shareholders 
was 24,685 (33,816). The largest share-
holder, Investor AB, held 35.0 per cent 
(35.4) of the shares. Swedish legal enti-
ties, including institutions and funds, 
held 64.2 per cent (64.9) of the shares. 
Shares held by Swedish Orphan Biovit-
rum AB (publ) at year-end totalled 
11,959,198 common shares.
During the year 255,819 shares were 
used for allotment under two perfor -
mance-based long-term share pro-
grammes. See Note 10 for further infor -
mation.
Dividend
The Board proposes that no dividend 
be paid for 2021. For more information 
about Sobi’s dividend policy, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report.
Largest shareholders at 31 December 20211
SHAREHOLDERS Number of  
A sharesShare  
capital, % Share  
votes, %
Investor AB 107,594,165 35.0 35.0
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, W9 24,193,950 7.9 7.9
Fjärde AP-fonden 20,532,666 6.7 6.7
BNY Mellon SA/NV (former BNY), W8IMY 19,956,508 6.5 6.5
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.) 11,959,198 3.9 3.9
Euroclear Bank S.A/N.V, W8-IMY 11,557,227 3.8 3.8
Bank of America, National Associati, ON 6,225,603 2.0 2.0
Handelsbanken fonder 6,019,115 2.0 2.0
State Street Bank and Trust Co, W9 5,616,632 1.8 1.8
Cbny-Norges Bank 5,226,793 1.7 1.7
Swedbank Robur Fonder 4,338,856 1.4 1.4
JP Morgan Chase Bank NA 3,963,896 1.3 1.3
SEB Equities Sweden 2,721,546 0.9 0.9
Folksam 2,655,974 0.9 0.9
Credit Suisse International 2,511,775 0.8 0.8
Total 15 largest shareholders 235,073,904 76.6 76.6
Other 72,040,591 23.4 23.4
Total 307,114,495 100.0 100.0
1. The shareholders are presented as they appear in the shareholder register held by Euroclear Sweden AB. The list may therefore not show shareholders whose shares have been  
registered in the name of a nominee, through the trust department of a bank or similar institution.
 Source: EuroclearThe Sobi share (STO:SOBI) is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm,  
under the company name of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum. SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202129
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelAverage value of daily trading volume for the Sobi share on Nasdaq  Stockholm
VOLUME 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
A shares 784,589 900,760 778,920 987,486 917,044
Source: Nasdaq
Shareholder categories
31 DECEMBER 2021 % of capital 
Foreign shareholders 35.8
Swedish shareholders 64.2
whereof 
Institutions 60.9
Natural persons 3.2
Source: Euroclear.
Key data per share
SEK 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Earnings/loss 
per share 4.27 8.97 11.29 11.01 9.08
Equity per share 24.6 33.1 56.4 66.5 75.6
Market price,  
Series A-share, 
31 Dec., last  
paid price 112.3 193.0 154.5 166.1 185.1
P/E ratio 26.3 21.5 13.7 15.1 20.4
Number of 
 shares at 31 Dec. 272,507,708 273,322,117 299,977,839 303,815,511 307,114,495
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 201750100150200250300
Number of shares traded in thousands per month Nasdaq Biotech IndexSEK
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology PI Number of shares 
in thousandsSobi share price and trading volume 2017–2021Shareholders by country
%
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
Other Luxem-
bourgUK Belgium US Sweden/seven.tnum/zero.tnum./six.tnum
/zero.tnum./nine.tnum/one.tnum/four.tnum./nine.tnum
/seven.tnum./zero.tnum
/two.tnum./five.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum./seven.tnum/six.tnum/four.tnum./two.tnum
/three.tnum./four.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum./three.tnum
/one.tnum./nine.tnum/four.tnum./one.tnum/three.tnum./five.tnum
 2020  2021
Source: Euroclear.SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202130
R&D Sustainability The share Geographical expansion Business areas Strategy Market Business overview Business modelFive-year summary – Group development
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Income statement, SEK M 
Operating revenue 6,511 9,139 14,248 15,261 15,529
Gross profit 4,657 6,723 10,913 12,036 12,045
EBITDA1 2,086 3,607 6,121 6,841 5,740
EBITA1 2,053 3,571 5,933 6,700 5,575
EBITA adjusted1,2 2,053 3,571 6,145 6,301 5,575
EBIT (operating profit) 1,600 3,122 4,533 4,818 3,733
Profit for the year 1,149 2,418 3,304 3,245 2,679
Capital, SEK M
Total assets 10,903 17,183 45,658 48,283 48,661
Capital employed1 6,716 9,048 33,560 34,777 34,109
Equity 6,701 9,040 16,930 20,206 23,203
Cash and cash equivalents 1,478 2,999 737 404 1,045
Net debt (+)/net cash (–)1 –1,478 –2,999 15,404 13,748 9,500
Cash flow, SEK M
Cash flow from operating activities  
before changes in working capital3 1,431 2,341 5,300 5,367 4,356
Cash flow from operating activities3 1,333 2,090 3,634 4,926 5,470
Cash flow from investing activities –139 –575 –21,686 –3,964 –367
Cash flow from financing activities3 –500 –1 15,780 –1,282 –4,474
Change in cash and cash equivalents 694 1,514 –2,271 –320 629
Key figures, %
Gross margin1 72 74 77 79 78
EBITA margin1 32 39 42 44 36
EBITA margin adjusted1,2 32 39 43 41 36
Return on capital employed1 23.8 34.5 13.5 13.9 10.9
Return on equity1 19.0 30.7 25.4 17.5 12.3
Equity ratio1 61 53 37 42 48
Debt/equity ratio1 63 90 170 139 110
Share ratio, SEK
Earnings per share 4.27 8.97 11.29 11.01 9.08
Equity per share1 24.6 33.1 56.4 66.5 75.6
Cash flow per share1 2.6 5.6 –7.8 –1.1 2.1
Cash flow from operating activities per share1 5.0 7.8 12.4 16.7 18.5
1. Sobi presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS, so-called alternative performance measures. These have been  
noted in the table above and further  information on why these are considered important, and how they are calculated, can be found in Definitions at the end of this report.
2. Year 2020 excluding non-recurring item: other operating income related to the reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. Year 2019 excluding non-recurring items:  
transaction costs related to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M, restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of SOBI005 of SEK 37 M.
3. As of 2021, Sobi has changed the form of presentation for the cash flow statement and reclassified hedging arrangements for financing from cash flow from  
operating activities to cash flow from financing activities. Comparative figures for 2020 have been recalculated. For more information see Note 2 Accounting policies.Directors’ Report ................................................. 32
Consolidated financial statements
Statement of comprehensive income ............. 42
Balance sheet ......................................................  43
Statement of changes in equity ....................... 44
Cash flow statement ........................................... 45
Parent Company financial statements
Income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income .................................... 46
Balance sheet ....................................................... 47
Statement of changes in equity ....................... 49
Cash flow statement .......................................... 50
Notes
Note 1  General information ........................... 51
Note 2  Accounting policies ............................ 51
Note 3 Financial risk management ............... 56
Note 4   Significant accounting judgements, 
estimates and assumptions .............. 59
Note 5   Segment information and segment 
revenue......... ....................................... 60
Note 6   Depreciation/amortisation and 
 impairment of assets .......................... 62
Note 7 Other operating income ................... 62
Note 8  Other operating expenses ................ 63Note 9  Leases ................................................... 63
Note 10  Employees, personnel costs and 
 remuneration of Board members 
and senior executives ....................... 64
Note 11  Remuneration of auditors ................ 69
Note 12 Costs according to type of cost ...... 69
Note 13  Financial income ................................ 69
Note 14  Financial expenses ............................. 69
Note 15  Income tax ........................................... 70
Note 16   Intangible assets and impairment 
testing ................................................... 71
Note 17  Tangible assets .................................... 74
Note 18   Participations in Group  
companies ........................................... 75
Note 19 Financial assets .................................... 76
Note 20   Deferred tax assets and deferred  
tax liabilities .......................................... 77
Note 21 Inventories ........................................... 78
Note 22  Accounts receivable and other  
receivables ........................................... 78
Note 23  Prepaid expenses and accrued 
income .................................................. 79
Note 24 Cash and cash equivalents ................ 79
Note 25 Equity ................................................... 80
Note 26  Financial assets and liabilities  
per category ......................................... 81
Note 27 Borrowings ........................................... 82
Note 28  Other liabilities, non-interest- 
bearing, current and non-current ... 82Note 29 Post-employment benefits  .............. 83
Note 30 Provisions ............................................. 85
Note 31  Accrued expenses and deferred 
income .................................................. 85
Note 32  Pledged assets and contingent 
 liabilities ............................................... 86
Note 33 Related-party transactions .............. 86
Note 34 Proposed appropriation of profit .... 86
Note 35  Events after the  
balance sheet date ............................ 86
Auditor’s report ................................................... 88ContentsReportingDIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
31Highlights 2021 
Financial highlights 
• Operating revenue amounted to SEK 
15,529 M (15,261), an increase of 2 per 
cent, and 7 per cent at constant exchange 
rates (CER). 
• Revenue in Haematology amounted to 
SEK 8,536 M (8,660), an increase of 3 per 
cent at CER.
• Revenue in Immunology amounted to SEK 
5,780 M (5,415), an increase of 15 per cent 
at CER.
• The gross margin was 78 per cent (79).
• EBITA was SEK 5,575 M (6,700). 
• Adjusted EBITA was SEK 5,575 M (6,301), a 
decrease of 12 per cent, corresponding to 
an adjusted EBITA margin of 36 per cent 
(41). In 2020, adjusted EBITA excluded a 
positive impact of SEK 399 M from rever-
sal of the CVR liability. See page 34 under 
operating profit for more information.
• Profit for the year totalled SEK 2,679 
M (3,245), representing earnings per 
share before dilution of SEK 9.08 (11.01). 
Adjusted earnings per share before dilu-
tion amounted to SEK 9.08 (9.66).
• Cash flow from operating activities 
was SEK 5,470 M (4,926), an increase 
of 11 per cent. Business highlights
• Doptelet® (avatrombopag) was approved 
in the EU for the treatment of ITP.
• Kineret® (anakinra) was approved in Russia 
for the treatment of CAPS.
• Sobi signed a new distribution agreement 
with Galapagos for sales of Jyseleca® in 
Central- and Eastern Europe, Greece, 
 Portugal and the Baltic countries.
• Sobi established operations in the 
 Netherlands.
• Sobi signed a new agreement with Pint 
Pharma regarding the commercialisation 
of Sobi pharmaceuticals in seven Latin 
American countries, including Brazil.
• Advent and GIC announced a public cash 
offer to the shareholders of Sobi to tender 
their shares in Sobi to Agnafit Bidco. The 
offer was withdrawn as the level of accep-
tance was too low.
• Aspaveli® (pegcetacoplan) was granted 
orphan designation in the EU for the 
 treatment of PNH.
• Kineret (anakinra) was approved in 
the EU for the treatment of COVID-19 
 pneumonia.Directors’ Report
Sobi’s operations 
Sobi specialises in rare diseases, develop-
ing and providing access to innovative 
 treatments in the areas of haematology, 
immunology and nisch indications. 
In 2021, revenue was generated by:
• Haemotology, through sales of the 
 medicines Elocta®, Alprolix®, Doptelet 
and Aspaveli/Empaveli®. Revenue is also 
derived from manufacturing of the drug 
substance for ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® for 
Pfizer, and royalties on Sanofi’s sales of 
Eloctate® and Alprolix. 
• Immunology, through sales of the medi-
cines Kineret, Synagis® and Gamifant®. 
• Specialty Care, through sales of the 
 medicines Orfadin®, Tegsedi®, Waylivra® 
and other medicines in the Speciality Care 
portfolio.  
Key figures
SEK M 2021 2020
Operating revenue 15,529 15,261 
Gross profit 12,045 12,036 
Gross margin1 78% 79% 
EBITA1 5,575 6,700 
EBITA adjusted1, 2 5,575 6,301 
EBITA margin1 36% 44%
Adjusted EBITA margin1, 2 36% 41% 
Profit for the year 2,679 3,245 
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK 9.08 11.01 
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK adjusted1, 2 9.08 9.66 
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130. 
2. In 2020, adjusted EBITA excluded a positive effect of SEK 399 M from reversal of the CVR liability.
See p 30 for a five-year summary of revenue, expenses and earnings.Five-year revenue trend
 Haematology  Immunology
 Specialty Care02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017SEK MThe Board of Directors and CEO of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ.), organisation number 556038-9321, 
submit the following annual report and consolidated financial statements for the 2021 financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
32Operating revenue 
and adjusted EBITA margin1 
04,0008,00012,00016,00020,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 201701020304050SEK M
%
6,5119,13914,24815,261
15, 529
 Operating revenue   Adjusted EBITA margin1Revenue by business area
SEK M 2021 2020
Haematology 8,536 8,660 
Immunology 5,780 5,415 
Specialty Care 1,213 1,186 
Total revenue 15,529 15,261 Operating revenue 
Revenue amounted to SEK 15,529 M (15,261), 
an increase of 2 per cent, and 7 per cent 
at CER.
Revenue by business area
Haematology
Revenue for Haematology amounted to SEK 
8,536 M (8,660), a decrease of 1 per cent, 
and an increase of 3 per cent at CER. 
Sales of Elocta amounted to SEK 3,960 
M (4,585), a decrease of 14 per cent and 11 
per cent at CER. The negative effect of price 
adjustments, including a mandatory price 
reduction in Germany, was slightly offset by 
low single-digit patient growth and higher 
factor consumption.
Sales of Alprolix amounted to SEK 1,764 M 
(1,705), an increase of 3 per cent and 7 per 
cent at CER. The sales growth was mainly 
driven by underlying patient growth.
Royalty revenue amounted to SEK 1,251 M 
(1,301), derived from Sanofi’s sales of Eloc-
tate and Alprolix. 
Sales of Doptelet amounted to SEK 1,116 
M (587), an increase of 90 per cent and 104 
per cent at CER. Growth was mainly driven 
by continued launch successes in the US, 
a launch in Europe and higher sales to the 
partner Fosun in China.
Manufacturing revenue for ReFacto  
AF/Xyntha amounted to SEK 445 M (481), 
a decrease of 8 per cent.  Immunology
Revenue for Immunology totalled SEK 
5,780 M (5,415), an increase of 7 per cent 
and 15 per cent at CER. 
Sales of Kineret amounted to SEK 2,290 
M (2,079), an increase of 10 per cent and 16 
per cent at CER. The strong trend for Kineret 
continued, driven by new applications and 
patient growth, where most of the sales 
growth was related to COVID-19.
Sales of Synagis amounted to SEK 2,650 M 
(2,726), a decrease of 3 per cent and an 
increase of 6 per cent at CER, driven by con-
tinued strong demand. 2020 was positively 
impacted by inventory build-up at distribu-
tors at the end of the year.
Sales of Gamifant amounted to SEK 840 
M (609), an increase of 38 per cent and 48 
per cent at CER, reflecting continued patient 
growth, higher volume per patient and 
longer treatment times.
Specialty Care
Revenue for Specialty Care amounted to 
SEK 1,213 M (1,186), an increase of 2 per cent 
and 8 per cent at CER. The increase was 
driven by Tegsedi and Waylivra, which were 
recently in-licensed. Generic competition 
with subsequent price erosion continued to 
impact sales of Orfadin.Gross profit
Gross profit totalled SEK 12,045 M 
(12,036), representing a gross margin of 
78 per cent (79). The lower margin was 
mainly due to a mandatory price reduction 
for Elocta in Germany, and an unfavourable 
product and country mix, driven by Kineret, 
Tegsedi and Waylivra.
Operating expenses
Operating expenses increased to SEK 
8,312 M (7,218), an increase of 15 per cent. 
Sales and administrative expenses before 
amortisation/depreciation and impair-
ment amounted to SEK 4,453 M (4,099),an 
increase of 9 per cent. Costs increased due 
to launch preparations for Aspaveli and 
activities related to Tegsedi and Waylivra. 
Research and development costs before 
depreciations and write-downs amounted 
to SEK 1,994 M (1,594), an increase of 25 per 
cent. The increase reflects costs related to 
the  development programmes for Aspaveli 
and SEL-212.
Other operating income and expenses 
amounted to SEK –24 M (357). In 2020, 
operating revenue mainly pertained to the 
reversal of SEK 399 M for the CVR liability, 
see also Operating profit.
Operating profit
Operating profit (EBIT) totalled SEK 3,733 M 
(4,818), a decrease of 22 per cent. Amorti-
sation and impairment of intangible assets 
amounted to SEK 1,841 M (1,882). Operating 
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130. DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
33profit before amortisation  and impairment 
of intangible assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 
5,575 M (6,700), corresponding to a margin 
of 36 per cent (44). Adjusted EBITA was SEK 
5,575 M (6,301), corresponding to a margin 
of 36 per cent (41). In 2020, adjusted EBITA 
excluded a positive effect of SEK 399 M from 
reversal of the CVR liability. 
Following the completion of Sobi’s acqui-
sition of Dova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Dova) 
on 12 November 2019, Dova shareholders 
were provided one non-transferable Con-
tingent Value Right (CVR) to an additional 
USD 1.50 per share to be paid upon approval 
of Doptelet for use in chemotherapy-in-
duced thrombocytopenia (CIT) by the FDA. 
On 9 October 2020, Sobi announced topline 
results for a phase 3 CIT study of avatrom-
bopag. The primary endpoints were not met 
and Sobi estimates that the conditions of the 
CVR will not be met. The corresponding lia-
bility on the balance sheet was subsequently 
reversed, which had a positive impact of SEK 
399 M on other operating income. 
Net financial items
Net financial expenses amounted to SEK 
–438 M (–601). The improvement for the 
year reflects lower indebtedness in 2021 and 
negative exchange-rate effects in 2020.
Tax
Recognised income tax amounted to 
SEK –616 M (–972), of which SEK –659 M 
(–1,125) pertained to current tax and SEK 
43 M (153) to deferred tax. The effective tax 
rate was 18.7 per cent (23.1). See also Notes 
15 and 20.Profit
Profit for the year totalled SEK 2,679 M 
(3,245). Earnings per share before dilution 
amounted to SEK 9.08 (11.01).
Cash flow
Cash flow from operations before changes 
in working capital was SEK 4,356 M (5,367). 
Working capital had a positive impact of SEK 
1,114 M (–441) on cash flow, reflecting lower 
receivables due to the timing of payments 
attributable to the early start of the RSV 
season. 2020 was also adversely impacted 
by inventory build-up. Cash flow from 
 operating activities therefore amounted to 
SEK 5,470 M (4,926). 
Cash flow from investing activities was 
SEK –367 M (–3,964). The amount for 2020 
included investments of SEK –2,198 M in 
Aspaveli and SEK –977 M in SEL-212. 
Cash flow from financing activities was 
SEK –4,474 M (–1,282). During the year, loan 
repayments were possible due to the strong 
cash flow from operating activities. 
Financial position
At 31 December 2021, cash and cash equiv-
alents and current investments amounted 
to SEK 1,045 M (404).
At 31 December 2021, undrawn commit-
ted credit facilities amounted to SEK 4,336 
M (4,320) and drawn credit facilities totalled 
SEK 10,597 M (14,234). See Note 3 for more 
information about maturity structure. At 31 
December 2021, net debt was SEK 9,500 M 
(13,748).
Five-year summary
SEK M 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Operating revenue 15,529 15,261 14,248 9,139 6,511
Cost of goods sold –3,484 –3,225 –3,335 –2,415 –1,854
Research and development costs –1,994 –1,594 –1,495 –1,090 –908
Operating profit (EBIT) 3,733 4,818 4,533 3,122 1,600
Net financial items –438 –601 –286 –40 –68
Profit for the year 2,679 3,245 3,304 2,418 1,149
Earnings per share, before dilution, SEK 9.08 11.01 11.29 8.97 4.27
Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 9.03 10.90 11.22 8.93 4.25
Number of shares, 000s 307,114 303,816 299,978 273,322 272,508
Equity/assets ratio¹ 48% 42% 37% 53% 61%
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130. Revenue by business area
SEK M 2021 2020 Change
Elocta 3,960 4,585 –14%
Alprolix 1,764 1,705 3 %
Royalties 1,251 1,301 –4 %
Doptelet 1,116 587 90%
Aspaveli/
Empaveli 1 – n/a
Manufacturing 445 481 –8%
Haematology 8,536 8,660 –1%
Kineret 2,290  2,079 10%
Synagis 2,650 2,726 –3%
Gamifant 840 609 38%
Immunology 5,780 5,415 7%
Orfadin 459 665 –31%
Tegsedi 427 – n/a
Waylivra 121 – n/a
Other Specialty 
Care 207 521 –60%
Specialty Care 1,213 1,186 2%
Total revenue 15,529 15,261 2%
Revenue by region
SEK M 2021 2020 Change
Europe 7,011 7,620 –8 %
North America 6,120 5,483 12%
Rest of the 
world 1,147 857 34%
Other1 1,251 1,301 –4%
Total 15,529 15,261 2%
1. Refers to royalty on Sobi’s haemophilia products that are not 
attributable to a specific region according to the split above. 
All royalties refer to Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
34The Group also has other non-interest bear-
ing financial liabilities that are recognised 
at discounted value and therefore gener-
ated interest expense. The liabilities are not 
included in net debt/net cash. For contrac-
tual obligations related to these liabilities, 
see Note 28.
Equity
At 31 December 2021, consolidated equity 
amounted to SEK 23,203 M (20,206). 
Parent Company
The Parent Company’s business model is 
to develop, register, distribute and market 
drugs for rare diseases. Operating revenue amounted to SEK 
12,401 M (13,968) and operating profit 
totalled SEK 4,383 M (5,833). The decrease 
is due to the fact that sales of Synagis were 
transferred to the US subsidiary in 2020. 
Profit for the year totalled SEK 1,790 M 
(3,406), including excess depreciation of 
SEK –600 M (–107) and Group contributions 
of SEK –1,113 M (–1,583). 
Cash flow from investing activities 
amounted to SEK –288 M (–3,760), largest 
investments for 2020 pertained to Apaveli 
SEK –2,198 M and to SEL–212 SEK –977 M.
At 31 December 2021, cash and cash 
equivalents amounted to SEK 878 M (240) 
and equity to SEK 19,069 M (17,200). Pipeline 
Sobi’s business model in support of becom-
ing a global leader in rare diseases is based 
on ‘search, develop and market’ which 
necessitates in-licensing or acquisition of 
pipeline opportunities or already approved 
medicines. Sobi’s pipeline includes proj-
ects from phase 2 through registration, with 
focus in the disease areas of haematology 
and immunology. In support of already mar-
keted medicines, Sobi is conducting phase 4 
trials to gather further evidence about their 
best use and potential expansion of patient 
benefits.
Pipeline events during the year  
Haematology
Haemophilia
Efanesoctocog alfa (formerly BIVV001), a 
potential new treatment for haemophilia A, 
is in phase 3 clinical development with the 
collaborator Sanofi. The first data readout 
from the XTEND-1 phase 3 study in adults 
was released in March 2022, and results in 
adolescents are expected during the first 
half of 2022. Enrolment and dosing were ini-
tiated in the XTEND-Kids phase 3 paediat-
ric study in patients younger than 12 years 
of age in early 2021 with the paediatric study 
data readout anticipated in 2023. If results 
are positive, efanesoctocog alfa could pro-
vide high sustained factor VIII activity and 
near-normal factor levels for the majority of 
the week. Von Willebrand factor is required 
as part of normal blood clotting; efanesoc-
tocog alfa is the first von Willebrand-in-
dependent factor VIII treatment in clinical 
development and therefore has the poten-
tial to revolutionise replacement therapy for 
people with haemophilia A. 
Aspaveli/Empaveli
In 2020, Sobi signed an agreement with 
Apellis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Under the 
licensing agreement, Sobi obtained the 
rights to global development and ex-US 
commercialisation of pegcetacoplan – 
Aspaveli/Empaveli – for systemic use. 
Aspaveli/Empaveli is a targeted C3 therapy 
designed to regulate excessive activation of 
the complement cascade, part of the body’s 
immune system, which can lead to the onset 
and progression of many serious diseases. Revenue by business area
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
Specialty Care Immunology Haematology+8%+15%+3%SEK M
 Revenue 2020
 Revenue 2021
  Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2020
Revenue by region
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
Royalty Rest of the world North America Europe+3%SEK M
+40%+21%–5%
 Revenue 2020
 Revenue 2021
  Growth adjusted for currency 
effects compared with 2020DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
35During 2021, the two companies achieved 
significant progress for the new medicine. 
While Apellis obtained US approval in May 
2021 of Empaveli for use in adults with par-
oxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH), 
including those who are treatment naïve as 
well as patients switching from C5 inhibitors, 
clinical development for other rare disease 
indications advanced.
The PEGASUS phase 3 study in treat-
ment-experienced PNH patients was pub-
lished in The New England Journal of Medi-
cine in March 2021. The study demonstrated 
the superiority of Aspaveli/Empaveli in 
improving haemoglobin levels and showed 
improvements in other key clinical out-
comes compared with eculizumab, a C5 
inhibitor, in adults with PNH at 16 weeks who 
had persistent anaemia following treatment 
with eculizumab. Additional data has seen 
patient benefits sustained at 48 weeks.
The PRINCE phase 3 study in treat-
ment-naïve PNH patients read out in May 
2021. The study demonstrated statistical 
superiority on the co-primary endpoints of 
haemoglobin stabilisation and reduction in 
lactate dehydrogenase compared with stan-
dard of care, which did not include comple-
ment inhibitors, at week 26. The safety pro-
file of Aspaveli/Empaveli was consistent with 
previous studies. The detailed PRINCE data 
were later presented at the 63rd American 
Society of Hematology annual meeting and 
exposition in Atlanta, Georgia, US.
In December 2021, Aspaveli, the trade 
name in the EU, was approved by the Euro-
pean Commission for the treatment of adult 
patients with PNH who are anaemic after 
treatment with a C5 inhibitor for at least 3 
months. With the approval, Aspaveli became 
the first new medicine in the EU since 2007 
for the treatment of PNH with a novel mech-
anism of action, providing expanded choice 
to treating physicians and patients.
Outside the approved indication in PNH, 
Sobi and Apellis are developing Aspaveli/
Empaveli in collaboration for potential use 
in several new indications. A Sobi-spon-
sored phase 2 study in transplant-associ-
ated thrombotic microangiopathy after allo-
genic haematopoietic stem cell transplanta-
tion recently achieved the first patient dosed. A phase 3 study in cold agglutinin disease is 
awaiting the first patient to be dosed. Apel-
lis is advancing the medicine in immune 
complex-mediated membranoprolifera-
tive glomerulonephritis and C3 glomerulop-
athy where a phase 3 study is awaiting the 
first patient to be dosed. In addition, Apel-
lis has the ongoing MERIDIAN phase 2 study, 
potentially registrational, in amyotrophic lat-
eral sclerosis with anticipated completion of 
enrolment in the first half of 2022.
Doptelet
Doptelet (avatrombopag), an approved 
medicine for the treatment of thrombocy-
topenia, has completed the formal phase 
3 development for its use in patients with 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) as well as 
in patients with chronic liver disease who are 
scheduled to undergo a procedure.
In January 2021, Doptelet was approved by 
the European Commission for the treat-
ment of primary chronic ITP in adult patients 
who are refractory to other treatments 
(e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). 
In March 2021, the AVA-PED-301 phase 3 
study for the treatment of thrombocytope-
nia in paediatric patients achieved the first 
patient dosed. Other studies are ongoing for 
Doptelet, including a phase 4 study assess-
ing switching to Doptelet from eltrombopag 
or romiplostim, two older medicines used 
for the treatment of thrombocytopenia.
Immunology
Kineret
Kineret (anakinra), an approved medicine 
for the treatment of several immune-medi-
ated diseases, including cryopyrin-associ-
ated periodic syndromes, familial Mediterra-
nean fever and Still’s disease, is assessed for 
potential new uses by clinical investigators.
In May 2021, Kineret demonstrated consid-
erable benefit in the treatment of COVID-
19 related pneumonia. In the SAVE-MORE 
phase 3 study, Kineret reduced the risk of 
mortality for patients with COVID-19 pneu-
monia, reduced intensive-care unit admis-
sion and increased the likelihood of full 
recovery. Conducted in Greece and Italy by Professor Evangelos J. Giamarellos-Bour-
boulis and other investigators with the Hel-
lenic Institute for the Study of Sepsis as the 
regulatory sponsor, SAVE-MORE was the 
first, large, randomised and controlled study 
to specifically evaluate a patient popula-
tion at risk of progressing to a critical state of 
COVID-19 infection. In September 2021, the 
study was published in Nature Medicine.
In December 2021, Kineret was approved 
by the European Commission for the treat-
ment of COVID-19 in adult patients with 
pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen 
(low- or high-flow oxygen) who are at risk 
of progressing to severe respiratory fail-
ure determined by plasma concentration 
of soluble urokinase plasminogen activator 
receptor (suPAR) ≥ 6ng/ml. suPAR is a bio-
marker which can be measured in the blood 
of patients. The EU approval followed a pos-
itive opinion by the Committee for Medici-
nal Products for Human Use of the European 
Medicines Agency which was issued just 
one day ahead. In the US, Sobi anticipates 
making a regulatory submission for emer-
gency use authorisation with agency valida-
tion expected during the first half of 2022.
Gamifant
Gamifant (emapalumab), an approved med-
icine in the US for the treatment of primary 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH), a rare, severe systemic inflammatory 
syndrome which can be fatal, obtained fur-
ther global approvals in 2021.
SEL-212
In 2020, Sobi signed a licensing agree-
ment with Selecta Biosciences, Inc. Under 
the licensing agreement, Sobi is responsible 
for development as well as regulatory and 
commercial activities in all markets outside 
China, while Selecta will conduct the ongo-
ing phase 3 development on behalf of Sobi 
for SEL-212. SEL-212 is a potential new med-
icine for the treatment of chronic refrac-
tory gout and combines a uricase enzyme 
(pegadricase) with Selecta’s tolerogenic 
ImmTOR immune tolerance platform which 
is designed to reduce immunogenicity and 
achieve monthly dosing of the medicine.
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
36In December 2021, Sobi and Selecta 
announced the completion of enrolment 
in the DISSOLVE I clinical study. The other 
study in the phase 3 DISSOLVE clinical study 
programme, DISSOLVE II, is anticipated to 
achieve the same milestone in the first half 
of 2022. Phase 3 data readout is anticipated 
during the second half of 2022.
Nirsevimab
Nirsevimab, a potential new immunisa-
tion for the prevention of RSV infections in 
infants, is nearing the completion of phase 
3 clinical development by the collabora-
tors AstraZeneca PLC and Sanofi. Phase 2b 
study data published in July 2020 showed a 
significant reduction in medically attended 
lower respiratory tract infections and hos-
pitalisations caused by respiratory syncy-
tial virus in healthy preterm infants. During 
2021, results from the MELODY phase 3 effi-
cacy study and the MEDLEY phase 2/3 safety 
study were presented at medical meetings. 
In MELODY, nirsevimab met its primary end-
point of a statistically significant reduction in 
the incidence of medically attended lower 
respiratory tract infections caused by RSV 
compared to placebo in healthy late preterm 
and term infants (35 weeks or more) during 
their first RSV season. In MEDLEY, nirsevimab 
had a similar safety and tolerability pro-
file to   Synagis in infants with coronary heart 
 disease, chronic lung disease and those born 
pre-term.
AstraZeneca and Sanofi intend to make a 
regulatory submission for nirsevimab in the 
US in the second half of 2022 based on the 
earlier phase 2b study and the MELODY and 
MEDLEY studies. Sobi has the right to Astra-
Zeneca’s full share of US losses and profits 
for nirsevimab.
Other developments
Sobi’s subsidiary Florio develops next-gen-
eration digital solutions for patients and 
healthcare professionals that capture and 
visualise disease and treatment-related data 
in real time to enable better decision making 
and ultimately better care. florio HAEMO, a 
solution for people with haemophilia, their 
caregivers and their healthcare profession-
als is available in 24 countries across Europe 
and the Middle East. In 2021 Florio launched florio ITP, a digital diary for patients with ITP 
in the US in partnership with the Platelet Dis-
order Support Association. Florio continues 
to develop the app in co-creation with doc-
tors and patients in line with Sobi’s develop-
ment portfolio.
Other information
Changes in Management
In 2021, Duane H. Barnes was appointed 
Head of North America, Thomas Kudsk 
Larsen Head of Communication and Investor 
Relations. In 2021, Paula Treutiger stepped 
down from the Executive Committee. 
In 2022, Anders Ullman replaced Ravi Rao, 
who stepped down and left Sobi, as new 
Head of Research & Development and Chief 
Medical Officer. Furthermore, Anne Marie  
De Jonge Schuermans has left Sobi and 
Christine Wesstrom has been appointed 
Head of Technical Operations and member 
of the Executive Committee. 
At 31 December 2021, the Executive 
 Committee consisted of: 
CEO: Guido Oelkers 
CFO: Henrik Stenqvist
General Counsel and Head of Legal 
Affairs, Head of Human Resources: 
 Torbjörn Hallberg 
Head of North America: Duane H. 
Barnes 
Head of Europe: Sofiane Fahmy
Head of Technical Operations:  
Anne Marie De Jonge Schuermans
Head of Business Development:  
Mahmood Ladha
Head of Communication & Investor 
Relations: Thomas Kudsk Larsen
Head of  International: Norbert Oppitz
Head of Global Portfolio and Product 
Strategy: Daniel Rankin
Head of Medical & Scientific Affairs:  
Armin Reininger
Head of Research & Development,  
Chief Medical Officer: Ravi Rao
For more information about the Executive 
Committee, refer to pages 102–103.Sustainability Report
In accordance with the Chapter 6, Section 
11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Sobi 
has elected to prepare a statutory sustain-
ability report that is separate from the Annual 
Report, which can be found on pages 23–27 
and 104–127. The Sustainability Report has 
been prepared using the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s (GRI) standards for sustainability 
reporting.
Corporate Governance Report
Under the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, 
Sobi is required to prepare a Corporate Gov-
ernance Report. In accordance with the 
Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, 
Section 8, Sobi has elected to prepare a Cor-
porate Governance Report that is sepa-
rate from the Annual Report. The Corporate 
Governance Report can be found on pages 
93–99.
Environmental permits
Sobi’s production facility in Stockholm, 
Sweden, holds a permit for environmen-
tally hazardous activities allowing the facility 
to produce a maximum of 1,000 tonnes of 
pharmaceuticals via industrial-scale chem-
ical or biological reaction, including inter-
mediates, per calendar year. Compliance 
with the permit conditions is disclosed in an 
environmental report to the local regulator. 
The conditions are mainly related to efflu-
ents and include a requirement to adjust 
the pH of the process water. Sobi has been 
granted REACH authorisation for the use of 
Triton X-100 at the production site. In Solna, 
Sweden, the company conducts activities 
that are notifiable under the conditions for 
facilities that professionally produce organic 
or inorganic compounds via chemical or 
biological reactions in test, pilot or labo-
ratory scale, or other non-industrial scale. 
The company also has a permit for handling 
flammable products. 
In 2021, no breaches of the condi-
tions were reported by either of the facili-
ties. While adaptation to current regulations 
has not, to date, had any adverse impact 
on Sobi’s competitiveness or operations, 
the company cannot predict the impact of 
future regulations.DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
37Share capital and ownership
At 31 December 2021, Sobi’s share capital 
amounted to SEK 168,520,825, distributed 
between 307,114,495 shares, with a par value 
of about SEK 0.55. At 31 December 2021, the 
total number of shares outstanding, exclud-
ing treasury shares, was 295,155,297, each 
carrying one vote. At 31 December 2021, 
Investor AB was Sobi’s largest single share-
holder with a total of 107,594,165 shares, 
representing 35 per cent of the votes and 
35 per cent of the capital.
Share conversions
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 4 May 
2021 authorised Sobi’s Board to resolve 
on an issue of C shares, and to repurchase 
all C shares issued in order to hedge long-
term incentive programmes. The AGM also 
resolved to approve the Board’s proposed 
transfer of shares. 
At 31 December 2021, Sobi held 
11,959,198 treasury shares (of which 
3,298,984 ordinary shares were acquired 
during the year), with a par value of about 
SEK 0.55, totalling SEK 6,6 M. The shares 
represent about 3.9 per cent of the total 
share capital. The shares were acquired by 
converting C shares for the purpose of allot-
ment to the employees covered by Sobi’s 
share-based incentive programmes. In 2021, 
255,819 shares were allotted to employees, 
in accordance with the terms of the pro-
grammes. The par value of these shares was 
about SEK 0.55, totalling SEK 0.1 M, and rep-
resenting about 0.1 per cent of the total 
share capital. See Note 10 for more informa-
tion about Sobi’s outstanding share-based 
programmes at the end of 2021.
All C shares issued in 2021 were converted 
to ordinary shares during the year. For more 
detailed information about the total number 
of shares in the company, the number of dif-
ferent classes of shares and the votes carried 
by the company’s shares, refer to the section 
on shares on pages 28–29.
The Board’s proposed guidelines for 
senior executives
The 2020 AGM resolved on remuneration 
guidelines for the company’s senior exec-
utives that apply until the 2024 AGM. In 
accordance with the EU’s Shareholder Rights 
Directive (SRD II), a remuneration policy for 
2021 will be presented to the 2022 AGM 
for adoption and be available on the web-site (www.sobi.com) three weeks prior to the 
meeting. For a complete version of the cur-
rent guidelines, refer to Note 10. 
Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the 
Annual General Meeting:
KSEK
Share premium reserve 9,152,505
Retained earnings 7,157,315
Profit for the year 1,790,394
Total 18,100,214
The Board proposes that no dividends be 
paid for the 2021 financial year. 
The Board proposes that the share pre-
mium reserve, retained earnings and profit 
for the year, KSEK 18,100,214, be carried 
 forward.
Events after the reporting period
Gamifant
The National Medical Products Administra-
tion of China (NMPA) has approved Gamifant 
(emapalumab) for use in China for treatment 
of primary haemophagocytic lymphohistio-
cytosis (HLH).
In January 2022, Gamifant initiated dosing 
in a new phase 3 study, EMERALD.  EMERALD 
evaluates the treatment of macrophage 
 activation syndrome in paediatric and adult 
patients with underlying rheumatological 
diseases, specifically Still’s disease and sys-
temic lupus erythematosus. If the results are 
positive at the conclusion of the study, the 
first regulatory submission for a new indica-
tion is planned for the US with other coun-
tries to follow.
ReFacto
The contract with Pfizer for the manufacture 
of drug substance for ReFacto AF®/Xyntha® 
(ReFacto) has been amended due to clarity 
of final order volumes and will now expire in 
the first quarter of 2024, earlier than the pre-
vious expiry date at the end of 2025. Manu-
facturing of drug substance for ReFacto will 
be transferred to Pfizer’s production unit in 
Ireland, ensuring continued patient access. 
The process of downsizing its Stockholm 
manufacturing facility will start in the second 
half of 2022, with the last volumes being 
delivered to Pfizer in the beginning of 2024. 
An estimated 80 positions are expected to be affected by the closure over the next 
24 months. Sales of ReFacto amounted to 
SEK 445 M in 2021. 
The conflict in Ukraine
It is unclear how and to what extent Sobi’s 
operations will be affected by the conflict in 
Ukraine. Sobi has operations in Russia with 
35 employees. Sales in Russia accounted for 
less than 1 per cent of Sobi’s total revenue 
for 2021. At the time of signing this annual 
report, Sobi has outstanding accounts 
receivable related to Russia amounting to 
approximately EUR 22 M, which are currently 
being evaluated. Sobi is following events 
closely to assess the potential and actual 
risks stemming from the situation.
Financial outlook for 2022
In 2022, Sobi will continue to expand its 
presence in haematology and immunol-
ogy and expand into new geographic mar-
kets. As a result of this growth strategy, Sobi 
expects solid revenue growth, where reve-
nue is anticipated to grow by a mid to high 
single-digit percentage at CER.
Sobi will continue to invest in the pipeline 
and launches of new medicines to unlock 
the long-term value of the business. With 
these investments in the future, Sobi main-
tains a favourable margin, where the EBITA 
margin is anticipated to be at a low 30s per-
centage of revenue. 
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
38Risk management
The aim of Sobi’s risk management pro-
cess is to support the company’s operations 
and create profitable business opportuni-
ties combined with good risk control. The 
risk management process contributes with 
structure to proactively identify and manage 
risks that could have a negative impact on 
the company’s ability to achieve its set tar-
gets. Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s 
business opportunities and value creation 
with shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ 
expectation for sustainable and long-term 
value growth, and control. 
Sobi’s risk management process is inte-
grated, bottom-up, and comprises the 
entire operations. Each operating unit works 
actively to identify and manage risks in order 
to achieve set targets and deliver on strate-
gies. Identified risks are analysed, managed 
and reported to Sobi’s risk management function. Sobi’s risk management function 
aggregates and consolidates these to pres-
ent a group-wide risk map to the Executive 
Committee and the Board. Sobi’s risk man-
agement process is described in the Sobi 
Group Risk Management Policy and the Sobi 
Group Risk Management Instructions.
In this section, we describe the principal 
risks that may have a significant effect on our 
financial situation, results of operations, and/
or reputation. We outline why effective man-
agement of these risks is important and rele-
vant to the business, and how they are man-
aged. These risks are not listed in any partic-
ular order of priority. 
The COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic 
has had, and will likely continue to have, 
an impact on our business, financial situ-
ation and results of operations. We expect 
the COVID-19 pandemic to increase cer-tain risks, such as those related to demand 
for medicines and treatment, risks related 
to supply chain management, risks related 
to government priorities and healthcare 
 systems, and more.
Sobi carefully monitors external events 
that can affect Sobi operations. The con-
flict in Ukraine and consequences are judged 
to impact Sobi’s access to markets in Russia 
and Ukraine, and Sobi’s ability to reach 
patients, among other effects. Refer also to 
events after the reporting period.
The identification and assessment of 
environmental and climate risk has been 
included in our existing risk management 
processes during 2021, and conclusions 
from this are being used to update targets, 
processes and follow-up mechanisms. This 
work will be further accelerated in 2022. 
Business conditions
Risk area Description Management response
Key medicines Our business is dependent on a few key medicines, and any 
events that adversely affect our leading medicines could 
adversely affect our business, results of operation and finan-
cial situation.   A strongly profitable portfolio that enables the extension 
of existing medicines into new indications and the further 
expansion of the portfolio.
Unique expertise in orphan drugs. 
Well organised operations to meet market expectations 
and needs.Competitive pressure Certain of our business areas operate in a highly competitive 
segments, which may adversely affect our sales, margins and 
operations.  
Healthcare systems Future healthcare cost-containment reform measures by 
government health authorities or government-sponsored 
healthcare systems could adversely affect our business.  Close monitoring of changes in healthcare systems on all 
relevant markets. 
Acquisition strategy Our strategy of selectively pursuing acquisitions may present 
unforeseen integration obstacles and costs.  Continuously ongoing work to identify suitable acquisitions 
and collaborations. 
High focus on integration of acquired entities and products.
Product pipeline and intellectual property
Risk area Description Management response
Development pipeline The development of a new drug is a complex, capital-inten-
sive and overall risky process involving significant resources. 
A drug may fail or be delayed at any stage of the process due 
to a number of reasons which could reduce growth, revenue 
or profit. Strengthen the pipeline through the acquisition of compa-
nies, medicines and licences, and through collaboration.
Sobi focuses on late-stage development projects that 
address unmet medical need and which are judged to have 
significant market potential.
Drug approval Prior to launch, a drug must meet the strict requirements on 
quality, safety and efficacy that are expected by regulators. 
Failure can lead to a delayed or cancelled launch and can 
materially affect our business or financial results. Quality management systems in place.
Monitoring of changes in the regulatory environment, 
including revised process, timelines and guidance.
Close management of clinical trials to make sure that the 
evidence is aligned with regulators' demands.
IP protection Our business depends on intellectual property and the ability 
to protect such intellectual property against infringements 
from third parties. We may be unable to successfully protect 
our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and unpatented 
property know-how, which could affect our business or 
financial results.  Active management of IP rights and IP litigation in all markets.DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
39Commercialisation
Risk area Description Management response
Market authorisation Our medicines are commercialised through marketing 
authorisation rights and the loss of, or inability to maintain, 
obtain or acquire, such rights may affect our business and 
financial results.  Strong focus to keep and gain market authorisation, 
 especially for newly acquired medicines. 
Pricing Marketing authorisation does not guarantee that the prod-
ucts will be granted pricing or reimbursement in the national 
or regional healthcare systems. In many countries, there is 
also pressure from governments and other healthcare payers 
on prices. A decline may lead to a reduction in revenue, profit 
and cash flow. Value-based pricing model demonstrating value of 
 medicines/health economics. 
Market access Our ability to market our medicines successfully depends, in 
part, upon the acceptance of and access to the products not 
only by patients, but also by independent third parties, 
including public health insurers, doctors and pharmacists 
depending on the jurisdiction in which we operate. Failure to 
access patients and third parties may lead to lower demand 
on Sobi’s medicines and affect our financial results. Close collaboration with stakeholders throughout the 
entire development process, to anticipate market needs 
and demands. 
The EU Pharmaceutical Strategy, a collaboration on unmet 
needs and evidence generation.
We also advocate for support for people living with rare 
 diseases through collaboration within trade organisations 
to drive knowledge and expertise sharing.
Business execution
Risk area Description Management response
Supply chain We rely on third parties to manufacture and distribute our 
medicines, which increases the risk that we will not have suf-
ficient quantities of our medicines available at an acceptable 
cost or quality, on time or at all. As a result, our current and 
anticipated future dependence upon others for the manu-
facture and distribution of our medicines may affect our 
business, our results and financial situation. Good relationships with supplier networks, close monitor-
ing and maintenance of stock levels, and clear expectations 
with well-developed forecasts create opportunities for 
securing access and delivery. 
Contingency plans including when possible dual sourcing 
and multiple suppliers.
Responsible sourcing programme. 
IT and cybersecurity A breakdown of our information technology systems or 
cybersecurity incidents could result in a significant disruption 
of our business. This could include disruptions to our distrib-
utors, suppliers and other business partners. If a security 
breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or 
inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary infor-
mation, we could incur liability and our reputation could be 
harmed. Any of this may have a material effect on our busi-
ness and financial situation. A stable IT environment, with reliable protection and robust 
infrastructure.
Group-wide cybersecurity framework in place including 
disaster and data recovery plans and strategies to secure 
critical systems and processes. 
Recurring cybersecurity training for employees.
Workforce We may be unable to recruit and retain key personnel, 
including skilled and qualified scientific, technical and com-
mercial employees. The loss of any key personnel or the 
inability to attract, recruit and retain highly skilled employees 
required for our activities may have a material effect on our 
business and financial situation. Good working conditions, including development 
 opportunities, well-being and job satisfaction. Leadership 
and competitive terms of employment. 
Ongoing strengthening of culture and brand including 
 activities improving diversity, equity and inclusion.
DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
40Finance and taxation
Risk area Description Management response
Financials Financial risks refers to fluctuations in exchange rates, 
 interest rates, refinancing, liquidity and credit obligations. 
Negative impacts could affect our business and financial 
 situation.Our financial risk management is presented in Note 3.
Impairment of assets Impairment of intangible assets may adversely affect our 
financial situation and results of operations. The future devel-
opment of the macroeconomic environment, unsuccessful 
acquisitions or other factors could lead to possibly significant 
impairments to be recognised in the future, which could 
have a material adverse effect on our business and financial 
situation. Significant accounting judgements, and the estimates and 
assumptions entailing a considerable risk of material adjust-
ment to carrying amounts, are presented in Note 4.
Tax We are subject to complex tax laws, and our operations 
include cross-border transactions. Changes in tax laws or 
challenges to our tax position could adversely affect our 
business, our results and financial situation. Strong tax-compliance processes with close collaboration 
between the Group Tax function and subsidiaries.
Combined internal and external counsel management.
Legal, regulatory and compliance
Risk area Description Management response
Patient safety Patient safety is very important to us and we monitor and 
 following up the safety profiles of all our products. Failure to 
do this could adversely impact our reputation, our business, 
our financial results and lead to liability claims. All clinical studies are conducted and reported in accor-
dance with applicable laws and Good Clinical Practice 
(GCP). 
Compliance with the European Medicines Agency’s (EMA) 
policy on the publication of data for medicinal products for 
human use.
Robust processes and systems in place to manage patient 
safety and efficacy trends. These include include a world-
wide service for adverse reactions reporting. Regular train-
ing for employees in patient safety.
All collaborations with contract research organisations 
(CROs) correspond to the same standard.
Litigation and other claims From time to time, we are involved in various litigation 
 matters, including product liability claims, warranty obliga-
tion claims, alleged violations of trade confidentiality and 
others. Any of these events could result in considerable 
costs, including damages, legal fees and temporary or 
 permanent bans on the marketing of certain medicines, and 
this may have a material effect on our business and financial 
situations.  Combined internal and external counsel management.
Compliance with laws and 
regulations, including busi-
ness ethics, environmental, 
climate, health and safety, 
information security and 
 privacy Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regula-
tions, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation, 
trade sanctions, information security and privacy legislation, 
environmental legislation, and health and safety laws, may 
result in civil and/or criminal legal proceedings and/or regu-
latory sanctions, fines or penalties, and affect our reputation, 
our business and financial results.
Since our business model relies on third parties for a large 
 portion of the manufacturing and supply of our medicines 
this also includes all our third parties.Zero tolerance for unethical behaviour. 
Established compliance framework and governance 
 systems owned by senior management. 
Extensive and recurring training for all employees.
Whistleblowing system available to internal and external 
parties.
Third-party risk management and Responsible Sourcing 
 Programme. DIRECTORS’ REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
41Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
 SEK M Note 2021 2020
1–4
Operating revenue 5 15,529 15,261
Cost of goods sold –3,484 –3,225
Gross profit 12,045 12,036
Selling and administrative expenses –6,294 –5,981
Research and development costs –1,994 –1,594
Other operating income 7 32 401
Other operating expenses 8 –56 –44
Operating profit6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 
16, 17, 29 3,733 4,818
Financial income 13 16 1
Financial expenses 14 –454 –602
Net financial items –438 –601
Profit before tax 3,295 4,217
Income tax 15 –616 –972
Profit for the year1 2,679 3,245
Other comprehensive income2 25
Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss
Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension plans and 
similar plans (net of tax) 17 –3
Remeasurement of equity instruments (net of tax) 11 9
Other comprehensive income that cannot be
reclassified into profit or loss (net of tax) 28 6
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Translation differences 464 –434
Net investment hedges (net of tax) –242 246
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) –63 130
Other comrehensive income that may be
reclassified to profit or loss (net of tax) 159 –58
Other comprehensive income 187 –52
Comprehensive income1, 2 2,866 3,193
Earnings per share, SEK 25
Earnings per share 9.08 11.01
Earnings per share, adjusted3 9.08 9.66
Earnings per share after dilution 9.03 10.90
Earnings per share after dilution, adjusted3 9.03 9.56
1. Everything attributable to Parent Company shareholders. 
2. Under the revised IAS 1, all non-owner changes in equity are to be presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive  
income. Translation differences are entirely related to the consolidated net assets of subsidiaries in foreign currency.
3. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130.Operating revenue
In 2021, revenue amounted to SEK 15,529 M  
(15,261), an increase of 2 per cent. Operating revenue
Adjusted earnings/share3 
/zero.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum/six.tnum/eight.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnumSEK
/four.tnum./two.tnum/seven.tnum/eight.tnum./nine.tnum/seven.tnum/one.tnum/one.tnum./eight.tnum/nine.tnum
/nine.tnum./six.tnum/six.tnum/nine.tnum./zero.tnum/eight.tnumAdjusted EBITA amounted to SEK 5,575 M, 
a decrease of 12 per cent year-on-year.Adjusted EBITA 3 
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnumSEK M
/three.tnum,/five.tnum/seven.tnum/one.tnum
/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/five.tnum/three.tnum/six.tnum,/one.tnum/four.tnum/five.tnum /six.tnum,/three.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum
/five.tnum,/five.tnum/seven.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnumSEK M
/six.tnum,/five.tnum/one.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum,/one.tnum/three.tnum/nine.tnum/one.tnum/four.tnum,/two.tnum/four.tnum/eight.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum,/two.tnum/six.tnum/one.tnum /one.tnum/five.tnum,/five.tnum/two.tnum/nine.tnumFInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
42Consolidated balance sheet
 SEK M Note 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2020
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 16 38,424 38,791
Tangible assets 17 493 534
Financial assets 19 199 179
Deferred tax assets 20 767 611
Total non-current assets 39,883 40,115
Current assets
Inventories 21 3,424 3,053
Accounts receivable 22 3,439 3,756
Other receivables 22 345 465
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 23 525 490
Cash and cash equivalents 24 1,045 404
Total current assets 26 8,778 8,168
TOTAL ASSETS 48,661 48,283
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 169 167
Other contributed capital 9,945 9,816
Other reserves 25 –66 –253
Retained earnings 10,476 7,232
Profit for the year 2,679 3,245
Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 23,203 20,206
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 27 8,777 10,137
Deferred tax liabilities 20 3,605 3,464
Lease liabilities 9 247 308
Provisions 29, 30 234 252
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 3,834 3,473
Total non-current liabilities 26 16,697 17,634
Current liabilities
Borrowings 27 1,768 4,015
Accounts payable 558 569
Tax liabilities 40 518
Lease liabilities 9 114 111
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 1,314 1,302
Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 4,967 3,928
Total current liabilities 26 8,761 10,443
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 48,661 48,283
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 32.Net debt (+)/net cash (–)
SEK M 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Borrowings – –16,141 14,152 10,545
Cash  
and cash 
 equivalents 1,478 2,999 737 404 1,045
Net debt 
(+)/net 
cash (–) –1,478 –2,999 15,404 13,748 9,500
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130.Equity/assets ratio1
/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum%
/six.tnum/one.tnum
/five.tnum/three.tnum
/three.tnum/seven.tnum/four.tnum/two.tnum/four.tnum/eight.tnumFInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
43Consolidated statement of changes in equity
SEK MShare 
 capitalOther 
 contributed 
capitalOther  
reserves1Retained 
 earningsTotal  
equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2020 165 9,697 –202 7,270 16,930
Adjusted opening balance for  
post- employment benefits from prior years2 – – – –45 –45
Tax on adjusted opening balance for  
post-employment benefits from prior years2 – – – 7 7
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year – – – 3,245 3,245
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension 
plans and similar plans (net of tax) – – –3 – –3
Remeasurement of equity instruments  
(net of tax) – – 9 – 9
Other comprehensive income that cannot be 
reclassified into profit or loss (net of tax) – – 6 – 6
Translation differences – – –434 – –434
Net investment hedges (net after tax) – – 246 – 246
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) – – 130 – 130
Other comrehensive income that may be 
reclassified to profit or loss (net of tax) – – –58 – –58
Other comprehensive income – – –52 – –52
Total comprehensive income – – –52 3,245 3,193
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 2 –2 – – –
Share-based compensation to employees – 114 – – 114
Tax deductions for share programmes3 – 7 – – 7
Total shareholder transactions 2 119 – – 121
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2020 167 9,816 –253 10,476 20,206
Opening equity,1 Jan 2021 167 9,816 –253 10,476 20,206
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year – – – 2,679 2,679
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension 
plans and similar plans (net of tax) – – 17 – 17
Remeasurement of equity instruments  
(net of tax) – – 11 – 11
Other comprehensive income that cannot be 
reclassified into profit or loss (net of tax) – – 28 – 28
Translation differences – – 464 – 464
Net investment hedges (net after tax) – – –242 – –242
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) – – –63 – –63
Other comrehensive income that may be 
reclassified to profit or loss (net of tax) – – 159 – 159
Other comprehensive income – – 187 – 187
Total comprehensive income – – 187 2,679 2,866
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 2 –2 – – –
Share-based compensation to employees – 134 – – 134
Tax deductions for share programmes3 – –3 – – –3
Total shareholder transactions 2 129 – – 131
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2021 169 9,945 –66 13,155 23,203
1. For a specification of other reserves, see Note 25.
2. Refers to post-employment benefits, mainly in Switzerland, not previously included at Dec 2019.
3. The additional deductions relate to the difference between the market value of allotted shares and recognised IFRS 2 expense.4. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130. 
Return on equity was 12.3 per cent.Equity/share 4
Return on equity 4 /zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum/zero.tnum/seven.tnum/zero.tnum/eight.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnumSEK
/two.tnum/four.tnum./six.tnum/three.tnum/three.tnum./one.tnum/five.tnum/six.tnum./four.tnum/six.tnum/six.tnum./five.tnum/seven.tnum/five.tnum./six.tnum
/zero.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnum%
/one.tnum/nine.tnum./zero.tnum/three.tnum/zero.tnum./seven.tnum
/two.tnum/five.tnum./four.tnum
/one.tnum/seven.tnum./five.tnum
/one.tnum/two.tnum./three.tnumFInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
44Consolidated cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2021 2020
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax1 3,295 4,217
Non-cash items
    Depreciation/amortisation and impairment 2,006 2,023
    Other non-cash items 529 390
Cash items
    Interest received 0 1
    Interest paid –324 –333
    Payment to pension funds –26 –13
Income tax paid –1,124 –918
Cash flow from operating activities before  
changes in working capital 4,356 5,367
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Changes in inventories –318 –1,325
Changes in operating receivables 452 –185
Changes in operating liabilities 980 1,069
Cash flow from operating activities 5,470 4,926
Investing activities
Investments in intangible assets2 16 –323 –3,811
Investments in tangible assets 17 –47 –41
Investments in financial assets3 19 – –120
Disposal of tangible assets 17 3 8
Cash flow from investing activities –367 –3,964
Financing activities
Borrowings 27 14,193 13,575
Repayment of borrowings –18,191 –15,027
Hedging arrangements for financing –351 288
Repayment of leasing –125 –118
Cash flow from financing activities –4,474 –1,282
Change in cash and cash equivalents 629 –320
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 404 737
Exchange difference in cash and cash equivalents 12 –13
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,045 404
1. As of 2021, Sobi has changed the form of presentation for the cash flow statement and reclassified hedging arrangements for 
 financing from cash flow from operating activities to cash flow from financing activities. Comparative figures for 2020 have been 
recalculated. For more information see Note 2 Accounting policies.
2. In 2020, the largest investments pertained to Aspaveli and SEL-212, see Note 16 for more information.
3. Relates to shares in Selecta Biosciences, Inc.4. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130.Cash flow from operating activities/share4
Cash flow from operating activities4 
/zero.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/four.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/six.tnum,/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnumSEK M
/one.tnum,/three.tnum/three.tnum/three.tnum/two.tnum,/zero.tnum/nine.tnum/zero.tnum/three.tnum,/six.tnum/three.tnum/four.tnum/four.tnum,/nine.tnum/two.tnum/six.tnum/five.tnum,/four.tnum/seven.tnum/zero.tnum/zero.tnum/five.tnum/one.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/five.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum
/two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/one.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/two.tnum/zero.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/nine.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum /two.tnum/zero.tnum/one.tnum/seven.tnumSEK M
/five.tnum./zero.tnum/seven.tnum./eight.tnum/one.tnum/two.tnum./four.tnum/one.tnum/six.tnum./seven.tnum/one.tnum/eight.tnum./five.tnumFInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
45Parent Company income statement
SEK M Note 2021 2020
1–4
Operating revenue 5 12,401 13,968
Cost of goods sold –2,933 –3,134
Gross profit 9,468 10,834
Selling and administrative expenses –4,179 –4,174
Research and development costs –1,256 –923
Other operating income 7 353 96
Other operating expenses 8 –3 –
Operating profit 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17 4,383 5,833
Financial income 13 336 663
Financial expenses 14 –728 –469
Net financial items –392 194
Profit after financial items 3,991 6,027
Group contributions, net –1,113 –1,583
Excess depreciation –600 –107
Appropriations –1,713 –1,690
Profit before tax 2,278 4,337
Income tax 15 –488 –931
Profit 1,790 3,406
Parent Company statement of  
comprehensive income
SEK M 2021 2020
Profit 1,790 3,406
Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss
Remeasurement of equity instruments (net of tax) 11 9
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Cash flow hedges (net of tax) –63 130
Other comprehensive income –52 139
Comprehensive income 1,738 3,545FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
46Parent Company balance sheet
SEK M Note 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2020
ASSETS 1–4
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 16 10,107 10,205
Tangible assets 17 89 64
Financial assets
Participations in Group companies 18 7,676 7,676
Receivables from Group companies 14,298 15,312
Other financial assets 19 190 176
Deferred tax assets 20 27 24
Total non-current assets 32,387 33,457
Current assets
Inventories 21 2,536 2,527
Current receivables
Accounts receivable 22 1,126 731
Other receivables 22 292 405
Receivables from Group companies 4,308 3,947
Prepaid expenses and accrued income 23 455 430
Cash and cash equivalents 24 878 240
Total current assets 9,595 8,280
TOTAL ASSETS 41,982 41,737FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
47SEK M Note 31 Dec 2021 31 Dec 2020
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Restricted equity
Share capital 169 167
Statutory reserve 800 800
Total restricted equity 969 967
Unrestricted equity
Share premium reserve 9,153 9,024
Retained earnings 7,157 3,803
Profit for the year 1,790 3,406
Total unrestricted equity 18,100 16,233
Total equity 19,069 17,200
Untaxed reserves
Excess depreciation 3,691 3,091
Total untaxed reserves 3,691 3,091
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 27 8,777 10,137
Liabilities to Group companies – 157
Provisions 30 79 82
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 2,818 2,475
Total non-current liabilities 11,674 12,851
Current liabilities
Borrowings 27 1,768 4,015
Accounts payable 359 398
Liabilities to Group companies 3,229 1,674
Tax liabilities – 467
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing 28 896 727
Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 1,296 1,314
Total current liabilities 7,548 8,595
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 41,982 41,737
Related to pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 32.FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
48Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Restricted equity Unrestricted equity
SEK MShare  
capitalStatutory  
reserveShare premium 
reserveRetained 
 earnings and 
profit/loss for 
the year1Total  
equity
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2020 165 800 8,905 3,665 13,534
Profit – – – 3,406 3,406
Other comprehensive income – – – 139 139
Comprehensive income – – – 3,545 3,545
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 2 – –2 – –
Share-based compensation to employees – – 114 – 114
Share-based compensation to employees, 
tax effect2 – – 7 – 7
Total shareholder transactions 2 – 119 – 121
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2020 167 800 9,024 7,209 17,200
Opening equity, 1 Jan 2021 167 800 9,024 7,209 17,200
Profit – – – 1,790 1,790
Other comprehensive income – – – –52 –52
Comprehensive income – – – 1,738 1,738
Shareholder transactions
Issue of shares 2 – –2 – –
Share-based compensation to employees – – 134 – 134
Share-based compensation to employees, 
tax effect2 – – –3 – –3
Total shareholder transactions 2 – 129 – 131
Closing equity, 31 Dec 2021 169 800 9,153 8,948 19,069
1. See specification of other comprehensive income.
2. The additional deductions relate to the difference between the market value of allotted shares and recognised IFRS 2 expense.
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital amounted to KSEK 168,521 distributed between 307,114,495 ordinary shares with a par value 
of about SEK 0.55 and one voting right. At the balance sheet date, the company held 11,959,198 ordinary shares in treasury, 
corresponding to 3.9 per cent of the total number of shares in the company.
Other comprehensive incomeCash flow 
hedgesEquity 
instruments Total
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2020 –62 – –62
Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity 133 – 133
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity –29 – –29
Transferred to profit or loss 34 – 34
Tax on transferred to profit or loss –7 – –7
Gain/loss on remeasurement of equity instruments recognised in equity – 11 11
Tax effect on equity instruments – –2 –2
Closing balance, 31 Dec 2020 68 9 77
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2021 68 9 77
Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity –81 – –81
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments recognised in equity 18 – 18
Transferred to profit or loss 1 – 1
Tax on transferred to profit or loss 0 – 0
Gain/loss on remeasurement of equity instruments recognised in equity – 14 14
Tax effect on equity instruments – –3 –3
Closing balance 31 Dec 2021 6 20 25FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
49Parent Company cash flow statement
SEK M Note 2021 2020
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit/loss after financial items1 3,991 6,027
Non-cash items
    Depreciation/amortisation and impairment 385 347
    Other non-cash items 392 61
Cash items
    Interest received 273 387
    Interest paid –406 –343
Income tax paid –960 –747
Cash flow from operating activities before  
changes in working capital 3,675 5,732
Cash flow from changes in working capital
Changes in inventories –9 –994
Changes in operating receivables 942 1,456
Changes in operating liabilities 2,250 –1,461
Cash flow from operating activities 6,858 4,733
Investing activities
Investments in intangible assets2 16 –261 –3,633
Investments in tangible assets 17 –30 –15
Investments in financial assets3 19 – –120
Disposal of intangible assets 16 3 8
Cash flow from investing activities –288 –3,760
Financing activities 27
Borrowings 14,193 13,575
Repayment of borrowings –18,191 –15,027
Group contribution –1,584 –
Hedging arrangements for financing –351 288
Cash flow from financing activities –5,933 –1,164
Change in cash and cash equivalents 638 –191
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 240 431
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 878 240
1. As of 2021, Sobi has changed the form of presentation for the cash flow statement and reclassified hedging arrangements for financing from  
cash flow from operating activities to cash flow from financing activities. Comparative figures for 2020 have been recalculated. For more information  
see Note 2 Accounting policies.
2. In 2020, the largest investments pertained to Aspaveli and SEL–212, see Note 16 for more information.
3. Relates to shares in Selecta Biosciences, Inc.FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
50Notes
1 General information
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 
 556038-9321, the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, collectively the Group, 
is a publicly listed international pharmaceutical company dedicated to rare 
 diseases. 
The Parent Company is a limited liability company headquartered in 
 Stockholm, Sweden. The address of the head office is Tomtebodavägen 23A, 
Solna, Sweden.
The company has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 15 September 
2006 and on OMX Stockholm Large Cap segment since 2 January 2014.
2  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation of the financial statements 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s 
 recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, Interna-
tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Financial Report-
ing Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations as adopted by the EU. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the cost 
method, except for financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instru-
ments) which are measured at fair value through profit or loss, and other com-
prehensive incomes (for hedges and equity instruments, which are not held for 
trading). The most significant accounting policies applied for the preparation of 
these consolidated financial statements are presented below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
All amounts reported in the financial statements, in the comments, state-
ments, tables and notes, are presented in SEK M (millions of Swedish kronor), 
unless otherwise stated. All amounts are rounded to the nearest million kronor. 
All values in parentheses () are comparative figures for the year-earlier period, 
unless otherwise stated.
Within the Group, assets and liabilities are classified as either current or 
non-current. Current receivables and liabilities fall due within one year of the 
balance sheet date. Non-current receivables and liabilities essentially consist 
of amounts expected to be settled later than one year from the balance 
sheet date.
New and revised accounting policies 2021
The IFRIC published an agenda decision in April 2021 about how to account for 
the costs of configuring or customising software in cloud computing arrange-
ments. Due to the IFRIC’s decision, some previously recognised intangible 
assets have been reclassified on the balance sheet or expensed retroactively 
during the period. In addition, the decision means that future costs for config-
uring or customising software in cloud computing arrangements cannot be 
capitalised to the same extent in the Group’s future financial statements.
No other new or revised standards and interpretations applied since 1 January 
2021 have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements. 
New or revised accounting policies that will come into effect after 2021
No new or revised standards and interpretations that are not yet effective have 
been adopted in advance and are not expected to have any material effect on 
the consolidated financial statements.
Change in the external reporting
Cash flow
As of 1 January 2021, Sobi changed the presentation of cash flow, and reclassi-
fied hedging arrangements hedging arrangement for financing from cash flow 
from operating activities to cash flow from financing activities to better reflect 
the financial meaning of the hedging arrangement. The change of the presen-
tation form means that certain items in the cash flow from operating activities 
are now reported on separate lines and that the starting point for the cash flow 
has been changed to profit before tax. The change of the presentation form has no effect on the cash flow from operating activities, but comparative figures 
have been added. For reclassification of hedging arrangement for financing 
comparative figures for 2020 has been recalculated whereby the cash flow 
from operating activities has changed from SEK 5,214 M to SEK 4,926 M. Cash 
flow from financing activities has been changed for the corresponding period 
from SEK –1,570 M to SEK –1,282 M.     
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all companies in which the Parent Company holds a controlling 
influence, directly or indirectly. A controlling influence exists if the Parent 
Company, directly or indirectly has control over a company, is exposed to, or 
has the rights to variable returns from its involvement in the company, and the 
ability to affect those returns through its controlling influence, which normally 
means that Parent Company owns more than 50 per cent of the votes for all 
shares and participations. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date on 
which that control ceases. When preparing Sobi’s consolidated financial state-
ments, intra-Group transactions and unrealised gains and losses on transac-
tions between Group companies are eliminated.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the acquisition 
method. A business combination is therefore considered a transaction in which 
the Group acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities directly. 
The identifiable assets and acquired liabilities are measured at fair value at the 
acquisition date. 
Transaction costs arising from acquisitions are recognised as administrative 
expenses in the income statement. Contingent and non-contingent consider-
ations are recognised as financial liabilities and measured at fair value at the 
acquisition date. These are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date 
where the interest component is recognised on the income statement as a 
financial expense and the remaining change of the remeasurement is rec-
ognised as other operating income/expense. 
The difference between the fair value of the consideration and the fair value 
of the Group’s share of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is 
recognised as goodwill. In step acquisitions, goodwill is determined at the 
acquisition date when the controlling influence is obtained, and not in connec-
tion with previous acquisitions. To determine goodwill in step acquisitions, the 
previous holding of equity interests in the acquired company is included, 
adjusted to fair value, and any gains or losses arising from the remeasurement 
are recognised in profit or loss. In every acquisition, the Group determines 
whether non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at fair value, or 
at the holding’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Goodwill is not 
amortised according to plan, but tested annually, or when there is an indication 
of impairment. If the aggregated fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost, any excess (negative good-
will) is recognised immediately in the income statement. Any losses are consid-
ered an indication that the transferred asset may be impaired.
Segments
Sobi’s operations are organised into three business areas: Haematology, 
Immunology and Speciality Care. Operating segments are presented in a 
manner consistent with the internal reporting submitted to the chief operating 
decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the function responsi-
ble for resource allocation and assessment of the operating segment’s perfor-
mance. Sobi’s chief operating decision-maker is the Group’s CEO. The internal 
reporting to the CEO uses three segments that represents Sobi’s three business 
areas. The accounting policies applied by the segments are consistent with the 
Group’s. See Note 5. 
Foreign currency
Functional and reporting currency
Items included in the financial statements for each of the Group’s entities are 
measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated financial statements 
are presented in Swedish krona (SEK), which is the Parent Company’s  functional 
currency and the Group’s presentation currency.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
511
2Transactions and balance sheet items
Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency 
using the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date, or on the date when 
the items are remeasured. Exchange differences arising from the settlement of 
such transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currency at the closing day rate, are recognised in 
profit or loss. Exceptions are when the transactions are hedges that meet all 
hedge accounting criteria, since these exchange differences are recognised in 
other comprehensive income. 
Exchange differences relating to operating items are recognised in operating 
profit, while other items are recognised as an financial income or expense. 
Exchange differences for non-monetary financial assets valued at fair value, 
such as shares that are classified as financial assets valued at fair value via other 
comprehensive income, are reported in other comprehensive income.
Group companies
Assets and liabilities in foreign Group companies are translated from the func-
tional currency to the Group’s reporting currency, at the exchange rate on 
the balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at the average 
exchange rate. Exchange rate differences that arise when translating foreign 
Group companies are reported in other comprehensive income and accumu-
lated in a separate item in equity, called translation differences. 
Exchange differences that arise on financial instruments used to hedge the 
net assets of foreign Group companies are reported as a separate part of 
other comprehensive income. Upon divestment, both accumulated exchange 
differences on the foreign Group company and on the financial instrument 
used to hedge the net assets of the Group company are reported as part of 
the capital gain.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the operation and translated 
to the Group’s reporting currency using the closing day rate.
OPERATING REVENUE
Operating revenue mainly comprises sales of proprietary products, products 
for which Sobi holds the distribution and/or licensing agreements, revenue 
from manufacturing and royalty revenue. Revenue comprises invoiced gross 
revenue according to agreement for goods sold excluding VAT, discounts, 
pharmaceutical taxes and returns. Intra-Group sales are eliminated. Sobi has 
no customer contracts where the performance obligations extend beyond 
12 months after the balance sheet date. Revenue is recognised as follows:
Product sales
Revenue from product sales is recognised when Sobi has satisfied its perfor-
mance obligations, which means that the customer has taken control over the 
product. In practice, this arises when the goods have been delivered from the 
company’s consignment stock to the customer. The performance obligations 
associated with the contracts between Sobi and its customers consist mainly of 
distinct goods that are transferred to the customer against payment. The prod-
ucts are not customised and can be used by the customers in the condition 
they are delivered. The products are thus considered distinct and separately 
identifiable. Upon delivery, the customer normally assumes responsibility for 
the goods, depending on the shipping terms, and the obligation to pay 
becomes unconditional. Standard payment terms vary between 30 and 90 
days, which are recognised as accounts receivable.
The price of the goods is identified in contract. The considerations are 
 variable to some extent before deductions are made for agreed discounts and 
pharmaceutical taxes. Where the deductions cannot be estimated reliably, 
an assessment is made and the amounts are reserved on the balance sheet.
Returns are based on historical data for returns and include product and 
quality warranties for any defective goods and returns related to expired goods. 
For returns related to transport warranties, i.e. if the product is damaged during 
transportation, provided that Sobi has arranged the transport, the insurance 
company is required to pay compensation. Royalty revenue
Sobi is entitled to royalties on pre-sold goods, as per agreement. Revenue is 
recognised over time on a monthly basis and based on forecasts, which is 
based on estimates, of underlying sales at the licensee, with quarterly reconcili-
ation and invoicing. Accrued royalty revenue, which is also classified as con-
tract assets under IFRS 15, is recognised on the balance sheet under prepaid 
expenses and accrued income. The payment terms are normally 45 days after 
the end of the quarter. 
Contract manufacturing
Contract manufacturing revenue (ReFacto) is recognised when the goods have 
been delivered to the customer, meaning control of the goods has been trans-
ferred to the customer. The revenue is based on a volume-based price step, 
which is based on the customer’s estimated annual volume. The annual volume 
is updated by the customer, quarterly. The payment terms are 90 days.
Other revenue
Other revenue can include revenue from licensing agreements, such as mile-
stone payments and service fees. 
Milestone payments refer to partial payments received from partners trig-
gered by the fulfilment of a specific part of a partnering agreement, such as 
regulatory approval of a jointly developed product. This type of revenue is 
 recognised when the contracted event has occurred and there is reasonable 
assurance that payment will be collected. Due to various contract formulations, 
the initial licence fee can be recognised in two ways: either as incurred, or allo-
cated over its estimated useful life. In 2021, milestone payments received 
amounted to SEK – M (87).
Service fees comprise consideration for sales and marketing services related 
to some partner products during a contractual term. Revenue is recognised 
over time. 
Government grants
Government grants are recognised when the company fulfils the criteria 
attached to the grant and there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be 
received. Grants received are recognised as deferred income in the balance 
sheet and are recognised in profit or loss as a reduced cost in the period in 
which expenses are recognised for the costs for which the grants compensate. 
In 2021 and 2020, Sobi did not receive any government grants. 
Other operating income/expenses
Other operating income/expenses are income and expenses arising from 
 activities outside the company’s ordinary operations. These items include 
exchange-rate effects on operating receivables and liabilities. Accumulated 
gains or losses arising on the cash-flow hedge reserve in equity are reclassified 
to other operating income/expenses in the period in which the hedged item 
affects profit or loss. For more information, see Notes 7, 8 and 25. 
CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAX 
Taxes in the statement of comprehensive income comprise current and 
deferred tax. Current tax refers to tax payable/received attributable to current/
prior years. Deferred tax refers to tax attributable to future years and is calcu-
lated on the basis of temporary differences between the carrying amount and 
tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is measured using the applicable/
substantively enacted tax rates and tax rules for the period in which the rever-
sal/realisation is expected to occur. 
Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences in consolidated 
goodwill, nor for temporary differences attributable to participations in subsid-
iaries, since it is unlikely that such a reversal will take place in the foreseeable 
future. In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed reserves are divided 
into deferred tax liabilities and equity. Deferred tax assets relating to deductible 
temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards are recognised to the extent 
it is probable that future taxable profits are available, against which these can be 
utilised. Tax is recognised under Income tax in the statement of comprehensive 
income except for those items recognised in other comprehensive income or 
equity. See also Notes 15 and 20.Note 2, cont.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
522INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Good-
will is allocated to cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment, or 
when there is any indication that the acquired goodwill is impaired. Impairment 
loss for goodwill is not reversed. 
Product and marketing rights 
Product and marketing rights, and any associated development projects, that 
are acquired separately are measured at cost including any costs directly attrib-
utable to the acquisition. In the event that contingent considerations are 
dependent on future events linked to the achievement of certain regulatory 
and commercial milestones, product and marketing rights are initially rec-
ognised at fair value of the consideration paid and future contingent consider-
ation plus transaction costs. Fair value is determined by totalling the payment 
obligations in connection with the acquisition. The future contingent consider-
ations are probability-weighted and discounted to present value at the acquisi-
tion date, and a corresponding amount is recognised as a separate financial lia-
bility. Refer also to the section on financial instruments – liabilities measured at 
amortised cost and Note 4. 
Product and marketing rights acquired in a business combination are mea-
sured at acquisition-date fair value. Product and marketing rights have a limited 
life and are measured at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any sub-
sequent accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is carried out to allocate 
the cost over their estimated life, normally 5–20 years. Straight-line amortisa-
tion is used to allocate the cost over their useful lives, based on the expected 
commercial useful lives of each product and marketing right. Amortisation 
expense is classified as selling costs. See also Notes 4 and 16.
Licences and patents
The costs and amortisation of licences are treated in the same way as product 
and marketing rights above. Patent costs are expensed as incurred. 
Research and development costs
Costs for development projects are recognised as intangible assets if Sobi can 
demonstrate that it is technically possible to complete and profitably commer-
cialise the results, and only if the costs of the project can be measured reliably. 
In practice, this means that the costs cannot be capitalised until the relevant 
authority/institution has granted approval. Acquired development projects are 
capitalised at the acquisition date and recognised in accordance with product 
and marketing rights above. When a development project has received approval, 
it is reclassified to product and marketing rights. See above for amortisations. 
Other research and development costs that do not meet the relevant recogni-
tion criteria of IAS 38 are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Capitalised costs
Software and IT projects in progress
Acquired software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs arising 
when the relevant software is acquired and available for use. These costs are 
amortised over the estimated useful life of the software. 
Costs associated with developing or maintaining software are recognised as 
an expense as soon as they are incurred. Costs directly associated with identifi-
able software products developed specifically for Sobi that are controlled by 
the company and will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs 
beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Direct costs include 
expenses for employees working on software development and a reasonable 
proportion of overhead costs.
Costs to enhance the performance of software or extend its useful life 
(development costs) beyond the original plan are capitalised and added to 
the initial cost of the software. Amortisation according to plan for software rec-
ognised as an asset is performed using the straight-line method over its useful 
life up to a maximum of three years.
Manufacturing relocation costs
Costs at relocation of manufacturing of Sobi’s products are capitalised, if they 
meet the requirements of IAS 38, and classified as intangible assets. Costs that 
are capitalised are costs directly attributable to the construction of new pro-
duction lines. Amortisation commences when the asset is available for use. 
Amortisation of capitalised costs
Amortisation of capitalised costs is charged to selling and administrative 
expenses. For more information, see Note 6.TANGIBLE ASSETS
Tangible assets are recognised as assets on the balance sheet if it is expected 
that future economic benefits will accrue to the company and the cost of the 
asset can be measured reliably. 
All tangible assets are measured at cost less depreciation. The cost includes 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Additional costs are 
added to the carrying amount of the asset or recognised as a separate asset, 
depending on which is appropriate, only when it is probable that the future 
economic rewards associated with the asset will accrue to the Group and the 
cost of the asset can be measured reliably. All other forms of repair and mainte-
nance are recognised as expenses in profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation of tangible assets
Tangible assets are depreciated according to plan over their estimated useful 
life. They are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life 
less residual value. The following depreciation periods are applied: 
Plant and machinery
• Laboratory equipment and other investments 3–7 years
• Other major investments, such as property refurbishment 5–20 years
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings
• Servers and other large computer hardware 3–5 years
• Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5–10 years
The residual value and useful life of the assets are assessed at each balance- 
sheet date and adjusted if necessary. An asset’s carrying amount is immediately 
depreciated to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount of the asset 
exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. The gain or loss arising on the dis-
posal or retirement of tangible assets is the difference between the proceeds 
and the carrying amount less direct selling costs. The profit/loss item is rec-
ognised as other operating income or other operating expense.
IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill, which has an indeterminable useful life, and intangible assets not 
yet available for use are not depreciated, but tested annually for impairment 
and when there is any indication that the value of an asset may be impaired. 
Product and marketing rights and other assets that are depreciated/amor-
tised are tested for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An asset is impaired if its car-
rying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment is therefore the 
difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount where 
the recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s net realisable 
value and value-in-use. When determining the value-in-use, the future cash 
flows expected to be generated by the asset are discounted using a rate equiv-
alent to Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
When assessing goodwill impairment, this is grouped at the lowest levels for 
which there are separately identifiable cash flows – cash-generating units. Any 
impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment test on goodwill, product 
and market rights and development projects are described in Note 16.
An impairment loss for an asset other than goodwill is reversed if there has 
been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount. A reversal must not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, less depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised.
Cash-generating units
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the Group’s 
cash-generating units. A cash-generating unit is defined as the lowest level 
within the Group at which the goodwill in question is monitored for internal 
management purposes, see also Note 16.
LEASES
Most of the Sobi’s leased assets comprise properties and vehicles. The right-of-
use asset and corresponding lease liability are recognised on the balance sheet 
when the leased asset is made available for use. Short-term and low-value 
leases are excepted, which in all material respects comprise copying machines, 
printers and computers. Variable lease payments other than those that depend 
on an index or rate are recognised as an expense in the period in which they 
occur.
The lease liability is initially recognised at the present value of the Group’s 
fixed payments less any lease incentives receivable, and variable lease 
 payments that depend on an index or rate that have not been paid on the Note 2, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
532 commencement date. Options to extend and terminate are included in the 
payments if it is reasonably certain that these will be used. The lease payments 
are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease if that rate can be 
readily determined, otherwise Sobi’s incremental borrowing rate is used. The 
lease liability is subsequently remeasured to reflect changes in the lease term, 
which are treated as adjustments to the right-of-use asset. 
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and includes the present 
value of the lease liability, including lease payments made on or before the 
commencement date and initial direct costs. Restoration costs are included in 
the asset if a corresponding provision for restoration costs is identified. The 
right-of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the 
useful life of the asset and the lease term. The following periods of useful life 
are applied:
Properties  2–10 years
Vehicles  36–48 months
In the cash flow statement, payments attributable to the lease liability are 
reported under financing activities while payments for short-term leases, low-
value asset leases and variable lease payments not included in the measure-
ment of the lease liability are recognised under operating activities. For more 
information, see Note 9.
Sobi has a provision for restoration of a leased property in Stockholm when 
the lease expires. 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one 
company, and a financial liability or equity instrument in another.
Classification of financial instruments
The Group classifies its financial instruments into the following categories:
1. Assets measured at amortised cost
2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
3. Assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
4. Liabilities measured at amortised cost 
5. Liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss
The classification depends on the purpose for which the instruments were 
acquired and the type of financial instrument. The recognition of equity instru-
ments that are not held for trading depends on whether Sobi, at the acquisition 
date, has made an irrevocable election to measure equity instruments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income. The classification of the instru-
ments is determined at initial recognition and they are only reclassified if the 
business model for the instruments is changed. 
Assets expected to mature or be sold within 12 months, and liabilities with 
no unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months 
after the balance sheet date, are classified as current assets or current liabilities. 
Other assets and liabilities are classified as fixed assets or non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss are 
measured at fair value on the transaction date, including transaction costs on 
the balance sheet. Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit 
or loss are initially measured at fair value, while related transaction costs are 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Financial instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, including transaction 
costs, at the transaction date. 
Financial instruments recognised as assets in the balance sheet include equity 
instruments, endowment policies, accounts receivable, derivatives, and cash 
and cash equivalents. Financial liabilities mainly include borrowings, contingent 
considerations, accounts payable, derivatives and other liabilities.
1. Assets measured at amortised cost
Assets are classified in this category if both of the following criteria are met:
1. The objective of the business model is to hold the financial asset to collect 
the contractual cash flows.
2. The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to 
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.The Group’s assets in this category consist of accounts and other receivables, 
and cash and cash equivalents. These are measured at amortised cost less any 
impairment. The maturities of accounts receivable are mainly short, which is 
why they are recognised initially at nominal value without discounting. Impair-
ment of accounts receivable in the Group is based on a model for expected 
future losses, which have been calculated using historical losses and for-
ward-looking estimates. Any impairments of accounts receivable based on 
expected credit losses, as well as any impairment on individually assessed 
receivables, are recognised in operating expenses. 
2. Assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets 
that are not measured at amortised cost (see above). This category includes the 
Group’s endowment policies and derivatives that are not included in an effec-
tive cash flow hedge or net investment hedge. 
3. Assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
are derivatives that meet hedge accounting requirements (cash flow hedges 
and net investments) and equity instruments in the form of quoted shares. In 
cases where Sobi has elected to present value changes in equity instruments 
in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent reclassification of 
changes in fair value through profit or loss on derecognition. Any dividends on 
equity instruments are recognised as income in the statement of profit or loss 
when the right to receive payment has been determined. 
4. Liabilities measured at amortised cost 
This category includes financial liabilities such as borrowings, accounts payable 
and lease liabilities, as well as liabilities related to contingent considerations tied 
to licensing and collaboration agreements for the development and commer-
cialisation of product and marketing rights. Liabilities in this category are mea-
sured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net after transaction costs. 
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost and any difference 
between the amount received and the repayment amount is recognised in 
profit or loss over the term of the loan, using the effective interest method. 
 Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional 
right to defer settlement of the liability until twelve months after the  balance 
sheet date. 
Liabilities related to contingent considerations are initially measured at the 
fair value of future obligations. Contingent considerations are usually linked to 
future payments dependent upon the achievement of certain regulatory and 
commercial milestones. The fair value of contingent considerations is initially 
determined by probability-weighting and discounting potential future pay-
ments. The liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effec-
tive interest method, whereby the interest expense is recognised as a financial 
expense in the income statement allocated over the expected obligation 
period. A change in value attributable to exchange rate effects is reported as 
financial income/expense in the income statement, provided that they are not 
included in an effective hedge as described below. A change in the liability as a 
result of a changed assumption regarding future payments is reported with a 
corresponding change in associated intangible asset. Liabilities tied to contin-
gent considerations are classified as current liabilities, non-interest bearing 
when the related milestone payment is payable, or expected to be payable, 
within 12 months of the balance sheet date, see also Notes 4, 26 and 28, and 
above under the heading of product and marketing rights and Note 16.
5. Liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 
This category includes liabilities not measured at amortised cost. The liabilities 
are measured both initially and in subsequent periods at fair value in the bal-
ance sheet. This category includes derivatives and contingent considerations in 
connection with business combinations, where changes in the value of such 
liabilities are recognised in profit or loss. The components of the change in 
value relating to interest and exchange rate effects are recognised in net finan-
cial items while other changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not included in an effective cash 
flow hedge or net investment hedge are recognised in profit or loss. Changes in 
the fair value of derivatives that are included in an effective cash flow hedge or 
net investment hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income.Note 2, cont.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
542Derivatives
Derivatives are used for hedging and not for speculation. Sobi differentiates 
between derivatives included in an effective hedging relationship and other 
derivatives held for trading. Derivatives are measured at fair value on the bal-
ance sheet, both initially and in subsequent remeasurements, and recognised 
as either an asset or a liability, depending on whether their fair value is positive 
or negative. Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting are 
recognised in profit or loss. Derivatives held to manage financial risks are rec-
ognised in net financial items, while derivatives held to manage risks in the 
operating result are recognised in other income/expenses. See below for the 
recognition of derivatives that meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
Hedge accounting
The Group applies hedge accounting for currency risk and uses derivative 
instruments and loans in these hedging relationships. The method for recog-
nising the resulting gains or losses from the remeasurement of loans or deriva-
tives in hedge accounting depends on whether the instrument has been identi-
fied as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, fair value hedge or 
net investment hedge. 
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in fair value of a derivative instrument identi-
fied as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The 
gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. Accumulated gains or losses in equity are reclassified to profit or 
loss in the periods in which the hedged item affects the results. If a hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting and there are accumulated gains or losses from hedging in 
equity, these gains or losses remain in equity and are transferred to the income 
statement when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. If a loan is 
 designated as a hedging instrument for foreign-exchange risk, the effective 
portion of the remeasurement effects pertaining to exchange rate fluctuations 
is recognised in the same way as for derivatives, while other parts of the loan 
are recognised as a loan not included in a hedging relationship.
Net investment hedges
A net investment is hedged with financial liabilities denominated in foreign 
 currency. The accounting is similar to cash flow hedges.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is 
calculated using the first in, first out principle (FIFO). Net realisable value is the 
expected selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling costs. 
Obsolescence risk and confirmed obsolescence have been taken into account 
in the measurement. 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The cash and cash equivalents of the Parent Company and the Group include 
the Group’s balances in consolidated accounts and other bank accounts, and 
investments with a maturity of less than three months from the acquisition 
date. 
EQUITY
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction costs directly attributable 
to the issue of new shares or options are recognised in equity, net after tax, as 
a deduction from the proceeds.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised on the balance sheet when Sobi has a legal or con-
structive obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and where it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. 
It must also be possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount. Provisions 
are recognised in the amount corresponding to the best estimate of the pay-
ment required to settle the obligation. If the outflow of resources is expected to 
take place at a point far in the future, the expected future cash flow is dis-
counted and the provision is recognised at its present value. Provisions are rec-
ognised on the balance sheet under other current and non-current liabilities. 
Restructuring provisions, which substantially change the way in which Sobi 
works, are recognised when a detailed and formal restructuring plan has been 
established and publicly announced, at which point clear expectations are 
 created that the plan will be implemented. Provisions for restructuring often 
include termination benefits, which can be either voluntary or involuntary.  Termination benefits are recognised as described above, except in those cases 
in which a service obligation is tied to the benefit, in which case costs are dis-
tributed over the period in which the services are carried out.
Restructuring provisions entail estimates of the time and cost of planned 
future activities. The most significant estimates relate to those costs required 
for severance pay or other obligations in connection with termination of 
employment, as well as costs for the termination of agreements and other 
costs for withdrawal. Such estimates are based on the actual situation in nego-
tiations with the affected parties and/or their representatives. Salaries relating 
to periods following the termination of duty to work are expensed when the 
decision is made and communicated.
Sobi recognises endowment policies gross on the balance sheet as a 
 financial asset and a provision. For more information, see under the heading 
Direct pensions. 
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible commitment 
 arising from past events and whose existence is confirmed by only one or more 
uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recognised 
as a liability or a provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will 
be required.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension obligations
Pensions and other benefits after the termination of employment are classified 
as either defined-contribution or defined-benefit plans. Most of the Group’s 
employees are covered by a defined-contribution pension plan. There are 
defined-benefit plans in France, Italy, Norway, Switzerland and Sweden. 
A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan according to which 
the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate legal entity. The Group’s com-
mitments are limited to the contributions it has undertaken to pay. The contri-
butions payable to defined-contribution plans are expensed in the period in 
which the services are rendered. Prepayments are recognised as an asset to the 
extent that the prepayment will lead to a cash refund or reduction in future 
payments for the Group.
A defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan that promises a specified 
pension payment on retirement that is normally based on one or several fac-
tors, such as the employee’s age, tenure of service, earnings history and salary.
The liability for defined-benefit pension plans is recognised on the balance 
sheet as the present value of the obligations under the plan at the balance 
sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets. The defined-benefit pension 
obligation is calculated at least annually by independent actuaries using the 
Projected Unit Credit Method. The present value of the defined-benefit obliga-
tion is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using the interest 
rate for high-grade corporate bonds and mortgage bonds issued in the same 
currency in which the benefits will be paid, and with maturities comparable 
with the current pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses due to  experience- 
based adjustments and changes to actuarial assumptions are recognised in 
other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Past service 
costs are recognised immediately as an operating expense. Interest expense 
less expected return on plan assets is recognised as a financial expense.
Direct pensions 
For some senior executives, their pension plan has been supplemented with 
direct pension promises. In these cases, the Parent Company, over time, has 
taken out endowment policies pledged to the employee as collateral for the 
agreement. Endowment policies taken out by the Parent Company are classi-
fied as a financial asset on the balance sheet, since they are a long-term hold-
ing, and measured at fair value, while the pension obligation to the employee is 
recognised under provisions for pensions. A provision for special payroll tax is 
also recognised for the endowment policies. Premiums paid into the endow-
ment policies are not deductible. However, the payment to the beneficiary is 
deductible. 
Long-term incentive programmes
Outstanding share programmes and share option programmes are recognised 
according to IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment. 
The fair value of allotted share programmes is estimated on the issue date 
using a generally accepted modelling technique, the Monte Carlo simulation 
model, and taking market conditions and performance obligations into 
account. Performance obligations in the form of a revenue component exist 
for the programmes that include the CEO, senior executives and managers. Note 2, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
552Fair value at the date of allotment is recognised as a personnel cost in profit 
or loss, allocated over the vesting period, and corresponding adjustments are 
made in equity. At the end of every quarter, the Group reviews its assessments 
of how many shares are expected to be vested based on the service condition. 
The shares are delivered to the employee at the end of the programmes, under 
the framework of the programmes. 
The fair value of the allotted share option programmes is estimated on the 
issue date using the Black-Scholes model, taking market conditions and per-
formance obligations into account. Performance obligations exist, as described 
above, for share programmes. Fair value at the date of allotment is recognised 
as a personnel cost in profit or loss, allocated over the vesting period, and cor-
responding adjustments are made in equity. The amount recognised as an 
expense is continuously adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options 
vested. The social security contributions are remeasured at every balance sheet 
date until settlement takes place, and allocated using the same principles as the 
cost of the shares. 
The Group also has long-term cash-based incentive programmes, which are 
not classified as share-based payments, that include all employees in the US 
and Canada. Since awards under these programmes are contingent upon con-
tinued employment at the company, the costs are recognised continuously 
over the vesting period. A liability is calculated on each balance sheet date 
based on the market value, renewed assessments of target fulfilment and how 
much has been vested. The net of these effects is recognised as a personnel 
cost in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. The social security contri-
butions are remeasured at every balance sheet date until settlement takes 
place, and allocated using the same principles as the cost of the shares. 
See also Note 10 for a more detailed description of the long-term incentive 
programmes.
Termination benefits
A provision for costs in connection with termination of personnel is recognised 
only if the company is demonstrably obliged to terminate employment before 
the normal period of service has ended or when benefits are provided as an 
incentive to encourage voluntary termination, e.g. early retirement packages. 
In cases where the company terminates employment, a detailed plan is pre-
pared that, at a minimum, contains information about the workplace, positions 
and approximate number of individuals concerned, as well as the compensa-
tion for each employee category or position and the schedule for the plan’s 
implementation.
THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Parent Company, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), has prepared its 
Annual Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 
(1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 
2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The statements issued by the Financial Report-
ing Board regarding listed companies are also applied. According to RFR 2, the 
Parent Company is to prepare its annual financial statements using all of the 
IFRS and statements adopted by the EU as far as possible within the framework 
of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Pension Obligations Vesting Act, and 
with consideration for the relationship between accounting and taxation. The 
recommendation sets out the exemptions from, and amendments to, IFRS that 
must be made.
The Parent Company has assets and liabilities that are measured at historical 
cost, except for some financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair 
value. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group 
with the following exceptions:
Employee benefits/defined-benefit plans
In the calculation of defined-benefit pension plans, the Parent Company com-
plies with the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act, which is a prerequisite 
for tax deductibility. The most significant differences compared with the 
requirements under IAS 19 are how the discount rate is established, that the 
calculation of the defined-benefit obligation is based on current salary levels 
without assumptions regarding future salary increases, and that all actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income as they arise. 
See Note 29 for more information.
Leases
Leases are recognised in accordance with the exemption in RFR 2, whereby the 
right-of-use asset and lease liability are not recognised on the balance sheet. 
Costs under the lease are recognised in the income statement on a straight-Note 2, cont.
line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised 
as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. 
Group contributions
The Parent Company applies the alternative approach and, consequently, 
reports all Group contributions received/provided as appropriations.
Taxes
Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal 
 entities.
Subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised in accordance with the cost model. 
The value of subsidiaries is tested when there is an indication of a decline in 
value. Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised as revenue. Trans-
action costs associated with an acquisition are recognised as part of the cost of 
acquisition. Contingent considerations are recognised as part of the cost if it is 
probable they will be realised. If the initial assessment needs to be revised in 
subsequent periods, the cost must be adjusted.
Internal receivables
The Parent Company uses a method to test for impairment on internal receiv-
ables and loans based on the model used by the Group for external accounts 
receivable. 
Change in external reporting
Cash flow
As of 2021, Sobi has changed the form of presentation for the cash flow state-
ment and reclassified hedging arrangements for financing from cash flow from 
operating activities to cash flow from financing activities to better reflect the 
financial meaning of the hedging arrangement. 
The change of the presentation form means that certain items in the cash 
flow from operating activities are now reported on separate lines and that the 
starting point for the cash flow has been changed to profit after financial items. 
The change of the presentation form has no effect on the cash flow from oper-
ating activities, but comparative figures have been added. For reclassification of 
hedging arrangement for financing comparative figures for 2020 has been 
recalculated whereby the cash flow from operating activities has changed from 
SEK 5,021 M to SEK 4,733 M. Cash flow from financing activities has been 
changed for the corresponding period from SEK –1,452 M to SEK –1,164 M.     
3 Financial risk management
Financial risks and risk management
Through its operations, Sobi is exposed to various kinds of risks that may 
impact the company’s earnings, cash flow and financial position. The risks can 
be divided into operational risk and financial risk. Financial risk refers to a 
potentially negative impact resulting from changes in the financial risk factors. 
Below is a description of the financial risk factors deemed most significant for 
Sobi, and how they are managed. Operational risks are described in a separate 
section of the Directors’ Report.
Financial risk is managed at central level by Sobi’s treasury function, which in 
addition to being responsible for the Group’s financing, ensures that solutions 
are in place for liquidity monitoring and payments, continuously monitoring 
financial risk and supporting the business operations in finance-related issues.
The Treasury Policy, which is adopted by the Board, establishes the division 
of responsibilities and control of financial matters between the Board, CEO, 
CFO and the treasury function. The Board has appointed an Audit Committee 
to monitor the structure of the Treasury Policy and, if necessary, propose 
changes to the Board. The main objectives of the Treasury Policy are to main-
tain a low level of financial risk and to manage risk safely.
Financial risk factors
Currency risk – Transaction risk
Transaction risk arises when sales and purchasing transactions are denomi-
nated in different currencies, which may affect the company’s profitability, cash 
flow and financial position. This risk is limited in the subsidiaries as their com-
mercial flows are mainly denominated in their local currencies. This risk is sig-
nificant for the Parent Company, since the company has considerable flows of 
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
562
3foreign currencies, primarily EUR and USD. If the SEK had weakened 5 per cent 
against other currencies in 2021, sales would have increased SEK 742 M (696) 
and EBITA would have risen SEK 332 M (402), for more details see the tables below. 
Impact at 5 per cent weakening of SEK:
2021 Sales EBITA
USD 377 171
EUR 297 167
Other currencies 68 –5
Total 742 332
2020 Sales EBITA
USD 330 178
EUR 306 220
Other currencies 60 4
Total 696 402
Financial instruments, such as currency futures, are used to manage the trans-
action exposure. Sobi also applies hedge accounting and uses cash-flow 
hedges to reduce some of the transaction risk in EUR and USD. These flows are 
primarily related to the Synagis, Elocta and Alprolix products.
The currencies with the largest net exposures, excluding derivatives, are 
shown in the diagram below.
Transaction exposure, annual volume
SEK M
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,000
Other USD EUR2021 
2020 3,5514,826
274-3344,499
2,604
Currency risk – Translation risk
Translation risk is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will have a nega-
tive impact on equity when the Group’s net assets denominated in foreign cur-
rency are translated into SEK. The changes in equity are considered acceptable 
and not managed by using currency derivatives. The risk is partly managed by 
limiting the size of the net assets by raising foreign currency loans.
 The most significant currencies for Sobi are CHF, EUR and USD. If the SEK 
had weakened 5 per cent against other currencies in 2021, the group equity 
and the net financial assets and liabilities would have been impacted as shown 
in the tables below.
Impact at 5 percent weakening of SEK:
2021 EquityFinancial 
assets and 
 liabilities
CHF –198 4
EUR 92 81
USD 51 436
Other currencies –17 –16
Total –72 505
2020 EquityFinancial 
assets and 
 liabilities
CHF –211 –13
EUR 135 148
USD 51 365
Other currencies –13 –11
Total –38 489Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Sobi is unable to raise financing on acceptable 
terms, or meet its payment obligations due to factors beyond Sobi’s control. 
How the liquidity risk should be managed is described in the Treasury Policy. 
Both short-term and long-term forecasts of the Group’s liquidity are regularly 
compiled to ensure there is sufficient cash and undrawn credit facilities to meet 
the needs of the day-to-day operations. 
According to the policy, Sobi shall also maintain an appropriate liquidity 
reserve. The liquidity reserve comprises bank balances, current investments 
and undrawn committed credit facilities. At 31 December 2021, the company’s 
undrawn committed credit facilities totalled SEK 4,336 M (4,320). At 31 Decem-
ber 2021, SEK 10,597 M (14,234) of the facilities had been drawn. See the distri-
bution in the table below.
Credit facilities, maturity structure
GROUP 2022 2023 2024 Total
Credit facilities, undrawn 1,954 264 2,117 4,336
Credit facilities, drawn 1,768 5,104 3,725 10,597
Credit facilities, total 3,722 5,368 5,842 14,932
The following table shows the contractual, non-discounted cash flows from 
the Group’s financial liabilities, divided according to the time remaining 
until the contractual maturity date or, if there is no such date, the expected 
 balance sheet date.
Maturity analysis
AT 31 DECEMBER 2021, 
GROUPLess than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Derivatives1 10 – – –
Borrowings 1,953 5,260 3,792 –
Accounts payable 558 – – –
Leases 118 111 152 12
Contingent 
 considerations – 2,744 823 11,974
Non-contingent 
 considerations 692 565 497 –
Total 3,331 8,681 5,264 11,986
AT 31 DECEMBER 2020, 
GROUPLess than  
1 yearBetween  
1–2 yearsBetween  
2–5 yearsMore than  
5 years
Derivatives1 269 – – –
Borrowings 4,231 3,748 6,817 –
Accounts payable 569 – – –
Leases 111 114 209 42
Contingent 
 considerations 491 – 2,836 11,259
Non-contingent 
 considerations 205 102 962 –
Total 5,876 3,964 10,824 11,301
1. Included in other liabilities, non-interest-bearing on the balance sheet.
The liabilities in the table are presented at nominal value according to an 
assessment of the contracts at 31 December 2021. For information in the 
 balance sheet, see Note 26.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that Sobi would be adversely impacted by changes 
in interest rates, both on profits through changes in general interest rates and 
on instruments with fixed interest rates through changes in market values. 
Changes in market values are considered acceptable since Sobi’s general prin-
ciple is to minimise its earnings volatility. Sobi’s exposure to interest rate risk 
mainly occurs through external loans and cash.
Sobi’s financing sources primarily consist of equity, cash flow from operating 
activities, and borrowings. Interest-bearing debt exposes the Group to interest 
rate risk. Loans are normally raised with a fixed-rate period of three months and 
at year-end, Sobi’s average remaining fixed-rate period was one month.Note 3, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
573Interest-rate sensitivity is measured by assuming a constant interest-rate 
change of 1 percentage point. At 31 December 2021, such a change would 
have had an annual impact of SEK 100 M (132) on net financial items. At 31 
December 2021, Sobi’s interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 10,545 M 
(14,152). The loans raised carry variable interest, which is deemed most 
 favourable for Sobi. There were no fixed-income derivatives outstanding 
at the balance sheet date.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if a counterparty is unable to meet its obliga-
tions. Credit risk can be divided into credit risk in the form of accounts receiv-
able, and financial credit risk.
Sobi’s credit risk is mainly related to accounts receivable. At the balance 
 sheet date, these amounted to SEK 3,439 M (3,756), of which SEK 607 M (622) 
was overdue. See Note 22 for information about overdue receivables. Sobi’s 
customers are mainly large distributors with low credit risk, hospitals and gov-
ernment administrations, which means that these are largely funded by the 
government of each respective country. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not 
be paid, a provision is made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the 
principles described in Note 2. At 31 December 2021, these amounted to 
SEK 71 M (71). Sobi has received securities only for a limited volume of its 
accounts receivable.
Credit rating reports are obtained for both distribution agreements and 
larger individual transactions, when the customer is not previously known or 
when other circumstances give rise to uncertainty regarding creditworthiness. 
The credit ratings must be obtained from a nationally recognised statistical 
rating organisation. A credit limit is set for every customer, and continuously 
monitored and evaluated.
In its Treasury Policy, Sobi has established principles that limit the amount of 
exposure to financial credit risk per counterparty. To further limit financial 
credit risk, financial transactions are primarily conducted with counterparts 
with a high credit rating. Any surplus liquidity is invested in instruments with a 
low level of credit risk and a high level of liquidity. Investments are only permit-
ted in instruments issued by the Swedish Government and municipalities, or by 
banks, financial institutions and companies with a minimum credit rating of A 
from Standard & Poor’s, or an equivalent rating from another rating agency. 
A high level of liquidity means that investments can be converted into cash at 
any given time.
Capital structure
Sobi works with its capital structure and indebtedness to generate good share-
holder returns and value for other stakeholders, and to keep cost of capital at a 
reasonable level. The capital structure can be adapted by, for example, paying 
dividends to shareholders, repaying capital to shareholders, issuing new shares 
or repaying debts.
Sobi mainly uses indebtedness as a measure of the company’s capital struc-
ture, which is calculated using net debt/adjusted EBITDA. The aim is to keep 
indebtedness at a level that is appropriate for the company’s operations, and 
that enables relevant acquisitions and investments. 
At the balance sheet date, Sobi’s debt/equity ratio was: 
GROUP 2021 2020
Net debt 9,500 13,748
Adjusted EBITDA1 5,740 6,442
Indebtedness 1.66 2.13
1. In 2020, adjusted EBITDA excluded a positive impact of SEK 399 M pertaining to reversal of the lia-
bility for the Contingent Value Right (CVR). See also Directors’ report under operating profit for 
more information.
Hedge accounting
As described above, Sobi uses currency derivatives and loans in foreign cur-
rency as hedging instruments to manage currency risk in future cash flows, and 
loans in foreign currency to limit the Group’s net assets and currency exposure 
in equity. Hedge accounting is applied to hedging relationships that meet the 
qualifying criteria and where Sobi considers hedge accounting appropriate.
There is an economic relationship in Sobi’s cash flow hedges and hedges of 
net investments, since these relate to foreign-exchange risk and hedging 
instruments, and the hedged items are in the same currency. Sobi assesses 
hedge effectiveness at each hedge’s inception, and at every balance sheet date. 
Sobi applies a hedge ratio of 1:1 if the underlying conditions are identical.Note 3, cont.
Sources of ineffectiveness:
• Difference or change in the hedging instrument’s settlement date and 
timing of the most probable cash flow in a cash flow hedge
• Changes to the hedged item’s amount
• A significant change in the derivative counterparty credit risk 
The following table presents Sobi’s hedging relationships at the end of 2021 
and their effects on profit or loss during the year. In 2021, Sobi’s total ineffec-
tiveness was SEK 0 M (0). 
Cash flow hedges 2021
CurrencyNominal  
value in SEK MHedging 
 instrumentHedged  
item Hedged riskMaturity 
interval
EUR 225 BorrowingsHighest 
probable 
inflows of 
EURForeign- 
exchange 
risk (Avista) 2022–2023
Cash flow hedges 2020
CurrencyNominal  
value in SEK MHedging 
 instrumentHedged  
item Hedged riskMaturity 
interval
EUR 335 BorrowingsHighest 
probable 
inflows of 
EURForeign- 
exchange 
risk (Avista) 2021–2023
USD 19Non- 
contingent 
considerationHighest 
probable 
inflows of 
USDForeign- 
exchange 
risk (Avista) 2021
Net investment hedges 2021
CurrencyNominal  
value in SEK MHedging  
 instrumentHedged  
item Hedged risk
USD 312Contingent 
 considerationsNet assets 
in USDForeign- 
exchange risk 
(Avista)
USD 64Non-contingent 
 considerationsNet assets 
in USDForeign- 
exchange risk 
(Avista)
Net investment hedges 2020
CurrencyNominal  
value in SEK MHedging  
 instrumentHedged  
item Hedged risk
USD 345Contingent 
considerationNet  
assets in 
 USDForeign- 
exchange risk 
(Avista)
In 2021 and 2020, no hedging relationships were discontinued prospectively. 
The change in the hedging reserve is presented in Note 25.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
5834  Significant accounting judgements,  
estimates and assumptions
Sobi makes estimates and assumptions about the future, and accounting 
judgements. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
entailing a considerable risk of material adjustments in the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the upcoming financial year are presented below. 
For significant accounting judgements regarding fair value, see Note 26.
ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS
Revenue
When revenue is recognised, each agreement is interpreted separately and 
Sobi makes an assessment of any obligations. Revenue is recognised when 
control has been transferred to the buyer, depending on the shipping terms. 
Revenue is calculated as invoiced gross revenue according to agreement less 
variable consideration corresponding to actual and estimated discounts to 
public and private customers, and pharmaceutical taxes. Since actual and final 
conditions for discounts and pharmaceutical taxes on sales in the current 
period are not always known at the balance sheet date, some of the deductions 
from gross revenue are based on estimates. At 31 December 2021, sales-re-
lated accruals amounted to SEK 3,053 M (2,158). See Notes 5 and 31.
In addition, the likelihood of future economic rewards accruing to Sobi is 
assessed on the basis of several factors, including a customer’s payment history 
and credit rating. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be paid, a provision for 
credit loss is made in accordance with the principles described in Note 2.
Acquisitions
Business and asset acquisitions
For acquisitions, Sobi determines whether the transaction is a business combi-
nation or an asset acquisition. The assessment is made in accordance with IFRS 
3. Each acquisition is considered separately and, in some cases, Sobi applies the 
concentration test to simplify the determination of whether the transaction is 
an asset acquisition. At the end of 2021, Sobi had not completed any business 
acquisitions considered as an asset acquisition.
Intangible assets
Upon the acquisition of intangible assets that include terms for contingent 
consideration that are contingent upon the outcome of a future event, usually 
linked to the achievement of certain regulatory and commercial milestones, 
assessments and assumptions are made to determine the initial acquisition 
value (fair value of consideration paid and any additional consideration). The 
value of future considerations is determined by totalling the payment obliga-
tions in connection with the acquisition, which are probability-weighted and 
discounted to present value at the acquisition date, and a corresponding 
amount is recognised as a separate financial liability. See Note 28 and under 
the heading of financial liabilities. 
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Intangible assets
Sobi’s intangible assets are essentially attributable to goodwill, product and 
marketing rights, and related development projects. Sobi’s goodwill is derived 
from the acquisition of Swedish Orphan, Dova and emapalumab. 
Goodwill
Sobi conducts regular goodwill impairment testing, in accordance with the 
principle described in Note 2. The recoverable amount of cash-generating 
units is determined by calculating their value-in-use. This calculation requires 
certain assumptions to be made. See Note 16. At 31 December 2021, Sobi’s 
goodwill amounted to SEK 6,288 M (5,873). Testing carried out during the year 
showed no indication of impairment. 
Product and marketing rights
Certain assumptions are needed to assess the value of product and marketing 
rights, and related development projects. These are described in Note 16. 
Changes in these assumptions could have a material effect on the carrying 
amount of the asset. At 31 December 2021, Sobi’s product and marketing rights 
amounted to SEK 31,559 M (32,307). 
Sales forecast assumptions have a major impact on future value and are 
based on assumptions of underlying growth, future product development and 
expanded applications for the drug. For product development projects, assumptions about positive outcomes in clinical trials are a prerequisite for 
future value. These assumptions are probability-weighted. 
Product and marketing rights that are amortised are tested for impairment 
whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable. During the year, no such events or circumstances occurred. 
Product and marketing rights that have not yet been amortised are tested for 
impairment, at least annually, in accordance with the principle described in 
Note 2.
For product and marketing rights that are amortised, the amortisation period 
ranges from 5–20 years and is adapted to the expected commercial useful life 
of each right. Sobi has assessed that these amortisations are attributable to the 
selling costs, since the intangible assets that are classified as product and mar-
keting rights primarily pertain to marketing rights, which means that Sobi can 
market or sell the products. Right of use is consumed over the asset’s useful life, 
which corresponds to the related product’s estimated useful life in the market.
Research and development costs
Sobi conducts research and development in internal projects and jointly with 
external partners. In cases where Sobi carries out projects with an external 
partner and both parties share certain costs, the costs are estimated when the 
project commences. This cost is then used as a basis for settlement with the 
external partner. The calculation is assessed and updated regularly. In some 
collaboration agreements, Sobi agrees to pay contingent considerations. This 
consideration is balanced and recognised as licences and patents, or product 
and marketing rights. Amortisation does not commence until the project has 
reached commercialisation phase and meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intan-
gible Assets. Evaluation of the project’s progress and impairment testing are 
carried out as described under the heading of product and marketing rights. 
In 2021, there were no impairment losses related to the clinical programmes.
Costs for internal development and payments for projects and substances 
under agreement with third parties are expensed as incurred if they do not 
meet the requirements of IAS 38. Regulatory frameworks and uncertainty 
 usually mean that the criteria are not met. However, in cases where the 
requirements are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised accord-
ing to plan. Capitalisation commences when Sobi can demonstrate that it is 
technically feasible and profitable to commercialise the results. 
Taxes
When preparing the financial statements, Sobi calculates the income tax for 
each tax jurisdiction in which Sobi operates, and deferred tax attributable to 
temporary differences. See Note 2.
Deferred tax assets mainly attributable to loss carry-forwards and temporary 
differences are recognised if the tax assets are expected to be recovered 
through future taxable profits in the various tax jurisdictions.
At the end of 2021, Sobi recognised deferred tax assets of SEK 767 M (611) 
and deferred tax liabilities of SEK 3,605 M (3,464), as well as unused tax loss 
carry-forwards of SEK 2,716 M (2,708). Changes in estimates of future taxable 
profits, as well as changes in tax rates, could therefore have either a positive or 
negative effect on earnings when determining the value of deferred tax. See 
Note 20 for more information about deferred taxes.
Financial liabilities
Contingent considerations
Sobi has financial liabilities linked to contingent considerations attributable 
to business combinations and intangible assets acquired. At the end of 2021, 
recognised liability amounted to SEK 2,818 M (2,846) and total obligations 
amounted to SEK 17,295 M (14,587). The contingent obligations are normally 
linked to future payments upon the achievement of certain regulatory and 
commercial milestones. Recognised liability is based on assumptions and esti-
mates of the future potential payments, which are probability-weighted and 
discounted. Sobi uses historical data for clinical and regulatory advancement to 
assess the probability that regulatory obligations will be achieved. Commercial 
milestones are usually tied to the achievement of various sales levels for the 
product. Sobi makes assumptions, which are probability-weighted, about the 
achievement of these levels based on sales revenue forecasts. The assumptions 
may change over time, as circumstances change due to new facts, which could 
lead to a significant change in the value of a recognised liability and its corre-
sponding intangible asset. For more information about accounting policies for 
financial liabilities related to contingent considerations, see Note 2. Also refer 
to Note 28 for more information about financial liabilities linked to contingent 
considerations. nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
5945  Segment information and segment revenue
SEGMENT INFORMATION
Sobi’s activities are organised in three business areas – Haematology, Immu-
nology and Specialty Care.
Haematology segment: Revenue is derived from sales of Elocta, Alprolix, 
Doptelet and Aspaveli/Empaveli. Revenue is also derived from manufacturing 
of the drug substance for ReFacto AF/Xyntha for Pfizer, and royalties on Sanofi’s 
sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
Immunology segment: Revenue is derived from sales of Kineret, Synagis 
and Gamifant. Specialty Care segment: Revenue is derived from sales of Orfadin, Tegsedi, 
Waylivra and other medicines in the Specialty Care portfolio.
The Group–other category mainly relates to costs for central functions such 
as finance, legal, communication, HR and other items that cannot be allocated 
per segment.
Revenue, EBITA and adjusted EBITA for each segment comprise their contri-
bution to the Group’s revenue, EBITA and adjusted EBITA. No sales are con-
ducted between the segments. The segments’ assets are measured in the same 
way as in the financial statements. These assets are distributed on the basis of 
the segment’s operations and the asset’s physical location.
GROUP 2021 Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – other Total
Revenue and EBITA per segment
Revenue 8,536 5,780 1,213 – 15,529
EBITA 3,698 2,054 388 –566 5,575
EBITA adjusted 3,698 2,054 388 –566 5,575
Depreciation –627 –1,008 –158 –48 –1,841
Financial expenses – – – –454 –454
Financial income – – – 16 16
Profit/loss after financial items 3,071 1,047 230 –1,053 3,295
Assets
Goodwill 5,121 1,168 – – 6,288
Other intangible assets 13,755 17,716 544 121 32,135
Total intangible assets 18,875 18,884 544 121 38,424
GROUP 2020 Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – other Total
Revenue and EBITA per segment
Revenue 8,660 5,415 1,186 – 15,261
EBITA2 4,775 1,902 564 –541 6,700
EBITA adjusted2 4,376 1,902 564 –541 6,301
Depreciation –652 –1,009 –179 –42 –1,882
Financial expenses – – – –602 –602
Financial income – – – 1 1
Profit/loss after financial items 4,123 893 385 –1,184 4,217
Assets
Goodwill 4,761 1,112 – – 5,873
Other intangible assets 13,573 18,447 701 198 32,918
Total intangible assets 18,334 19,559 701 198 38,791
1. EBITA 2020 excluding non-recurring items; other operating income related to reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M.
2. The CVR liability in 2020 has been reclassified from Group - other to Haematology. 
GROUP 2021 2020
Haematology
Elocta 3,960 4,585
Alprolix 1,764 1,705
Royalties 1,251 1,301
Doptelet 1,116 587
Aspaveli/Empaveli 1 –
Manufacturing 445 481
Total 8,536 8,660
Immunology
Kineret 2,290 2,079
Synagis 2,650 2,726
Gamifant 840 609
Total 5,780 5,415
Specialty Care
Orfadin 459 665
Tegsedi 427 –
Waylivra 121 –
Other Specialty Care 207 521
Total 1,213 1,186
Total revenue 15,529 15,261GROUP 2021 2020
Revenue – Gross-To-Net
Product sales, gross 19,195 18,401
Contractual discounts –1,778 –1,243
Statutory discounts –3,418 –3,849
Tender-based discounts –74 –77
Product returns –43 –44
Cash discounts –64 –47
Total discounts –5,378 –5,260
Product sales, net 13,817 13,141
Manufacturing 445 481
Royalties 1,251 1,301
Milestone payment – 87
Service fees 16 251
Operating revenue 15,529 15,261
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
605Total contract liabilities
The table below shows the share of revenue recognised in relation to contract liabilities during the financial year, and the share of revenue recognised in relation 
to performance obligations satisfied in a prior financial year.
GROUPAccrued contractual 
and tender-based  
discountsAccrued refunds based 
on government and 
regulatory price 
changes 
 Accrued  
product returnsAccrued  
co-financingAccrued  
cash and other  
discounts Total
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2020 424 546 22 38 2 1,032
Reserves for current year 854 2,169 44 103 6 3,176
Adjusted reserves for prior years –31 –34 0 –5 –2 –72
Payments –650 –1,026 –2 –105 –1 –1,784
Translation differences –36 –147 –7 –4 0 –194
Closing balance, 31 Dec 2020 561 1,509 56 28 5 2,158
Opening balance, 1 Jan 2021 561 1,509 56 28 5 2,158
Reserves for current year 1,012 3,200 66 107 7 4,393
Adjusted reserves for prior years 54 –407 –18 0 – –371
Payments –994 –2,174 –23 –104 –8 –3,303
Translation differences 25 142 7 3 0 177
Closing balance 31 Dec 2021 658 2,270 88 34 4 3,053
Revenue and assets by segment and geographic area
GROUP 2021Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – Other Total
RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assetsNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets
Europe 5,743 8,996 627 7,011 641 544 121 7,0111 16,671
North America 1,079 9,879 4,600 11,873 441 – – 6,1202 21,753
Rest of the world 463 – 553 – 131 – – 1,147 –
Other3 1,251 – – – – – – 1,251 –
Total 8,536 18,875 5,780 18,884 1,213 544 121 15,5294,5 38,424
GROUP 2020Haematology Immunology Specialty Care Group – Other Total
RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assetsNon-current 
assets RevenueNon-current 
assets
Europe 6,377 8,984 618 6,985 625 701 198  7,6201  16,868 
North America6 586 9,350 4,509 12,574 388 – –  5,4832  21,924 
Rest of the world 396 – 288 – 173 – –  857 –
Other3 1,301 – 0 – – – –  1,301 –
Total 8,660 18,334 5,415 19,559 1,186 701 198 15,2614,5 38,791
1. Sales revenue from external customers in France amounted to SEK 1,805 M (1,960), in Germany to SEK 1,233 M (1,445), and in Sweden to SEK 678 M (720). 
2. Sales revenue from external customers in the US amounted to SEK 6,054 M (5,435). 
3. Other pertains to royalties derived from our haemophilia products that are not attributable to a specific region according to the distribution above. All royalties pertain to Sanofi’s sales of Eloctate and Alprolix.
4. Total sales revenue from external customers in other countries amounted to SEK 4,508 M (4,400).
5. In 2021, Sobi’s largest customer accounted for approximately 17 per cent (12) of sales. The customer was reported under the Immunology and Specialty Care segments. See also Note 22 for more 
 information about Sobi’s customers.
6. Pegcetacoplan has during the year been reclassified from the business area Immunology to Haematology.Note 5, cont.
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Revenue – Gross-To-Net
Product sales, gross 11,595 13,690
Contractual discounts –769 –543
Statutory discounts –136 –1,211
Cash discounts –1 –
Total discounts –906 –1,754
Product sales, net 10,689 11,936
Manufacturing 445 481
Royalties 1,251 1,301
Service fees 16 251
Operating revenue 12,401 13,968Group Parent Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
Total contract assets1  
Accounts receivable 3,439 3,756 1,126 731
Accrued royalties2 321 302 321 302
Total 3,760 4,058 1,448 1,033
1. For maturity structure and the year’s change, see Note 22.
2. Included in prepaid expenses and accrued income on the balance sheet.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
6156  Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets1
GROUP 2021 2020
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by 
type of asset
Licences and patents –8 –38
Product and marketing rights –1,758 –1,779
Capitalised costs –75 –65
Plant and machinery –15 –17
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings –25 –18
Right-of-use assets –114 –102
Other non-current assets –4 –4
Total –2,000 –2,023
Impairment by type of asset
Plant and machinery –7 –
Total –7 –
Total depreciation/amortisation and impairment 
by type of asset –2,006 –2,023
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by 
type of function
Cost of goods sold –34 –36
Selling and administrative expenses –1,953 –1,974
Development costs –13 –13
Total –2,000 –2,023
Impairment by type of function
Development costs –7 –
Total –7 –
Total depreciation/amortisation and impairment 
by type of function –2,006 –2,023Note 5, cont.
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Revenue by geographic area1
Europe 2 5,837  7,174 
North America3 4,313  4,799 
Rest of the world 1,000  694 
Other4 1,251  1,301 
Total 12,401  13,968 
1. The geographic distribution is based on where the customer is located.
2. Revenue in Sweden amounted to SEK 678 M (720).
3. Revenue from external customers in the US amounted to SEK – M (1,247). The change is 
 attributable to the fact that sales of Syngais were transferred to the US subsidiary in 2020. 
4.  Other pertains to royalties derived from our haemophilia products that are not attributable to 
a specific region according to the distribution above. All royalties pertain to Sanofi’s sales of 
 Eloctate and Alprolix.PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by 
type of asset
Licences and patents –1 –1
Product and marketing rights –282 –262
Capitalised costs –75 –65
Plant and machinery –12 –13
Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings –14 –6
Other non-current assets –1 –1
Total –385 –347
Depreciation/amortisation according to plan by 
type of function
Cost of goods sold –10 –12
Selling and administrative expenses –375 –336
Development costs 0 0
Total –385 –347
1. See Notes 16 and 17 for further information.
7  Other operating income
GROUP 2021 2020
Contingent consideration recognised1 – 399
Expenses re-invoiced to partners 3 –
Exchange-rate gains2 2 –
Other 27 2
Total 32 401
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Expenses re-invoiced to Group companies 350 95
Expenses re-invoiced to partners 3 –
Exchange-rate gains2 – 1
Total 353 96
1. Contingent consideration recognised related to CVR liability, see p 34 for more information.
2. Exchange-rate effects are recognised net as other operating income or other operating expense. 
In 2021, exchange rate effects generated a gain of SEK 2 M (–42) for the Group. For the Parent 
Company, exchange rate effects generated a loss of SEK –2 M (1). See Note 8.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
625
6
78  Other operating expenses
GROUP 2021 2020
Exchange-rate losses1 – –42
Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets2 –56 –2
Total –56 –44
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Exchange-rate losses1 –2 –
Scrapping/disposal of non-current assets –1 –
Total –3 –
1. Exchange-rate effects are offset against other operating income or other operating expense. 
In 2021, exchange rate effects generated a gain of SEK 2 M (–42) for the Group. For the Parent 
Company, exchange rate effects generated a loss of SEK –2 M (1). See Note 7.
2. Disposals in 2021 mainly pertain to disposal of the opt-in right to the early-stage development 
projects, NI-1701 and NI-1801, for more information see Note 16.
9  Leases
Sobi holds leases for various types of objects, mainly properties and vehicles. 
The term of property leases is normally between 2 and 10 years, while vehicle 
leases are normally between 36 and 48 months. Options to extend or terminate 
are included in the lease contracts for several of Sobi’s properties, and are 
accounted for in the Group’s assessment of whether it is reasonably certain 
to exercise these options. Most contracts also include clauses related to the 
indexation of future rental costs, which are continuously accounted for. Service 
components are not included in capitalised amounts in accordance with IFRS 
16. The same applies to other variable costs, such as electricity and heating, 
where the costs are based on the actual use of the properties.
Sobi signed an agreement with Pfizer during 2021 for the production of 
Kineret. Under the agreement, Sobi will compensate Pfizer for its investment 
in a production facility up to completion of the facility, and thereafter compen-
sate for the remaining investment over a 10-year period. In total, Sobi expects 
to pay approximately EUR 90 million (around SEK 960 M) over the life of the 
contract. The contract is treated by the Group as a leasing contract. At the end 
of the year, Sobi had paid SEK 7 M to Pfizer, which is listed as a prepaid cost in 
the balance sheet until the facility begins production.
Sobi also has several leases that are short-term or low-value. The Group 
applies the exemption for short-term and low-value leases, which essentially 
comprise copying machines, printers and computers. 
Sobi recognises right-of-use assets under a lease contract as tangible assets 
on the balance sheet, see below for the recognised amounts and activities for 
the period:
GROUP RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS Properties Cars Total
At 1 January 2020 364 31 395
Addition 96 25 121
Depreciation and impairment –83 –18 –102
Divestments and disposals 0 –2 –2
Translation differences –3 0 –4
At 31 December 2020 373 36 409
Addition 33 25 58
Depreciation and impairment –92 –22 –114
Divestments and disposals –1 –4 –5
Translation differences 9 1 10
At 31 December 2021 322 37 359
Sobi recognises lease liabilities under separate headings on the balance sheet 
– non-current liabilities and current liabilities. See table for amounts recognised 
and activities for the period:GROUP LEASE LIABILITIES 2021 2020
At 1 January 419 419 
Addition 57 121
Divestments and disposals –3 –2
Accumulated interest 6 7
Payments –125 –118
Translation differences 7 –8
At 31 December 361 419
Non-current 247 308
Current 114  111
For maturity analysis of lease liabilities, refer to Note 3.
The following amounts were recognised in profit or loss:
GROUP 2021 2020
Depreciation and impairment of right-of-use assets –114 –102
Interest expense on lease liabilities –6 –7
Costs attributable to short-term leases –7 –9
Costs attributable to low-value leases –1 –1
Costs attributable to variable lease payments not 
included in the measurement of the lease liability –1 –1
Total amount recognised in profit or loss –129 –120
Amounts recognised in the cash flow statement
Repayment of lease liability –125 –118
Short-term leases –7 –9
Low-value leases –1 –1
Variable lease payments not included in the 
measurement of the lease liability –1 –1
Total cash flow –134 –129
During the year, the Group did not derive any benefits from right-of-use assets 
in a sublease, nor any gains or losses from sale and leaseback transactions.
The Parent Company, which prepares its accounts in accordance with RFR 2, 
applies the exemption to recognising assets and liabilities for assets as a legal 
entity. See the table below for lease payments.
FUTURE RENT AND MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS
Contracted future rental payments for premises related to non-
terminable contracts falling due:
Parent Company
2021 2020
Within 1 year 60 61
Between 1–5 years 173 218
Later than 5 years – 27
Total 233 306
Rental payments for the year 62 60
Other contracted future minimum lease payments related to  
non-terminable contracts falling due:
Parent Company
2021 2020
Within 1 year 2 0
Between 1–5 years 2 –
Later than 5 years – –
Total 4 0
Lease payments for the year 3 0nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
638
910  Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of Board members and senior executives
No. of employees1
GROUP 2021of whom  
women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
% 2020of whom  
women, 
%of whom 
 men,  
%
US 441 58 42 444 57 43
Sweden 399 62 38 438 64 36
Switzerland 143 59 41 148 64 36
Germany 86 63 37 80 56 44
UK 80 46 54 62 52 48
Italy 69 51 49 56 46 54
France 65 60 40 61 61 39
Spain/Portugal 54 61 39 44 66 34
United Arab 
 Emirates 37 27 73 34 41 59
Central and 
 Eastern Europe 35 49 51 30 49 51
Russia 35 69 31 22 77 23
Belgium/ 
Netherlands 25 53 47 21 41 59
China 19 79 21 12 100 0
Canada 15 40 60 11 45 55
Japan 13 38 62 6 50 50
Denmark 12 75 25 14 71 29
Austria 10 60 40 10 62 38
Greece 9 56 44 7 71 29
Finland/Baltics 7 71 29 7 57 43
Norway 4 75 25 4 75 25
Australia 2 50 50 – – –
Total 1,559 58 42 1,509 59 41
1. At 31 December 2021, the number of full-time employees was 1,559 people, while the number of 
employees at the same date was 1,615.
Gender composition of the Board and management
The information in the table does not include the employee representatives. 
The information refers to the conditions at the balance sheet date.
GROUP 2021 2020
Board
Men 4 4
Women 4 3
Total 8 7
CEO and other senior executives
Men 11 8
Women 1 2
Total 12 10
58% 42%GENDER COMPOSITION EMPLOYEESSalaries, other remuneration and social security costs
2021 2020
GROUP AND  
PARENT COMPANYSalaries and 
remunera-
tionSocial 
 security 
costsSalaries and 
remunera-
tionSocial 
 security 
costs
Parent Company 500 247 477 250
(of which pension expense) (75) – (72)
Subsidiaries 1,981 300 1,773 276
(of which pension expense) (101) – (96)
Group, total 2,481 548 2,250 526
(of which pension expense) (176) – (168)
Salaries and other remuneration divided between Board members,  
the CEO and other employees
2021 2020
Board  
and CEOOther 
employeesBoard  
and CEOOther 
employees
Parent Company
Salaries and other  
remuneration 27 473 24 453
(of which bonus) (10) (56) (8) (61)
Subsidiaries
Salaries and other  
remuneration – 1,981 – 1,773
(of which bonus) – (544) – (435)
Group, total 27 2,455 24 2,226
(of which bonus) (10) (600) (8) (496)
Guidelines and remuneration 2021
The 2020 AGM resolved on remuneration guidelines for the company’s senior 
executives as set forth below, which will apply until the 2024 AGM.
The members of the Executive Committee of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ) (‘the company’ or ‘Sobi’) fall within the provisions of these guidelines. 
The guidelines also cover any remuneration of Board members, except fees 
resolved by the AGM1. The guidelines are forward-looking, i.e. they are applica-
ble to remuneration agreed, and amendments to remuneration already agreed, 
following adoption of the guidelines by the 2020 AGM. These guidelines do not 
apply to any remuneration decided or approved by the AGM.
Remuneration of the Executive Committee is designed on a total remunera-
tion approach. The position of total remuneration should be market-competi-
tive relative to competitors in each local market. The market comparisons 
should be made against a set of peer-group companies with comparable sizes, 
industries and complexity. The remuneration guidelines shall enable interna-
tional hiring and support diversity within the Executive Committee. Employ-
ment  contracts governed by rules other than Swedish may be duly adjusted to 
ensure compliance with mandatory rules or established market practice, taking 
into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of these guidelines. 
1. Any remuneration of Board members, except fees adopted by the General Meeting, may  
only consist of consultancy fees.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
6410Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, KSEK
2021 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chair of the Board
Håkan Björklund 1,663 1,663
Other Board members 
Annette Clancy 587 587
Matthew Gantz 570 570
Lennart Johansson2 217 217
Helena Saxon 720 720
Filippa Stenberg2 413 413
Staffan Schüberg 620 620
Elisabeth Svanberg 570 570
 Anders Ullman2, 3 420 420
Executive Committee, 2021
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 10,120 10,4034 2,880 18,7347 42,137
Other senior executives (10–11 people)4, 5, 6 48,6395 24,2404 6,530 3,775 40,3977 123,581
Total 64,539 34,643 9,410 3,755 59,131 171,498
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, which consisted of eleven people in addition to the CEO at 31 December 2021. Additional people were included in management  
during the year. The remuneration of all members of the Executive Committee during the year is included in the table. For information about changes in management, see the Directors’ Report.  
The table shows the company’s costs (excluding social security contributions). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report.
2. At the AGM on 4 May, Lennart Johansson stepped down from his position as ordinary Board member, while Filippa Stenberg and Anders Ullman were appointed new ordinary Board members.
3. During the year, the Board member invoiced consulting fees of KSEK 600, in addition to Board fees, for business strategic work initiatives that do not pertain to Board work. 
4. In addition to standard variable pay, a non-recurring payment of KSEK 1,618 was made to the CEO, and KSEK 1,321 to other executives for extraordinary efforts. 
5. Basic salary, variable remuneration, pension and other benefits include severance pay in accordance with an agreement of KSEK 4,104 to former senior executives.
6. Henrik Stenqvist was appointed Deputy CEO in 2018. Since he did not serve as Deputy CEO during the 2021 financial year, his remuneration is presented with other senior executives.
7. The year’s cost for Sobi is not to be equated with employee benefits.
Remuneration and other benefits to the Board, CEO and other senior executives1, KSEK
2020 Base salary/fees Bonus Pension expense Other benefits Share programmes Total
Chair of the Board
Håkan Björklund 1,610 1,610
Other Board members 
David Allsop2 193 193
Annette Clancy 610 610
Matthew Gantz 578 578
Lennart Johansson 650 650
Helena Saxon 650 650
Hans GCP Schikan2 227 227
Staffan Schüberg2 403 403
Elisabeth Svanberg 560 560
Executive Committee, 2020
Guido Oelkers, Chief Executive Officer 9,625 8,126 2,840 12,4635 33,054
Other senior executives (9–10 people)3, 4 43,433 18,598 6,687 3,167 19,2675 91,152
Total 58,539 26,724 9,527 3,167 31,730 129,687
1. Other senior executives refers to Sobi’s Executive Committee, which consisted of nine people in addition to the CEO at 31 December 2020. Additional people were included in management during the year. 
The remuneration of all members of the Executive Committee during the year is included in the table. For information about changes in management, see the Directors’ Report.  
The table shows the company’s costs (excluding social security contributions). For more information about Board fees, see the Corporate Governance Report.
2.  At the AGM on 13 May 2020, David Allsop and Hans GCP Schickan stepped down from their positions as ordinary Board members, and Stefan Schüberg was appointed new ordinary Board member. 
3. Base salary, variable pay, pension and other benefits include severance pay of KSEK 8,731 to former senior executives, according to agreement. 
4. Henrik Stenqvist was appointed Deputy CEO in 2018. Since he did not serve as Deputy CEO during the 2020 financial year, his remuneration is presented with other senior executives.
5. The year’s cost for Sobi is not to be equated with employee benefits.Note 10, cont.
Types of remuneration
Remuneration can consist of fixed base salary, variable pay, pension benefits 
and other benefits. Additionally, the AGM may, irrespective of these guidelines, 
resolve on, among other things, share-related or share price-related remuner -
ation. The components are presented below.
Base salary
The fixed base salary of the Executive Committee shall be based on compe-
tence, responsibility and performance. The Company uses an international 
evaluation system to evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position.Variable pay
The annual short-term incentive plan shall be based on the achievement of 
predetermined and measurable annual financial (75 per cent) and non-financial 
objectives (25 per cent). The annual financial objectives shall be related to 
 targets promoting growth and profitability annual revenues and EBITA1. The 
annual financial objectives are recommended by the Compensation & Benefits 
Committee and approved by the Board. The annual non-financial objectives 
are related to strategic and business development goals as defined and 
approved according to the grandparent-manager principle.
The objectives are determined for the promotion of the Company’s business 
strategy, long-term development, including its sustainability, value creation and 
1. Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
6510financial growth and shall be designed in a way that encourages compliant 
behaviour. The maximum annual short-term Incentive may vary but shall not 
amount to more than 100 per cent of the annual gross base salary. The extent 
to which the criteria for awarding annual short-term incentive have been met 
shall be evaluated and determined by the Board upon the recommendation of 
the Compensation & Benefits Committee.
Further variable pay may also be paid out in extraordinary circumstances, 
provided that such arrangement is of a one-time nature and is agreed on an 
individual basis for management recruitment or retention purposes or as com-
pensation for extraordinary efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary assignment. 
Such compensation shall be in line with market practice and may for example 
include a one-time cash payment, retention bonus or severance payment in 
case of a change of control, or similar. The compensation shall not exceed the 
amount of the gross base salary for three (3) years and shall not be paid more 
than once a year per individual. Resolutions on such compensation shall be 
made by the Board based on a proposal from the Compensation & Benefits 
Committee.
Long-term incentives
Long-term share-related incentive plans have been implemented in the Com-
pany. Such plans are proposed by the Board and presented to the AGM for 
approval and are therefore excluded from these guidelines. The performance 
criteria used to assess the outcome of the long-term share-related incentive 
plan for the Executive Committee are distinctly linked to the business strategy 
and thereby to the Company’s long-term value creation. 
Pension and benefits
The Company’s preferred type of pension plan is defined contribution1. If the 
operating environment requires the establishment of a defined-benefit pension 
plan under mandatory collective agreement provisions, law, or other regula-
tions, such a plan may be established. The defined benefit level should in such 
cases be limited to the mandatory level.
The pension premiums or allowance for pension shall amount to not more 
than 40 per cent of the executive’s pensionable salary, which may include a 
capped level of the variable pay to the extent required by mandatory collective 
agreement provisions.
Other benefits may include, for example, life insurance, health insurance, 
medical insurance and company cars. Premiums and other costs relating to 
such benefits shall be based on market practice but amount to no more than 
20 per cent of the annual gross base salary.
Senior executives who are expatriates to or from Sweden may receive addi-
tional remuneration and other benefits, such as a support package including 
relocation and tax filing support as well as tax equalisation, to the extent rea-
sonable in light of the special circumstances associated with the expat arrange-
ment, taking into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose of these 
guidelines. Such benefits may not in total exceed 40 per cent of the annual 
gross base salary.
Termination of employment
The notice period may not exceed twelve (12) months. Fixed base salary during 
notice period and severance pay, including payments for any restrictions on 
competition, shall in total not exceed an amount equivalent to the gross base 
salary for two (2) years.
Consultancy fees to Board members
The members of the Board elected by the general meeting may receive consul-
tancy fees for services provided to the Company. Such services must contrib-
ute to the Company’s business strategy and long-term interests, including its 
sustainability, and may not relate to regular board work. Any consultancy fee 
shall be based on market terms and may for each member of the Board not 
exceed the annual remuneration for the board assignment. The above applies 
correspondingly to services performed by a wholly-owned company of a 
member of the Board.Salary and employment terms for employees
In the preparation of the Board’s proposal for these remuneration guidelines, 
salary and employment conditions for employees of the Company have been 
taken into account. Information on the employees’ total remuneration, the 
components of the remuneration and increase and growth rate over time, have 
been included in the Compensation & Benefits Committee’s and the Board’s 
basis for decisions when evaluating whether the guidelines and the limitations 
set out herein are reasonable.
Decision process to determine, review and implement the guidelines
The Board has established a Compensation & Benefits Committee. The com-
mittee’s tasks include preparing the Board’s decision to propose guidelines for 
remuneration to the Executive Committee. The Board shall prepare a proposal 
for new guidelines at least every fourth year and present it to the AGM. The 
guidelines shall be in force until new guidelines are adopted by the general 
meeting. The Compensation & Benefits Committee shall also monitor and 
evaluate programmes for variable remuneration for the Executive Committee, 
the application of these guidelines as well as the current remuneration struc -
tures and compensation levels in the Company. The members of the Compen-
sation & Benefits Committee are independent of the Company and the Execu-
tive Committee. The CEO and other members of the Executive Committee do 
not participate in the Board of Directors’ processing of and resolutions regard-
ing remuneration-related matters in so far as they are affected by such matters.
Deviation from the guidelines
The Board may temporarily resolve to derogate from these guidelines, in whole 
or in part, if in a specific case there is special cause for the derogation and a 
derogation is necessary to serve the Company’s long-term interests, including 
its sustainability, or to ensure the Company’s financial viability. As set out above, 
the Compensation & Benefits Committee’s tasks include preparing the Board’s 
resolutions in remuneration-related matters. This includes any resolutions to 
derogate from these guidelines.
Senior executives’ employment terms and remuneration
Sobi aims to offer market-based terms, which enables the company to recruit 
and retain highly qualified personnel. Remuneration of AGM-elected Board 
members is paid in accordance with a resolution adopted by the 2021 AGM. 
No pensions are paid to Board members. The CEO’s remuneration is reviewed 
and proposed by the Chair of the Board together with the Compensation & 
Benefits Committee and approved by the Board. Remuneration of other mem-
bers of the Executive Committee is proposed by the CEO in close cooperation 
with the Compensation & Benefits Committee and approved by the Board. 
Remuneration of the CEO and other senior executives consists of base salary, 
variable pay in the short and long term, other benefits and pensions. Other 
senior executives refers to those individuals who together with the CEO form 
the Executive Committee. 
 
Base salary
The base salary is based on the individual executive’s area of responsibility, 
expertise and performance. The base salary is reviewed every year.
Short-term variable pay
For the CEO, short-term variable pay in 2021 was capped at 100 per cent of 
annual gross salary. Variable pay was based on financial and non-financial 
 targets set by the Board. For other senior executives, short-term variable pay 
was capped at 60 per cent of base salary and based on financial and non- 
financial targets. 
Retirement benefits
The CEO is entitled to a defined-contribution pension solution amounting to 
30 per cent of base salary. In 2021, Sobi paid out a premium of KSEK 2,880. The 
retirement age is 65 years. Other senior executives employed in Sweden are 
covered by the ITP plan with a retirement age of 65. They are also covered by 
a supplementary defined-contribution pension obligation of 27 per cent of 
pensionable salary up to 50 income base amounts, including ITP.  Note 10, cont.
1. A defined-contribution pension plan determines a percentage level of the employee’s annual gross 
base salary as the contribution paid into the pension plan for each employee.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
6610Incentive programmes
At the balance sheet date, Sobi had three active share programmes. To partici-
pate in the share programmes, employees must be permanently employed. 
All programmes run for three years. The Company also has four active cash-
based programmes for employees in the US and Canada and one programme 
for the employees in China and Japan. The programmes in US and Canada for 
2018 and 2019 run for four years, while the 2020 and 2021 programmes run for 
three years. The programme in China and Japan for 2021 runs for three years.
Long-term incentive programmes 
The 2018–2021 AGMs adopted the Board’s proposal to introduce long-term 
incentive programmes. The aim has been to create long-term commitment to 
Sobi, to offer participants the opportunity to share Sobi’s long-term success 
and value creation, and to enable the company to attract and retain senior 
executives and senior managers. The company’s long-term incentive pro-
grammes are described below.
The structure of the 2018–2021 share programmes is based on the same 
principles, and they all have a three-year vesting period. 
The Management Programmes which includes the CEO, senior executives 
and managers require no personal investment in Sobi shares, but performance 
shares are allotted only if the programme’s criteria have been met. The number 
of performance shares varies between the organisational levels. The perfor -
mance targets for the Management Programmes are that the share price 
increases by a certain percentage over a three-year period, and that actual 
annual revenues during the vesting period meet or exceed the budget for 
annual revenues. 
The programmes for other employees require a personal investment in Sobi 
shares (investment shares) in order to be allotted free shares on a matching 
basis. A requirement that applies to all programmes is that the employee must 
be permanently employed throughout the entire vesting period and, in the 
case of investment shares, that these are retained throughout the entire 
 vesting period. 
The 2019, 2020 and 2021 AGMs also adopted programmes comprising both 
shares and share options for senior executives, comprising 50 per cent perfor -
mance shares and 50 per cent share options. The performance targets for the 
share option programme are a strike price of up to 105 per cent and that actual 
average sales must meet or exceed the budgets for the financial years during 
the vesting period. The relevant employees and how performance targets are 
formulated differ between the programmes.
2018 share programmes (paid in 2021)
During the rollout of the 2018A share programme, a number of employees 
were insiders and not therefore eligible to participate in the programme. In light 
of this, the Board approved the rollout of the 2018B LTI programme for these 
employees, and for new employees since the rollout of 2018A. 
For the 2018A and 2018B Management Programme that was redeemed on 
11 May 2021 respectively 1 November, the Board determined that 40 per cent 
and 47.13 per cent respectively of the performance obligations and other vest-
ing conditions had been met. To achieve a maximum 60 per cent allotment of 
the performance shares, the performance target was a 15–50 per cent increase 
in the share price, adjusted for any dividends. The performance outcome is 0 
if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a linear allotment of performance 
shares for 15–50 per cent. The performance target was not achieved, Manage-
ment Programme 2018A, but achieved with 11.88 per cent for 2018B. For a 
maximum allotment of the remaining 40 per cent of the performance shares, 
actual annual revenue during the vesting period must meet or exceed the budget 
for the annual revenue, which was achieved for 2018, 2019 and 2020. There-
fore, 215,703 and 8,446 shares with respective market values of SEK 32.1 M and 
SEK 1.9 M were allotted under the programme.
The 2018A and 2018B All Employee Programmes were redeemed on 11 May 
and 1 November 2021. Participants in the programmes were allotted two 
matching shares for every investment share. To qualify for the allotment of 
matching shares, programme participants must have retained the investment 
shares they have acquired. 29,448 shares and 2,222 respectively with a 
market value of SEK 4.4 M and SEK 0.5 M respectively were allotted under 
the programme.
2018 Cash-based Programme (expired 2021)
A long-term cash-based programme for all employees in the US and Canada 
was presented at the 2018 AGM. The programme consisted of two components: 
a time-based component (50 per cent), and a performance-based component (50 per cent) based on two performance targets. The first performance target 
(50 per cent) was that the share price must increase by at least 10 per cent per 
year over a four-year period. The other performance target (50 per cent) was 
that sales in North America must be at least 95 per cent per year in relation to 
the budget over a four-year period. Any payouts of a quarter of the programme 
are made annually over a four-year period. The programme expired in 2021 and 
the outcome for the final year was 99.55 per cent.
2019–2021 share programmes
At the 2019, 2020 and 2021 AGMs, long-term share programmes were 
approved for the CEO, senior executives and managers, and one programme 
was approved for other employees. 
Management Programmes
Participants in the Management Programme are allotted performance shares 
provided that certain performance targets are achieved. The maximum possi-
ble allotment of shares in the Management Programme is 695,974 (2019), 
721,905 (2020) and 1,320,760 (2021). 
To achieve a maximum 60 per cent allotment of the maximum number of 
performance shares, a certain share price performance must be achieved. For 
the 2019–2020 Management Programmes, a 15–50 per cent increase in the 
share price is required, adjusted for any dividends. The performance outcome 
is 0 if the share price is below 15 per cent, with a linear allotment of perfor -
mance shares for 15–50 per cent. For the 2021 Management Programme, a 
10–40 per cent increase in the share price is required, adjusted for any allot-
ments. The performance outcome is 0 if the share price is below 10 per cent, 
with a straight-line allotment of performance shares for 10–40 per cent.  
For a maximum allotment of the remaining 40 per cent of the performance 
shares, actual annual revenue during the vesting period must meet or exceed 
the budget for the annual revenue. The performance target for 2019, 2020 and 
2021 were achieved.
All-Employee Programmes
Participation in the programmes for other employees requires a personal 
investment in Sobi shares. The maximum possible allotment of shares in 
All-Employee Programmes is 30,128 (2019), 45,196 (2020) and 54,222 (2021).
Participants in All-Employee Programmes are allotted two matching shares 
for every investment share. To qualify for the allotment of matching shares, 
programme participants must have retained the investment shares they have 
acquired throughout the entire vesting period.
During the rollout of the 2020 and 2021 share programmes, a number of 
employees were insiders and not therefore eligible to participate in the pro-
gramme. In view of the legal obstacles to participation in the programmes, the 
Board decided to establish long-term three-year cash-based incentive pro-
grammes for each year instead.
2019–2021 share-option programmes
The AGMs in 2019, 2020 and 2021 resolved that, in addition to the right to 
 long-term share programmes, share option programmes would be launched, 
in accordance with the Board’s proposal, for the CEO and a maximum of 15 
members of Sobi’s Executive Committee, and 15 pre-selected key individuals in 
the Sobi Group. The programmes comprise 27 people (2019), 24 people (2020) 
and 28 people (2021). The total number of share options granted is 1,454,718 
(2019), 1,363,514 (2020) and 2,062,909 (2021). The vesting period is three years, 
followed by a two-year exercise period. A requirement for share option grants 
is that the Sobi Group’s average sales meet or exceed the Sobi Group’s target 
for average sales in the budget determined by the Board during the vesting 
period. The exercise price was SEK 180.65 (2019), SEK 213.86 (2020) and SEK 
153.01 (2021), representing 105 per cent of the volume-weighted average price 
for the Sobi share when the programmes were launched (SEK 172.05 (2019), 
SEK 203.68 (2020), and SEK 145.72 (2021)). The maximum value of a share that 
can be obtained by exercising share options is capped at five times the exercise 
price for the 2019 programme and three times the exercise price for the 2020 
and 2021 programmes. Should the share value exceed this level, the conditions 
must be recalculated.
2019–2021 Cash-based Programmes, North America
Long-term cash-based programmes for all employees in the US and Canada 
were presented at the AGMs in 2019, 2020 and 2021. The programmes 
 consist of two components: a time-based component (50 per cent), and a 
 performance-based component (50 per cent) based on two performance Note 10, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
6710 targets. The first performance target (50 per cent) is a share price increase of 
10 per cent per year over a four-year period for the 2019 program, and over a 
three-year period for the 2020 and 2021 programmes. The other performance 
target (50 per cent) is that annual revenues in North America must be at least 
95 per cent in relation to the budget over a four-year period for the 2019 pro-
gramme, and over a three-year period for the 2020 and 2021 programmes. Any 
payouts of a quarter or third, respectively, of the programme are made annually 
over a four-year or three-year period, respectively. The outcome for 2021 was 
99.55 per cent.2021 Cash-based Programme, Asia
A long-term cash-based programme for all employees in China and Japan was 
presented at the 2021 AGM. The programme consists of two components: a 
time-based component (50 per cent), and a performance-based component 
(50 per cent) based on two performance targets. The first performance target 
(60 per cent) is that the share price must increase by 10–40 per cent over a 
three-year period, adjusted for any dividends. The performance outcome is 0 if 
the share price is below 10 per cent, with a linear payment for 10–40 per cent. 
The other performance target (40 per cent) is that the actual annual revenue 
during the three-year period must meet or exceed the budget for the annual 
revenue.Note 10, cont.
Development of share programmes in 2021
No. of shares Theoretical value, SEK M Market value, SEK M
2021 PROGRAMMES 
OpeningNew  
programme Forfeited Allotted Closing Opening Closing Opening Closing
2018 Management 677,876 –453,727 –224,149 0 82 0 113 0
2018 Employee 38,084 –6,414 –31,670 0 7 0 6 0
2019 Management 742,951 –46,977 695,974 82 77 123 129
2019 Employee 38,998 –8,870 30,128 7 5 6 6
2020 Management 794,110 –72,205 721,905 106 96 132 134
2020 Employee 51,446 –6,250 45,196 10 9 9 8
2021 Management 0 1,351,930 –31,170 1,320,760 0 133 0 244
2021 Employee 0 55,864 –1,642 54,222 0 11 0 10
Total 2,343,465 1,407,794 –627,255 –255,819 2,868,185 294 330 389 531
Development of share programmes in 2020
No. of shares Theoretical value, SEK M Market value, SEK M
2020 PROGRAMMES 
OpeningNew  
programme Forfeited Allotted Closing Opening Closing Opening Closing
2017 Management 740,059 –177,634 –562,425 0 65 0 114 0
2017 Employee 41,668 –4,355 –37,313 0 6 0 6 0
2018 Management 747,290 –69,414 677,876 91 82 115 113
2018 Employee 42,328 –4,244 38,084 8 7 7 6
2019 Management 807,824 –64,873 742,951 89 82 125 123
2019 Employee 41,726 –2,728 38,998 7 7 6 6
2020 Management 0 794,110 0 794,110 0 106 0 132
2020 Employee 0 51,446 0 51,446 0 10 0 9
Total 2,420,895 845,556 –323,248 –599,738 2,343,465 265 294 374 389
Expensing of the 2019–2021 Share Programmes is calculated using the following parameters and the Monte Carlo simulation model:
Start date End dateNumber  
of matching  
sharesNumber 
of perfor-
mance 
sharesService  
in monthsFair  
value of  
matching 
shareFair  
value of  
performance 
share1Fair  
value of  
performance 
share2Expected  
personnel 
turnover, %Max. 
allotment  
of sharesForfeited 
shares  
2021
2019 Share Programme:  
All Employee 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 30,128 n/a 36 179.26 n/a n/a 7 30,128 8,870
2019 Share Programme:  
Management 28 May 2019 28 May 2022 n/a 695,974 36 n/a 67.75 173.5 7 695,974 46,977
2020 Share Programme:  
All Employee 28 May 2020 28 May 2023 45,196 n/a 36 200.49 n/a n/a 7 45,196 6,250
2020 Share Programme:  
Management 28 May 2020 28 May 2023 n/a 721,905 36 n/a 85.77 203.68 7 721,905 72,205
2021 Share Programme:  
All Employee 1 June 2021 1 June 2024 54,222 n/a 36 175.25 n/a n/a 7 54,222 1,642
2021 Share Programme:  
Management 1 June 2021 1 June 2024 n/a 1,320,760 36 n/a 72.24 143.85 71,320,760 31,170
1. Fair value of performance shares linked to share price performance, see above, under 2019, 2020 and 2021 share programmes.
2. Fair value of performance shares linked to revenue, see above under 2019, 2020 and 2021 share programmes.
3. The cost for the year for the Share Programmes amounted to SEK 134 M (114).
Volatility measured as the standard deviation of the expected return on the share price is based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices for Sobi’s ordinary share 
over the past three years.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
681011  Remuneration of auditors
GROUP 2021 2020
EY
Auditing assignments1 –8 –8
Audit activities in addition to the auditing 
 assignment –2 0
Other services 0 0
Total –10 –9
Other auditors
Auditing assignments1 0 –
Total other auditors 0 –
Total –11 –9
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
EY
Auditing assignments1 –3 –3
Audit activities in addition to the auditing 
 assignment –1 0
Other services – 0
Total –5 –4
1. Auditing assignment refers to the statutory audit in order to submit an auditor’s report and provide 
audit advice. 
12  Costs according to type of cost
GROUP 2021 2020
Raw materials and consumables –3,028 –2,778
Other external costs –3,509 –3,044
Employee benefit costs –3,227 –2,965
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment –2,006 –2,013
Other operating expenses –56 –44
Total –11,827 –10,844
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Raw materials and consumables –2,538 –2,759
Other external costs –4,678 –4,380
Employee benefit costs –767 –755
Depreciation/amortisation and impairment –385 –337
Other operating expenses –3 –
Total –8,370 –8,230
The above costs correspond to: Cost of goods sold, selling and administrative 
expenses, research and development costs and other operating expenses 
in the income statement classified by function of expense.13  Financial income
GROUP 2021 2020
Interest income 0 1
Exchange-rate gains1 16 –
Total 16 1
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Interest income, Group companies 336 486
Interest income, other 0 0
Exchange-rate gains1 – 177
Total 336 663
1. Exchange-rate effects are offset and in 2021, were recognised as a gain in the Group and a loss in 
the Parent Company. In 2020, the corresponding item was recognised as a loss in the Group and 
a gain in the Parent Company. See also Note 14.
14  Financial expenses
GROUP 2021 2020
Interest expense, borrowings –284 –330
Interest expense, other1 –135 –124
Exchange-rate losses2 – –115
Management costs –35 –32
Other 0 –1
Total –454 –602
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Interest expense, Group companies –18 –38
Interest expense, borrowings –284 –330
Interest expense, other1 –88 –69
Exchange-rate losses2 –302 –
Management costs –35 –31
Other –1 –1
Total –728 –469
1. Includes interest expense linked to liabilities for contingent consideration, see Note 26 and 28. 
2. Exchange-rate effects are offset and in 2021, were recognised as a gain in the Group and a loss in 
the Parent Company. In 2020, the corresponding item was recognised as a loss in the Group and 
a gain in the Parent Company. See also Note 13. nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
6911
12
13
1415  Income tax
Tax expense (–) / tax income (+) in earnings
GROUP 2021 2020
Current tax
Current tax on profit for the year1 –655 –1,133
Prior year adjustments1 –4 8
Total current tax recognised –659 –1,125
Deferred tax
Excess depreciation –396 –479
Inventories 95 295
Acquired product rights 178 166
Other intangible assets 11 –4
Tax loss carry-forwards 107 100
Net investment hedges –63 64
Pharmaceutical tax 14 14
Interest limitations 60 –
Other 38 –3
Total deferred tax recognised 43 153
Total tax recognised –616 –972
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Current tax
Current tax on profit for the year1 –486 –944
Prior year adjustments ¹ –5 7
Total current tax recognised –491 –938
Deferred tax
Other 3 7
Total deferred tax recognised for the  
Parent Company 3 7
Total tax recognised –488 –931Reconciliation of effective tax
GROUP 2021 2020
Profit before tax 3,295 4,217
Tax at applicable tax rate for the  
Parent Company2 –679 –902
Tax effect, non-deductible/non-taxable items
Remeasurement of Contingent Value Right (CVR) – 82
Capitalised tax loss carry-forwards 162 –
Non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards –11 –101
Changed tax rate in Sweden2 – –17
Difference foreign tax rates –43 8
Non-deductible expenses –38 –51
Adjustment of tax prior years –4 8
Other –4 0
Total effective tax recognised –616 –972
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Profit before tax 2,278 4,337
Tax at applicable tax rate for the  
Parent Company2 –469 –928
Tax effect, non-deductible/non-taxable items
Changed tax rate in Sweden2 – 0
Controlled Foreign Company taxation 0 –
Non-deductible expenses –19 –9
Adjustment of tax prior years 0 7
Other – –
Total effective tax recognised –488 –931
1. In addition to tax recognised in earnings, current tax of SEK –17 M (35) was recognised in other 
comprehensive income, attributable to exchange rate effects on the Parent Company’s liabilities/
derivatives in other comprehensive income. Additionally, current tax of SEK 6 M (9) was recognised 
directly in equity, attributable to the Parent Company’s long-term incentive programme. Deferred 
tax of SEK 0 M (5) was also recognised directly in equity, see Note 20 for other deferred tax items.
2. The current tax rate for the Swedish Parent Company is 20.6 per cent (21.4). Deferred tax was 
valued using the applicable tax rate for the period that reversal/resolution is expected to occur.
Non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards
GROUP 2021 2020
Tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax 
asset was recognised 2,716 2,708
Potential tax benefit 509 523
Of non-capitalised tax loss carry-forwards, SEK 1,463 M will expire within the 
next seven years, while other tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 
No deferred tax assets were recognised as it is considered uncertain whether 
the tax loss carry-forwards attributable to subsidiaries and prior years have any 
tax value for the Group.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
701516  Intangible assets and impairment testing
GROUP GoodwillLicenses  
and patentsProduct and 
 marketing 
rights Capitalised  
costs4Ongoing  
capitalised  
costs4 Total
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 6,678 572 34,003 258 336 41,846
Investments1 – – 4,890 9 113 5,012
Business acquisitions2 –313 – – – – –313
Disposals – – –3 0 – –3
Reclassifications – – – 164 –165 –1
Translation differences –491 –1 –1,023 –1 – –1,517
Closing cost 5,873 570 37,867 429 284 45,023
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment – –467 –3,864 –102 – –4,434
Amortisation – –38 –1,779 –65 – –1,882
Disposals – – 3 – – 3
Translation differences – 1 80 – – 81
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment – –505 –5,560 –167 – –6,232
Closing carrying amount 5,873 66 32,307 262 284 38,791
1 January–31 December 2021
Opening cost 5,873 570 37,867 429 284 45,023
Investments – – 184 21 76 281
Disposals3 – – – 0 –53 –53
Reclassifications – 0 – 97 –96 1
Translation differences 415 2 938 3 – 1,358
Closing cost 6,288 573 38,989 549 211 46,610
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment – –505 –5,560 –167 – –6,232
Depreciation – –8 –1,758 –75 – –1,841
Disposals – – – 0 – 0
Reclassifications – 0 – 0 – 0
Translation differences – –1 –112 0 – –113
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment – –514 –7,430 –243 – –8,187
Closing carrying amount 6,288 59 31,559 307 211 38,424
1. In the preceding year, investments were mainly related to Aspaveli (SEK 3,060 M) and SEL–212 (SEK 1,776 M). 
2. The preceding year’s decrease of SEK –313 M in goodwill pertained to adjustment of the acquisition analysis for Dova. The value of a deferred tax asset pertaining to the liability to Eisai was adjusted  
by SEK 320 M, which is assessed as deductible. Goodwill and other liabilities and provisions were therefore adjusted by SEK –313 M and SEK –7 M, respectively.
3. Disposals for the year, in an amount SEK –53 M, mainly pertain to disposal of the opt-in right to the early-stage development projects (NI–1701 and NI–1801), which were originally included in  
the acquisition of Novimmune in 2019. 
4. Capitalised costs comprise IT projects and expenses for transferring the manufacture of an active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan.
Specification of major intangible assets
GROUP 20211Amortisation  
rate, yearsRemaining  
amortisation 
period, years
Synagis 11,873 20 17
Doptelet 6,080 15 13
Gamifant 3,818 20 17
Aspaveli 3,196 20 20
BIVV001/BIVV0022 1,925 – –
SEL-2122 1,776 – –
Alprolix 1,217 20 13
Elocta 1,223 20 14
Orfadin 488 15 3
Other – launched 452 3–15 4
Other – not yet launched2 88 – –
Total 32,135
1. Closing carrying amount, excluding goodwill.
2. Amortisation has not yet started.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
7116PARENT COMPANY Licenses  
and patentsProduct and  
marketing 
rights Capitalised  
costs2Ongoing  
capitalised 
 costs2 Total
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 40 6,593 240 282 7,155
Investments1 – 4,849 – 113 4,961
Reclassifications – – 164 –165 –1
Closing cost 40 11,442 404 230 12,116
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –37 –1,447 –98 – –1,583
Amortisation –1 –262 –65 – –328
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –38 –1,709 –163 – –1,911
Closing carrying amount 2 9,732 240 230 10,205
1 January–31 December 2021
Opening cost 40 11,442 404 230 12,116
Investments – 184 – 76 261
Disposals – – 0 – 0
Reclassifications – – 96 –96 –
Closing cost 40 11,626 499 211 12,376
Opening accumulated amortisation and impairment –38 –1,709 –163 – –1,911
Amortisation –1 –282 –75 – –359
Disposals – – 0 – 0
Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment –39 –1,992 –238 – –2,269
Closing carrying amount 1 9,634 261 211 10,107
1. In the preceding year, investments were mainly related to Aspaveli (SEK 3,060 M) and SEL–212 (SEK 1,734 M).
2. Capitalised costs comprise IT projects and expenses for transferring the manufacture of an active substance. Items under capitalised costs are amortised according to plan.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
The assessment of the value of the Group’s goodwill is based on value-in-use 
of the smallest cash-generating unit. Sobi has three separate cash-generating 
units – Haematology, Immunology and Speciality Care – to which goodwill is 
allocated. At 31 December 2021, Sobi’s goodwill amounted to SEK 6,288 M 
(5,873). See Note 5 for allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units.
The cash flows are based on financial plans established by management and 
cover a five-year period. The financial plans have been established on the basis 
of past performance, experiences and market expectations. The plans include 
assumptions about current product development and coming product 
launches. The financial plans also include assumptions of price trends, sales 
performance and cost trends. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have 
been extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2 per cent. 
There is no indication of goodwill impairment at Group level.
The following table shows the growth rate and discount rate used before and 
after tax:
PARAMETER, % 2021 2020
Growth rate beyond the initial five-year period 2 2
Discount rate before tax 10.0 10.0
Discount rate after tax 8.0 8.0
Assumptions regarding Sobi’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC):
• Risk-free interest rate: ten-year treasury bills or comparable financial invest-
ment with the lowest possible risk. 
• Market risk premium: 6.8% (6.8). 
• Beta coefficient: Sobi’s beta coefficient is 1.26 (1.26).
• Interest expense: according to Sobi’s borrowing cost.
• Tax rate: according to the tax rate in Sweden, except where income is taxed  
in another country.
Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following parameters in the 
impairment testing of goodwill: discount rate, gross margin, sales volume and 
perpetual growth rate. The sensitivity analysis indicates that there are good 
margins in the calculation and no reasonable change to key parameters would 
lead to an impairment. Product and marketing rights
Product and marketing rights are tested for impairment whenever events and 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The 
assessment of the value of product and marketing rights is based on the value-
in-use of each individual asset. The value-in-use is based on cash flows that are 
expected to be generated over the remaining life of the asset. When discount-
ing future cash flows, the discount rate is used as described in the table. When 
product and marketing rights are tested for impairment, a number of assump-
tions are made. These refer to forecasts of future sales revenue, costs attribut-
able to each individual product, the life of the products and the discount rate. 
Development projects related to product or marketing rights are tested 
annually for impairment. Key parameters are future cash flows from the individ-
ual asset, the probability of achieving positive outcomes in clinical trials and 
assumptions about the best commercial outcomes. Future cash flows are esti-
mated with regard to the long and short-term development of the project and 
adjusted for the probability of commercialisation. The earlier in the chain of 
development the project is, the higher the risk. As it passes through the defined 
phases of development, the probability of reaching the market increases.
The assessed likelihood of a project passing through the relevant develop-
ment phase successfully is assessed on the basis of the project’s scientific 
potential to demonstrate positive results in the individual phase of the 
 development process. Assumptions are made using the parameters with 
the greatest impact on the project’s potential to develop into a drug with maxi-
mum commercial potential, and on the basis of what is reasonable to assume 
about the project’s scientific profile using the information that is currently 
 available. The forecast period is based on the product’s estimated market life.
Sobi has conducted a sensitivity analysis for the following parameters in the 
impairment testing of development projects: discount rate, gross margin, sales 
volume and perpetual growth rate. The sensitivity analysis indicates that there 
are good margins in the calculation and no reasonable change to key parame-
ters would lead to an impairment. Note 16, cont.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
7216Impairment 
There were no impairment losses in 2021 or 2020. 
CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS RELATED TO INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Sobi has undertaken to pay additional consideration under certain acquisition, 
licensing and collaboration agreements. These consist of contingent and 
non-contingent payments. Contingent payments (also known as milestone 
payments) is conditional upon the achievement of certain pre-defined targets.
AGREEMENT WITH SANOFI
The collaboration agreement with Sanofi mainly concerns Elocta and Alprolix, 
and the potential future follow-up products BIVV001 and BIVV002. 
Sobi and Sanofi receive royalties in the range of 12–17 per cent on each other’s 
sales of Elocta/Eloctate and Alprolix in the respective company’s territory. Sobi 
also receives royalties based on 50 per cent of net profit in Sanofi’s territory, 
where sales are conducted through a third party.
Under the agreement, Sanofi takes full responsibility for the development, 
manufacturing and costs associated with the BIVV002 programme until Sobi 
exercises its opt-in right. Sobi exercised its opt-in right to BIVV001 in 2019. 
Sobi’s opt-in right for development and commercialisation of the pro-
grammes means that Sobi holds the commercialisation rights in Europe, North 
Africa, Russia and certain countries in the Middle East (Sobi’s territory). Sanofi 
holds the commercialisation rights for North America (Sanofi’s North American 
territory) and for the rest of the world excluding Sobi’s territory (Sanofi’s direct 
territory and Sanofi’s distribution territory). In the event of a future approval and 
takeover of the rights, Sobi will be obligated to reimburse Sanofi for 50 per cent 
of the development and production costs incurred by each programme. Sobi 
will reimburse Sanofi for 100 per cent of the development costs that only bene-
fit Sobi’s territory.
BIVV001/efanesoctocog alfa
In the event that marketing authorisation is granted by the European Commission, 
Sobi shall make a one-time payment corresponding to 50 per cent of the total 
development costs, at exercise of the opt-in right, an estimated USD 280–290 M 
less USD 50 M which has already been paid. At 31 December 2021, the value 
of BIV001, which is recognised as an intangible asset, was SEK 1,868 M (1,868). 
For liabilities related to BIVV001, see Note 28, liability to Sanoti. 
BIVV002 
In February 2017, Sobi decided to include the preclinical development pro-
gramme for the potentially long-acting haemophilia B treatment, BIVV002, 
in the agreement with Sanofi. Under the agreement between Sobi and Sanofi, 
Sobi will therefore have an exclusive opt-in right to the programme, and the 
possibility of obtaining the commercial rights in Sobi’s territory according to 
the principles described above.
OTHER AGREEMENTS 
Doptelet
On 12 November 2019, Sobi acquired all of the outstanding shares in Dova 
Pharmaceuticals. Through the acquisition, Sobi received access to Dova’s 
commercial product Doptelet. After the acquisition, Sobi’s commitments in 
relation to Doptelet were as follows:
• Under a contract with Eisai Inc., Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M based on 
annual net sales of Doptelet, calculated per calendar year. USD 130 M 
(approximately SEK 1.2 billion) was outstanding at year-end. This obligation 
is recognised as a financial liability on Sobi’s balance sheet. See Note 28, 
 liability to Eisai.
• Sobi will pay royalties to Astella Inc. based on net sales of Doptelet.Synagis and MEDI8897
On 23 January 2019, Sobi completed the acquisition of the rights to Synagis 
(palivizumab) in the US from AstraZeneca, as well as the rights to 50 per cent 
of future earnings from the drug candidate MEDI8897 (nirsevimab) in the US 
market. The upfront consideration was approximately USD 1,500 M (SEK 13.5 
billion). In addition to this, Sobi paid a total of USD 60 M (approximately SEK 
525 M) in 2019, 2020 and 2021. 
Provided that some terms related to sales of Synagis are met, an additional 
consideration of up to USD 470 M (approximately SEK 4.3 billion) may be pay-
able as of 2026. Sobi may also pay USD 175 M (approximately SEK 1.6 billion) 
for the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) for MEDI8897 to the 
FDA. The agreement also includes potential net payments corresponding to 
about USD 110 M (approx. SEK 1 billion) on the achievement of other profit and 
development-related milestones for MEDI8897. In this case, these will be paid 
as of 2023. At the end of 2021, Sobi had not reported any asset or liability linked 
to these potential future milestone payments as Sobi has an unconditional right 
to withdraw from the agreement until the application for approval is submitted 
to the FDA. 
SEL-212
On 28 July 2020, Sobi concluded the strategic licensing agreement for SEL-212 
with Selecta Biosciences, Inc. Sobi is responsible for development as well as 
regulatory and commercial activities in all markets outside China, while Selecta 
will conduct the phase 3 study on behalf of Sobi. 
Sobi has paid USD 105 M (approximately SEK 977 M) to Selecta, including a 
payment of USD 75 M for the licence fee, USD 25 M for shares in Selecta Biosci-
ences, Inc., and a milestone payment of USD 5 M related to randomisation of 
the first patient in the phase 3 clinical programme with SEL 212. Provided that 
certain regulatory and commercial milestones are met, Selecta will be entitled 
to receive additional potential milestone payments of up to USD 625 M 
(approximately SEK 5.7 billion). The consideration of SEK 1,896 M for the 
acquired intangible and financial assets comprises the up-front payment com-
bined with the liability (probability-weighted and discounted value) for future 
payments of potential milestone payments. The liability is presented under 
Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing, see Note 28, liability to Selecta. Selecta 
will also be entitled to incremental double-digit royalties on future sales. 
Aspaveli
On 27 October 2020, Sobi and Apellis entered into a collaboration for global 
development and ex-US commercialisation of systemic pegcetacoplan in rare 
diseases with an urgent need for new treatments.
Sobi made a payment of USD 250 M (approximately SEK 2,180 M) to Apellis. 
Provided that certain regulatory and commercial milestones are met, Apellis 
will be entitled to receive additional potential milestone payments of up to USD 
915 M (approximately SEK 8.3 billion). The consideration of SEK 3,196 M for the 
acquired intangible assets comprises the up-front payment combined with the 
liability (probability-weighted and discounted value) for future payments of 
potential milestone payments. The liability is presented under Other liabilities, 
non-interest-bearing, see Note 28, liability to Apellis. Apellis will also be entitled 
to incremental double-digit royalties on future sales. 
Sobi will pay USD 80 M to Apellis over a four-year period as compensation 
for R&D in accordance with the original development plan. USD 55 M (approxi-
mately SEK 500 billion) was outstanding at year-end. These costs will be rec -
ognised as expenses in the period in which they occur. Note 16, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
731617  Tangible assets
GROUPPlant and  
machineryEquipment, tools, 
 fixtures and fittingsRight-of-use  
assetsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction 
in progress Total
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 483 178 515 16 8 1,200
Investments 3 17 121 5 15 162
Divestments and disposals –47 –1 –8 0 – –55
Reclassification 5 12 – 0 –14 2
Translation differences 0 –4 –9 –1 – –14
Closing cost 444 203 620 20 9 1,295
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –418 –135 –120 –8 – –682
Depreciation –17 –18 –102 –4 – –141
Divestments and disposals 49 0 5 0 – 55
Reclassification – –1 – 0 – –1
Translation differences 1 1 6 0 – 9
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment –386 –154 –210 –11 – –761
Closing carrying amount 58 49 409 9 9 534
1 January–31 December 2021
Opening cost 444 203 620 20 9 1,295
Investments 0 9 58 1 54 122
Divestments and disposals –20 –3 –24 – – –46
Reclassification 5 31 – 4 –40 –1
Translation differences 1 2 12 1 – 17
Closing cost 430 243 665 25 23 1,386
Opening accumulated depreciation  
and impairment –386 –154 –210 –11 – –761
Depreciation –15 –25 –114 –4 – –159
Impairment –7 – – – – –7
Divestments and disposals 17 1 19 – – 37
Reclassification 0 2 0 –1 – 1
Translation differences –1 –1 –2 –1 – –4
Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment –392 –177 –307 –17 – 893
Closing carrying amount 39 66 359 8 23 493
For further information about leases, see Note 9.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
7417PARENT COMPANYPlant and  
machineryEquipment, tools, 
 fixtures and fittingsOther  
non-current 
assetsConstruction  
in progress Total
1 January–31 December 2020
Opening cost 451 121 5 8 585
Investments – – – 15 15
Divestments and disposals –46 –1 – – –47
Reclassification 5 10 – –14 1
Closing cost 409 131 5 9 554
Opening accumulated  
depreciation and impairment –404 –113 –3 – –520
Depreciation –13 –6 –1 – –19
Divestments and disposals 49 1 – – 49
Closing accumulated  
depreciation and impairment –369 –118 –4 – –491
Closing carrying amount 40 13 2 9 64
1 January–31 December 2021
Opening cost 409 131 5 9 554
Investments 0 0 0 54 54
Divestments and disposals –20 0 0 0 –20
Reclassification 5 36 0 –40 0
Closing cost 394 166 5 23 588
Opening accumulated  
depreciation and impairment –369 –118 –4 0 –491
Depreciation –12 –14 –1 0 –26
Divestments and disposals 17 0 0 0 17
Closing accumulated  
depreciation and impairment –364 –131 –4 0 –500
Closing carrying amount 30 35 1 23 89
18  Participations in Group companies
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Cost
Opening balance 8,853 8,853
Closing balance1 8,853 8,853
Accumulated impairment
Opening balance –1,177 –1,177
Closing balance –1,177 –1,177
Closing carrying amount 7,676 7,676
1. In the sub-group, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB has formed two new subsidiaries, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum 
(The Netherlands) B.V in the Netherlands and SOBI Pharma (Shanghai) Company Limited, in China. 
 Note 17, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
7517
18Specification of Parent Company and Group holdings of participations in Group companies
SUBSIDIARY/CORP. REG. NO./REGISTERED OFFICENo. of  
participations Participations, %1Carrying amount2
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB, 556329–5624, Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 3,248,584
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum A/S, 19179079, Copenhagen, Denmark
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum SARL, 490259405, Paris, France
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic
 Oy Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, 1024811, Turku, Finland
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.l., 5288990962, Milan, Italy
 OOO Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 5087746194520, Moscow, Russia
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AS, 976313682, Trollåsen, Norway
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum S.L., B84710623, Madrid, Spain
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Ltd, 4369760, Cambridgeshire, UK
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, HRB 226770, Martinsried, Germany
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AG, 284.917.678, Basel, Switzerland
 Florio GMBH, HRB 249347, Munich, Germany
 Sobi Pharma (Guangzhou) Company Limited, 91440101MA5D2D0A6G, Guangzhou, China
 Sobi Pharma (Shanghai) Company Limited, 41000002202107120056, Shanghai, China
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Unipessoal Lda, 980 670 152, Lisbon, Portugal
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Japan Co., Ltd, 0100 01 210061, Tokyo, Japan
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum Pty Ltd, 645,396,532, Sydney, Australia
 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (The Netherlands) B.V., 84642281, Amsterdam, Netherlands
SOBI Middle East FZ-LLC, 91193, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 1,000 100 132
Arexis AB, 556573–5130, Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 225,137
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum s.r.o, 28171276, Prague, Czech Republic3 1 1 8
BVBA Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, 0536.217.087, Brussels, Belgium 100 100 166
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum GmbH, 416986, Vienna, Austria 100 100 313
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI) Canada, Inc. 949375–1, Oakville, Canada 10,000 100 65
Sobi Single Member I.K.E, 142300401000, Athens, Greece 20,000 100 195
Sobi US Holding Corp., 7626060, Delaware, US 1,000 100 4,201,336
 Sobi, Inc EIN 68–0682244, Delaware, USA
 Dova Pharmaceuticals Inc., 5997129, Delaware, US
  AKaRx, Inc., 20-1990243, Delaware, US  
  Dova Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited, 610709, Dublin, Ireland
Total 7,675,935
1. The participation refers to the ownership of capital, which also corresponds to the proportion of the votes.
2.  Carrying amount stated in KSEK.
3.  The remaining portion owned by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB. 
19  Financial assets
GROUP 2021 2020
Equity instruments1 145 131
Endowment policy 45 44
Deposits 4 2
Other financial receivables 5 1
Total 199 179
GROUP 2021 2020
Change in financial assets 
Opening balance 179 50
Equity instruments1 14 131
Endowment policy 1 –3
Deposit 2 1
Other financial receivables 4 –1
Closing balance 199 179
1. Equity instruments refers to the holding in Selecta Bioscience, Inc. The holding measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income.PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Equity instruments 145 131
Endowment policy 45 44
Total 190 176
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Change in financial assets 
Opening balance 176 47
Equity instruments1 14 131
Endowment policy 1 –3
Other – –
Closing balance 190 176
1. See comment for the Group.Note 18, cont.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
7618
1920  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
GROUP 2021Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax 
liabilities Net
Excess depreciation – –2,213 –2,213
Inventories 696 – 696
Acquired product and marketing 
rights – –1,836 –1,836
Other intangible assets 61 – 61
Tax loss carry-forwards 256 – 256
Pharmaceutical tax 44 – 44
Interest limitations 63 – 63
Other 107 –18 90
Total 1,229 –4,067 –2,838
Offsetting –462 462 0
Tax assets/liabilities, net 767 –3,605 –2,838GROUP 2020Deferred tax 
assets Deferred tax 
 liabilities Net
Excess depreciation – –1,817 –1,817
Inventories 562 – 562
Acquired product and marketing 
rights – –1,859 –1,859
Other intangible assets 50 – 50
Tax loss carry-forwards 130 – 130
Pharmaceutical tax 30 – 30
Other 71 –19 52
Total 843 –3,696 –2,853
Offsetting –232 232 0
Tax assets/liabilities, net 611 –3,464 –2,853
The Parent Company’s total deferred tax assets amounted to SEK 27 M (24), 
and mainly comprised a deferred tax asset of SEK 11 M (12) related to pension 
provisions, a deferred tax asset of SEK 10 M (6) related to long-term incentive 
programmes, a provision of SEK 7 M (9) for expected credit losses on external 
and internal receivables, a deferred tax asset of SEK 5 M (–) related to adjusted 
excess depreciation, and a deferred tax liability of SEK –5 M (–2) related to the 
market value of a financial asset. Deferred tax has been estimated using the 
enacted future tax rate in Sweden, see Notes 2 and 15. 
Change in deferred tax
GROUP 2021Amount at  
beginning  
of yearRecognised  
in profit  
or lossRecognised  
in other  
comprehensive 
incomeRecognised 
directly  
in equityIncrease through 
business 
 combinationsAmount at  
end of year
Excess depreciation –1,817 –396 – – – –2,213
Inventories 562 95 39 – – 696
Acquired product and marketing rights –1,859 178 –154 – – –1,836
Other intangible assets 50 11 1 – – 61
Tax loss carry-forwards1 130 107 20 – – 256
Pharmaceutical tax 30 14 1 – – 44
Net investment hedges – –63 63 – – –
Interest limitations – 60 3 – – 63
Other 52 38 –3 3 – 90
Total –2,853 44 –32 3 – –2,838
1. The increase of deferred tax asset related to loss carry-forwards for the year refers to foreign tax losses accrued during the year that are expected to be utilised, and the settlement of last year’s deferred tax 
on loss carry-forwards that were either utilised or have expired. See also Note 4.
GROUP 2020Amount at  
beginning  
of yearRecognised  
in profit  
or lossRecognised  
in other  
comprehensive 
incomeRecognised 
directly  
in equityIncrease through 
business 
 combinationsAmount at  
end of year
Excess depreciation –1,338 –479 – – – –1,817
Inventories 318 295 –51 – – 562
Acquired product and marketing rights1 –2,524 166 178 – 320 –1,859
Other intangible assets 53 –4 0 – – 50
Tax loss carry-forwards2 47 100 –18 – – 130
Pharmaceutical tax 17 14 –1 – – 30
Net investment hedges – 64 –64 – – –
Other 54 –3 4 –3 – 52
Total –3,372 153 92 –3 320 –2,853
1. The decrease of SEK 320 M in deferred tax liability for acquired product and marketing rights refers to a previous unrecognised deferred tax related to liability in the acquisition analysis related to Dova.
2. The increase of Deferred tax on loss carry-forwards for the year relates to foreign tax losses accrued during the year that are expected to be utilised, and the settlement of last year’s deferred tax on loss  
carry-forwards that were either utilised or have expired. See also Note 4.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
772021  Inventories
GROUP 2021 2020
Raw materials and consumables 147 21
Work in progress 1,973 1,929
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,304 1,103
Total 3,424 3,053
The cost of inventories is included in cost of goods sold as expenses, and 
amounted to SEK 3,130 M (2,778). Recognised inventories include a provision 
of SEK 442 M (453) for obsolete inventory. During the year, an impairment 
loss of M 49 SEK (95) was recognized for inventories.
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Raw materials and consumables 62 21
Work in progress 1,735 1,929
Finished goods and goods for resale 739 577
Total 2,536 2,527
The cost of inventories is included in cost of goods sold as expenses, and 
amounted to SEK 2,538 M (2,759). Recognised inventories include a provision 
of SEK 429 M (440) for obsolete inventory. During the year, an impairment 
loss of M 23 SEK (80) was recognized for inventories.
22  Accounts receivable and other receivables
GROUP 2021 2020
Accounts receivable 3,509 3,827
Less:  
Provision for credit losses –71 –71
Accounts receivable, net 3,439 3,756
Tax assets 26 25
Other receivables 319 440
Total other receivables 345 465
Total accounts receivable and other receivables 3,783 4,221
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Accounts receivable 1,135 747
Less:  
Provision for credit losses –8 –16
Accounts receivable, net 1,126 731
Tax assets 22 10
Other receivables 270 396
Total other receivables 292 405
Total accounts receivable and other receivables 1,419 1,136
Sobi’s largest customers are primarily large distributors, hospitals and govern-
ment authorities. The large customer base has a wide geographic spread, with 
no specific concentration of receivables. See Note 5 for further information. 
The Group’s exposure to expected credit losses is continuously monitored 
by country and type of counterparty. If Sobi judges that a receivable will not be 
paid, a provision is made for an expected credit loss in accordance with the 
principles described in Note 2. This Note also contains information about 
 customers’ payment terms. 
At 31 December 2021, the Group’s overdue receivables amounted to SEK 
607 M (662), of which SEK 71 M (71) is included in the provision for credit losses. 
Actual credit losses of SEK 6.1 M (0.7) were charged to profit for the year, of 
which SEK 5.9 M (0.6) was attributable to the Parent Company. Changes in the provision for credit losses are as follows:
Expected credit losses
GROUP 2021 2020
At beginning of year –71 –69
Provision for credit losses –11 –14
Reversed provisions 12 12
At end of year –71 –71
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
At beginning of year –16 –8
Provision for credit losses – –9
Reversed provisions 8 1
At end of year –8 –16
Maturity structure
GROUP 2021 2020
Not past due 2,832 3,094
Past due 1–30 days 374 505
Past due 31–90 days 145 93
Past due 91–120 days 12 8
Past due > 121 days 75 56
Total 3,439 3,756
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Not past due 835 565
Past due 1–30 days 187 135
Past due 31–90 days 71 20
Past due 91–120 days 6 1
Past due > 121 days 28 11
Total 1,126 731
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
7821
22Recognised amounts per currency for accounts and other receivables
GROUP 2021 2020
CHF 81 67
EUR 1,115 919
GBP 126 109
SEK 669 747
USD 1,637 2,316
Other currencies 155 63
Total 3,783 4,221
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
CHF 76 62
EUR 499 277
SEK 668 740
USD 43 2
Other currencies 132 56
Total 1,419 1,13623  Prepaid expenses and accrued income
GROUP 2021 2020
Accrued royalty revenue1 321 302
Other prepaid expenses 204 186
Total 525 490
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Accrued royalty revenue1 321 302
Other prepaid expenses 133 127
Total 455 430
1. These are classified as contract assets under IFRS 15. 
24  Cash and cash equivalents
2021 2020
GROUP Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 1,045 1,045 404 404
Total 1,045 1,045 404 404
2021 2020
PARENT COM-
PANY Fair valueCarrying 
amount Fair valueCarrying 
amount
Cash and cash 
equivalents 878 878 240 240
Total 878 878 240 240
Cash and cash equivalents refer to funds held in bank accounts.Note 22, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
7922
23
2425  Shareholders’ equity
Other reservesTranslation 
differencesCash flow 
hedgesNet investment  
hedgesEquity  
investmentsDefined-benefit pension  
plans and similar plans Total
Other reserves 1 Jan 2020 –110 –104 42 – –30 –202
Translation differences –434 – – – – –434
Hedging instruments:
  Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging  
instruments recognised in equity – 133 309 – – 442
  Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging  
instruments recognised in equity – –29 –64 – – –93
  Transferred to profit or loss – 34 – – – 34
 Tax on transferred to profit or loss – –7 – – – –7
Gain/loss on remeasurement of equity instruments  
recognised in equity – – – 11 – 11
Tax effect on equity instruments – – – –2 – –2
Gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit  
pension plans and similar plans – – – – –3 –3
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit 
 pension plans and similar plans – – – – 0 0
Other reserves 31 Dec 2020 –544 26 288 9 –32 –253
Other reserves 1 Jan 2021 –544 26 288 9 –32 –253
Translation differences 464 – – – – 464
Hedging instruments:
  Gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging instruments  
recognised in equity – –81 –305 – – –386
  Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of hedging  
instruments recognised in equity – 18 63 – – 81
  Transferred to profit or loss – 1 – – – 1
 Tax on transferred to profit or loss – 0 – – – 0
Gain/loss on remeasurement of equity instruments  
recognised in equity – – – 14 – 14
Tax effect on equity instruments – – – –3 – –3
Gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit  
pension plans and similar plans – – – – 20 20
Tax on gain/loss on remeasurement of defined-benefit 
 pension plans and similar plans – – – – –3 –3
Other reserves 31 Dec 2021 –80 –36 46 20 –15 –66
At year-end, Sobi’s share capital was SEK 169 M, distributed between 
307,114,495 shares with a par value of about SEK 0.55. All shares issued 
at the balance sheet date were ordinary shares. Ordinary shares carry one 
vote per share. The company held 11,959,198 shares in treasury at the 
 balance sheet date. The own shares item corresponds to 3.9 per cent of 
the total number of shares in the company. 
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before dilution are calculated by dividing earnings attribut-
able to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of  
ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding treasury shares.
To calculate earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential 
ordinary shares.2021 2020
Earnings attributable to Parent Company share-
holders (in MSEK)  2,679 3,245
Earnings per share (SEK per share)  9.08 11.01
Earnings per share, adjusted (SEK per share)1, 2  9.08 9.66
Diluted earnings per share (SEK per share)  9.03 10.90
Diluted earnings per share, adjusted  
(SEK per share)1, 2  9.03 9.56
Number of ordinary shares  307,114,495 303,815,511
Number of ordinary shares (treasury)  11,959,198 8,918,672
Number of ordinary shares  
(excluding treasury shares)  295,155,297 294,896,839
Number of ordinary shares after dilution  308,862,835 306,797,549
Average number of ordinary shares  
(excluding treasury shares)  295,051,119 294,658,136
Average number of ordinary shares after dilution 
(excluding treasury shares)  296,799,459 297,640,174
1. Alternative Performance Measures, see Definitions on p 130. 
2. EBITA 2020 excluding non-recurring items; other operating income related to reversal of the CVR 
liability of SEK 399 M. 
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
802526  Financial assets and liabilities per category 
GROUPAssets measured at 
amortised costAssets measured  
at fair value  
through profit  
or lossAssets measured  
at fair value 
 through other 
comprehensive 
income Total
31 December 2021
Assets on the balance sheet
Accounts receivable 3,439 – – 3,439
Endowment policy – 45 – 45
Derivatives1 – 11 – 11
Equity instruments2 – – 145 145
Cash and cash equivalents 1,045 – – 1,045
Total 4,484 56 145 4,685
31 December 2020
Assets on the balance sheet
Accounts receivable 3,756 – – 3,756
Endowment policy – 44 – 44
Derivatives1 – 117 – 117
Equity instruments2 – – 131 131
Cash and cash equivalents 404 – – 404
Total 4,160 162 131 4,453
1. Of the 2021 derivatives, SEK 11 M (117) is measured at fair value through profit or loss, and SEK 0 M (0) is included in cash-flow hedges. The derivatives are classified as other liabilities on the balance sheet.
2. Equity instruments relates to the shares in Selecta Biosciences, Inc. The shares are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Liabilities measured  
at amortised costLiabilities measured at 
fair value through 
profit or loss Total
31 December 2021
Liabilities on the balance sheet
Borrowings 10,545 – 10,545
Lease liabilities 361 – 361
Derivatives1 – 10 10
Accounts payable 558 – 558
Contingent considerations2 2,818 – 2,818
Non-contingent considerations2 1,707 – 1,707
Other liabilities 0 – 0
Total 15,989 10 15,999
31 December 2020
Liabilities on the balance sheet
Borrowings 14,152 – 14,152
Lease liabilities 419 – 419
Derivatives1 – 269 269
Accounts payable 569 – 569
Contingent considerations2 2,845 – 2,845
Non-contingent considerations2 1,191 – 1,191
Other liabilities 94 – 94
Total 19,270 269 19,540
1.   Of the 2021 derivatives, SEK 10 M (269) is measured at fair value through profit or loss, and SEK 0 M (0) is included in cash-flow hedges. The derivatives are classified as other 
liabilities on the balance sheet.
2. Liabilities are reported per counterparty in Note 28.
See Note 2 for more information about what is included in the various categories. nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
8126Financial instruments measured at fair value
The following table shows financial instruments measured at fair value, based 
on their classification in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are defined 
as follows:
•  Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•  Level 2: Observable data for the asset or liability other than the quoted prices 
included in Level 1.
•  Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable 
market data.
AT 31 DECEMBER 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss 
Derivatives held for trading – 1 – 1
Endowment policies1 – – 45 45
Equity instruments 145 – – 145
Total 145 1 45 191
AT 31 DECEMBER 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss 
Derivatives held for trading – –151 – –151
Endowment policies1 – – 44 44
Equity instruments 131 – – 131
Total 131 –151 44 24
1. Endowment policies are reported gross with the corresponding liability, which is reported as 
a  provision, see Note 30.
All derivatives are measured at fair value based on market data in accordance 
with IFRS. At 31 December 2021, the net value of derivatives recognised on the 
balance sheet was SEK 1 M (–151).27 Borrowings 
At the balance sheet date, Sobi had credit facilities totalling EUR 1,140 M and 
SEK 3,000 M. One credit facility of EUR 190 M under the loan agreement of 
EUR 390 M from 2019 was extended by one year from the original maturity 
date. The new maturity date is November 2023. During the year, two credit 
facilities of EUR 200 M each matured. In addition to these, Sobi has two over -
drafts of SEK 250 M and USD 5 M. Sobi has customary covenants in its facility 
agreements and has been fully compliant with those in 2021. For further infor -
mation about maturity structure, see Note 3.
GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Non-current liabilities to banks and credit 
institutions 8,777 10,137
Current liabilities to banks and credit  
institutions 1,768 4,015
Total 10,545 14,152
Specification per currency, translated to SEK M
GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Currency
EUR 3,426 7,377
SEK 4,004 2,918
USD 3,116 3,857
Total 10,545 14,152
28  Other liabilities, non-interest-bearing, current  
and non-current
GROUP 2021 2020
Non-current
Liability to Sanofi 1,337 1,163
Liability to Eisai 1,015 993
Liability to Selecta 873 773
Liability to Apellis 608 539
Other 1 5
Total 3,834 3,473
Current
Liability to Eisai 113 41
Liability to Selecta 90 81
Liability to Apellis 452 265
Liability to AstraZeneca – 157
Derivatives 10 269
VAT 264 322
Other 384 167
Total 1,314 1,302Note 26, cont.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
8226
27
28PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Non-current 
Liability to Sanofi 1,337 1,163
Liability to Selecta 873 773
Liability to Apellis 608 539
Other 0 0
Total 2,818 2,475
Current
Liability to Selecta 90 81
Liability to Apellis 452 265
Derivatives 10 269
Other 344 112
Total 896 727
Sanofi
In 2019, Sobi entered into a contract with Sanofi for BIVV001 where Sobi, con-
ditional upon marketing authorisation from the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA), will make a one-time payment corresponding to 50 per cent of the total 
development costs, estimated to be USD 280–290 M less USD 50 M that has 
already been paid. At 31 December 2021, the obligation was recognised as 
a non-interest bearing non-current liability of SEK 1,337 M (1,163) on the 
 balance sheet. 
Eisai
Under a contract with Eisai, Sobi will pay up to USD 135 M based on annual 
net sales of Doptelet, calculated per calendar year. In 2021, Sobi paid USD 5 M. 
At 31 December 2021, the obligation was recognised as a non-interest bearing 
non-current liability of SEK 1,015 M (993) and a non-interest bearing current 
liability of SEK 113 M (41) on the balance sheet.
Selecta
In 2020, Sobi terminated the strategic licensing agreement for the SEL-212 
product candidate with Selecta Biosciences, Inc. Provided that certain regula-
tory and commercial milestones are met, Selecta will be entitled to receive 
potential milestone payments of up to USD 625 M. At 31 December 2021, the 
obligations were recognised as a non-interest bearing non-current liability of 
SEK 873 M (773) and a non-interest bearing current liability of SEK 90 M (81) on 
the balance sheet.
Apellis
In 2020, Sobi and Apellis entered into a collaboration for global development 
and ex-US commercialisation of systemic pegcetacoplan for rare diseases with 
an urgent need for new treatments. Provided that certain regulatory and com-
mercial milestones are met, Apellis will be entitled to receive potential mile-
stone payments of up to USD 915 M. At 31 December 2021, the obligations 
were recognised as a non-interest bearing non-current liability of SEK 608 M 
(539) and a non-interest bearing current liability of SEK 452 M (265) on the 
 balance sheet.
AstraZeneca
Acquisition of the rights to Synagis included an obligation for Sobi to pay 
USD 60 M in addition to an up-front consideration to AstraZeneca, which 
has been paid in full at the balance sheet date.29  Post-employment benefits
Group employees have various forms of pension benefits, either defined- 
contribution or defined-benefit plans. Most of Sobi’s employees are covered 
by defined-contribution plans. 
Sweden
Defined-contribution plan via Alecta and pension benefits
For white-collar employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pen-
sion obligations for retirement and family pensions are insured through Alecta. 
According to the Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 10 Accounting 
for ITP 2 Plans Financed by Insurance with Alecta, this is a multi-employer 
defined-benefit plan. For the 2021 financial year, Sobi did not have access to 
the information required to recognise these obligations as a defined-benefit 
plan. The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore recognised as a defined-contribution 
plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retirement and family pension is cal-
culated individually, and is based on factors including salary, previously earned 
pension and expected remaining period of service. In 2022, expected contribu-
tions for ITP 2 plans insured through Alecta amounted to SEK 18 M (20). Sobi’s 
share of the total plan contributions and the total number of active members in 
the plan is immaterial. The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alec -
ta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to 
Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which are not consistent with IAS 
19. The collective funding ratio is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 
155 per cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or 
exceeds 155 per cent, measures should be taken to create the right conditions 
for the ratio to return to the normal range. If the ratio is low, an appropriate 
measure could be to raise the agreed price for new policies and extensions of 
existing benefits. If the ratio is high, premium reductions could be introduced. 
At the end of 2021, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio 
was 172 per cent (148). The occupational pension premium for a certain 
number of current and former executives exceeds a certain level, which is why 
a direct pension is used for that portion of the premium that is not deductible. 
The company secures the direct pension by taking out an endowment policy 
that is pledged to the senior executive. 
Defined-benefit pension plan 
The defined-benefit pension obligations are calculated annually or when 
required, based on actuarial principles. Sobi has defined-benefit pension plans 
in Switzerland, Norway, France, Italy and for a few former employees in 
Sweden.
The present value of the obligations includes special payroll tax, in accor -
dance with IAS 19, for these pension plans. Pension expenses are recognised 
under the items of selling costs, administrative expenses and research and 
development costs, depending on the function in which the insured is/was 
employed. 
Switzerland
The Swiss pension plans are funded and covered by the Swiss Federal Act on 
Swiss Federal Occupational Old Age, Survivors and Disability Pension Act (BVG). 
The pension plans are administrated by two separate legal entities and funded 
by regular contributions from the employees and the company. The final bene-
fit is contribution-based with certain minimum guarantees. Due to these mini-
mum guarantees, these plans are considered defined-benefit according to 
IFRS, even though many of their characteristics are otherwise similar to a 
defined-contribution plan. If the plans are underfunded, they can be adjusted 
using various measures, such as raising contributions for employees and com-
panies, lowering interest rates on the pension obligations, reducing future ben-
efits and disallowing early withdrawals of pension funds. At 31 December 2021, 
the plans covered 149 (157) employees, of whom all were active. 
Other
At 31 December 2021, the liability recognised for other defined-benefit pension 
plans was SEK 16 M (21). Other pension obligations are attributable to France, 
Italy, Norway and Sweden.Note 28, cont.nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
8328
29SEK M 2021 2020
Present value of funded obligations 431 349
Fair value of plan assets –299 –220
Deficit in funded plans 132 129
Present value of unfunded obligations 11 15
Net 143 144
SEK M 2021 2020
Net assets1 5 0
Net obligation 148 144
Net 143 144
1. Plans with a net surplus, ie where plan assets exceed the defined benefit obligations, are reported 
as an asset and included in financial fixed assets
Changes in defined-benefit pension obligations during the year  
are as follows: 
1 JANUARY– 
31 DECEMBER 2021Present value of 
obligationsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year 364 –220 144
Amount in profit or loss
 Costs for service
in current year 35 – 35
Interest expense 1 – 1
Interest income – –1 –1
Amount in cash flow
Contributions from 
employees 11 –11 0
Contribution into plans 
from employer –1 –25 –26
Payment from the plans 19 –19 0
Amount in other 
comprehensive income
Remeasurement
 Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts included in interest 
expense – –2 –2
Changed demographic    
assumptions –32 – –32
 Changed financial 
assumptions –9 – –9
 Experience-based 
assumptions 28 –6 22
Translation difference 26 –15 11
At end of year 442 –299 1431 JANUARY– 
31 DECEMBER 2020Present value of 
obligationsFair value of  
plan assets Total
At beginning of year 227 –145 83
Additional pension plans1 125 –80 45
Reclassification 2 – 2
Amount in profit or loss
 Costs for service
in current year 30 – 30
Interest expense 1 – 1
Interest income – –1 –1
Amount in cash flow
Contributions from  
employees 5 –5 0
Contribution into plans from
employer –1 –13 –13
Payment from the plans –17 18 1
Pension payments  
directly from the company –1 – –1
Amount in other  
comprehensive income
Remeasurement
 Return on plan assets, excl. 
amounts included in interest 
expense – –4 –4
Changed demographic    
assumptions –3 0 –3
 Changed financial  
assumptions 11 – 11
 Experience-based  
assumptions –2 1 –1
Translation difference –12 7 –6
At end of year 364 –220 144
1. Refers to pension plans in Switzerland and France, and part of the plan in Italy, which were not 
 previously recognised in accordance with IAS 19 in the Group. 
Net obligation per country
2021 2020
Sweden1 –5 0
Italy 4 3
Norway 10 6
France 7 12
Switzerland 127 123
Total 143 144
1. In Sweden, the total net obligation is an asset and is included in other financial assets.
Actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date
AVERAGE FOR PENSION PLANS 2021 2020
Discount rate, % 0.6 0.3
Expected annual salary increase, % 2.2 1.9
Pension increases 0.1 0.9
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age,  
male, years 20.9 18.1
Remaining life expectancy after retirement age, 
female, years 24.9 22.2
Demographic assumptions 
During the year, mortality assumptions were updated for the Swedish and the 
Swiss pension plan and is based on the DUS14 respectivley BVG2020 mortality 
table. The Italian and the Norwegian pension plan is based on the RG48 
respectively K2013 BE mortality table. The retirement age is set at 65 years 
except in Switzerland, where the retirement age for women starts at 64 years. Note 29, cont.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
8429Note 29, cont.
Distribution by plan assets
2021 Quoted,  
% 2020 Quoted,  
%
Equity funds 113 100 75 100
Interest-bearing securities 105 100 67 100
Properties 57 – 40 –
Other funds 8 – 27 –
Other 16 – 11 –
Total 299 73 220 65
Sensitivity analysis
2021 2020
Pension obligation under current assumptions 442 364
Discount rate –0.5% 477 396
Discount rate +0.5% 409 339
Salary decrease –0.5% 432 357
Salary increase +0.5% 450 371
Life expectancy after retirement –1 year 432 359
Life expectancy after retirement +1 year 450 366
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption, with 
all other assumptions remaining constant. In practice, this is highly unlikely to 
occur and some of the changes in the assumptions may be correlated. When 
calculating the sensitivity of the defined-benefit obligations to significant actu-
arial assumptions, the same method (present value of the defined-benefit obli-
gation applying the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting 
period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised 
on the balance sheet.
Other information
For the 2022 financial year, contributions to plans for post-employment bene-
fits are expected to be SEK 25 M (22). The weighted average duration of the 
obligation is an estimated 17.1 years (19.2).  
Risks
Through its defined-benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number 
of risks. The most significant risks are described in the table below:
Type of risk
Life expectancy 
assumptionsMost of the pension obligations entail that the employees 
covered by the plan will receive life-long benefits and, 
accordingly, the longer life expectancy assumptions will 
result in higher pension liabilities. 
Inflation Some of the plan’s pension obligations are linked to inflation. 
Higher inflation leads to higher liabilities (although, in most 
cases, a ceiling has been set for the level of inflation to pro-
tect the plan against exceptional increases in inflation). Most 
of the plan assets are either unaffected by (fixed-rate bonds), 
or weakly correlated with (shares) inflation, which means that 
an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Discount 
rateA decrease in the interest rate on corporate bonds will 
increase the liabilities of the plans, although this will partially 
be offset by an increase in the value of the bond holding.
Asset  
volatilityThe pension liability is calculated using discount rates derived 
from corporate bonds. A deficit exists if the discount rate 
does not reflect the expected return on plan assets. The plan 
assets include shares, which are eventually expected to 
exceed the interest on corporate bonds, but also entail vola-
tility and risk in the short term.30  Provisions
Group Parent Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
Provision at beginning of year 252 179 82 84
Endowment policy1 1 –2 1 –2
Milestone obligations2 –23 12 – –
Restoration reserve3 – 0 – 0
Changes in pension obligations 4 61 –3 –
Other 1 1 – –
Provisions at 31 December 234 252 79 82
Group Parent Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
Endowment policy1 45 44 45 44
Provision, milestone obligations2 – 23 – –
Restoration reserve3 34 34 34 34
Pension obligations 148 144 – 3
Other 7 6 – –
Provisions at 31 December 234 252 79 82
1. For corresponding assets, see Note 19.
2. A provision related to the licensing agreement with Astella for Doptelet was reversed during 
the year. 
3. Sobi will restore the rented Paradiset 14 property to an acceptable condition with consideration 
for the operations conducted by the company, in accordance with the Rental Agreement (IAS 16). 
Group Parent Company
2021 2020 2021 2020
Non-current portion 234 249 79 82
Current portion – 3 – –
Total provisions 234 252 79 82
31  Accrued expenses and deferred income
GROUP 2021 2020
Sales-related 3,053 2,158
Employee-related 659 572
Royalties 223 207
R&D 163 194
Co-Promotion 246 191
Inventory-related 172 164
Other 450 442
Total 4,967 3,928
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Sales-related 275 226
Employee-related 245 257
Royalties 197 189
R&D 144 179
Co-Promotion 245 191
Inventory-related 49 116
Other 139 156
Total 1,296 1,314nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
8529
30
3132  Pledged assets and contingent liabilities
GROUP 2021 2020
Pledged assets
Endowment policy 45 44
Other pledged assets 3 2
Total 48 46
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Pledged assets
Endowment policy 45 44
Total 45 44
PARENT COMPANY 2021 2020
Contingent liabilities
Guarantee commitment 88 26
Total 88 26
Guarantees for subsidiaries relate to general guarantees up to a specified 
amount and relate to all types of credit, such as rental guarantees, credit cards, 
etc., that the relevant subsidiary holds with various banks.
TAX AND LEGAL DISPUTES
Legal disputes
Sobi is involved in several ongoing disputes, a not-uncommon situation for 
pharmaceutical companies. None of these is currently considered material. 
33  Related-party transactions
Apart from that stated in the Notes on remuneration of senior executives and 
intra-Group transactions, there were no related-party transactions.
See Note 5 for internal transactions between the Group’s subsidiaries.34  Proposed appropriation of profit
The following funds are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting:
KSEK
Share premium reserve 9,152,505
Retained earnings 7,157,315
Profit for the year 1,790,394
Total 18,100,214
The Board of Directors proposes that no dividends be paid for the 2021 finan-
cial year. 
The Board of Directors proposes that the share premium reserve, retained 
earnings and profit for the year, totalling KSEK 18,100,214, be carried forward.
35  Events after the reporting period
Gamifant
The National Medical Products Administration of China (NMPA) has approved 
Gamifant (emapalumab) for use in China for treatment of primary haemo-
phagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH).
In January 2022, Gamifant initiated dosing in a new phase 3 study, EMERALD. 
EMERALD evaluates the treatment of macrophage activation syndrome in pae-
diatric and adult patients with underlying rheumatological diseases, specifically 
Still’s disease and systemic lupus erythematosus. If the results are positive at the 
conclusion of the study, the first regulatory submission for a new indication is 
planned for the US with other countries to follow.
ReFacto
The contract with Pfizer for the manufacture of drug substance for ReFacto 
AF®/Xyntha® (ReFacto) has been amended due to clarity of final order vol-
umes and will now expire in the first quarter of 2024, earlier than the previous 
expiry date at the end of 2025. Manufacturing of drug substance for ReFacto 
will be transferred to Pfizer’s production unit in Ireland, ensuring continued 
patient access. 
The process of downsizing its Stockholm manufacturing facility will start in 
the second half of 2022, with the last volumes being delivered to Pfizer in the 
beginning of 2024. An estimated 80 positions are expected to be affected by 
the closure over the next 24 months. Sales of ReFacto amounted to SEK 445 M 
in 2021. 
The conflict in Ukraine
It is unclear how and to what extent Sobi’s operations will be affected by the 
conflict in Ukraine. Sobi has operations in Russia with 35 employees. Sales in 
Russia accounted for less than 1 per cent of Sobi’s total revenue for 2021. At 
the time of signing this annual report, Sobi has outstanding accounts receiv-
able related to Russia amounting to approximately EUR 22 M, which are cur -
rently being evaluated. Sobi is following events closely to assess the potential 
and actual risks stemming from the situation.
nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
8632
33
34
35The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards 
(IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s 
financial position and results. The Annual Report has been prepared in accor -
dance with generally accepted accounting principles and provides a true and 
fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results.The Director’s Report for the Group and the Parent Company provides a true 
and fair view of the development of the Group and the Parent Company’s 
 operations, financial position and results and describes the material risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies in the Group.
The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the  
Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2022 for adoption. 
Stockholm, 29 March 2022
 Håkan Björklund Annette Clancy Matthew Gantz 
 Chair Board member Board member
 Helena Saxon Staffan Schüberg Filippa Stenberg 
 Board member Board member Board member
Elisabeth Svanberg
Board member
 Pia Axelson Erika Husing
 Employee representative Employee representative
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Our auditor’s report was submitted on 31 March 2022
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Authorised Public Accountant 
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
87Auditor’s report
TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SWEDISH ORPHAN BIOVITRUM AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556038-9321
Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts
Opinions
We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) for the year 2021. The annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included 
on pages 32–87 in this document.
In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accor -
dance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all mate-
rial respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 
December 2021 and its financial performance and cash flow for the 
year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The 
consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the 
Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the 
financial position of the group as of 31 December 2021 and their 
financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), 
as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory 
administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts.
We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders 
adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent com-
pany and the group. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report 
that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee 
in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11.
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in 
Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indepen-
dent of the parent company and the group in accordance with 
 professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise 
fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these require-
ments. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and 
belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation 
(537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, 
where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies 
within the EU.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. 
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profes-
sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these mat-
ters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit 
addressed the matter is provided in that context. 
 We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s 
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our 
report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit 
included the performance of procedures designed to respond to 
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the proce-
dures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for 
our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements. 
 
Valuation of product and market rights and goodwill  
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
Per 31 December 2021 the majority of (79% or 37,847 MSEK) the Group’s (below 
referred to as the Company) total assets consist of product- and marketing 
rights as well as goodwill (hereafter referred to as “the assets”). The Company 
performs an impairment test of the assets on an annual basis and when events 
or changes in conditions indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may 
exceed the recoverable amount. Testing of impairment for the assets involve a 
number of significant assumptions and assessments, among other assessing the 
value in use through identifying cash generating units, estimating expected 
future cash flows including the growth rate and calculating weighted average 
cost of capital (“WACC”) used to discount future cash flows. The Company’s 
process for assessing impairment requirements also includes the use of man-
agement’s and the board of director’s business plans and forecasts.
For additional information refer to the Group’s accounting principles in 
note 2, significant assessments and assumptions in note 4 as well as information 
about the product and marketing rights and goodwill in note 16.
We focused on this area as the book value of the assets are significant and the 
impairment test is sensitive to changes in assumptions. Therefore, we consid-
ered this a key audit matter in our audit.Our audit was conducted together with our valuation specialists and included 
but was not limited to the following audit procedures:
•  sobtained an understanding of the Company’s process for identifying 
 indicators of impairment
•  evaluation of methods used by management when performing the impair-
ment test including the sensitivity analysis and 
•  review of the assessments made by the Company when testing the impair-
ment with our focus on assumptions for which the result of impairment 
 testing is most sensitive to.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
AuDITOR’S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
88Revenue – Estimate of Unsettled Pharmaceutical Taxes and Discounts
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
The Group (below referred to as the Company) operates in a number of coun-
tries where sales to customers take place under various commercial and govern-
mental contracts and regulations where pharmaceutical taxes and discounts 
exist as conditions for certain products. Net sales are reported after deductions 
from pharmaceutical taxes and discounts. Therefore, an estimate of the unset-
tled revenue adjustments for pharmaceutical taxes and discounts needs to be 
made at year end.
The unsettled revenue adjustments recorded at 31 December 2021 are based 
on the Company’s best assessment of the expected outcome of future settle-
ment of the commitments at year end. The assessment is complex and often 
requires access to both internal and external market and sales data that may be 
limited at the time of assessment.
Refer to note 2, 4 and 5 in the annual report for a detailed description of the 
revenue adjustments and the liabilities reported.
Due to the significant amount that the revenue adjustments represent in rela-
tion to the Company’s comprehensive income for the period and the complex 
assessments, revenue adjustments is a key audit matter in our audit.We have in our audit obtained an understanding of the Company’s process to 
identify and assess the unsettled revenue adjustments. We have also evaluated 
the Company’s previous accuracy in preparing forecasts and the Company’s 
calculation of liabilities for the revenue adjustment and assessed the reason-
ableness of the assumptions and data that the Company used in its assessment. 
In certain countries we have also been supported by our internal specialists in 
our audit.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
Contingent considerations
Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter
During 2021 and in previous years, the Company and the Group (hereinafter 
referred to as the Company) have made for the Company significant business 
and asset acquisitions. In most of the acquisitions there are contingent consider-
ations that are determined based on future events that are often linked to the ful-
filment of certain future regulatory and commercial milestones linked to the 
acquired assets. As of December 31, 2021, the reported liabilities for contingent 
consideration amounted to SEK 2,818 million and SEK 2,818 million in the Group 
and the Parent Company respectively. As described in Note 2, contingent con-
siderations are initially recognized at fair value of the future commitments. Sub-
sequent valuation of contingent considerations for business combinations are 
made at fair value and is recognized in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Subsequent valuation of contingent considerations for asset acquisitions are 
measured at amortized cost and recognized against the value of the asset with 
the exception of currency movements and interest expense.
The Company continuously evaluates the assumptions for the contingent 
considerations, which affects the valuation of the liabilities. The values of the 
Company’s liabilities for contingent considerations are disclosed in notes 3, 4, 26, 
28 and 33. Key assumptions used to determine the values are described in Notes 
4 and 28.
As described in Note 4, management is required to make assessments and 
develop own assumptions in order to estimate the value of the contingent con-
siderations. Since the value of the contingent considerations constitutes a not 
insignificant part of the Company’s liabilities and is linked to significant future 
commitments for the Company, valuation of liabilities for contingent consider-
ations constitutes a key audit matter in our audit.Our audit has included, among other things, the following audit procedures:
•  sobtained an understanding of the Company’s process for valuing contingent 
considerations,
•  review of material agreements including conditions for contingent consider-
ations; 
•  review of management’s assessments and assumptions used to support the 
valuation of contingent considerations with a focus on the assumptions for 
which the valuation is most sensitive and
•  tested the Company’s calculations for arithmetical correctness and consis-
tency with reported values.
We have also assessed the disclosures in the annual report.
         
Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts 
This document also contains other information than the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–31, 92, 
100–103 and 129–134. The remuneration report for the financial year 
2021 also constitutes other information. The Board of Directors and 
the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. 
Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does 
not cover this other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion regarding this other information.
In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoli-
dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified 
above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent 
with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proce-
dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in 
the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informa-
tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 
this regard.Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director
The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for 
the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accor -
dance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and 
the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control 
as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material 
 misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The 
Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the 
assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the com-
pany, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of 
Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things 
oversee the company’s financial reporting process.AuDITOR’S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
89Auditor’s responsibility
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue 
an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit con-
ducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing stan-
dards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profes-
sional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the 
audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a mate-
rial misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one result-
ing from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant 
to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropri-
ate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the 
Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of account-
ing in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. 
We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw atten-
tion in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual 
accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and 
consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the dis-
closures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities within the 
group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. 
We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of signifi-
cant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficien-
cies in internal control that we identified.
We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that 
we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding inde-
pendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indepen-
dence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or 
related safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most 
important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are there-
fore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements  
Opinions
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ) for the year 2021 and the proposed appropriations of the com-
pany’s profit or loss.
We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the 
profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the stat-
utory administration report and that the members of the Board of 
Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for 
the financial year.
Basis for opinions
We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stan-
dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. 
We are independent of the parent company and the group in accor -
dance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have 
otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and  
the Managing Director
The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropri-
ations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, 
this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable 
 considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s 
type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent 
 company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, 
liquidity and position in general.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organi-
zation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes 
among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and 
the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s orga-
nization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets 
and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reas-
suring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing 
administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and 
instructions and among other matters take measures that are neces-
sary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and 
handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner.
AuDITOR’S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
90Auditor’s responsibility
Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and 
thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit 
evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether 
any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in 
any material respect:
• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which 
can give rise to liability to the company, or
• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, 
the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association.
Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of 
the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to 
assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is 
in accordance with the Companies Act.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guar -
antee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions 
that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed 
appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance 
with the Companies Act.
As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and main-
tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination 
of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the com-
pany’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. 
Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional 
judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that 
we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships 
that are material for the operations and where deviations and viola-
tions would have particular importance for the company’s  situation. 
We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, 
actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opin-
ion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion 
on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the compa-
ny’s profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in accordance 
with the Companies Act.
The auditor’s examination of the ESEF report
Opinion
In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated 
accounts, we have also examined that the Board of Directors and the 
CEO have prepared the annual accounts and consolidated accounts 
in a format that enables uniform electronic reporting (the Esef report) 
pursuant to Chapter 16, Section 4(a) of the Swedish Securities Market 
Act (2007:528) for Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (Publ) for the finan-
cial year 2021. 
Our examination and our opinion relate only to the statutory 
requirements.
In our opinion, the ESEF report #4e0e19749673409690bcc01de 
8aef15c4c1879ff20ff551c287f885a85ceb9fc has been prepared in 
a format that, in all material respects, enables uniform electronic 
reporting.
Basis for opinion
We have performed the examination in accordance with FAR’s rec -
ommendation RevR 18 Examination of the ESEF report. Our respon-
sibility under this recommendation is described in more detail in 
the Auditors’ responsibility section. We are independent of Swedish 
Orphan Biovitrum AB (Publ) in accordance with professional ethics 
for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO
The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the prepa-
ration of the Esef report in accordance with Chapter 16, Section 4(a) 
of the Swedish Securities Market Act (2007:528), and for such inter -
nal control that the Board of Directors and the CEO determine is 
 necessary to prepare the Esef report without material misstatements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance whether the Esef 
report is in all material respects prepared in a format that meets the 
requirements of Chapter 16, Section 4(a) of the Swedish Securities 
Market Act (2007:528), based on the procedures performed.
RevR 18 requires us to plan and execute procedures to achieve 
 reasonable assurance that the Esef report is prepared in a format that 
meets these requirements. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but it is not a 
guarantee that an engagement carried out according to RevR 18 and 
generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggre-
gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of the Esef report. 
The audit firm applies ISQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform 
Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and other Assurance and 
Related Services Engagements and accordingly maintains a compre-
hensive system of quality control, including documented policies and 
procedures regarding compliance with professional ethical require-
ments, professional standards and legal and regulatory requirements.
The examination involves obtaining evidence, through various 
procedures, that the Esef report has been prepared in a format that 
enables uniform electronic reporting of the annual and consolidated 
accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judg-
ment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
in the report, whether due to fraud or error. In carrying out this risk 
assessment, and in order to design audit procedures that are appro-
priate in the circumstances, the auditor considers those elements of 
internal control that are relevant to the preparation of the Esef report 
by the Board of Directors and the CEO, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of those internal controls. 
The examination also includes an evaluation of the appropriateness 
and reasonableness of assumptions made by the Board of Directors 
and the CEO. 
The procedures mainly include a technical validation of the Esef 
report, i.e. if the file containing the Esef report meets the  technical 
specification set out in the Commission’s Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2019/815 and a reconciliation of the Esef report with the audited 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts.
Furthermore, the procedures also include an assessment of 
whether the Esef report has been marked with iXBRL which enables 
a fair and complete machine-readable version of the consolidated 
statement of financial performance, financial position, changes in 
equity and cash flow.
Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Jonatan Hans-
son as auditor in charge was appointed auditor of Swedish Orphan 
Biovitrum AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on 
13 May 2021 and have been the company’s auditor since 8 May 2014.
Stockholm, March 31, 2022
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Authorized Public AccountantAuDITOR’S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
912021 was an eventful year for Sobi. Look -
ing back, I want first to highlight the way the 
company continued to generate long-term 
value and deliver on its strategy for growth, 
extending access to treatment to more 
people with rare diseases. 
Secondly, a public cash offer by Advent 
and GIC for all shares in Sobi was eventually 
withdrawn after narrowly failing to reach an 
acceptance level of 90 per cent. The Board 
had recommended shareholders accept the 
offer, which we saw as a fair and competitive 
offer, a premium valuation that recognised 
the long-term value that Sobi represents.
The offer indicated that we are not alone in 
seeing the potential that Sobi has. The Board 
and I continue to have full confidence in 
the CEO, the Executive Committee, and the 
vision and strategy we have set out for Sobi.
By expanding into new  geographical 
markets and bringing new medicines to 
patients during 2021, Sobi made clear pro-
gress towards its vision of becoming a global 
leader in rare diseases. The strategy is clear, 
and it is vital that all staff continue to focus and deliver on the objectives, which will 
improve and expand access to innovative 
treatments that transform life for people with 
rare diseases. 
Recognising the need to change to ensure 
Sobi stays ahead of the game, the Board is 
providing support to the management in the 
ongoing transformation that is building a plat-
form for continued growth. We do this by pro-
viding a clear governance structure, as well as 
expertise in crucial corporate decisions. 
Governance continues to be vital, and the 
Code of Conduct remains a foundation stone 
for Sobi’s governance structure. Introduced 
in Q4 2020, the updated Code of Conduct is 
a compulsory part of the education package 
for every Sobi employee. Compliance is the 
minimum standard accepted by Sobi.
The same high standard is expected of 
Sobi’s suppliers and partners. As part of the 
Responsible Sourcing Programme introduced 
in 2020 and expanded throughout 2021, 
Sobi has committed to work only with part-
ners who embrace standards consistent with Sobi’s own when it comes to ethics, human 
rights and protection of the environment. 
Sobi is intent on continuing to contribute 
to the fulfilment of the United Nations Sus-
tainable Development Goals and the Paris 
Climate Agreement, and continues to report 
on expanded key performance indicators 
in line with its commitments under the UN 
Global Compact and the Global Reporting 
Initiative to improve transparency.
COVID-19 continued to cast a shadow 
over 2021. The commitment of all staff to 
ensuring continuity of operations, to ensur -
ing that patients continued to receive their 
medicines, was and continues to be com-
mendable. The EU approval of Kineret as a 
treatment for COVID-related pneumonia 
represented a major step forward in Sobi’s 
efforts to address this medical challenge of a 
generation.
Lastly, I want to pay tribute to the commit-
ment and expertise of Sobi management and 
staff as they continue to transform the lives 
of people with rare diseases.Letter from the chairman
Sobi continues to build for growth, with a solid strategy setting 
out the path ahead. 
Håkan Björklund
Chairman of the Board
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAn
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
92Corporate Governance Report
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) (“Sobi”) 
is a Swedish public limited liability com-
pany with its registered office in Stockholm, 
Sweden. Sobi is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. 
This report for the 2021 financial year has 
been audited.
Sobi is an international biopharmaceuti-
cal company focused on rare diseases with 
in-house capabilities that stretch from R&D 
and biologics manufacturing to distribution 
and commercialisation.
In addition to Swedish legislation or other 
regulations, the Group’s corporate gover -
nance is based on the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code and the Nasdaq Stockholm 
Nordic Main Market Rulebook for Issuers of 
Shares. Sobi complies with the Swedish Cor -
porate Governance Code, with the deviation 
in 2021 from item 2.5, first sentence, that the 
name of the members of the Nomination 
Committee was published on the company’s 
website later than six months prior to the 2022 
AGM. The reason for the deviation was that it 
was deemed appropriate to wait for the out-
come and possible changes in ownership aris-
ing from the all-cash public offer from Advent 
and GIC to Sobi’s shareholders, which was 
ongoing during the period, before appointing 
the Nomination Committee. Sobi has not 
breached the Nordic Main Market Rulebook 
for Issuers of Shares or standards of good 
practice for listed companies. The Swedish 
Corporate Governance Code is available at 
www.bolagsstyrning.se and the Nordic Main Market Rulebook for Issuers of Shares is avail-
able at www.nasdaqomxnordic.com.
This Corporate Governance Report 
 summarises how corporate governance is 
organised and how it was carried out in 2021. 
The report has been prepared in accor -
dance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 
(1995:1554) and the Swedish Corporate Gov-
ernance Code. The illustration below pro-
vides an overview of Sobi’s corporate gover -
nance structure, which is then described in 
more detail in this report. 
In addition to the external regulations set 
out above, there are also a number of internal 
regulations in place to support Sobi’s corpo-
rate governance, such as the Articles of Asso-
ciation, Rules of Procedure for the Board and 
its committees, CEO instructions and Sobi’s 
governing documents with Sobi’s Code of 
Conduct as a portal document.
1. General Meeting
Sobi’s highest decision-making body is the 
General Meeting through which shareholders 
have the right to make decisions on the com-
pany’s affairs. The Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) must be held within six months of the 
end of the financial year, and Extraordinary 
General Meetings (EGM) may be held if the 
Board of Directors deems it necessary, or at 
the request of Sobi’s auditors or sharehold-
ers holding at least 10 per cent of all shares in 
the company. The AGM adopts the income 
statement and balance sheet, resolves on the appropriation of profits and elects Board 
members, the Chair and auditors.
The company does not apply any special 
arrangements with regard to the function of 
the general meeting, either on the basis of 
provisions in the Articles of Association or, to 
the extent they are known to the company, 
shareholder agreements.
The Articles of Association state that the 
AGM is to be held in Stockholm or Solna. At 
present, Sobi has not found that the compo-
sition of the shareholder base calls for any 
special measures to enable shareholders to 
follow the AGM remotely. Notice of the AGM 
is published in Post- och Inrikes Tidningar 
and on the company’s website. When this has 
been done, an announcement to this effect is 
published in Svenska Dagbladet.
2021 AGM
The Annual General Meeting was held on 4 
May 2021 in Stockholm. Due to the coronavi-
rus and in order to reduce the risk of spread-
ing infection, the Meeting was held exclu-
sively through postal voting pursuant to 
the temporary regulations in force in 2021. 
The Meeting was attended by 328 share-
holders (292), in person or by proxy. They 
represented 64.3 per cent (66.7) of the total 
number of votes. Lawyer Eva Hägg was 
elected to chair the meeting. 
The complete minutes and information 
from the 2021 AGM are available at  
www.sobi.com.
8
General Meeting
BoardExternal auditors
3
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee71
Nomination  
Committee2
Reports/informs Elects/appointsExternal  
regulations Internal  
regulations Compensation & Benefits  
CommitteeScientific Committee Audit Committee5 4 6CORpORATE GO vERnAnCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
93Resolutions 2021 AGM
The following resolutions were inter alia 
adopted by the 2021 AGM:
• Re-election of six Board members
• Election of two new Board members
• Re-election of the Chair
• Re-election of Ernst & Young AB as auditor
• Remuneration of the Board and auditors
• Approval of the Board’s remuneration 
report for 2020
• Discharge from liability for the Board and 
CEO for the 2020 financial year
• Introduction of long-term incentive 
 programmes
• Amendment of the Articles of Association
2022 Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 
Tuesday, 10 May 2022. For more information 
about the AGM, refer to page 129. 
Shareholders, share capital, the share and 
voting rights
At year-end, Sobi had a total of 24,685 
(33,816) shareholders. Investor AB was the 
largest shareholder, with 35.0 per cent (35.4) 
of the share capital and 35.0 per cent (35.4) 
of the votes. The 15 largest shareholders 
accounted jointly for 73.4 per cent (70.8) of 
the share capital and 73.4 per cent (70.8) of 
the votes. No shareholders other than Inves-
tor AB have a direct or indirect sharehold-
ing that represents one-tenth or more of the 
votes for all shares in the company. Sobi’s 
Articles of Association do not contain any 
restrictions on how many votes each share-
holder may cast at a general meeting.
Nor do they contain any specific provisions 
on the appointment and dismissal of Board 
members or amendments to the Articles of 
Association.
Conversion of shares and authorisations for 
the Board of Directors
In order to secure commitments under 
long-term incentive programmes, the AGM 
on 4 May 2021 adopted (i) a private place-
ment of redeemable and convertible C shares, (ii) authorisation for Sobi’s Board to 
make decisions regarding the repurchase of 
issued C shares, and (iii) the transfer of Sobi’s 
own shares to participants in the programme.
The AGM also resolved to transfer a max -
imum of 215,908 of Sobi’s own shares in 
order to cover some expenses, mainly social 
security contributions, that may arise due to 
the 2018 Incentive Programme. The AGM 
also resolved to authorise the Board of Direc -
tors to make decisions regarding the issue of 
shares and/or convertibles and/or warrants. 
At 31 December 2021, Sobi held  
11,959,198 shares in treasury. In 2021, all pre-
viously issued C shares were converted into 
ordinary shares. For more detailed informa-
tion about the total number of shares in the 
company, the number of different classes of 
shares and the votes carried by the compa-
ny’s shares, refer to the section on shares on 
page 28.
Dividend policy
One of Sobi’s most important objectives is to 
create long-term shareholder value. Sobi’s 
Board bases its evaluation of potential future 
dividends on several factors, including: 
• the company’s sustainable earnings trend;
• the company’s expansion potential and 
access to capital; 
• the company’s operational risk, and
• the dividen’s impact on liquidity in terms 
of cash flow.
The Board proposes that no dividend be paid 
for 2021. In the short term, the company 
intends to use accrued profits to finance the 
continued licensing and acquisition of med-
icines for the pipeline as well as the global 
expansion of its business. 
2. Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee represents 
Sobi’s shareholders and is tasked with pre-
paring the AGM’s resolutions on election and 
remuneration matters.
According to the instructions and stat-
utes adopted by the AGM on 9 May 2019, the Nomination Committee shall consist of 
four members: the Chair of the Board and 
one representative from each of the three 
largest shareholders in terms of votes in the 
company on the last banking day of August, 
based on ownership statistics from Euro-
clear Sweden AB, who wish to appoint a rep-
resentative. The Nomination Committee 
observes the rules on the independence of 
Board members according to the Swedish 
Corporate Governance Code. The names of 
the members of the Nomination Committee 
prior to the 2022 AGM were published on the 
company’s website on 3 December 2021. 
In the period up to the 2022 AGM, the 
Nomination Committee had the following 
composition: Petra Hedengran (Investor AB), 
Chair of the Nomination Committee, Len-
nart Francke (Swedbank Robur Fonder AB), 
Thomas Ehlin (Fourth Swedish National Pen-
sion Fund) and Håkan Björklund, Chair of the 
Board of Sobi. Prior to the 2022 AGM, the 
Nomination Committee held three minuted 
meetings. As a basis for its work, the Nomina-
tion Committee has taken note of the Chair’s 
account of the Board’s work. The Nomina-
tion Committee has prepared proposals for 
the AGM regarding the election of Board 
members, the remuneration of Board and 
Committee members, the appointment of 
auditor, auditor fees and Chair of the AGM.
3. Board/Chair of the Board
Sobi is a biopharmaceutical company with a 
focus on marketing, developing and manu-
facturing pharmaceutical products to treat 
rare diseases. The product portfolio con-
tains both marketed products and products 
at various stages of development. It is there-
fore crucial that Board members have rele-
vant experience from marketing and research 
in the pharmaceutical industry, as well as 
solid financial expertise. The Board is respon-
sible for the Group’s organisation and man-
agement. The Board also decides on overall 
objectives, strategies, the financial structure, 
policies, appointment of the CEO, remuner -
ation of the Executive Committee, acquisi-
Nomination Committee prior to the 2022 AGM 
Name/RepresentingVotes  
31 Dec 2021, % Votes  
31 Dec 2020, % 
Petra Hedengran (Chair of the Nomination Committee)  
Investor AB 35.0 35.4
Lennart Francke 
Swedbank Robur Fonder AB 1.4 4.9
Thomas Ehlin 
Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4) 6.7 4.5
Håkan Björklund 
Chair of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 0.0 0.0
Total 43.1 44.8
CORpORATE GO vERnAnCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
94tions, divestments and major investments. 
The Board produces Annual and Interim 
Reports and proposes dividends to the AGM.
The Board’s work is based on its charter, the 
CEO instructions and the principles for the 
division of work between the CEO, Chair of 
the Board, Board members and committees 
established by the Board. The Board Char -
ter and the CEO instructions are revised and 
updated once a year.
Composition of the Board
The company’s Board shall comprise a min-
imum of three and a maximum of 12 mem-
bers. The Nomination Committee rep-
resents the shareholders and is responsible 
for preparing the AGM’s decisions on mat-
ters related to election and remuneration 
and, when applicable, procedural matters for 
the next Nomination Committee. The Nomi-
nation Committee has applied rule 4.1 of the 
Swedish Corporate Governance Code as a 
diversity policy. The objective of the policy 
is that the Board shall have an appropriate 
composition with regard to the company’s 
business, stage of development and situation 
in general, characterised by versatility and 
breadth in respect of the competence, expe-
rience and background of members elected by the AGM, and that efforts shall be made 
to achieve an even gender distribution. As 
set out in the Nomination Committee’s rea-
soned opinion to the 2021 AGM, the Nom-
ination Committee has taken into account 
the importance of a well-functioning Board 
in terms of diversity, including sex, nation-
ality, professional experience and experi-
ence of sustainability work, and believes that 
achieving and maintaining a gender balance 
is important. The current composition of the 
Board is the result of the Nomination Com-
mittee’s work prior to the 2021 AGM.
The 2021 AGM adopted the Nomina-
tion Committee’s proposal that the Board, 
as of the 2021 AGM and until 31 December 
2021, has consisted of eight elected mem-
bers (six re-elected and two newly elected by 
the 2021 AGM) as well as two employee rep-
resentatives appointed by the trade union 
organisations (plus two deputies for the 
employee representatives). When Anders 
Ullman took office as Head of Research 
& Development at the turn of the year, he 
stepped down from the Board, after which 
the Board consisted of seven elected mem-
bers. Four of the elected Board members are 
women.For more information about the Board, see 
pages 100–101.
Independence
The company meets the Swedish Corporate 
Governance Code’s independence require-
ments in that a majority of the AGM-elected 
Board members are independent of the 
company and its management, and that at 
least two of them are independent of major 
shareholders. The table on page 96 shows 
the independence of Board members on the 
publication date of this report. 
Chair of the Board
In addition to leading the Board’s work, the 
Chair of the Board’s duties include monitor -
ing the company’s performance and ensur -
ing that any important matters are addressed 
if required, in addition to those already on the 
agenda. The Chair shall consult with the CEO 
on strategic matters, participate in import-
ant external relationships and represent the 
company in ownership issues. The Chair is 
also responsible for ensuring that the Board’s 
work is regularly evaluated and that new 
Board members receive adequate training. 
Important events in Board work in 2021
 In order to carry out effective board work, the Board has established three committees – the Audit Committee, Compensation & Benefits 
Committee and Scientific Committee. The committees observe the rules of procedure established by the Board. The committees pre-
pare relevant proposals and recommendations within their own areas of expertise, and submit them to the Board.2 BOARD MEETINGS
•  Adoption of 2020 year-end report
• Adoption of 2021 STI programme 
BOARD MEETING  
•  Adoption of 2020 Annual Report. 
• Determination of the Board’s instructions
•  Adoption of the minutes of the previous 
year’s AGM
2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Adoption of 2021 Q2 report
•  Approval of repurchase of own shares for  
the LTI programme
• Discussion of the offer from Advent and GIC4 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Adoption of 2021 Q3 report
• Discussion of the offer from Advent and GICBOARD MEETING  
•  Discussion of the offer from  
Advent and GIC
2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Discussion of the offer from Advent and GIC5 BOARD MEETINGS
•  Discussion of the offer from  
Advent and GIC
4 BOARD MEETINGS
•  Discussion of the offer from  
Advent and GIC4 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Adoption of 2021 Q1 report
• Discussion of the offer from Advent and GIC2 BOARD MEETINGS  
•  Adoption of 2022 budget
2021CORpORATE GO vERnAnCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
95Number of meetings
In addition to the statutory Board meeting, 
the Board shall meet at least four times per 
year, generally in connection with the pub-
lication of interim and annual reports and 
the AGM. Additional meetings or teleconfer -
ences are convened as necessary. The Board 
conducts an in-depth strategic review of 
operations during at least one of the Board 
meetings each year. For 2022, the Board has 
scheduled a total of nine ordinary meetings. 
Board work in 2021
In 2021, the Board held a total of 27 meet-
ings, of which eight were scheduled in addi-
tion to the statutory meeting, and 18 were 
extra meetings. Sobi’s CEO and President 
attends Board meetings, as does Sobi’s Gen-
eral Counsel, who has served as secretary at 
the meetings. Other Sobi employees have 
attended in a reporting capacity. The number 
of extra Board meetings was mainly moti-
vated by the all-cash public offer by Advent 
and GIC to Sobi’s shareholders, and by dis-
cussions related to business development 
projects. The matters addressed are shown 
in the illustration on page 95. The Board 
members’ attendance at Board meetings 
is presented in the table below. Board fees 
At the AGM on 4 May 2021, the Board 
resolved that for the period until the next 
AGM, a fee of KSEK 515 would be paid to 
each of the elected Board members except 
for the Chair, who would be paid a fee of 
KSEK 1,575. Fees for the Audit Committee’s 
work would be KSEK 175 for the Chair and 
KSEK 105 for each of the other members. 
Fees for the Compensation & Benefits Com-
mittee’s work would be KSEK 115 for the 
Chair and KSEK 65 for each of the other 
members. Fees for the Scientific Commit-
tee’s work would be KSEK 115 for the Chair 
and KSEK 65 for each of the other members. 
In 2021, Board fees of KSEK 5,770 were paid, 
including remuneration for committee work.
It was further resolved that for each phys-
ical Board meeting, a fee of KSEK 10 would 
be paid to Board members residing in Europe 
but outside the Nordic region, and KUSD 3 
to Board members residing outside Europe. 
The Board members’ remuneration for 
Committee meetings is presented in the 
table below.
Evaluation of the Board’s work 
The Board conducts an annual evaluation 
of its work. The evaluation covers working 
methods and climate, and the main focus 
of the Board’s work. This evaluation also 
focuses on access to, and the need for, spe-
cific skills on the Board. The evaluation is 
used as a tool for developing the Board’s work, and serves as input for the Nomination 
Committee’s work. Every year, the Chair ini-
tiates and leads the evaluation of the Board’s 
work. In 2021, the evaluation took the form 
of individual discussions between the Chair 
and individual Board members. The Chair 
presented the results of the evaluation for 
the Nomination Committee. 
4. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s main task is to 
address issues related to the company’s 
accounting, auditing and financial reporting, 
and matters related to internal governance 
and control. Up until the AGM in May 2021, 
the Audit Commmitte consisted of: Lennart 
Johansson (Chair), Helena Saxon and Staffan 
Schüberg. After the AGM in May 2021, the 
Audit Committee consisted of three members, 
all whom are independent of management: 
• Helena Saxon (Chair)
• Staffan Schüberg
• Filippa Stenberg 
Sobi’s CFO serves as secretary of the Com-
mittee, but is not a member. Sobi’s CEO 
attended all meetings but is not formally a 
member. The Committee held six meetings 
during the year. Sobi’s auditor attended five 
of the meetings. The Committee reports reg-
ularly to the Board about its work. The Board 
members’ attendance and remuneration 
for committee meetings is presented in the 
table below.
Remuneration (KSEK) Attendance1
Indepen-
dence FeesAudit 
 CommitteeCompensa-
tion & 
 Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee Other5 Total BoardAudit 
 CommitteeCompensa-
tion & 
 Benefits 
CommitteeScientific 
Committee
Håkan Björklund x 1,550 – 113 – – 1,663 27/27 – 8/8 –
Annette Clancy x 507 – – 80 – 587 24/27 – – 3/3
Matthew Gantz x 507 – 63 – – 570 25/27 – 6/8 –
Lennart Johansson2 x 163 53 – – – 217 4/4 3/3 – –
Helena Saxon3 507 150 63 – – 720 18/18 6/6 8/8 –
Staffan Schüberg x 507 103 – – 10 620 27/27 6/6 – –
Filippa Stenberg2 3 343 70 – – – 413 14/14 3/3 – –
Elisabeth Svanberg x 507 – 63 – – 570 27/27 – – 3/3
Anders Ullman2, 6 x 343 – 77 – – 420 20/21 – – 2/3
Pia Axelson4 – – – – – – 27/27 – – –
Erika Husing4 – – – – – – 27/27 – – –
Linda Larsson4 – – – – – – 16/20 – – –
Katy Mazibuko4 – – – – – – 20/20 – – –
1. The figures in the table show the totals for attendance/meetings. In 2021, the Board held a total of 27 meetings, of which eight were scheduled in addition to the statutory meeting  
and 18 were extra meetings. The Audit Committee held six meetings, the Compensation & Benefits Committee held eight meetings, and the Scientific Committee held three meetings.
2. At the AGM on 4 May, Lennart Johansson stepped down from his position as ordinary Board member, while Filippa Stenberg and Anders Ullman were appointed new ordinary Board members.
3.  Board member does not qualify as independent in relation to major shareholders.
4. Employee representatives. 
5. For each physical Board meeting, a fee of KSEK 10 is paid to members who live in Europe but outside the Nordic region, and KUSD 3 to each member who lives outside Europe.
6. In addition to Board fee the Board member has invoiced consulting fees of K 600 SEK for business strategic work initiatives that do not pertain to Board work.
CORpORATE GO vERnAnCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
965. Compensation & Benefits  Committee
The Compensation & Benefits Committee’s 
task is to recommend guidelines and prin-
ciples for Sobi’s remuneration programmes. 
This includes a review of and proposals for 
the remuneration of senior executives, the 
long-term incentive programmes, pension 
plans and other issues related to employee 
benefits. Sobi’s Compensation & Benefits 
Committee consists of three members, who 
are all independent of management:
• Håkan Björklund (Chair)
• Helena Saxon
• Matthew Gantz
Sobi’s General Counsel and Head of HR 
serves as secretary of the Committee, but is 
not a member. The Compensation & Ben-
efits Committee met eight times during the 
year. At these meetings, the Committee dis-
cussed and monitored annual salary revisions 
and bonus outcomes for the CEO and senior 
executives, and proposed guidelines and 
allotments for the long-term incentive pro-
gramme. The Committee reports regularly to 
the Board about its work.
A remuneration report has been prepared 
and will be presented at the 2022 AGM for 
adoption by the shareholders. The Board 
members’ attendance and remuneration 
for committee meetings is presented in the 
table on page 96. For information about sala-
ries and remuneration of the CEO and senior 
executives, see Note 10. 
6. Scientific Committee
The Scientific Committee’s task is to provide 
advice on scientific matters, to evaluate the 
company’s R&D strategies and to monitor 
and report to the Board on scientific trends 
and new fields of R&D. Up until the AGM in 
May 2021, the Scientific Committee con-
sisted of two members: Anette Clancy (Chair) 
and Elisabeth Svanberg. After the AGM in May 
2021, the Scientific Committee consisted of 
three members:
• Anders Ullman (Chair)
• Annette Clancy
• Elisabeth SvanbergWhen Anders Ullman took office as Head of 
Research & Development, the Board decided 
to declare the Scientific Committee tempo-
rarily dormant. 
Sobi’s CEO and Chief Medical Officer/Head 
of Research & Development attended the 
meetings, but are not formal members. Chief 
Medical Officer/Head of Research & Devel-
opment served as secretary of the Commit-
tee. During the year, the Committee held 
three meetings. The following issues were 
discussed at these meetings:
• Development of the company’s R&D 
 portfolio
• The R&D organisation
• Review of individual projects
•  Review and follow-up of the organisation’s 
targets
• Budget
• Business development opportunities
The Committee reports regularly to the 
Board about its work. The Board members’ 
attendance and remuneration for commit-
tee meetings is presented in the table on 
page 96.
7. Chief Executive Officer and  
Executive Committee
Sobi’s Executive Committee consists of the 
CEO and managers of the most important 
functions and regions. The Executive Com-
mittee has a broad composition of mem-
bers with extensive experience in R&D, the 
markets in which Sobi operates and the pro-
duction and sale of drugs. In addition, mem-
bers of the Executive Committee hold the 
required competence in accounting, finance, 
law, communications and HR. In 2021, the 
Executive Committee held one meeting 
every month. Due to the pandemic,  several 
of these meetings were held virtually. For 
more detailed information about the Execu-
tive Committee, see pages 102–103.
Each year, the Board establishes the divi-
sion of work between the Board, the Chair 
and the CEO. Operational management is 
based on the decision-making procedure 
adopted by the Board, which is reflected in 
the organisational form and business model 
that govern Sobi and how the company works. 8. Auditor
Sobi’s auditor is the auditing firm Ernst 
& Young AB (EY), with Authorised Public 
Accountant Jonatan Hansson as auditor 
in charge. EY was elected as Sobi’s auditor 
until the end of the 2022 AGM and has been 
Sobi’s auditor since the 2014 AGM. The audi-
tor reviews the Q3 interim report and audits 
the annual report and consolidated finan-
cial statements. The auditor also expresses 
an opinion on whether this Corporate Gov-
ernance Report has been prepared, and 
whether certain disclosures herein are con-
sistent with, the annual accounts and con-
solidated financial statements. The audi-
tor reports the results of their audit of the 
annual accounts and consolidated finan-
cial statements and their review of the Cor -
porate Governance Report in the auditor’s 
report, with a separate opinion on the Cor -
porate Governance Report, which they pres-
ent to the AGM. In addition, the auditor pres-
ents detailed findings from their reviews to 
the Audit Committee three times a year, and 
to the full Board once a year. 
For information about remuneration of 
the company’s auditors, see Note 11.CORpORATE GO vERnAnCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
97Risk management and internal control  
over financial reporting
The Board is responsible for ensuring effec -
tive internal control systems in accordance 
with the Swedish Companies Act (2005:551), 
the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) 
and the Swedish Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board presents the most import-
ant elements of Sobi’s internal control and 
risk management systems in connection with 
the financial reporting process. 
Sobi’s internal control framework
Sobi’s internal control complies with the 
COSO Framework (Committee of Sponsor -
ing Organizations of the Treadway Com-
mission) which consists of five components: 
control environment, risk assessment, con-
trol activities, information & communication 
and monitoring activities. 
The illustration below provides an over -
view of Sobi’s framework for internal control 
over financial reporting and shows how the 
framework’s components interact to ensure 
good internal control over financial report-
ing. The components are described in more 
detail below.Control environment
The control environment constitutes the 
basis of Sobi’s internal control. The control 
environment mainly comprises the culture 
on which the Board and management base 
their work and communication to the opera-
tions through Sobi’s internal regulations. 
The control environment for financial report-
ing comprises an organisational structure 
with clear powers, areas of responsibility, 
decision-making paths and governing docu-
ments that support the financial processes.
Sobi’s governing documents are gathered on 
the company’s intranet. Some of the govern-
ing documents with relevance for financial 
reporting are: 
• Sobi’s Code of Conduct
• Decision-making powers established by 
the Board
• Signing authorisation instructions
• Reporting instructions
• Accounting manual
• Treasury Policy
• Risk Management PolicyRisk assessment
Effective risk assessment aligns Sobi’s busi-
ness opportunities and profits with share-
holders’ and other stakeholders’ demands 
for stable, long-term value growth and con-
trol. The aim of Sobi’s risk management pro-
cess is to support the company’s operations 
and create profitable business opportunities 
combined with good control over risk. The 
risk management process contributes with 
structures and systems to proactively identify 
and manage risks that could have a negative 
impact on the company’s ability to achieve its 
set targets. Sobi’s risk management process 
is intra-organisational. In regard to  financial 
reporting, the operational units perform risk 
assessments together with the  responsible 
Group controllers to identify, assess and 
ensure control over risks in accounting and 
reporting processes. 
Significant risks identified by Sobi are 
described on pages 39–41. 
Control activities
The aim of control activities is to manage 
identified risks and contribute to good inter -
nal control and efficiency. Control activi-
ties applicable to financial reporting include 
approval of decisions and transactions, 
account reconciliation and analytical mon-
itoring. Sobi’s control activities are either 
manual or integrated with the ERP systems 
used, such as IFS, Cognos, Business Intel-
ligence and so forth. Sobi also has Gen-
eral IT Controls in place for managing its 
system environment. General IT Controls 
include Identity and Access Management 
and Change Management.Sobi’s internal control framework 
General IT ControlsInternal regulations
Control of key financial  
processes
Inform
ation and communicationFollow-up
Risk assessment
CORpORATE GO vERnAnCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
98Information and communication
Sobi has internal information and commu-
nication channels to ensure that financial 
reporting disclosures are efficient and accu-
rate. Sobi’s intranet is the main communica-
tion platform. The Group’s financial organisa-
tion also holds annual meetings with a focus 
on ensuring that everyone has enough infor -
mation to ensure accurate financial report-
ing. The Board and its Audit Committee 
receive regular reports on the Group’s finan-
cial position and performance.
Procedures for external information disclo-
sure aim to provide the market with rele-
vant, reliable and accurate information about 
Sobi’s performance and financial position. 
The guidelines for financial reporting are set 
out in Sobi’s Communication Policy. Finan-
cial information is presented regularly in the 
form of:
• Interim reports 
• Annual report
• Press releases about important news 
and events that could significantly affect 
the valuation of the company and the 
share price
• Presentations and teleconferences for 
financial analysts, investors and media 
 representatives on the publication date 
of interim reports and in connection with 
the release of other important information
• Meetings with investors and financial 
 analysts
•  Reports, presentations and press releases 
are published on the Group’s website 
www.sobi.com Follow-up
Forms of supervision of internal control are 
determined by the Board and the Audit Com-
mittee. Sobi’s CFO is responsible for ensur -
ing that internal controls are conducted in 
accordance with the Board’s decisions. Sobi 
has had one employee with responsibility for 
strengthening the Group’s internal control 
since 2017. The function reports to the CFO 
and prepares an internal control plan every 
year, which is approved and monitored by 
the CFO.
  The Board deals with all interim reports and 
annual report prior to publication, and mon-
itors the review of internal control through 
the Audit Committee. 
The company’s external auditor reports their 
observations and assessment of internal con-
trols to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit
Sobi does not have a separate internal audit 
function, but has decided that those respon-
sible for internal control together with the 
existing organisation, primarily in the Trea-
sury function, assess and monitor compli-
ance with Sobi’s internal control framework 
every year. The Board and Audit Commit-
tee regularly examine the issue of whether 
an internal audit function should be estab-
lished, and based on this year’s internal con-
trol report makes the assessment that a sep-
arate internal audit function is not necessary 
at present.Activities in 2021 that strengthened  
internal control
• Clarification of the Group’s internal   
control framework
• Implementation of risk and control 
 matrices for the Group’s core financial 
processes
• Implementation of an internal evaluation 
process for the Group’s internal control 
framework
• Adjustments to the Group’s risk manage-
ment process
Activities in focus for 2022 to further 
strengthen internal control
• Further development of the Group’s 
framework for internal control over 
 financial reporting.
• Implementation of process for internal 
control review.
• Implementation of systems support for 
managing risk, control and monitoring.
Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan  
Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate 
 governance statement for the year 2021 on pages 93–103 and that 
it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s stan-
dard RevR 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance 
statement. This means that our examination of the corporate gov-
ernance statement is different and substantially less in scope than 
an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We 
believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for 
our opinions.Opinions
A Corporate Governance Report was prepared. Disclosures in accor -
dance with Chapter 6, Section 6, second paragraph, points 2–6 of 
the Annual Accounts Act and Chapter 7, Section 31, second para-
graph of the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and 
the  consolidated accounts, and are in accordance with the Annual 
Accounts Act.
Stockholm, March 31, 2022
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Authorised Public AccountantCORpORATE GO vERnAnCE REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
99The Board
Håkan Björklund 
Born 1956 
Chair. Board member since 2016. Member of the 
Compensation and Benefits Committee (Chair).
PhD from Karolinska Institutet
Other assignments: Chairman of OneMed. Chairman 
of BioPhorum. Board member of Bonesupport. 
 Partner at Tellacq Partners. Advisor to Rothschild 
 Private Equity.
Previous positions: CEO of Nycomed. Extensive 
international background in the life-science industry, 
from both R&D and sales and marketing. Board 
member of several international life-science 
 companies including Alere, Coloplast, Danisco, and 
Lundbeck. Board member of Biovitrum 2001–2007.
Independent of the company and its executive  
management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 15,800Annette Clancy
Born 1954 
Board member since 2014. 
BSc Hons Pharmacology from Bath University 
Other assignments: Non-executive Chair of the 
Board of Enyo SA. Board member of Obseva SA. 
 Investor at Jeito Capital.
Previous positions: Senior Advisor, Biopharma ceutical 
Team of Frazier Healthcare. Chair of the Board of 
Directors of Genable Therapeutics and Lysogene SA. 
Non-Executive Board Director at Silence Therapeu -
tics plc. and Clavis Pharma. Head of Transaction and 
 Alliance Management at Glaxo-SmithKline (GSK).
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 3,414Matthew Gantz
Born 1965 
Board member since 2012. Member of the 
 Compensation and Benefits Committee.
BA Princeton University and MBA from Harvard 
 Business School 
Other assignments: CEO of Castle Creek Biosciences 
Inc. Member of the board of the Marine Corps Scholar -
ship Foundation.
Previous positions: CEO of OxThera AB. Executive 
Vice President of BTG Plc. Founder and CEO of Acureon 
Pharmaceuticals. President and CEO of Hydrabiosci -
ences Inc. VP Europe for Chiron’s Biopharmaceutical 
Division. GM for PathoGenesis Europe. Various US sales 
and marketing roles at Abbott Laboratories Diagnostic 
Division. Board member of Life Sciences 
of Pennsylvania Association.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 0
Helena Saxon
Born 1970 
Board member since 2011. Member of the Audit 
Committee (chair) and Compensation and Benefits 
Committee.
MSc from Stockholm School of Economics 
Other assignments: CFO at Investor AB. Board 
member of SEB. 
Previous positions: CFO at Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. 
Vice President at Investor AB. Financial analyst 
at Goldman Sachs. Board member of Aleris and 
 Mölnlycke Health Care.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: No
Shares: 20,000
THE BOARD
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
100Deputies for the employee  
representatives:
• Katy Mazibuko
• Linda LarssonStaffan Schüberg 
Born 1969 
Board member since 2020. Member of the Audit 
Committee.
BA Hons Business Administration from the London 
Guildhall University. 
Other assignments: CEO and Board member of the 
ESTEVE Group. Board member of Dizlin Pharmaceuti -
cals AB, Hangzhou Jiuyuan Gene Engineering Co. Ltd 
and Corporacíon Químico Farmacéutical Esteve S.A.
Previous positions: More than 20 years of experience 
from Board and executive management roles, includ -
ing a number of senior positions within Lundbeck A/S, 
such as Regional Vice President for Southern and 
Western Europe, President and Chairman of the U.S. 
operations and Global Chief Commercial Officer on 
Group level.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 4,500Filippa Stenberg
Born 1985
Board member since 2021. Member of the Audit 
Committee.
MSc in Economics from Stockholm School of 
 Economics.
Other assignments: Investment Manager at 
 Investor AB.
Previous assignments: Analyst at Swedbank LC&I.
Independent of the company and its executive
management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders
of the Company: No
Shares: 500Elisabeth Svanberg
Born 1961
Board member since 2018. 
MD and PhD from the University of Gothenburg, 
Sweden, Associate Professor of surgery.
Other assignments: Chief Development Officer at 
Ixaltis SA. Board member of Egetis Pharmaceuticals 
(formerly PledPharma AB), Galapagos NV, Amolyt 
Pharma and  Pharnext.
Previous positions: Board member of Follicum AB 
and of the Swedish American Chamber of Commerce 
New York. Head of the Established Products Group at 
Janssen Pharmaceuticals. Development Leader and 
Head of Medical Affairs (Intercon) at Bristol Myers 
Squibb. Various senior R&D management roles at 
Serono International.
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: Yes
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 2,658
Pia Axelson
Born 1962 
Employee representative 
Board member since 2019. Deputy Board member 
2019. Board member 2017. Deputy board member 
2009 to 2017. Representative of the council for 
 negotiation and cooperation. 
Medical laboratory scientist
Laboratory engineer
Independent of the company and its executive  
 management: No
Independent in relation to major shareholders  
of the Company: Yes
Shares: 7,381Erika Husing
Born 1973
Employee representative
Board member since 2020
Representative of the council for negotiation and 
cooperation.
CRM Application Manager, Commercial Effectiveness
MSc Chemistry
Independent of the company and its executive 
 management: No
Independent in relation to major shareholders 
of the Company: Yes
Shareholding in the company: 75
All shareholdings reported as per 
31 December 2021.
THE BOARD
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
101Executive committee
Guido Oelkers
Chief Executive Officer
Born 1965
Employed since 2017
PhD in Strategic Management, University of 
South Australia. Master of Economics, South 
Bank University, London. Complementary studies 
in Economics, London School of Economics and 
Political Science.
Other assignments: Chair of the Advisory Committee 
of Zentiva Group. Industrial Advisor EQT.
Previous positions: CEO of BSN Medical GmbH. 
 President & CEO of Gambro. EVP Commercial 
 Operations at Nycomed. CEO of Invida. Global Head 
of Healthcare at DKSH. Managerial roles at Aventis 
and preceding entities. Board member of Meda and 
Sartorius AG.
Shares: 298,675
Duane H. Barnes
Head of North America
Born 1960
Employed since 2021
MBA and MSc, Indiana University, Kelley School of 
Business. BA, West Virginia University, Eberly College 
of Arts and Sciences.
Other assignments: Board member of BIO, Biotech -
nology Innovation Organization. Board member of 
HLC, Healthcare Leadership Council.
Previous positions: President and Head of US Opera -
tions at UCB. Vice President & General Manager, 
Value, Access, Reimbursement and Patient Experi -
ence at Amgen. Chief Operating Officer at Prime 
Therapeutics. Division President, Head of Pharmacy 
at Aetna Healthcare.
Shares: 0
Christine Wesström
Head of Technical Operations
Born 1975
Employed since 2010
MSc in Chemical Engineering, major in Biotechnol -
ogy, Mälardalens University. 
Previous positions: Head of Global Manufacturing & 
Infrastructure, Head of External Manufacturing at 
Sobi. Project Management roles within Manufacturing 
& CMC Development at Biovitrum.
Shares: 5,406
Henrik Stenqvist
Chief Financial Officer
Born 1967
Employed since 2018
Degree in Finance and Business Administration, Uni -
versity of Linköping.
Other assignments: Board member of Midsona AB.
Previous positions: CFO at Recipharm. CFO at Meda. 
Regional Finance Director at AstraZeneca. Finance 
Director at Astra Export & Trading. Board member of 
MedCap AB.
Shares: 33,449Torbjörn Hallberg
General Counsel and Head of Legal Affairs,  
Head of Human Resources
Born 1969 
Employed since 2018
Master of Laws, University of Lund.
Previous positions: Vice President, General Counsel, 
Emerging Markets at Takeda Pharmaceuticals. 
 Corporate Counsel at Nycomed Pharma. Corporate 
Counsel at Ferring Pharmaceuticals. Senior Associate/
Lawyer at Advokatfirman Lindahl.
Shares: 13,949
Sofiane Fahmy
Head of Europe
Born 1972
Employed since 2013
Degree in Marketing, University of Paris XI. Degree in 
Pharmacy University of Poitiers.
Previous positions: General Manager Sobi France and 
North Africa. Managerial roles at Pfizer. Commercial 
roles at GSK. Brand Manager Hospital Products at 
Roche.
Shares: 11,720
ExECuTIvE COMMITTEE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
102Norbert Oppitz
Head of International
Born 1967 
Employed since 2017
Dipl. BW (FH)/Business Administrator, FH Rhenania 
Palatina/Mainz.
Previous positions: Member of the Executive 
 Committee of BSN Medical, in charge of Latin 
 America. Member of the Executive Committee 
of Endo Pharmaceuticals, Emerging Markets. Head 
of Latin America at Takeda/Nycomed. Country 
 management roles at Roche Pharmaceuticals and 
Aventis Pharma.
Shares: 19,949
Armin Reininger
Head of Medical and Scientific Affairs
Born 1957 
Employed since 2017
MD, PhD, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich. 
 Certified specialist in Transfusion Medicine. Professor 
of Anatomy at the Ludwig Maximilians University 
Munich.
Previous positions: Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Haemophilia at Baxter. Head of Global Medical Affairs 
Haematology at Baxalta. Head of Medical Affairs EMEA 
Haematology at Baxalta/Shire. Senior Physician at 
University Clinic Munich, Harvard Medical School & 
Mass. General Hospital, Boston, MA. The Scripps 
Research Institute, La Jolla, CA. Professor of Anatomy 
at the Ludwig Maximilians-University Munich. 
Shares: 12,454
Mahmood Ladha
Head of Business Development 
Born 1964
Employed since 2019
MBA and BS, University of South Carolina.
Previous positions: President and Head of Dova 
 Pharmaceuticals. Senior Advisor to CEO, VP and Head 
of Transactions at AstraZeneca. Executive Director 
and Head of US Respiratory at AstraZeneca.
Shares: 0Thomas Kudsk Larsen
Head of Communication and Investor Relations
Born 1974
Employed since 2021
HD in Finance, Copenhagen Business School.
Previous positions: Head of Investor Relations at 
AstraZeneca. Head of Investor Relations North 
 America at Roche. Manager, Investor Relations, 
Stakeholder Relations at Novozymes. Financial 
 analyst, controller, other finance positions, finance 
trainee at Novo Nordisk.
Shares: 0
Daniel Rankin
Head of Global Portfolio and Product Strategy
Born 1980
Employed since 2017
PhD in Biology from University of Helsinki. MSc in 
Biology from Leiden University. BSc from University 
of York.
Previous positions: Head of Corporate Development 
at Sobi. VP Chief of Staff to the CEO at Sobi. Manage -
ment consultant at McKinsey & Company New York 
and Zurich. Group Leader at the University of Zurich.
Shares: 5,454
All shareholdings reported as per 
31 December 2021.Anders Ullman
Head of Research & Development, Chief Medical 
Officer
Born 1956
Employed since 2022
MD, PhD in Clinical Pharmacology.
Other assignments: Board member of Verona 
Pharma plc.
Previous positions: Head of the COPD center at the 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital 2015-2020. More 
than 20 years of experience from several executive 
positions within research and development in the 
international pharmaceutical industry, including 
AstraZeneca, Bayer Pharmaceuticals, Biovitrum, 
Nycomed/Takeda and Baxter Bioscience.
Shares: 3,000
ExECuTIvE COMMITTEE
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
103Sustainability Report 2021
Sobi’s key contributions to sustainable development and the overall 
 sustainability objective are closely aligned with the company vision and 
 strategy – to transform the lives of people living with rare diseases.
Commitment to the 2030 Agenda & the Paris AgreementOur R&D is ethical and  
focused on medical need
We expand access to treatment
We are patient-centric and  
engage with our communities
We contribute to knowledge to  
enhance the practice of medicine 
We focus on patient safetyWe help our people develop and  
keep them safe and healthy
We have zero tolerance for corruption
We source responsibly
We reduce our environmental footprint Business model and sustainable growth 
Sobi’s business model spans from clinical development to patient 
access and global commercialisation. The sustainability strategy is 
closely linked to the business and based on two priorities – commit-
ment to patients and responsible behaviour. By expanding geographi-
cal reach, investing in the development of novel medicines and 
deepening engagement in the areas of haematology, immunology and specialty care, Sobi enhances access to rare disease medicines 
for patients worldwide and positively impacts the people and com-
munities we serve. Sobi is a signatory to the UN Global Compact 
and has integrated the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in 
all business operations. Sobi commits to operating in a way that 
contributes to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) and the Paris Agreement. 
Business strategy 
Sustainability strategyTransform lives within rare diseases
Lead in  
HaematologyGrow  
Immunology and 
Specialty CareGo globalCapture the value  
of our pipeline
Commitment  
to patientsResponsible  
behaviourSuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
104Material sustainability topics 
Sobi’s material sustainability topics reflect areas where the business 
has a significant impact on the economic, environmental or social 
environment, and where the potential impact on Sobi is substantial. 
Since 2019, Sobi has conducted comprehensive materiality 
assessments. This work includes web surveys and targeted interviews 
with internal and external stakeholders, attending conferences, 
participating in ESG ratings and research, and conducting internal 
dialogues on future legislation. Government procurement bodies 
and tender processes, as well as institutional investors and banks, are 
increasing their expectations for a solid sustainability performance. 
To meet these expectations, Sobi started implementing a periodic 
materiality process in 2021, where stakeholder dialogue is conducted 
continuously, and the results provide a basis for senior management 
decision-making. 
Compared to the 2019 outreach to identify the most influential 
sustainability topics, only one topic among the top five has changed. 
All top five topics are scored between important and very important. 
Notably, five of the top ten areas identified in 2021 are connected to 
governance, and only two to environmental topics. In some of the 
most influential topics, stakeholders perceive that Sobi demonstrates 
a strong performance. 
2021 most influential topicsPerceived strong 
 performance (2021)2019 most influential  
topics (reference)
Patient safety & product 
quality ∞Patient safety &  
product quality
Compliance &  
anti-corruptionCompliance &  
anti-corruption
Research ethics Access to treatment
Fair working  
conditions ∞Responsible marketing  
& sales
Access to treatment ∞ Research ethics
Occupational health & safety ∞ Diversity & inclusion
Responsible marketing  
& salesOccupational health  
& safety
Responsible procurement 
practices Impact on communities
Resource management Drug residues
Pharmaceuticals in 
the  environment ∞Use of input materials 
 & chemicals
Relative weighted ranking of the top sustainability topics influencing assessments of Sobi. 
Data collected in web survey December–January 2021–22 with 62 external and internal 
stakeholders. External stakeholder groups include shareholder representatives/analysts, 
suppliers, public procurers/healthcare providers, patient advocacy groups, NGOs and 
trade associations.  
The results show a good correspondence between Sobi’s identified 
priority areas, and the existing sustainability strategy. The feedback on perceived performance highlights a need for continued development 
of sustainability processes at Sobi, and increased communication 
around approach and results, to align with stakeholder expections. 
In 2022, these results will be used in internal dialogue, to identify 
the topics that are material to Sobi from both a financial and impact 
perspective. Conclusions from this will then be used to further 
develop strategy and priorities.   
Sustainability governance 
Management 
Sobi’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for Sobi’s sustain-
ability performance, publicly reported each year in the Annual and 
Sustainability Report. The CEO and the Executive Committee approve 
Sobi’s sustainability strategy, ensure compliance, and decide on 
overall objectives and implementation of the sustainability strategy. 
The leadership teams in each respective area are responsible for 
implementing and following up on the strategy. The Global Head of 
Sustainability is, on behalf of the Executive Committee, responsible 
for driving implementation and communication of the strategy in 
close collaboration with the corporate functions and business units. 
Policies and responsibilities 
The sustainability strategy rests on the Code of Conduct and other 
policies governing sustainability-related topics. The Sobi Code of 
Conduct provides a framework for responsible and appropriate 
conduct, and applies to all Sobi employees worldwide as well as 
temporary personnel. 
Important roles and responsibilities for managing Sobi’s material 
sustainability topics and delivering on the sustainability strategy are: 
• The Sustainability function, which evaluates materiality, creates 
guidelines, supports implementation of the strategy programme 
and reports on outcomes. 
• The Corporate Compliance function, responsible for the imple-
mentation of anti-corruption and healthcare interaction policies, 
data privacy, third party risk due diligence and the compliance 
hotline (whistleblower hotline). 
• The Internal Control function, which evaluates and improves 
processes for management, internal control and risk management. 
• The Technical Operations function, which includes Procurement, 
is responsible for environmental compliance and performance of 
in-house operations, and for monitoring suppliers' and partners' 
adherence, and driving development in accordance with the 
Responsible Sourcing Programme. 
• Sobi's affiliates, which are required to deploy the principles of the 
Code of Conduct and other policies, execute the sustainability 
strategy and drive performance.
• The PACE (Patient Access and Community Engagement) organisa-
tion, supporting patient needs at all stages of the patient journey 
and engaging with key stakeholders. 
Sustainability-related policies
Commitment to patients Responsible behaviour 
•  Policy on Healthcare Interactions
•  Good Pharmaceutical Practice including Good 
Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Good Distri bution 
Practice (GDP), Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and 
Good Pharmaco vigilance Practice (GVP)•  Group Risk Management Policy
• Policy on Fair Competition
• Anti-corruption policy
•  Sobi Group Authority Policy
•  Policy on Anti-  Corruption Due  
 Diligence on Third  Parties
•  Global Expense Policy
• Communication Policy
• Insider Policy•  Procurement Policy
•  Environmental Policy
•  Health and Safety Policy
• Policy on Processing of Personal Data 
• Policy on InvestigationsSuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
105The Sobi Group Compliance function has overall responsibility for 
Sobi's policy framework and conducts yearly reviews to ensure that 
policies are up to date and aligned. All sustainability-related polices 
have appointed owners who are responsible for updating, imple-
menting and monitoring policy adherence. Regular internal reviews 
are performed, often as a collaboration between Group Compliance 
and Group Internal Control. While a complete list can be found at 
www.sobi.com, the most important sustainability-related practices 
and policies are listed on page 105.
External recognition 
Sobi plays an active role in environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) evaluations aiming at continuous improvement in ratings. 
In 2021, Sobi had positive momentum in several indices, indicating 
a positive external response to the effort. 
Sustainability Rating Institutes
Rating 2021 2020 2019
MSCI A A A
Sustainalytics  
(risk ranking in Biotech)20.5 medium risk 
(3 out of 365)26.4 medium risk
(16 out of 367)26.2 medium risk
 (24 out of 362)
ISS C+ 
High relative 
performanceC
High relative 
performance C
High relative 
performance
VigeoEiris 37 36 34
Sobi's sustainability rating
Sobi’s sustainability performance and progress is validated by the 
external sustainability ratings provider EcoVadis. In 2021, Sobi 
increased its EcoVadis score from 47 to 60.
Sustainability risk management 
Sobi’s risk management process is based on the Group Risk Manage-
ment Policy. The process aims to identify and assess all relevant 
strategic, operational, financial and regulatory risks, and sustain-
ability risks have been included in the overall risk mapping. The risk 
assessment and the results of the 2021 risk management process are described in detail on pages 39–41. The Risk Management 
 function reports the risk status to the Executive Committee, and to  
the Board of Directors. As part of the risk management process, 
the company’s critical flows are identified, and business continuity 
plans are implemented. 
Sustainability reporting and communication 
The aim of Sobi’s sustainability reporting and communication is to 
provide investors and other stakeholders with accurate and relevant 
information about sustainability performance, goals and strategy. 
Sobi is committed to transparency in sustainability performance 
and progress. 
Sobi is preparing to include analysis and reporting according to 
the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). Regarding the EU Taxonomy Regulation, for 
2021, Sobi has carried out an analysis of to what extent the com-
pany’s economic activities meet the criteria set out in the Taxonomy 
Regulation. The analysis showed that Sobi’s core business, which is 
commercialising, development and manufacturing of pharmaceutical 
products, is not an economic activity that is included in the Taxonomy 
Regulation yet. Therefore, Sobi’s share of eligible turnover as defined 
by the Taxonomy Regulation, is 0%. Sobi will continue to closely 
follow the development of the Taxonomy Regulation in coming years.  
The Sustainability Report has been approved by Sobi’s auditors in 
line with requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act.
Sustainability strategy 
Sobi’s sustainability strategy helps deliver on the vision of transform-
ing the lives of people living with rare diseases and will be crucial 
to execution of the business strategy. Progress in sustainability 
performance will also deliver value to Sobi’s stakeholders and society 
in general. The sustainability strategy is based on two priorities – 
commitment to patients and responsible behaviour – and includes 
nine sustainability commitments. Each priority is linked to the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and is connected to targets 
perceived as business-critical. The sustainability strategy is based on 
Sobi’s commitment to transparency and the realisation of the 2030 
Agenda as expressed by the UN SDGs and the Paris Agreement.SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
106Commitment to patients and the SDGs
Sustainable Development 
Goals Sustainable Development targets Action and ambitions Progress Read more 
SDG 3 Good health  
and  wellbeing3.2  End preventable deaths 
of newborns and children 
under 5 years of agePromote life expectancy by expanding 
access to paediatric treatmentsSynagis (palivizumab) is the only approved 
medicine for the prevention of serious 
lower respiratory tract infections caused 
by RSV in high-risk infants.  
More institutions in the US have begun 
using Gamifant for treating primary HLH, 
and the medicine was approved in the UAE 
during 2021.
Kineret approved in Russia for CAPS and 
Still’s disease (adults and children from 
eight months and 10 kilo)p 16 
 
 
p 16 
 
 
p 20
3.4  Reduce premature mortality 
from non-communicable 
 diseasesIncrease number of R&D programmes  
in rare diseases and areas of high 
 medical needApproximately ten projects focused on 
five medicines and aiming for more than 
60 launches in key geographies. 
The approval of Kineret in the EU for treat-
ment of COVID-19 related pneumonia in 
adult patients with risk of developing severe 
respiratory failure was preceded by a land-
mark phase 3 study, SAVE-MORE.
Ongoing R&D programme centred around 
complement C3 inhibitor pegcetacoplan to 
broaden development outside first approved 
indication of PNH into other  diseases and 
patient groups, in collaboration with Apellis. p 11 
 
p 15 
 
 
 
p 21–22
3.8  Achieve universal health 
 coverageContinue 10-year commitment to the 
WFH Humanitarian Aid ProgramSince the initial pledge, over 18,800 people 
with haemophilia have been treated with 
factor donated by Sobi and Sanofi.p 24
Contribute to cost-support pro-
grammesContinued support of Kineret OnTrack and 
Orfadin4U support programmes in the 
United States.p 108
3b  Support R&D and make 
 vaccines and medicines 
 available for allIncrease number of first-in-class 
 medicines in R&D pipeline Five medicines in the pipeline with novel 
mechanisms of action or first-in-class. p 24
10–15% of revenue in R&D spend R&D spend 13% of revenue in 2021 p 34
Expand medicines’ global market reach Distribution agreement expands access to 
7 markets in Latin America. 
Increased market availability of most Sobi 
medicines. p 24 
p 123–124
SDG 10 Reduced  
inequalities 10.3 Equal opportunity Expand rare disease and orphan drug 
 innovation  pipelinePegcetacoplan investigations outside first 
approved indicationp 21–22
SDG 16 Peace, justice  
and strong institutions16.7  Inclusive, participatory and 
representative decision- 
making Include patient and healthcare 
 representatives in decision-makingInternational patient councils for insights 
into design of clinical trials and trial 
 protocols.p 110
SDG 17 Partnerships  
for the goals 17.16  Global and multi-stake-
holder partnership for 
 sustainable developmentSupport rare disease organisations 
and participate in multi-stakeholder 
organisationsSobi has important, long-standing relation-
ships with the rare disease community and 
its peak bodies, and is a long-term sponsor 
of several patient organisations. 
Membership in PSCI.p 9 & p 110
p 115
Science and technology 
 innovation for recovery from 
COVID-19 Provide treatment to investigator 
 sponsored studies (ISS) and conduct 
own studies to support use in COVID-19Kineret approved in the EU for treatment of 
COVID-19 in adult patients with pneumonia 
who are at risk of developing severe respira-
tory failure after results from the investiga-
tor-sponsored SAVE-MORE study. p 6 & p 15Commitment to patients 
For Sobi, meaningful engagement and cooperation with the rare 
disease community are essential. Sobi is in a position to improve 
health globally for a number of small and often overlooked patient 
populations and contributes actively to realisation of the SDGs via 
specific targets.  SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
107Ethical R&D focused on medical need  
High-quality and ethical research is of the greatest importance to 
Sobi and contributes to the expansion of treatments for rare diseases 
in areas of unmet medical need. 
Sobi’s pipeline is focused on innovative and differentiated medi-
cines, enabling a step change in therapy in cases of unmet medical 
need where there is no treatment available. Innovation is essential 
for realising the vision of being a global leader in rare diseases. Sobi’s 
medicines are developed and evaluated for multiple indications and 
an integrated lifecycle management approach is applied. Sobi is also 
exploring possibilities within digital health through for example Florio, 
companion diagnostics and genetic screening to optimise treatment 
outcomes. 
Sobi’s development is based on scientific and medical need, and 
the design of the company's own studies and supported studies 
enables a scientifically sound evaluation of the treatments that Sobi 
develops and provides. 
Ethics in clinical development 
To avoid exposing participants to unnecessary risks, all studies are 
ethically and scientifically reviewed and approved, and conducted 
and reported in compliance with the International Conference on 
Harmonisation (ICH) Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (GCP) 
and the latest revision of the Ethical Principles for Medical Research 
Involving Human Subjects (the Declaration of Helsinki).
Participants in clinical trials are given comprehensive, easy-
to-understand information to confirm their voluntary willingness 
to participate and informed consent. Patients also have the right 
to withdraw from a study without compromising their current or 
future care. 
Working in the area of rare diseases may pose extraordinary 
requirements regarding paediatric and vulnerable patients and people 
with genetic diseases. This can include special precautions in areas 
such as obtaining consent, considerations for data privacy in small 
patient populations and research of genetic diseases. Through close 
collaboration with patient representatives, Sobi acts in the belief that 
this group should stand to benefit from the knowledge, practices or 
interventions resulting from the research. 
Sobi conducts its own research openly and publishes clinical 
studies on clinicaltrials.gov. All clinical studies are registered and 
reported, and the complete and accurate results from clinical studies 
are shared even if they show an outcome that is not beneficial. Most 
clinical development is outsourced. Employees as well as sourced 
personnel undergo regular training in the medical aspects, processes 
and monitoring of disease. 
Sobi recognises the important role that investigator-sponsored 
studies (ISS) can play in expanding knowledge related to Sobi’s 
medicines and their associated disease areas. In an ISS, an investiga-
Ethical R&D focused on medical need – Ambitions
• Committed R&D budget for rare  diseases 
•  Increase number of R&D programmes in rare diseases  
and areas of high  medical needs
• Use orphan drug regulations to shorten time to patient 
• Increase number of clinical studies with Sobi's products
• Support investigator-sponsored studiestor independently generates a development proposal to Sobi and a 
request for support; if these are approved, Sobi may provide support, 
which can include drug material, expert advice, funding and more. 
The investigator serves as the study sponsor and assumes full respon-
sibility for ensuring regulatory compliance.
Bioethics 
The use of human biological samples in research and therapy devel-
opment is a potentially sensitive area and internal standard operating 
procedures (SOPs) ensure that all use complies with all relevant 
legislation, regulations and guidelines. Sobi does not conduct 
stem-cell research. Trials on cells of human origin could constitute a 
necessary step during development projects, to verify mechanisms of 
action and ascertain patient safety. Sobi does not perform in-house 
animal studies and contracts only from audited and validated sup-
pliers. Where animal testing is necessary, it is carefully considered 
and justified, with the 3R (replacement, reduction and refinement) 
principles applied.
Expanded access to treatment 
Sobi’s growth strategy and market expansion enables more patients 
to access treatments. Regulatory approvals are necessary for com-
mercialisation in new markets. Sobi has set an ambitious target to 
expand operations and access to treatments into Asia, the Pacific and 
South America which will broaden access to treatments outside exist-
ing markets. Sobi also has a partnership strategy to serve currently 
underserved markets. 
During 2021, five of six of Sobi's main medicines were made avail-
able in a total of 12 new markets. For a review of current approval and 
reimbursement status in markets, see the Market availability table on 
pages 123–124. 
To increase access to treatment, Sobi works with communities to 
increase patient access through the established healthcare system. 
Sobi supports home nursing and medicine delivery programmes, 
telemedicine, patient navigation tools, culturally and linguistically 
adapted tools as well as adherence programmes. 
Medicine delivery programmes to support people living with hae-
mophilia are currently in place in Saudi Arabia, Italy and Spain. In the 
United States, Sobi has been running the patient support programmes 
Kineret OnTrack and Orfadin4U for several years. These programmes 
include services such as guidance on financial assistance and 
reimbursement, treatment guidance, mentor programmes, injection 
training and support, home delivery and waste management. Similar 
services are also available for patients and caregivers using other 
treatments in the US. 
Pricing and reimbursement 
Following regulatory approval, pricing and reimbursement are key 
factors in patient access; these differ in each market. 
Sobi strives to set a price that reflects the benefit that the innova-
tion delivers to patients, healthcare systems, societies and payers, 
creating sustainable access to medicines for patients and continued 
long-term affordability to health systems to meet their patient and 
healthcare priorities. A means for this is generating evidence that 
helps quantify the clinical and patient value of a treatment. Sobi works 
continuously to develop data that reflects resolution of unmet medi-
cal need on both an initial and an ongoing basis.
The EU Pharmaceutical Strategy adopted in 2020 is a policy docu-
ment aimed at tackling important challenges for European patients 
and health sectors. It sets out a comprehensive set of actions to 
ensure access to affordable medicine and facilitate collaboration on 
unmet needs and evidence generation among key stakeholders. Sobi 
has participated in these collaborations for many years.SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
108Expand access to treatment – Ambitions
•  Increase geographical reach of operations
•  Continual medicine launches in areas of rare diseases in key 
 geographies 
• Support Managed Access1
•  WHF Humanitarian Aid Program 
– 2015–2019 – 500 million IU donated 
– 2020–2025 – 500 million IU to be donatedIn 2020 Sobi and Sanofi announced the agreement to extend their 
support of the WFH Humanitarian Aid Program by an additional dona-
tion of up to 500 million international units (IU) of factor therapy for 
humanitarian aid, thereby fulfilling the 2014 pledge to donate up to 
an unprecedented 1 billion IU over a 10-year period. This agreement 
came into effect in January 2021.
Since the 2014 pledge, more than 588 million IU of factor have 
been donated and 18,881 people with haemophilia were treated with 
factor donated by Sobi and Sanofi. Both companies are recognised by 
the WFH as Founding Visionary Contributors to the Program. 
Training and workshop interactions organised by the WFH con-
tinued in digital format in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This 
resulted in a further increase in the number of attending healthcare 
providers and other important stakeholders in donation countries 
compared to previous years. This supports the envisaged future 
multi-channel approach of donation country interactions by the 
WFH. Despite the continuous impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the number of newly treated patients and newly treated patients on 
prophylaxis could be increased in 2021 compared to the previous two 
years through targeted WFH initiatives. 
Actions to ensure continued access to treatment  
during the COVID-19 pandemic 
Supply-chain continuity 
In 2021, Sobi’s product supply chain was not challenged by 
lockdowns as in 2020 and did not encounter any stock-out 
situations resulting in interrupted treatment to patients. Sobi 
was able to manage increased, unforecast demand. 
The key factors for continuous supply of Sobi medicines 
are strong partner relationships through the production and 
warehouse network, precise supply planning and close com-
munication around demand management. In some markets, patient access to treatments may be limited by the 
lack or complexity of reimbursement processes. Sobi has several 
initiatives in place, such as the above-mentioned US programme, 
to support patients and treaters and to bridge the gap.
Acting with a sense of urgency 
Regulatory pathways for orphan drugs are implemented in several 
markets. Sobi’s pipeline is positioned to use these pathways to 
shorten time to access for patients. A priority review will direct overall 
attention and resources to the evaluation of applications for therapies 
which, if approved, could provide significant improvements in the 
safety or efficacy of the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of serious 
conditions when compared with standard applications. 
Sobi recognises that there may be circumstances when patients 
with serious or life-threatening diseases have exhausted all treatment 
options currently available to them and are unable or ineligible to 
participate in a clinical trial. Additionally, new medicines are often 
unavailable between completion of a clinical study and regulatory 
approval or commercial availability. For such patients, upon an 
independent request from their treating physician and where legally 
permissible, Sobi considers making medicines available via Managed 
Access Programmes1. Requests from treating physicians for Managed 
Access are assessed purely on the basis of medical need and man-
aged by the R&D and medical organisation. 
Sobi has an established process for emergency orders within the 
EU and the US for life-saving medicines (Orfadin, Kineret and Gami-
fant) which are also available during non-office hours 365 days a year 
for immediate service if needed to save a patient’s life.
WFH Humanitarian Aid Program donation 
More than 75 per cent of people with haemophilia around the world 
have limited or no access to diagnosis and treatment, particularly in 
the developing world. The WFH (World Federation of Hemophilia) 
Humanitarian Aid Program helps address the lack of access to care 
and treatment by providing support for people with inherited bleed-
ing disorders in developing countries. 
By providing a more predictable and sustainable flow of humanitar -
ian aid donations, the Program allows for people living with haemo-
philia to receive consistent and reliable access to treatment and care. 
In addition, the Program provides educational training for treaters and 
patients that are critical in helping to develop in-country capacities to 
improve diagnosis and treatment monitoring.  
1. Managed Access describes areas regularly known as compassionate use, expanded access  
and other similar programmes.SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
109Patient-centricity & community engagement
Sobi’s patient community engagement is based on three elements: 
enabling connectedness, ensuring sustainable access to care, and 
giving a voice to patients to express their care-related needs. 
Sobi supports connectedness so that patients, caregivers and 
patient organisations can connect with each other and the commu-
nity, and access relevant information and resources to support timely 
diagnosis, optimal treatment and living well with their condition. Sobi 
applies a proactive outreach to patient organisations and supports the 
establishment or strengthening of patient organisations and networks 
in accordance with the Healthcare Interactions Policy. 
Sobi is a long-term sponsor of patient organisations such as the 
European and North American rare disease organisations EURORDIS 
and NORD respectively, the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) 
and the European Haemophilia Consortium. Sobi contributes to 
the European Haematology Association (EHA) and the Histiocytosis 
Association, and also supports local patient organisations such as the 
Irish Platform for Patient Organisations, Science and Industry (IPPOSI) 
and the AKU Society. An annual summary of support provided to 
patient organisations is published on www.sobi.com. 
Sobi recognises the importance of integrating the patient voice 
into R&D and clinical studies to ensure that future medicines adhere 
to patient needs and that the patient community is consulted in 
the early stages of clinical development. In 2021, Sobi organised 
international patient councils to deliver insights into how clinical 
studies and study protocols should be designed, for three upcom-
ing studies. The insights enable Sobi to choose patient-reported 
outcomes more appropriately for the targeted patient populations, 
to design more patient-friendly forms and information materials for 
study participants, and to adapt the design of the study to facilitate 
patient participation. Sobi co-develops patient support programmes, 
advocacy and evidence generation activities with patient advocacy 
groups in disease areas such as haemophilia, ITP, PNH, HLH, FMF, AKU 
and refractory gout. 
Sobi also contributes to the wider community through collabora-
tions with third parties: 25 per cent of corporate insurance premiums 
are put into investments with an additional social objective via QBE’s 
Premiums4Good. These investments include social impact bonds, 
social bonds, green bonds and infrastructure, supporting a range of 
projects and programmes that seek to create positive change.
Community engagement – Ambitions 
• Support patient connectedness 
• Give patients a voice
Knowledge contribution to enhance the practice of medicine 
Sobi is committed to contributing to increased understanding, diag-
nosis and treatment of rare diseases. Sobi engages by sponsoring and 
attending scientific meetings and arranging medical training designed 
to share medical advancements and by taking part in discussions to 
enhance the practice of medicine. Participation in medical events 
is governed by the Healthcare Interactions Policy. Sobi participated 
in several international scientific meetings as well as local events in 
2021. 
Sobi’s annual support for the WFH Corporate Partner Program has 
enabled country development programmes, educational resources, 
training for healthcare professionals, capacity building and training 
for patients and patient organisations as well as support for the World 
Bleeding Disorder Registry.Knowledge contribution – Ambitions 
• Active participation and sponsorship of medical conferences
•  Continued support of  community-led initiatives to increase 
 knowledge sharing
Focus on patient safety  
The safety profile and monitoring of Sobi’s medicines is of the utmost 
importance. 
Safety surveillance, pharmacovigilance, continues across the 
product life cycle, allowing potential safety risks to be identified at an 
early stage and mitigated to minimise or avoid harm. For all medicines 
under development or on the market, Sobi has systems in place for 
identifying and evaluating possible adverse drug effects. A robust 
pharmacovigilance system allows continuous monitoring of the 
benefit/risk profiles of all medicines and ensures alignment with the 
precautionary principle. To achieve this, Sobi has a safety team for 
each medicine, including a dedicated global safety physician. 
As part of the commitment to patient safety, Sobi continues 
to develop staff, processes, systems and tools. Annual training is 
provided for all employees, consultants and vendors to ensure that all 
safety information – such as adverse events, product complaints and 
incorrect use – in relation to Sobi’s medicines is reported. 
By adhering to pharmaceutical standards, Sobi strives to provide 
safe medicines that meet the high-quality standards of the pharma-
ceutical field. 
Product quality regulations 
As part of the pharmaceutical industry, Sobi works in a heavily 
regulated environment. Therefore, it is essential that Sobi meets 
all regulations, and acts in compliance with Good Manufacturing 
Practices (GMP), Good Distribution Practices (GDP), Good Clinical 
Practice (GCP) and Good Pharmacovigilance Practice (GVP) including 
the dossier requirements of all countries in which our medicines are 
licensed, manufactured or sold. 
Good Practice (GXP) guidelines are maintained to monitor and 
ensure medicine safety and quality compliance during the medicine's 
life cycle. The Quality Assurance department is responsible for 
product release management; this process includes the evaluation 
of medicine testing and the manufacturing steps. In the EU, product 
release management is carried out by a Qualified Person (QP). The 
Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance (QPPV) is responsible for 
drug safety (pharmacovigilance). 
To ensure and evaluate compliance with current requirements, 
inspections of Sobi facilities by regulatory authorities are performed 
regularly. In addition to external inspections, Sobi continuously 
monitors the performance and internal processes and operations of 
suppliers.
Ensuring product integrity 
Sobi works to improve patient safety through updated product infor -
mation, safe packaging and extensive safety monitoring of known or 
new side effects. 
Product recalls are governed by standard operating procedures 
(SOP) and managed for all medicines for which Sobi is marketing 
authorisation holder (MAH), and for Investigational Medicinal Prod-
ucts (IMP) in Sobi-sponsored clinical trials in cases when a medicine 
may cause damage, injury or inconvenience to the consumer and 
may affect one or several batches or the whole product. An Expert 
Committee is responsible for assessing product quality and compli-
ance risks for products released into market and clinical studies, and SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
110a Recall Decision Body will take the decision on a recall together with 
the relevant regulatory authority or authorities. 
Correct labelling is important to ensure proper use, and current and 
new safety information needs to be communicated consistently and 
promptly to authorities, prescribers, patients and within the organisa-
tion. Standard operating procedures are in place to ensure timely 
updates to product information and patient information leaflets in 
the medicine packaging. The labelling process consists of a series 
of processes and is a cross-functional responsibility involving the 
Benefit-Risk Council, Drug Safety, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Affairs, 
External Manufacturing/Packaging and Quality Assurance, and Supply 
Chain. 
Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are an increasing concern worldwide. 
Governments all over the world are introducing regulations and 
systems to detect and prevent the distribution of counterfeit prod-
ucts. All Sobi medicines are serialised and given unique identification 
codes. Sobi’s medicines have not yet been subject to falsification. 
Patient safety – Ambitions 
• All Sobi employees undergo training in patient safety
• No critical or major incidents of product recall
• No incidents of incorrect  labellingSuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
111Responsible behaviour 
As a company, Sobi works to always ensure responsible behaviour 
in the role of employer, as a business and towards the communities 
in which Sobi operates. Sobi supports employees to act and make decisions reflecting corporate principles. Ambitions are aligned with 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Sobi 
contributes to the SDGs through several company targets.   
Responsible behaviour and the SDGs
Sustainable Development 
Goals Sustainable Development targets Action and ambitions Progress Read more 
SDG 7 Affordable and 
clean energy7.2  Increase share of   
renewable energy Shift to 100% renewable energy 93% of Sobi operations tracking use & source of 
energy in new global digital reporting platform. 
Renewable energy sourced for offices and facili-
ties in Sweden, Denmark and Switzerland.
Sobi encourages suppliers to switch to renewa-
ble energy. Among suppliers tracked in EcoVadis, 
56% report use of renewable energy. p 119 (E2) 
 
 
 
p 122 (G5)
Transition to 100% hybrid/electrical 
car fleet by 203097% of Sobi operations now reporting car fleet 
footprint. 12% of car fleet hybrid/electrical. 
 Parent car fleet reporting a  considerably reduced 
footprint. p 118 (E1)
SGD 8 Decent work 
and economic growth8.8  Safe and secure work 
 environmentsAmbition for zero workplace  
incidents A new and improved digital reporting system 
implemented and training carried out. 
The number of injuries reported increased, 
due to changed reporting principles.p 113 
p 121 (S6)
SDG 12 Responsible 
 consumption and 
 production12.1  Implement programmes on 
sustainable productionImplement the Sobi Responsible  
Sourcing Programme in supplier 
 relationship managementPartner Code of Conduct part of supplier 
 contracts. EcoVadis assessment  conducted 
on prospective and current partners. Important 
practices monitored.p 115 & 
p 122 (G5)
12.4  Achieve the environmen-
tally sound management of 
chemicals and all wastes 
throughout their life cyclesComply with REACH legislation 
Environmental assessments of products 
Increase data collection on waste to 
enable reduction of waste volumesSobi maintains REACH authorisation for the use 
of Triton X-100. Detailed analyses were carried 
out in 2021. 
10 new countries reporting waste in 2021, 
 covering 57% of Sobi operations. Process for 
reuse and recycling of IT equipment expanded 
to more Sobi markets.p 116 
 
p 120 (E7)
SDG 13 Climate action 13.2  Integrate climate  
change measures Apply TCFD risk analysis and adopt  
climate strategy in response. 
Complete Scope 1, 2 and 3 reporting  
with targetsSustainability risks included in overall risk 
 mapping
Targets for Scope 1 and 2 set. Numbers reported 
from 93% of Sobi operations, new digital report-
ing tool implemented.
Enhanced Scope 3 data collection and reporting 
with target planned for 2022.p 39–41,  
p 106
p117,  
p 118 (E1) 
p117,  
p 118 (E1)
SDG 16 Peace, justice  
and strong institutions16.4  Combat organised  
crimeZero incidents of product 
 counterfeiting100 % serialisation of products to prevent 
 counterfeiting. p 111
16.5  Anti-corruption and  
briberyZero incidents of bribery or corruption New Corporate Compliance Committee, aware-
ness initiatives conducted. 14 cases reported via 
hotline and investigated.  
96% completion rate in anti-bribery and anti-
corruption training.p 114 
 
p 122 (G6)SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
112Sobi keeps employees safe and healthy, and helps them develop 
Sobi relies on its people to deliver on business strategy and strives to 
always be a responsible employer. 
Employee survey 
Sobi has committed to performing regular all-employee surveys, 
including pulse surveys to monitor employee satisfaction, inclusion 
and engagement. 
A full Global Engagement Survey was conducted in 2020 and a 
pulse survey in 2021. The latest Global Engagement survey had a 
response rate of 87 per cent including all employees and full-time 
consultants in wholly owned subsidiaries. The employee engagement 
score was 73 (benchmark 74), on par with the industry. 
Subsequent workshops throughout the organisation identified 
areas for development in three main areas: culture, career opportuni-
ties and work-life balance. Culture is considered an aspect important 
to maintain and nurture during the organisation’s growth and strate-
gic shift. Career opportunities are also valued, and there is a contin-
ued wish that opportunities for career development be recognised in 
the expanding business strategy. 
Work-life balance was adversely impacted by the COVID-19 
pandemic, especially in the early phases, as shown by the 2020 pulse 
survey. Actions were taken to improve the workload situation, and 
already in the Engagement Survey of September 2020 the situa-
tion had improved. A second COVID pulse survey in 2021 showed 
improved employee wellbeing. 
Follow-up actions during 2021 focused on managing employee 
wellbeing during the pandemic and working to develop the principles 
and set-up of a future, post-pandemic Sobi workplace. The 2021 
Global Engagement Survey was postponed until 2022 as a result of 
the public offer for Sobi in 2021.
Development, training and compensation 
For Sobi, highly skilled and high-performing teams are key to meeting 
the strategic objectives. Emphasis is placed on the development of 
methods to help managers, leaders and colleagues facilitate continu-
ous growth. One example is the Sobi Management Toolbox training 
which helps managers practise leadership skills, identify their own 
strengths and development areas, and learn from their peers. It is run 
two to three times per year, targeting all new managers and those 
identified for managerial positions. 
Business introduction sessions, where corporate leaders present 
their respective areas, are offered regularly and are open to the whole 
company.
All Sobi employees receive regular performance and career devel-
opment reviews. To support employee evaluation and development, 
a talent management process is used. Sobi applies a 70:20:10 learning 
and development model: training opportunities are offered as part of 
the role (70 per cent), through interactions with others (20 per cent), 
and formal educational events (10 per cent). 
All Sobi employees have access to the Sobi Learning Management 
system which lists available business, management and product 
training. Employees are assigned training based on role, supported 
and documented by a training matrix system. The system meets regu-
latory requirements in the pharmaceutical field and serves as a com-
prehensive digital platform for ensuring individualised and specialised 
training as well as evidence of learning. Internal processes and control 
measures involve scientific, regulatory and compliance training which 
covers all employees (including part-time) and contractors. An online 
Learning Resource Guide is also available to all employees. 
Competitive terms of employment are a prerequisite for recruiting 
and retaining highly qualified and skilled people. Sobi offers competi-
tive salaries and benefits, individually determined and adapted to the local labour market. All employees (with the exception of North 
American and Asian-based employees due to tax reasons) are offered 
long-term incentive programmes as described in Note 10, page 67.
Health and safety 
Sobi enforces a global Health and Safety Policy. Occupational health 
and safety (OHS) management is integrated into operational control 
as part of daily work. OHS should be regularly addressed at meetings 
and any OHS aspects regarding activities considered. Managers are 
responsible for addressing any concerns raised. The joint manage-
ment-worker health and safety committee operates from head office 
and includes representatives from all operations. The committee 
meets quarterly and reports to the Executive Committee. 
Investigating and identifying the cause(s) of an accident, dangerous 
situations or near-misses makes it possible to take action to prevent a 
similar occurrence in the future. All employees are required to report 
OHS-related incidents to management, and managers have a duty to 
ensure that legislative reporting requirements and internal reporting 
processes are followed. 
In 2021, a new and improved digital reporting system was imple-
mented, and training carried out to highlight the importance of 
reporting and follow-up. 
Diversity and equality 
Every employee is offered equal opportunities regardless of ethnicity, 
age, gender, religion, sexual orientation or physical abilities. Sobi’s 
guidelines clearly prohibit discrimination and sexual harassment. In 
the US, a Diversity, Equity & Inclusion programme has been initiated, 
including an Employee Resource Group, manager training on inclu-
sion and belonging as well as unconscious bias training. 
In Sweden, an annual gender equality analysis is carried out to 
prevent discrimination and promote equal rights and opportunities. 
The results are evaluated in collaboration with trade unions and 
action is taken when required. Roles and responsibilities are mapped 
proactively to ensure that salaries and development opportunities are 
provided in an equitable manner.
Caring for our employees – Ambitions 
• Perform annual employee engagement survey
•  Offer all employees annual performance and career  
development discussions
• Zero-tolerance for discrimination and sexual  harassment 
• No workplace accidents leading to lost workdays 
Creating a safe working environment during COVID-19
COVID-19 has impacted employees across the world both 
privately and professionally. 
Actions taken to ensure a safe working environment included 
more flexible working hours, initiatives to ensure necessary 
distancing and safety precautions such as additional personal 
protection equipment (PPE), desk dividers, information signs 
and office attendance planning. International travel restrictions 
have been applied since March 2020, allowing only business-
critical international travel. 
Sobi conducted a global COVID-19 employee pulse survey 
(response rate 85 per cent) in June that showed strong 
employee engagement and an eagerness to influence working 
conditions.SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
113Zero tolerance for corruption 
Sobi’s Code of Conduct provides a framework for responsible and 
appropriate conduct. It has been approved by the Board of Directors 
and applies to everyone working at Sobi and its subsidiaries – includ-
ing employees, temporary personnel and on-site consultants. 
The Code of Conduct connects to essential corporate policies, 
Sobi values and sustainability. Topics include human rights, health in 
the workplace, freedom of association, zero tolerance for child and 
forced labour, patient and community interactions, product safety 
and quality, ethical research, anti-corruption, fair competition, con-
flicts of interest, data privacy, intellectual property and environmental 
responsibility. A fully digital version of the Code of Conduct is avail-
able for both employees and external audiences (www.coc.sobi.com).
Sobi promotes high ethical standards by supporting a corporate 
culture that embraces open discussions of ethics both in our opera-
tions and among key stakeholders. 
Compliance 
Sobi’s compliance programme is aimed at managing risks before 
they arise; it follows the elements and principles for effective compli-
ance programmes established by regulators. All new employees 
are introduced to compliance as part of the induction programme. 
Other training and communication include general and topic-specific 
e-learning, videos and articles on Sobi’s intranet, InsideSobi. In 2021, 
a global Ethics and Integrity Week was conducted to further underline 
Sobi’s commitment to compliance. The event included interviews 
and live events with senior management, the launch of a quarterly 
compliance newsletter, and other local awareness activities including 
townhalls, compliance awards and gamification.
The Global Compliance Governance Charter ensures management 
oversight of the compliance programme, including a governance 
structure with compliance committees, clear compliance account-
ability at different levels of the organisation and a network of compli-
ance subject-matter experts in the countries. The Chief Compliance 
Officer reports directly to the General Counsel, and regular updates 
on the compliance programme are provided to the Corporate Com-
pliance Committee and Board of Directors. 
The compliance programme is developed continuously through 
annual development roadmaps. Since 2021, all Executive Committee 
members have a designated compliance primary point of contact.
Sobi employees are encouraged to report potential misconduct or 
unethical behaviour openly to line management, Human Resources, 
Corporate Compliance or the Legal Department, or by using the Sobi 
Compliance Hotline, a whistleblowing hotline run by a third party to 
allow for the possibility of anonymous reporting. The Sobi Compli-
ance Hotline is also available for external audiences via a link on the 
company's website. All reports made through the whistleblowing 
hotline are reviewed by the Corporate Compliance Department and 
subject to investigation according to Sobi’s Investigation Policy and 
followed up with the appropriate remediation measures. During 2021, 
the Corporate Compliance Committee consisting of the CEO, the 
CFO, the General Counsel and the Chief Compliance Officer took 
over the oversight of compliance investigations. This ensures both 
non-retaliation against whistleblowers, and organisational fairness in 
regard to how sanctions are applied. In 2021, 14 cases were reported 
via the hotline. To capture all cases, events reported outside the sys-
tem can also be entered by proxy. More details on page 122, Note G6.Anti-corruption 
The pharmaceutical industry is exposed to several corruption risks. 
It is a highly regulated sector with global operations, multiple interac -
tions with government officials and widespread use of third parties 
throughout the pharmaceutical value chain. Sobi works actively to 
prevent any form of corruption. 
Sobi’s Anti-Corruption Policy, approved by the Executive Commit-
tee, has a global scope and complements the Code of Conduct with 
Sobi’s global minimum standards to prevent corruption in activities 
under Sobi’s control. It is aligned with industry codes and legislation, 
such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. Key 
principles outlined include not accepting any form of bribe, any offer 
or provision of facilitation payments, ensuring accurate book-keeping 
and records, and that no gifts are made to public officials or health-
care professionals. Risk assessments are carried out on a regular basis 
and risk-based due diligence procedures are carried out in respect of 
third parties. 
All employees are required to undergo regular e-learning compli-
ance training on the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption and data 
privacy, with records kept of training. In 2021, 95 per cent of eligible 
employees were trained in the Sobi Code of Conduct and 96 per 
cent in Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC). Additional training 
for specific audiences is defined in annual compliance training plans 
and may include areas such as “train the trainer” materials on relevant 
topics from appointed compliance subject-matter experts or face-
to-face training on key compliance topics. 
Considering the risk of exposure to corruption and Sobi’s zero-
tolerance policy, significant efforts are made to promote the report-
ing of suspected corruption incidents. Sobi’s Compliance Hotline has 
a dedicated reporting section for potential bribery and corruption 
concerns to facilitate reporting. 
Managing corruption risks in the pharmaceutical industry 
As a pharmaceutical company, the most apparent corruption risk lies 
within Sobi’s interactions with healthcare stakeholders. All engage-
ments are governed by the Code of Conduct, while a majority are also 
covered by the Anti-Corruption Policy and the more specific Policy 
on Healthcare Interactions. Other policies with relevance for corrup-
tion prevention are: Policy on Anti-Corruption Due Diligence on Third 
Parties, Group Authority Policy, Global Expense Policy, Procurement 
Policy and Risk Management Policy. 
Sobi's Healthcare Compliance (HCC) programme includes system 
support to minimise the risk of corruption; this includes policies, 
mandatory training for customer-facing employees, as well as 
reporting and controls. The HCC programme is an important tool 
for ensuring that all interactions and value transfers remain legal and 
can withstand external scrutiny, that all healthcare interactions are 
intended for the benefit of patients or to enhance the practice of 
medicine, and that all interactions have the required prior approval 
and appropriate documentation. A compliance monitoring plan is 
adopted and executed on an annual basis, involving sample testing 
and verification of key controls for different activity types and pro-
cesses. The findings are categorised, logged and reported. 
Monetary transactions and value transfers with healthcare provid-
ers and patient organisations follow local transparency initiatives such 
as under the EFPIA Code, US Sunshine Act and national transparency 
laws, and are made public on an annual basis on www.sobi.com. Sobi 
publishes Transfers of Value to healthcare providers in 36 markets 
across Europe (including Russia and Ukraine), Asia and the Middle 
East, and the United States. In 2021, Fair Market Value methodology 
was revised to ensure that Sobi’s rates for provided services remain in 
line with continuously updated market standards.SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
114Responsible marketing and sales 
Sobi is committed to employing high ethical standards of sales and 
marketing practice worldwide, in line with our Code of Conduct and 
supporting policy framework. Employees involved in promotional 
activities undergo regular training. 
The Policy on Healthcare Interactions provides guidance for pro-
motional activities. The policy applies to all relevant Sobi employees, 
contractors, agents and third parties. General managers are account-
able for ensuring compliance at local level and for instructing quali-
fied representatives to design processes for local implementation and 
training, including approval processes incorporating the appropriate 
internal stakeholders. Promotional materials are always approved 
prior to external use and following each modification by a cross-
functional team of qualified representatives, and review and approvals 
are documented and saved in a digital vault. Approvals relating to 
promotional and non-promotional material are retained for ten years 
after final use. 
Data privacy 
Data privacy is part of Sobi’s Code of Conduct and a prioritised area 
across Sobi. It is important that our customers, clinical study subjects, 
employees and others we interact with can trust that Sobi processes 
personal data in a responsible and secure manner. 
Sobi has implemented a data privacy programme in order to 
promote data privacy compliance, including appointing a Data Pro-
tection Officer (DPO), a global Policy on Processing of Personal Data 
and procedures for responding to data breaches and data subject 
access requests, and monitoring procedures. In addition, data privacy 
champions have been appointed throughout the Sobi organisation to 
promote compliance and support the business. 
EU data privacy legislation requires Sobi to assess all suspected and 
confirmed personal data breaches. If a personal data breach is con-
firmed, Sobi must also determine whether reporting to supervisory 
authorities and/or data subjects is required. In order to comply with 
these requirements, Sobi has implemented a personal data breach 
process globally, requiring all staff to report suspected and confirmed 
personal data breaches immediately to Sobi’s DPO. The DPO assesses 
all cases and ensures that appropriate actions are taken. 
Responsible sourcing
Sobi’s manufacturing is to a large extent outsourced, and as a conse-
quence, a large part of the sustainability impact occurs outside Sobi's 
own operations. Sustainable and responsible sourcing is therefore 
a critical process, outlined in the Sobi Responsible Sourcing Pro-
gramme. The programme consists of three main pillars: alignment of 
values and principles; risk assessment and qualification; performance 
management and monitoring. 
Sobi’s Partner Code of Conduct (PCoC), outlines requirements 
for all partners on human rights, protection against child and forced 
labour, environmental protection, anti-corruption, research ethics, 
protection of information, and legal compliance. Contracts include a 
requirement to comply with the Sobi Partner Code of Conduct. 
Sobi evaluates prospective and current partners, and performs due 
diligence and screening for compliance with management, labour 
and human rights and environmental standards through the evalu-
ation tool provided by sustainability rating specialist firm EcoVadis. 
Overall evaluation is customised depending on the geographic and 
supplier category risk profile as well as the strategic importance of the 
 supplier.
Suppliers that do not achieve a total EcoVadis score of >40 or have 
a score <40 in any theme are encouraged to improve their score, and 
improvement activities are identified. By end of 2021, the scored supplier average was 55.8, an acceptable 
performance level that can be contributed to Sobi’s geographic 
footprint as well as supply base maturity, and represents an average 
improvement of 4 points for those scored before. Sobi’s primary 
focus has been its external manufacturing partners and logistics 
partners. A majority of these companies are performing well across 
all topics included in the assessment. For 2022, individual company 
targets will be set based on identified improvement needs. Among 
our indirect material suppliers, we have good coverage in the majority 
of categories identified as high risk and are making progress in the 
remaining categories. This will be a priority in 2022. 
Since 2020, Sobi has been part of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Initiative (PSCI). The PSCI brings together members of the global 
pharmaceutical and healthcare industry to define, establish and 
promote responsible supply chain practices. The platform offers an 
efficient way for both suppliers and customers to improve sustain-
ability performance and increase knowledge. For Sobi, it is a valuable 
means to increase reach of onsite audit results within high-risk sup-
plier categories and geographies. 
Responsible sourcing is an integrated part of Sobi’s supply chain 
strategy, owned and managed by the indirect procurement depart-
ment, in close cooperation with the Sustainability function. Members 
from both procurement departments undergo regular training in 
responsible sourcing. 
Third-party due diligence 
Sobi’s commitment to preventing bribery and corruption in connec -
tion with business activities around the world extends to third parties 
engaged to perform services on Sobi’s behalf. In accordance with 
Sobi’s Anti-Corruption Policy, Sobi conducts appropriate risk-based 
anti-corruption due diligence of third parties (“TPDD”) to identify and 
mitigate bribery and corruption risks and address any “red flags” prior 
to engagement of third parties. Third parties in scope for TPDD are re-
evaluated periodically. Sobi contracts include standard compliance 
with laws clauses and related anti-corruption protections.
Compliance – Ambitions 
•  All employees to undergo regular e-learning training with the 
 following required for all employees: Code of Conduct,  Anti- 
corruption and anti-bribery, Data privacy, and Product safety training
• Zero tolerance for bribery
• No major violations of data privacy 
•  Transparent reporting of monetary transactions to healthcare 
 professionals and organisations 
•  Secure minimum performance and drive improvement through 
responsible sourcing programme
•  Conduct ESG due diligence and promote the responsible business 
conduct of suppliersSuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
115Reducing environmental footprint 
Sobi’s environmental and climate-related impacts comprise direct 
and indirect impacts, through sourced activities both upstream and 
downstream and through activities caused by our operations. 
Sobi's carbon footprint is caused by energy consumption in 
pharmaceutical manufacturing, business travel, supply chain logistics 
and the distribution of our medicines. Environmental impacts from 
production and the laboratories are mainly due to the use of energy, 
water and chemicals, waste generated and the discharge of sewage. 
The reduction of water and energy consumption, chemicals, 
waste and emissions is prioritised in Sobi’s production and labora-
tory facilities. Specific and detailed environmental guidance for the 
facilities is given in specific standard operating procedures and in 
the environmental compliance programme, which aims to improve 
control of the environmental impact of production. Energy and water 
consumption in Sobi’s production facility is continuously assessed 
with the aim of improving environmental performance.
In 2021, Sobi further expanded reporting practices by introducing 
a common digital reporting platform for all global operations and 
entities. 
Sobi trains its staff in EHS practices. In 2021, 95 per cent of eligible 
Sobi employees participated in the digital training.Responsible handling of chemicals 
All applicable chemical regulations are monitored closely and 
constitute an important aspect of Sobi’s business. One example is the 
use of Triton X-100, a nonionic surfactant, in the ReFacto production 
process. Sobi has been granted REACH authorisation to handle Triton. 
The requirements include strict rules for cleaning filters and the 
treatment of waste. During 2021, detailed analyses of Triton handling 
were carried out to ascertain compliance with the requirements. An 
embankment around a floor drain was installed as a precautionary 
measure following an incident with a crack in the Triton filter that 
could have resulted in a larger leakage of Triton-contaminated water 
into the municipal wastewater system. The incident was proactively 
reported to the authorities. 
Chemical regulations are extensive and continuously expanding; all 
handling of chemicals in our laboratory and manufacturing processes 
follows strict instructions. We perform continuous risk assessments 
and internal audits. In 2021, improvements were made in the areas of 
chemical control and follow-up of risk assessments. The Responsible 
Sourcing Programme is an important tool for influencing, managing 
and monitoring the sourcing and handling of chemicals in our supply 
chain. 
3.3
Direct emissions 
production facilityDirect emissions  
fleet carsContract 
manufacturingDistribution  
& logistics 701 To map & actTo map & act
99 4,357To map & act To map & actSobi's GHG emissions mapping (tonnes CO 2)
Emissions directly controlled by Sobi1 Sobi's value chain emissions2
Purchased  
electricity Business  
travelRaw material Capital goods  
& services
2. Remaining scope 3 emissions to be mapped by 2022. Details in Sustainability notes, p 118. 1. Full scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, and scope 3 business travel.  
Details in sustainability notes, p 11.SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
116Pharmaceuticals in the environment 
The environmental hazards of a specific drug refer to its inherent 
properties, such as toxicity and ability to be broken down by nature. 
According to existing EU and US guidelines on environmental risk 
assessments of medicinal products, biopharmaceuticals composed 
of proteins and peptides, for example, are not considered to have a 
significant negative environmental impact. A high proportion of Sobi’s 
medicines are protein-based and not therefore considered to have a 
significant impact on the environment. Environmental assessments 
of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) have been conducted on 
Sobi’s two small molecule treatments, Orfadin and Doptelet, and they 
are considered to be of low risk to the environment.
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 
Sobi’s direct emissions occur from our commercial operations in 33 
countries with 33 offices as well as our biological production facility 
(reported as Manufacturing/Haematology) in Stockholm, Sweden, 
and our legacy laboratory in Geneva, Switzerland. 
Sobi is committed to substantially reducing emissions from sites 
and the ground fleet by 2025 and aims to reach net zero emissions 
and use 100 per cent renewable energy by 2030. All of the electricity 
consumed at the Stockholm facilities comes from a mix of certified 
renewable energy sources. In 2021, a new digital reporting platform 
was introduced and 93 per cent of Sobi operations worldwide, 
 measured as share of employees, reported all or some energy data. 
The details of impact from the global operations are described in 
detail on page 118. 
Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 
Sobi's main scope 3 impact currently measured is employee travel, 
mainly air travel but also the use of employee-owned cars.
All production of commercial medicines is outsourced to contract 
manufacturers. 
Sobi has obtained limited emissions data from contract manu-
facturers (Category 1 Scope 3 emissions for Sobi) and is working to 
expand the reporting to include all major contract manufacturers and 
logistics partners (Category 4 and 9 Scope 3 emissions for Sobi). In 
2021, suppliers were not included in the Scope 3 reporting. 
The remaining emissions from raw materials, packaging, capital 
goods and services will be calculated using industry-specific guid-
ance on spend from the GHG Protocol, and priorities set based on 
identified reduction opportunities. Sobi will aim to apply the bounda-
ries “from cradle to customer”, meaning reporting on areas upstream 
in the value chain, Sobi’s own activities, and up to and including the 
delivery of sold goods to wholesalers or partners. Emissions calcula-
tions will not cover a full consumer lifecycle analysis as the prescrip-
tion and use of our medicines is beyond our control. 
In 2021, as part of Sobi’s Responsible Sourcing Programme, ambi-
tions were communicated to suppliers, and progress reporting and 
target reviews were integrated into regular business follow-ups.
The details of mapped scope 3 emissions are described in detail on 
page 118.
Business travel 
Sobi started reporting on business travel emissions in 2019 and all 
global operations were included by 2021.
Business travel numbers include a Sobi-leased car fleet (formally 
Scope 1) as well as employee-owned cars, and air and ground travel 
(Scope 3). In the current mapping, the impact from employee mobility 
is by far the biggest contributor to Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions respectively. The practice of car management and policy is dependent 
on local regulations and culture. Local car policies and changes in 
the design of car lease set-ups have been implemented to promote 
electric and hybrid cars, and steps taken to incentivise charging at the 
office and at home. Currently, 12% of the car fleet is hybrid or electric. 
A significant shift has been made to virtual internal and external 
meetings as well as scientific congresses, which has reduced the 
need for travel. Sobi has accelerated the implementation of modern 
workplace technology across the entire organisation. The 2021 
impact from air travel was lower than in 2019, an effect related both 
to the continuing COVID-19 pandemic as well as changed working 
routines. 
Development of emissions-reduction targets
Target 
year Topic Ambitions
2022 Emissions – 
Scope 3Map emissions in supply chain (CMO, 
 distribution) – set baseline and reduction 
 targets 
2025 Emissions – 
Scope 1 and 2Reduce operational GHG footprint by 50% 
from 2015 baseline
2030 Emissions – 
Scope 1 and 2Reduce operational GHG footprint to net 
zero emissions 
Shift to 100% renewable energy
2030 Emissions – 
Scope 3Set reduction target in 2022
2030 Vehicle fleet Achieve a 100% hybrid or electric vehicle fleet
Waste 
Sobi strives to continually increase data collection on waste and 
thereby enable continual reductions in waste volumes wherever 
possible. Measures are also taken to prevent generation of waste. 
In Sweden, Sobi has an established process for reuse and recycling 
of IT equipment via a certified technology lifecycle management 
service partner. This process was extended to Sobi’s operations 
worldwide in 2021, including training of local teams.SuSTAInABILIT y REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
117Sustainability Notes
Sobi updated its materiality assessment process in 2021. For a 
detailed description of stakeholder groups and outcomes of the 
assessment, see page 105. The materiality assessment identified 
the most important topics for Sobi’s sustainability strategic focus 
and reporting.
Economic performance
In 2021, revenue growth was 7 per cent with revenue of SEK 15,529 M. Adjusted 
EBITA was SEK 5,575 M, resulting in an adjusted EBITA margin of 36 per cent for 
the full year. Cash flow from operations totalled SEK 5,470 M.
Direct economic value generated 
SEK M 2021 2020
Revenue 15,529 15,261
Operating costs 8,288 7,575
Employee wages and benefits 2,481 2,250
Payments to providers of capital 302 249
Payments to government1 1,124 918
Community investments2 17 20
Calculation is based on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
1. Includes corporate income tax (CIT) payments (i.e. no special payroll tax on pensions, VAT or social 
security contributions). Does not include other taxes such as pharmaceutical, environmental and 
individual employees’ income tax.
2. Community investments are based on costs for financial  support to patient organisations. 
The largest recipients are the World Federation of Hemophilia and the European Haemophilia 
Consortium. Patient organisations receiving support are made public on www.sobi.com. 
Indirect economic impact
Sobi reports on the humanitarian aid donation of haemophilia factor treat-
ments as a significant indirect economic impact in the stakeholder community 
and developing countries. 
In 2020, Sobi and Sanofi announced the agreement to extend their support 
of the WFH Humanitarian Aid Program with an additional donation of up to 500 
million international units (IU) of factor therapy for humanitarian use, thereby 
fulfilling the 2014 pledge to donate one billion IU over a 10-year period. The 
agreement came into effect in January 2021. 
Sobi’s impact is reported in accordance with the WFH’s impact report for the 
Humanitarian Aid Program and is the result of Sobi’s and Sanofi’s contribution 
to the Program. 
Number 2021 2020 2019
Total MIUs1 delivered 588 499 449
Total patients treated (cumulative) 18,881 17,329 17,223
Acute bleeds treated 31,528 21,900 42,881
Surgeries 412 470 355
Number of workshop attendees 1,468 691 250
1. International units.
In addition to the humanitarian aid donation to the WFH, Sobi contributes 
to the WFH  Corporate  Partner Program. Read more about the impacts of the 
 Corporate Partner Program on page 110 and on the website www.sobi.com. Environmental performance
The scope of Sobi’s environmental impact reporting includes the Sobi-owned 
biological manufacturing facility, headquarters in Sweden and international 
offices, and business travel. Environmental data from subsidiaries was first included 
in 2020, and new datapoints and geographies have been added in 2021. 
Sobi aims to report comprehensively on supply chain emissions by 2022. 
E1. GHG Emissions 
GHG emissions (CO 2) (tonnes)
(tonnes) 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
GRAND TOTAL 5,215 3,096 4,326 1,326 1,207
Scope 1  
(direct   emissions)
Production facility 3.3 1.7 2.2 3 3
Fleet cars (Parent) 32 88 98 129 153
Fleet cars (Subsidiaries) 669 509 – – –
Total scope 1 704 599 100 132 156
Scope 21 
(indirect  emissions)
Heating (Parent) 63 61 82 119 129
Cooling (Parent) 0 0 0 0 0
Electricity (Parent) 0.3 0.02 0.02 0.02 –
Heating (Subsidiaries) 16.4 – – – –
Cooling (Subsidiaries) 0 – – – –
Electricity (Subsidiaries) 19.1 – – – –
Total emissions 
(Subsidiaries) 35.5 36 – – –
Total scope 2 99 97 82 119 129
Scope 3
(indirect  emissions) 
Business travel – flight, 
taxi (Parent) 647 295 971 981 830
Business travel – flight 
(Subsidiaries) 2,452 1,064 3,099 – –
Business travel – cars
(Subsidiaries) 1,258 977 – – –
Heating (Parent) 22.5 43 74 94 92
Cooling (Parent) 0 33 0 0 0
Electricity (Parent) 0.2 0.01 0.01 0 0
Heating (Subsidiaries) 8.2 – – – –
Cooling (Subsidiaries) 0 – – – –
Electricity (Subsidiaries) 25 – – – –
Total emissions 
 (Subsidiaries) 33 17 – – –
Total scope 3 4,412 2,400 4,144 1075 922
1. Scope 2 emissions calculated using both market- and location-based components.SuSTAInABILIT y  nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
118E2.1 Total amount of energy directly consumed
The direct energy produced and consumed on-site (Scope 1 Production 
 facility) is generated by an emergency generator that is tested on a regular 
basis. In mid 2019, the process to test the generator was made more efficient 
and the time spent was cut in half, as were emissions.  
E2.2 Total amount of energy indirectly consumed
Energy-saving possibilities are regularly evaluated at the production facilities 
in Stockholm, Sweden. As a result of the implementation of a global reporting 
platform in 2021, it will be possible to track indirect energy consumed and 
influence sourcing of energy. Sobi targets to switch to renewable energy and 
reach net zero emissions In operations by 2030.  
E3. Energy intensity 
Total direct energy use for in-house manufacturing per output scaling factor. 
Total direct energy use (MWh/SEK M)
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Energy (MWh) 5,958 6,597 5,867 6,313 6,480
Revenue manufacturing 
(SEK M) 445 481 376 436 559
MWh/SEK M 13.4 13.7 15.6 14.5 11.6
E4. Water use
Water consumption data includes Sobi’s head office and production facilities in 
Stockholm, Sweden and for the first time also offices outside Sweden. Water 
 consumption is regularly followed up in relation to internal performance indica-
tors. In 2021, 46% of Sobi operations reported on water usage. 
Water consumption
m3 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Purchased water 53,728 56,725 31,776 57,374 45,913
In the production facility, water consumption is regularly followed up in   relation 
to internal performance indicators. In 2020, an incorrect reading of water 
 consumption for the head office was adjusted, resulting in a considerably higher 
reading compared with previous years. In 2021, a validation of the reading 
was conducted. Laboratory activities performed at the corporate  headquarters 
were discontinued In 2019. Historic figures are therefore most probably con-
siderably higher.
Water in the production facilities is not reclaimed, but warm water is  recycled 
from the production of steam to extract heating and cooling. 
Energy consumption
 2017   2018   2019   2020   2021  Of which renewable
1. Direct energy.03,0006,0009,00012,00015,000MWh
Electricity
renewableDistrict
heatingFossil
fuel (oil)1Cooling Total
of which
renewableComments GHG emissions
Emissions include data from Sobi’s global operations. “Parent” is defined as the 
biological manufacturing facility and the Sweden corporate headquarters, and 
“Subsidiaries” constitute the Sobi global offices. Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
for 2020 and 2021 cannot be compared with prior years due to the expansion 
to include all global operations and changes in reporting processes in 2021 
which meant changes in emission factors used. The evolution Is visible through 
inclusion of more emission components over the years. Additionally, due to the 
pandemic, both 2020 and 2021 are atypical years. 
In 2021, 93 per cent of Sobi facilities worldwide (measured as share of 
employees) reported all or some energy data, while 97 per cent of Sobi opera-
tions reported travel and fleet car data. This data also includes employ-
ee-owned cars used for  business purposes. The majority of reporters for leased 
car data have not split between business and private travel. Travel emissions are 
impacted both from an increasing number of reporting entities and decreased 
travel due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The mix of leased cars reported in Scope 
1 remains at 12 per cent for electric or hybrid cars, while the total number of 
leased cars has increased in 2021 due to the expanded geographical scope.  
Emission factors used 
With the deployment of global reporting, work has commenced to align emis-
sion factors. Where credible sources of market-based emission factors are 
available, these have been used. For other emissions, location-based principles 
have been applied. 
Aspect Source
Location-based emissions IEA 2021
District heating Swedish average
District cooling Stockholm Energi, miljönyckeltal 2020
Fossil fuel (production 
 facility Sweden) Energimyndigheten 2020
Business travel Local travel agency reports
NTM Emission factor (2018)
Leased cars WLTP
Private cars Car manufacturer data
E2. Energy use and mix
Energy consumption refers to all operations, including Sobi’s in-house 
 manufacturing and all offices. Energy consumption by source of  origin and 
the  proportion that is renewable is included where data is available.
In 2021, energy consumption was tracked completely or partially in 93 per cent 
of Sobi’s sites (as measured by share of employees). Renewable energy is sourced 
for offices and facilities in Sweden, Denmark and Switzerland.
Energy consumption (facilities’ energy use)
MWh 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Electricity 8,440 8,318 7,518 7,694 7,852
of which renewable 8,042 8,318 7,518 7,694 7,852
Heating 2,391 2,133 2,550 2,596 2,690
of which renewable 2,268 1,770 2,015 2,051 1,991
Fossil fuel (oil)1 9.6 5.6 7.2 10.0 8.4
Cooling 2,121 2,902 3,059 3,167 2,793
Total 12,962 13,359 13,134 13,467 13,343
1. Direct energy SuSTAInABILIT y  nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
119E5. Environmental management
The Environmental Policy states the principles and defines roles and responsi-
bilities for managing environmental issues within all of Sobi operations, includ-
ing affiliates and subsidiaries as well as Sobi’s sphere of influence. It emphasises 
Sobi’s commitment to complying with applicable laws and regulations, a pro-
active approach to protecting land, water, air, climate, natural resources and 
biodiversity, as well as a commitment to risk reduction and transparency. 
To the best of our knowledge, there were no confirmed incidents resulting in 
administrative and judicial sanctions for failure to comply with environmental 
laws and/or regulations in 2021. 
E6. Climate oversight and risk mitigation
Sobi’s direct GHG emissions are limited and the company is not at risk of sub-
stantial exposure to climate change in the short term.
Supply chain partners with a high impact on Sobi’s operations and which are 
impacted by climate-related risks are assessed and monitored as part of Sobi’s 
Responsible Sourcing Programme and risk-assessment process. 
Sobi is working to fulfil the EU Taxonomy Regulation and recommendations 
from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), with the 
aim of adapting the company’s climate-related financial disclosures to evolving 
reporting practice. Sobi’s direct and indirect climate-related risks and opportu-
nities were part of the overall risk process in 2021 (see p 39). At this point in 
time, it is Sobi’s understanding that none of our economic activities are covered 
by the technical screening criteria in the EU Taxonomy Regulation so far 
released.
E7. Waste 
Waste reporting is mainly based on Sobi’s head office and production facilities 
in Stockholm, Sweden but includes limited data from operations outside 
 Sweden with 10 new countries reporting in 2021, and data now covering 57% 
of global Sobi operations. Because of this, numbers are increasing. Several 
 entities have limited possibilities to report per fraction, but the reporting system 
will provide increased focus on the waste topic. 
From 2021, numbers are also split between production and office, to better 
represent the different types of activities and possibilities both to implement 
waste reduction measures and report. Non-hazardous waste has in general 
decreased in recent years as a result of several measures, including digitalisa-
tion of deviation management and changes to available archive spaces.
Used IT equipment is now sent for repurposing through a collection system 
that in 2021 was expanded from Sweden to cover all Sobi countries, except 
Asia, the Middle East and Russia. Office and production site waste
Tonnes 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Total amount of waste 55.5 35 39 42 72
Production 36 – – – –
Office 19.4 – – – –
Non-hazardous waste
Recycling 7.9 5 6 – –
Reuse 0.3 0 0.6 – –
Combustion with 
energy recovery 20.3 16 17.5 – –
Other treatment 0 0 0.6 – –
Landfill1 1.9 1 0.2 0.1 0.1
Total non-hazardous 30.4 22 24.3 24 50
Hazardous waste
Recycling 13.8 6 5 – –
Reuse2 0.5 1 – – –
Combustion with 
energy recovery 3.0 0 0 – –
Other treatment 1.9 7 8.6 – –
Landfill3 5.7 0 0 – –
Total hazardous 25 13 14 18 22
1. A limited amount of Sobi’s waste cannot be recycled and is therefore sent to landfill. The waste is 
mostly construction related.
2. IT equipment sent for repurposing, a system expanded to cover all Sobi markets, except Asia, 
Middle East and Russia.
3. Obsolete chemicals from production that were sent for final, authorised, treatment and where 
remaining residue (ash/calcified end product) is subsequently landfilled. 
Social performance 
In 2021, Sobi had commercial operations in Europe, North America, North 
Africa, the Middle East, Eastern Asia and Australia. Biological manufacturing is 
based in Sweden with one  laboratory facility in Switzerland. In terms of number 
of employees, Sobi grew organically in 2021. 
To the best of our knowledge, there were no confirmed incidents resulting in 
administrative or judicial sanctions for failure to comply with laws and/or regu-
lations in the social and economic area in 2021. 
S1. CEO remuneration
See Note 10 for information about CEO remuneration. See also the Remunera-
tion Report available on the www.sobi.com website in connection with docu-
mentation for the 2022 Annual General Meeting. 
Material recycling of waste
Share of total waste that is sent for material recycling
 Total amount of waste   Share of total waste sent for material recyclingTonnes
0102030405060
2021 2020 201928% 31%39%SuSTAInABILIT y  nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
120S2. Gender pay ratio
In Sweden, a gender equality analysis is carried out annually, designed to pre-
vent discrimination and promote equal rights and opportunities. Results are 
evaluated in collaboration with trade unions and actions taken if necessary. 
Roles and responsibilities are mapped proactively to ensure fair and equitable 
salaries as well as development opportunities.  
S3. Employee turnover
In 2021, Sobi grew slightly in number of employees and had a turnover rate of 
15 (11) per cent due to voluntary terminations. The movement is believed to be 
caused partially by the job market shifts caused by the pandemic, and our growth 
in new geographies, but will be analysed more closely in 2022. Sobi did not 
introduce any furlough schemes or layoffs during the COVID-19  pandemic. 
Numbers below are headcount, fixed term employees excluded.
Year New hiresVoluntary  
terminationTotal number 
employees 
(end of year)
2021 364 235 1,588
S4. Gender diversity
Sobi has strong representation of women in management roles within 
STEM-related (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) areas. 
Positions such as Head of Technical Operations, CIO, Head of R&D Operations, 
and Head of Project and Portfolio Management are all held by women. 
2021 2020 2019
% per gender Female Male Female Male Female Male
Board 50 50 38 62 38 62
Executive  
Committee 8 92 18 82 27 73
Senior 
 management1 40 60 42 58 – –
All employees 59 41 59 41 60 40
1. Senior management – management positions reporting to Executive Committee.
Data includes permanent and fixed term employees 
New hires diversity 
Sobi increased the female share of new hires in 2021. The age profile of new 
hires reflects the industry and the company’s need for highly qualified staff.
Split of new hires – gender and age 1 <30 30–49 50– Total 2021
Female 14 146 62 222
Male 9 100 44 153
Total new hires per age group 23 246 106 375
1. includes both permanent and fixed term employees.
S5. Temporary worker ratio 
Typically, Sobi does not have part-time positions. Employees may be granted 
voluntary part-time equivalent employment for personal needs such as child care. 
Employees, contract type 
Employees1Total 
2021
Permanent contractAn employee employed by Sobi without a 
predetermined end date. 1,536
Fixed-term contract An employee employed by Sobi with a  
predetermined end date. 23
FTE consultantsConsultants acting as line staff and tempo-
rarily replacing a Sobi employee. 120
1. Employee numbers are expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE).   S6. Injury rate 
The total number of accidents includes those that did not lead to absence from 
work but that may have required medical care. Stronger emphasis was put on 
including accidents happening while commuting to and from the workplace, 
which has affected the total number reported. 
For 2021, statistics include operations globally and include a measure on 
H&S committees.   
Incidents 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
No. of accidents 17 10 26 28 23
Lost workday injury (LWI) 4 0 0 1 0
Lost time incident rate LTFIR (LTIR) 6.37 0 0(0.39) 0
% of employees1 represented by 
H&S committees 53% – – – –
1 calculated using headcount per unit.
LWI – Accidents that led to a lost workday (in addition to the day of the accident).
LTFIR – Lost time injuries / 1,000,000 * total number of hours worked.
LTIR – Lost time incident rate per million hours worked.
S7. Global Health & Safety
Sobi applies a global Health & Safety Policy and Occupational Health & Safety 
(OHS) management is integrated into the company’s overall  management and 
business. Health and safety is addressed regularly at meetings and any OHS 
risks associated with activities are considered. Managers are responsible for 
addressing any concerns raised.
The joint management worker health and safety committee is based at the 
head office and consists of representatives from all operations. The committee 
meets quarterly and reports to the Executive Committee.
S8. Training and education 
All Sobi employees receive regular performance and career development 
reviews. Training documentation and performance management processes 
are digitalised. 
A number of training modules are identified as compulsory for all or parts 
of the Sobi workforce, and participation tracked centrally. In, 2021, completion 
rates among eligible Sobi employees were 94 per cent–98 per cent. 
Training title Completion rate
Sobi all – Introduction 94%
Sobi all – Data Privacy & Information Security Training 97%
Sobi all – Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Training 96%
Sobi all – Environment, Health and Safety Training 95%
Sobi all – GxP Introduction 95%
Sobi all – Patient Safety Core 2021 98%
Sobi all – Sobi Code of Conduct Training 95%
2021, Sobi started collecting data on locally managed training. Data gathered 
covered 55% of Sobi operations, where in total 2,360 hours of training was 
 registered. Topics included leadership and personal development.  
All employees completed their performance management process (PMP) 
in 2021. All managers and employees are encouraged to set up individual 
development plans, however the status is currently not possible to measure 
with confidence.   
S9. Patient safety 
To ensure and evaluate statutory compliance with quality and patient safety 
regulations, facilities are regularly inspected. In 2021, Sobi hosted eight 
 inspections (2 GVP, 6 GMP). In addition to external inspections, Sobi continu-
ously monitors the performance of its suppliers and internal processes and 
operations.
Sobi had no incidents of product recall in 2021.SuSTAInABILIT y  nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
121S10. Marketing and labelling 
In 2021, one incident of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary 
codes concerning product and service information and labelling was reported. 
This concerned a non-compliant banner on a web page, where view time was 
too short and font size too small according to the regulations. A fine was set to 
SEK 110 000.  
S11. Forced and Child Labour
Sobi has zero tolerance for forced and child labour and is a signatory to the 
UN Global Compact. The company’s statement on forced and child labour 
is included in the Code of Conduct and Partner Code of Conduct, the latter 
applying specifically to the supply chain. Both documents are available on 
www.sobi.com.
S12. Human rights
Sobi is a UN Global Compact signatory and the company’s statement on 
human rights is included in the Code of Conduct and Partner Code of Conduct, 
the latter applying specifically to the supply chain. Both documents are availa-
ble on www.sobi.com.
Governance performance
Sobi sets high ethical standards in operations globally. The aim is to maintain a 
culture of compliance with corporate principles. This objective extends to 
Sobi’s supply chain. Sobi has a well developed governance system for compli-
ance. For more details, see pages 105–106 and 114.  
G1. Board diversity
The Nomination Committee applies rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Govern-
ance Code in regard to composition of the Board.
Board diversity 
2021 2020 2019
Male 4 5 5
Female 4 3 3
Nationalities 3 4 4
30–50 years 1 0 1
Over 50 years 7 8 7
Committee chairs (three committees)
Male  2 (3) 2 (3) 2 (3)
Female 1 (3) 1 (3) 1 (3)
G2. Board Independence
See the Corporate Governance Report. 
The company meets the Swedish Corporate Governance Code’s require-
ments that a majority of Board members must be independent of the company 
and its executive management, and that at least two Board members must also 
be independent of the company’s major  shareholders.
G3. Incentivised Pay
Executives are formally incentivised for objectives that are determined for the 
promotion of the Company’s business strategy and long-term development, 
including its sustainability, in accordance with the remuneration guidelines set 
out in Note 10. 
In the Shareholding Guidelines, the Board recommends that the CEO and 
other members of the Executive Committee, within three years of their 
appointment, accumulate and hold Sobi shares equivalent to one annual gross 
base salary for the CEO, and 50 per cent of annual gross base salary for other 
members of the Executive Committee. 
G4. Collective bargaining agreements
All of Sobi’s employees are free to form, join or refrain from joining organisa-
tions that represent their interests as employees. All employees are also allowed to negotiate collectively. 39 per cent of Sobi’s employees (Sweden, 
Austria, France, Italy, Spain) are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Employees covered by collective bargaining
Percentage of employees in country or region 2021
Sweden 100
Europe1 30
North America2 0
Rest of the world 0
Total 39
1. Excluding Sweden
2. US and Canada
G5. Supplier Code of Conduct
Sobi has a Partner Code of Conduct in place for vendors, suppliers and part-
ners. The Code is available on www.sobi.com.
Since 2020, Sobi has been a formal associate member of the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI ) and participates in several PSCI working groups 
to promote responsible supply chain practices as well as human rights, 
 environmental sustainability and responsible business practices in the global 
pharmaceutical supply chain.
Sobi engages EcoVadis to rate supplier sustainability performance. At the 
end of 2021, the average score for rated suppliers was 55.8, a 4-point improve-
ment on those rated previously. Three suppliers scored <40 using the EcoVadis 
CSR Rating Methodology. Sobi also encourages the implementation of key 
practices among its suppliers and tracks the implementation rate through the 
platform. 
Proportion of suppliers reporting implemented practices (%)
Actions on energy consumption & GHGs 88
Reporting on energy consumption or GHGs 81
Use of renewable energy 56
Audit or assessment of suppliers on CSR issues 75
Policy on anti-corruption 100
Active whistleblowing procedure 88
For more details about the Sobi Responsible Sourcing Programme, see p 115.
G6. Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Sobi’s ethical standards statement is included in the Code of Conduct and Part-
ner Code of Conduct, the latter applying specifically to the supply chain. Sobi’s 
Anti-Corruption Policy applies to all employees.
In 2021, 14 cases were reported via the Sobi Compliance hotline and 
reviewed by the Corporate Compliance Committee. All cases are investigated 
and the appropriate corrective and disciplinary actions are taken where 
needed. 
95 per cent of Sobi’s workforce completed the Code of Conduct e-learning. 
96 per cent completed the assigned anti-corruption training
More information about Sobi’s work on ethics and compliance can be found 
on page 114. R&D-related ethics principles are found in page 108.
G7. Data Protection
Sobi’s data protection programme is described on page 115. To allow for con-
tinuous improvements as well as compliance with data protection legislation, it 
is of great importance to establish and maintain a robust data breach reporting 
process. 
Sobi’s data protection office received 10 (16) internal reports of suspected 
personal data breaches during 2021 (2020), showing that there is an awareness 
within the company regarding integrity issues, and a continued readiness to 
report potential issues. The reports ranged from minor incidents such as emails 
sent to the wrong recipient to potentially more severe breaches. All incidents 
were investigated and corrective actions taken. One cases (two) were reported 
to the supervisory authority, as required by applicable data protection laws.SuSTAInABILIT y  nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
122Market availability of Sobi products
Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2021
Region Elocta1 Alprolix1 Doptelet2  Kineret Gamifant Orfadin
EU and EFTA states Haemophilia A Haemophilia B CLD/ITP RA, CAPS, Still’s, FMF HT-1 & AKU
Austria x x x* x x 
Belgium x x x* x x 
Bulgaria x x x x
Croatia x x x x
Cyprus x
Czech Republic x x x*CLD NPU x x
Denmark x x x* ITP x x 
Estonia x x x
Finland x x x* x x
France x x x x
Germany x x x* x x 
Greece x x x x
Hungary x x x x
Iceland x x*
Ireland x x X x x
Italy x x x* CLD x x
Latvia x
Liechtenstein x x x x
Lithuania x
Luxembourg x x x x
Malta x*
Netherlands x x x* x x
Norway x x x x x
Poland x x x x
Portugal x x x x
Romania x* x* x* x
Slovakia x x NPU x x
Slovenia x x x x
Spain x x* x* CLD x x
Sweden x x x* ITP x xRegulatory approvals and indications for Sobi’s products vary 
according to geographical region. In addition to regulatory 
approval, local agreements on pricing and reimbursement are 
also required for the product to be fully available through regular 
healthcare pathways.
The table below shows the countries for which Sobi has been 
granted marketing authorisation (MA), including the indication, 
and whether market access is achieved through approved pricing 
and/or reimbursement (marked with x) or managed access 
programmes (MAP) or Named Patient Use (NPU). In the EU, the 
marketing authorisation approval and indication is valid for all EU 
member and EFTA states. Sobi is commercialising the following proprietary products: 
Alprolix, Elocta/Eloctate, Doptelet, Gamifant, Kineret and Orfadin. 
As Sobi only holds the rights to Synagis in the US, Synagis is not 
included in the table. Sobi also commercialises Kepivance in 
the US. In 2021, Sobi received approvals for Aspaveli/Empaveli 
for PNH in the EU and Saudi Arabia but these have not yet been 
launched. In December of 2021, Kineret was recommended 
by the European Medicines Agency Committee for Medicinal 
Products as a tool for fighting COVID-19. 
See the glossary on page 132 for a definition of the listed 
indications.
 
1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia.  
2. Doptelet received approval for primary chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in January 2021. SuSTAInABILIT y  nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
123Access to Sobi’s products – *new in 2021
Region Elocta1 Alprolix1 Doptelet2  Kineret Gamifant Orfadin
Europe – other Haemophilia A Haemophilia B CLD/ITP RA, CAPS, Stills, FMF pHLH HT-1
Russia x x (not RA) x (MAP2) x
Switzerland x x x* x x
Turkey x*
United Kingdom x x x CLD x x (HT-1 & AKU)
Ukraine x
North America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory CLD/ITP RA, NOMID pHLH HT-1
Canada x x
Mexico x x
United States x x + DIRA x x
Asia Haemophilia A Haemophilia B RA, CAPS, Stills, FMF HT-1
Bahrain NPU x
China Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory Out-licensed
Kuwait x x NPU x*
Israel x x
Japan Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory x
Jordan NPU x
Oman x x NPU
Palestine x
Qatar x x NPU x
Saudi Arabia x x x* NPU x (MAP) x
United Arab Emirates x x NPU x (MAP) x (MAP)
North Africa Haemophilia A Haemophilia B CLD/ITP RA, CAPS, Stills, FMF pHLH HT-1
Algeria x* NPU x
Tunisia NPU x
South America Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory CLD/ITP RA, CAPS pHLH HT-1
Argentina NPU x
Chile NPU x
Australia (Oceania) Not Sobi territory Not Sobi territory CAPS, sJIA
x x
1. Sobi has final development and commercialisation rights in Europe, most Middle Eastern markets, North Africa and Russia.  
2. Doptelet received approval for primary chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in January 2021. Market availability of Sobi products, cont.SuSTAInABILIT y  nOTES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
124The Sobi Sustainability Report 2021 has been prepared in accordance 
with the GRI Standards: Core option. It also fulfils the requirements on 
sustainability reporting outlined in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. 
Sobi reports its sustainability performance on an annual basis, in 
the Annual and Sustainability Report. The indicators below have been 
selected based on a materiality analysis, further described on page 
105. All page references below refer to pages in Sobi’s 2021 Annual 
and Sustainability Report or the company webpage www.sobi.com. 
The sustainability report also serves as the Sobi UN Global 
Compact Communication on Progress (COP) report. For questions regarding the Annual and Sustainability Report, please contact  
info@sobi.com.
The pages identified in the GRI Index below refer mainly to the 
following sections of the Annual and Sustainability Report 2021
Business Model, strategy and description of activities on 
pages 10–20.
A description of the Sobi approach to sustainability is found 
on pages 23–27 and 104–117.
A report on the 2021 performance is found in the Sustainability 
notes section, on pages 118–124.GRI Content Index
 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
referenceUN Global   
Compact Principle
GENERAL DISCLOSURES – 102
Organisational Profile
102-1 Name of the organisation 51, 93
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 12–17, 32, 34, 51
102-3 Location of headquarters 51
102-4 Location of operations 19, 76
102-5 Ownership and legal form 28–29, 51, 93–94
102-6 Markets served 19, 32–34, 60
102-7 Scale of the organisation, including total number of employees, 
operations, net sales, and capitalisation30, 34–37, 64, 121
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 64, 121 6
102-9 Supply chain 10, 40, 115
102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 35–37
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 110
Environmental policy, clause 3.1
102-12 External initiatives 7, 104, 107, 112
102-13 Membership of associations Trade association membership | Sobi
Strategy 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7, 92
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 39–41, 105–106
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 105–106, 113–115, 121 10
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 114–115
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 95–101, 105–106
102-19 Delegating authority 98–99, 105
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 64–65, 96–99 
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 28, 105
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 122 3, 6
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 105 3
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 105
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 105GRI InDEx
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
125 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
referenceUN Global   
Compact Principle
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement 51–56, 76
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 51–56, 105
102-47 List of material topics 23, 105
102-48 Restatements of information 118–122
102-49 Changes in reporting 51, 105
102-50 Reporting period 95
102-51 Date of most recent report 26 March 2021
102-52 Reporting cycle 32, 93, 128
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 125
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 37, 125
102-55 GRI content index 125–127
102-56 External assurance 128
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104–117 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
103-2 The management approach and its components 104–117 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 104–122, 128 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
GRI 200: Economic performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 118
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 118
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 41, 114–115 10
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption  
policies and procedures 114–115 10
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 114, 122 10
GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 
and monopoly practices 41, 114, 122 10
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES – GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 118–119 7, 8
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 118–119, 122 7, 8
302-3 Energy intensity 119
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 118–119 7, 8
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018
303-1 Water withdrawal by source 119–120 7, 8
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 118–119 7, 8
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 118–119 7, 8
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 118–119
GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 117, 120 7, 8
GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 120
GRI 306: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 115, 122 9GRI InDEx
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
126 
GRI Standard 
Disclosure Page 
referenceUN Global   
Compact Principle
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES– GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 401: Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 121 6
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 113, 121
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 113
403-9 Work-related injuries 121
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programs 113, 121
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance  
and career development reviews 113, 121 6
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 121, 122 6
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
 assessments, and development programs 24, 109–110, 118, 121 1
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 115, 122 2, 4, 5
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product  
and service categories 110–111 1, 2
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health  
and safety Impacts of products and services 122 1, 2
GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 110–111
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product  
and service information and labelling 122
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  
marketing  communications 122
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer  privacy 
and losses of customer data 122
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and  economic area 120GRI InDEx
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
127Auditor’s report on the statutory  
sustainability statement
To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556038-9321
Engagement and responsibility
It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2021 on pages 23–27 and 
104–127 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act.   
The scope of the audit
Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding 
the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different 
and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally 
accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions.
Opinions
A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared.  
Stockholm, March 31, 2022
Ernst & Young AB
Jonatan Hansson
Authorized Public Accountant AuDITOR’S REpORT
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
1282022 Annual General Meeting
2022 Annual General Meeting
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) will hold its Annual General 
Meeting (the ”Meeting”) on Tuesday, 10 May 2022. 
Shareholders who wish to participate in the Meeting must be listed 
as a shareholder in the presentation of the share register prepared 
by Euroclear Sweden AB (the Swedish Central Securities Depository) 
concerning the circumstances on 2 May 2022 and must give notice 
of participation in accordance with what is stated in the Notice 
convening the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of a nominee 
through the trust department of a bank or similar institution must, to 
be entitled to participate in the Meeting, register their shares in their 
own name, so that the shareholder is listed in the presentation of the 
share register as per 2 May 2022. Such registration may be temporary 
(so-called voting rights registration), and request for such voting 
rights registration shall be made to the nominee, in accordance with 
the nominee’s routines, at such time in advance as decided by the 
nominee. Voting rights registrations that have been made by the 
nominee no later than 4 May 2022 will be taken into account in the 
presentation of the share register.  
Additional instructions will be stated in the Notice convening the 
Annual General Meeting, which will be published in April.Financial calendar 2022
January – March Interim Report 28 April 
Annual General Meeting 10 May 
January – June Interim Report 19 July 
January – September Interim Report 27 October 
The Annual Report can be downloaded in PDF format from  
www.sobi.com, as well as previous annual reports, interim reports 
and press releases.Annu AL GEnERAL MEETInG
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
129Definitions
CER
Constant exchange rates.
Earnings per share
Net income divided by the average number of shares.
EBIT
Earnings before interest and taxes (operating income).
Full-time equivalent (FTE)
A unit that indicates the number of hours worked by an employee on 
a full-time basis, used to make workloads comparable across various 
contexts.
Gross profit
Total revenue less cost of goods sold.
Gross margin
Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. 
Gross to net
Operating revenue less mandatory and contractual price reductions.
IFRIC 
The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Alternative performance measures
Financial measures not defined according to IFRS
Sobi uses certain financial measures in interim and annual reports 
that are not defined according to International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS). The company considers that these measures pro-
vide valuable supplementary information for investors and  company 
management, as they enable an assessment and benchmarking of 
the company’s reporting. Since not all companies calculate financial 
measures in the same way, these are not always comparable to 
measures used by other companies. These financial measures 
should not therefore be regarded as substitutes for measures defined 
according to IFRS. The following financial measures are not defined 
according to IFRS. 
Capital employed
Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. 
Cash flow from operating activities per share
Cash flow from operating activities divided by the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding.
Cash flow per share
Changes in cash and cash equivalents divided by the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding.Debt-to equity ratio
The proportion of shareholders’ equity and debt used to finance the 
company’s assets.
EBITA
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITA adjusted
EBITA less non-recurring items.
EBITA margin, %
EBITA as a percentage of total revenue.
EBITA margin adjusted, %
EBITA adjusted as a percentage of total revenue.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EPS, SEK adjusted
Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares.
EPS after dilution, SEK adjusted
Profit for the period, adjusted, divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares after dilution.
Equity per share
Equity divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
Equity ratio
Shareholders’ equity as a proportion of total assets.
Net debt (+)/Net cash (–)
Borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Return on capital employed Earnings before interest and taxes 
(EBIT) divided by  capital employed.
Return on equity
Net income divided by shareholders’ equity.
Return on total capital
Profit/loss after financial items plus financial income as a percentage 
of average total assets.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)
Risk-free interest rate plus Beta multiplied by a risk premium. The 
risk-free rate is an average of 10-year Treasury bill over the past five 
years. Beta is the correlation between Sobi’s share and the stock 
exchange index. Risk premium is calculated as an average over five 
years of the market expectations of growth and return. A tax of 21.4 
per cent has been used.DEFInITIOnS
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
130SEK M unless otherwise stated 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Total revenue 15,529 15,261 14,248 9,139 6,511
Total cost of goods sold –3,484 –3,225 –3,335 –2,415 –1,854
Gross profit 12,045 12,036 10,913 6,723 4,657
Gross margin 78% 79% 77% 74% 72%
EBIT (operating profit) 3,733 4,818 4,533 3,122 1,600
Plus amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 1,841 1,882 1,401 449 441
EBITA 5,575 6,700 5,933 3,571 2,053
Plus depreciations and impairment of tangible assets 165 141 188 36 33
EBITDA 5,740 6,841 6,121 3,607 2,086
EBITA margin 36% 44% 42% 39% 32%
Non–recurring items1 – –399 211 – –
EBITA adjusted 5,575 6,301 6,145 3,571 2,053
EBITA margin adjusted 36% 41% 43% 39% 32%
Profit for the period 2,679 3,245 3,304 2,418 1,149
Non-recurring items1, 2 – –399 174 – –
Profit for the period, adjusted 2,679 2,846 3,479 2,418 1,149
Average number of ordinary shares (excluding shares in treasury) 295,051,119 294,658,136 292,649,020 269,523,784 269,020,363
Average number of ordinary shares after dilution (excluding shares in treasury) 296,799,459 297,640,174 294,528,428 270,603,665 270,003,546
EPS, SEK adjusted 9.08 9.66 11.89 8.97 4.27
EPS after dilution, SEK adjusted 9.03 9.56 11.81 8.93 4.26
Shareholders’ equity 23,203 20,206 16,930 9,040 6,701
Total assets 48,661 48,283 46,568 17,183 10,903
Equity ratio 48% 42% 37% 53% 61%
Number of ordinary shares 307,114,495 303,815,511 299,977,839 273,322,117 272,507,708
Number of ordinary shares after dilution 308,862,835 306,797,549 301,857,247 274,365,601 269,975,826
Equity per share, SEK 75.6 66.5 56.4 33.1 24.6
Equity per share after dilution, SEK 75.1 65.9 56.1 32.9 24.8
1. 2020 refers to; reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. 2019 refers to; transaction cost related to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M,  
restructuring costs of SEK 157 M and gain from divestment of SOBI005 of SEK 37 M.
2. 2020 refers to; reversal of the CVR liability of SEK 399 M. 2019 refers to; transaction cost related to the acquisition of Dova of SEK 92 M,  
restructuring costs of SEK 175 M including impairment of intangble assets of SEK 18 M, gain from divestment of SOBI005 of SEK 37 M and, related tax effects of SEK 55 M. Alternative performance measuresALTERnATIvE pERFORMAnCE MEASuRES
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
131Glossary
AKU, Alkaptonuri 
A serious, multifaceted, debilitating and slowly progressive disease 
affecting approximately 1 in every 250 000 to 1 million people. Also 
known as black bone disease or black urine disease.
Alprolix (eftrenonacog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor IX therapy for treatment of 
haemophilia B. 
ALS, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
A devastating neurodegenerative disease that results in progressive 
muscle weakness and paralysis due to the death of nerve cells, motor 
neurons, in the brain and spinal cord. 
CAD, Cold agglutinin disease
A severe, chronic, rare blood disorder that currently has no approved 
therapies and impacts around 10,500 people across the United States 
and Europe. People living with CAD may suffer from chronic anae-
mia, transfusion requirements, and an increased risk of life-threaten-
ing thrombotic events such as stroke.
CAPS, Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes
Constitutes a group of rare autoinflammatory diseases with an inci-
dence estimated to be 1:1,000,000 worldwide. CAPS is characterised 
by uncontrolled overproduction of interleukin-1 (IL-1) which induces 
a number of inflammatory responses such as fevers, rash, joint pain, 
headaches, conjunctivitis and many other symptoms.
CIT, Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia 
A common side effect of chemotherapy that results in a low number 
of platelets.
CLD, Chronic liver disease 
Liver disease becomes chronic when it has been present for more 
than 6–12 months without signs of resolution. Chronic liver disease 
can be inherited (genetic) or caused by a variety of factors such as 
viruses, auto-immunity, obesity and alcohol use. 
Doptelet (avatrombopag)
A second-generation small-molecule thrombopoietin receptor 
(TPO) agonist used in the treatment of thrombocytopenia by increas-
ing platelet count.
Efanesoctocog alfa (BIVV001)
A novel, investigational factor VIII therapy designed to extend pro-
tection from bleeds with prophylactic dosing once-weekly or longer 
apart for people with haemophilia A. Builds on Fc-fusion technology 
by adding a region of von Willebrand factor and XTEN polypeptides 
to potentially extend its time in circulation.
EHL, Extended half-life
Means that the circulation in the body is prolonged. Sobi’s haemo-
philia treatments, Elocta and Alprolix, are EHL products.
Elocta/Eloctate (efmoroctocog alfa) 
A recombinant, EHL clotting factor VIII therapy a for the treatment of 
haemophilia A.
EMA
European Medicines Agency.Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF)
A genetic autoimmune disorder that causes recurrent episodes of 
fever together with abdominal, chest or joint pain.
FDA
The US Food and Drug Administration.
FMF, Familial Mediterranean Fever
A genetic autoimmune disorder that causes recurrent episodes of 
fever together with abdominal chest or joint pain.
Gamifant (emapalumab)
An anti-interferon-gamma (IFN ) monoclonal antibody (mAb), 
approved by the FDA for the treatment of primary haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a life-threatening syndrome of immune 
activation, and which is under investigation for other indications. 
Gout
An autoinflammatory disease that causes intensely painful flares and 
debilitating inflammatory arthritis due to deposition of pro-inflam-
matory monosodium urate (MSU) crystals in synovial fluid and other 
tissues.
Haemophilia
A rare, genetic disorder in which the ability of a person’s blood to 
clot is impaired. Haemophilia A occurs in about one in 5,000 male 
births annually, and haemophilia B occurs in about one in 25,000 
male births annually. Both occur more rarely in females. People 
with haemophilia experience bleeding episodes that may cause 
pain, limited mobility, irreversible joint damage and life-threatening 
haemorrhages.
HLH, Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis
A rare and life-threatening syndrome of extreme immune activation. 
The primary form (inherited) of the disease mainly occurs in infants 
and young children and the secondary form (acquired) of the disease 
is acquired from or associated with autoimmune diseases or malig-
nancy. 
HSCT-TMA
A rare blood disease that can be a fatal complication of a bone 
marrow transplant or HSCT. In HSCT-TMA, microscopic blood clots 
form in small blood vessels, leading to organ damage.
HT-1, Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 
People with HT-1 have problems breaking down an amino acid called 
tyrosine. Toxic by-products are formed and accumulate in the body, 
which can cause liver, renal and neurological complications.
IC-MPGN/C3G
Rare, debilitating kidney diseases that affect around 18,000 people 
in the United States and Europe. There are no approved therapies 
for the diseases, and symptoms include blood in the urine, dark 
foamy urine due to the presence of protein, swelling, and high blood 
pressure.
IL-1, Interleukin-1
A key mediator of inflammation and driver of autoinflammatory 
diseases.GLOSSAR y
SOBI ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
132ITP, Chronic immune thrombocytopenia
A rare autoimmune bleeding disorder characterised by a low number 
of platelets, affecting approximately 60,000 adults in the United States.
Kineret (anakinra)
A recombinant protein drug that blocks the biological activity of  
interleukin-1  and  (IL-1  and IL -1 ) by binding to IL-1 type 1 
 receptors (IL-R 1), expressed in a variety of tissues and organs, thereby 
blocking the IL-1 signalling. IL-1 is a key mediator of inflammation and 
a significant contributor to autoinflammatory diseases. 
MAH, Marketing authorisation holder
The company in whose name the marketing authorisation has been 
granted and who is responsible for all aspects of the product.
Nirsevimab
A single dose extended half-life anti-RSV F-monoclonal antibody 
(mAb) being developed for the prevention of lower respiratory 
tract infections (LRTI) caused by RSV in all infants entering their first 
RSV season and children with chronic lung disease or congenital 
heart disease entering their first and second RSV season. Is being 
developed for passive immunisation of a broad infant population, 
and engineered to have a long half-life so that only one dose will be 
needed for the entire RSV season. 
NOMID
Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease, the most severe 
form of CAPS, also associated with chronic meningitis, hearing loss, 
craniofacial abnormalities, bone lesions and increased mortality.
Orfadin (nitisinone)
A drug used to treat hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1). It blocks 
the breakdown of tyrosine, thereby reducing the amount of toxic 
tyrosine by-products in the body. Patients must maintain a special 
diet in combination with Orfadin treatment as tyrosine is not ade-
quately broken down.
Orphan drugs
Medicinal products targeting rare, life-threatening diseases or disor -
ders in very small patient populations. They are called “orphan drugs” 
because, under normal market conditions, there is little incentive for 
the pharmaceutical industry to develop a treatment for such a small 
patient population. Revenues would not be expected to meet the 
extremely high costs of bringing such a treatment to market. Govern-
ments often provide economic incentives to encourage companies 
to develop and market medicines for rare diseases.
Pegcetacoplan
An investigational, targeted C3 therapy designed to regulate 
excessive complement activation, which can lead to the onset and 
progression of many serious diseases.PNH, Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria
A rare, chronic, life-threatening blood disorder characterised by the 
destruction of oxygen-carrying red blood cells through extravascular 
and intravascular haemolysis. Persistently low haemoglobin can result 
in debilitating symptoms such as severe fatigue, haemoglobinuria, and 
difficulty breathing (dyspnoea), and can require frequent transfusions.
RA, Rheumatoid arthritis
A chronic autoimmune and inflammatory disorder that primarily 
affects joints.
RSV, Respiratory syncytial virus
A common virus and the most common cause of lower respiratory 
tract infections (LRTI) in young children. The RSV season usually 
occurs from early autumn until late spring and peaks during the winter.
SEL-212
A novel combination product candidate designed to sustain control 
of serum uric acid levels in patients with chronic refractory gout. 
SEL-212 consists of pegadricase, co-administered with ImmTOR, 
designed to mitigate the formation of anti-drug antibodies. 
Still’s disease 
An autoinflammatory disease that affects both children and adults, 
characterised by persistent high spiking fevers, recurring rashes 
and arthritis. Still’s disease is also known as systemic-onset juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) or adult-onset Still’s disease (AOSD). 
Synagis (palivizumab)
Indicated for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract infec -
tions (LTRI) caused by respiratory syncytial virus in infants and young 
children at high risk of RSV disease. RSV is the most prevalent cause 
of LRTI among infants and young children. Synagis is an RSV F-pro-
tein inhibitor monoclonal antibody (mAb) that acts as prophylaxis 
against serious RSV disease. It is the only medicine approved for the 
prevention of serious RSV disease. 
Tegsedi (inotersen)
A self-administered subcutaneous treatment for the treatment of 
polyneuropathy of hATTR amyloidosis in adults.
Waylivra (volanesorsen)
A treatment for the treatment of genetically confirmed familial 
chylomicronaemia syndrome (FCS).
WFH
World Federation of Hemophilia, an international not-for-profit 
organisation.
Sobi, Elocta, Alprolix, Kepivance, Kineret, Orfadin and Gamifant are   
trademarks of Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ).  
All third party trademarks are the property of their respective owners.  
©2022 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). All rights reserved.
Production: Sobi in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson.
Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet. Photos: Martin Botvidsson, Petter Karlberg,  
Paulina Westerlind, Stock images/Getty, World Federation of Hemophilia, Sobi.Forward-looking statements
This report includes forward-looking statements. Actual results 
may differ from those stated. Internal factors such as the successful 
management of research programmes and intellectual property 
rights may affect future results. There are also external conditions 
such as the economic climate, political changes and competing 
research programmes that may affect Sobi’s results.GLOSSAR ySwedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ)
SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden
Visiting address: Tomtebodavägen 23A, Solna
Telephone: +46 8 697 20 00
www.sobi.com
Email: info@sobi.com