readyWe areSustainability Report 20202IntroductionAnnual Report 
publications
The Annual Report, Sustainability Report and “2020 at a glance” together make up Swisscom’s reporting 
on 2020. The three publications are available online at:  swisscom.ch/report2020
Concept “ready”
With the brand platform “ready”, Swisscom also wants to revitalise its brand internally and externally and make the networked future accessible to its customers in a simple way. 
The pictures in the Annual Report 2020 show Swisscom employees who were also ready in this 
extraordinary year in order to enable our customers, for their part, to be “ready for life”. 
The cover of the Annual Report and “2020 at a glance” shows Dilan Mert, Shop Manager Shopville at Zurich 
Main Station.
The cover page of the Sustainability Report shows Saskia Günther, the new head of the Sustainability 
Team.
A big thank you to all who took time to pose for these photographs and film recordings: Lorenz Inglin, 
Florian Leibenzeder, Florian Badertscher, Sebnem Kaslack, Stefan Kuch, Reto Jost, Pascal Salina, Carmen 
Wäfler, Markus Gisi, Cloé Zähringer-Cela, Dilan Mert, Dany Kammacher, Patrick Weibel, Barbara Pytlik, 
Klaus Liechti, Luigi Chiofalo, Saskia Günther and Giulia Langhi. 
Our pride in 2020
readyWe areAnnual Report 2020
312441e71eb6420bb1817f10b34fdf40.indd   1 29.01.2021   15:44:33
readyWe areSustainability Report 2020
readyWe are2020 at a glance3Introduction  __________________ Our pride in 2020  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Stakeholders’ letter   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5
Our corporate responsibility   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7
Value chain   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Group of stakeholders   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Material issues   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Sustainability Strategy  __________ Ready for more sustainability – our Sustainability 
Strategy 2025   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Swisscom’s contribution to the SDGs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Targets Table   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Governance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
Corporate ethics   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Management approaches within the Group   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22
Ready for people  ______________ Digitisation and competent media use   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
Accessibility   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27
Employees   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27
Fair supply chains   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36
Ready for the environment  _______ Climate protection and energy efficiency   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
Use of resources and circular economy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
Environmentally friendly and climate-compatible supply chains   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50
Overall assessment of 2020   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 51
Ready for Switzerland  ___________ Broadband coverage   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 54
Mobile telephony and society   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56
Data protection   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Responsibility towards society   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Offerings in the healthcare sector   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60
About this report  ______________ Scope of the report   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
Reporting   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
SGS verification   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
GRI Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Glossary  _____________________ Technical terms  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74
Other terms   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75
Sustainability terms   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75We have been named the world’s  
most sustainable telecommunication company  by three rating agencies.10 years World leaderJAMES 
study
JAMES is the Swiss study  
on the media use  
and leisure behaviour  
of 12 to 19 year olds.
worth over   
EUR 500 million  
placed.Green bondin sustainabilityCircular  
economy
“Refreshed smartphones” –  
Swisscom online shop now offers  
second-hand smartphones.
Promotion  
Media Competence
People have benefited from our information services and training – increasingly online because of Covid-19.57,400Our operations has been climate-neutral  
since August 2020.Climate-neutral  
operations5Sustainability Report 2020 | Introduction
Stakeholders’ letter
Dear Readers
Crises force us to look at the world in a new way  . 2020 has been an exceptional year, with the pandemic 
significantly restricting how we live our lives  . But this crisis has also clearly demonstrated the possibilities 
of digitisation  . Imagine a lockdown without home office, remote classrooms or online shopping – and 
with no video calls with families and friends  . During this challenging period, we actively supported our 
customers – for example by offering additional data volumes, greater Internet speeds, free home office 
solutions for SMEs and schools and extra roaming credit for customers stranded abroad  . Following the 
outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, many Swisscom Academy courses were also offered online at short notice: in the months of the first lockdown in spring alone, 6,430 participants took advantage of our online offerings  .
Home office as a useful addition
Digital tools cannot and should not replace face-to-face meetings, but they can really complement them in a meaningful way  . Recognising this reality means looking at things differently and this will lead to long-
term changes in the way we live and work  . This could be seen at Swisscom in the year under review: over 
80% of our 16,000 employees in Switzerland worked from home, and another 90% of them were satisfied or very satisfied with their home office arrangement and would like to work more days from home in the 
future  . The trend was also reflected in the FlexWork study by the University of Applied Sciences and Arts 
Northwestern Switzerland: mobile, flexible working was significantly boosted during the lockdown  . Just 
under half of the respondents believe that this has led to a “significantly more positive attitude” in their company  . 
With its high-performance networks, Switzerland has created the best conditions for successful digitisa -
tion, which makes our network outages at the beginning of the year all the more painful . These fell far 
short of our high standards, but were resolved quickly thanks to efficient and immediate action  . During the 
lockdown, our networks were available at all times despite considerably higher usage  . To ensure that this 
remains the case, we invested CHF 1  .6 billion in the maintenance and expansion of our infrastructure in 
2020  . With our new network strategy, we want to double our fibre-to-the-home (FTTH) coverage to include 
up to 60% of homes and businesses  . Since 2020, our basic service provision has included bandwidths of 
10 Mbps – one of the highest in Europe and enough to facilitate home office and remote classrooms  .
6Sustainability Report 2020 | Introduction 5G – an opportunity for climate protection
With the expansion of 5G, mobile communication is now an integral part of a complete network infra -
structure  . Some people mainly associate this new technology with risks – despite the fact that the fre -
quencies are well researched and international expert bodies, such as the World Health Organisation 
(WHO), have confirmed that the recommended international limits pose no risk to people’s health  . How -
ever, we take these concerns seriously: last year, we responded to 181 citizen enquiries  . 
These opportunities from these new forms of technology to make Switzerland sustainable: the potential of 5G can be seen in the pilot projects on a special website and the 124 applications submitted from 
26 countries for Swisscom’s 5G Start Up Challenge  . The study by the University of Zurich and the Swiss 
Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology (EMPA), commissioned by Swisscom and 
Swisscleantech, also made it clear that 5G has environmental benefits and can help reduce CO
2 emissions . 
To coordinate all these activities, we created a dedicated position to act as a “Delegate for Sustainability 
and Digitisation”  .
Swisscom is the world leader in sustainability
Swisscom was listed in several ratings as the world’s most sustainable telecommunications company in 
2020  . This is an encouraging confirmation of the progress we have made  . More than anything, though, 
this is an incentive not to stray from the path we have chosen  . 
The subject of climate protection was given a further boost by concerns about the environment  . We are 
supporting this change in the way of thinking by enabling our customers to offset the carbon footprint of their smartphone, and fund various South Pole forest conservation projects in the process  . We now 
also offer refurbished smartphones in our online shop – a sustainable and cost-effective solution for  customers  .
Since last August, our operations have been climate neutral: after cutting 80% of our CO
2 emissions, we 
are taking the next logical step and fully offsetting our remaining emissions through myclimate  . Our 
Sustainability Strategy is supported by the Group Executive Board, which recently opted to measure its own performance against this metric  . 
We have met our commitments with regard to ecological and social responsibility throughout our entire supply chain for years  . We do this by creating transparency, enhancing industry-wide collaboration and 
optimising our suppliers  .
Swisscom is the first listed Swiss company to issue a EUR 500 million green bond  . By doing so, we demon-
strated that the financing of sustainable projects has considerable appeal among investors  . The funds 
raised by the green bond go towards to achieving the goals of the Sustainability Strategy with regard to climate protection and energy efficiency  . 
From a new way of looking at things to action
The wheel of time cannot be turned back, but the impetus from digitisation can help to ensure a new 
way of looking at things will also lead to action  . We will continue on our 20-year path towards climate 
protection, sustainability and the promotion of media competency  . We are guided by the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG) and by our sense of responsibility towards our customers, our employees and shareholders, society and our planet  .
Stefan Nünlist
Head of Group Communications & ResponsibilitySaskia GüntherHead of Corporate Responsibility
7Sustainability Report 2020 | IntroductionOur corporate responsibility
Swisscom is the Swiss market leader for mobile telecom -
munications, fixed-line telephony and television. We also 
occupy a significant market position in various IT busi -
ness segments. In Italy, our subsidiary Fastweb offers 
fixed-line and mobile communications services. 
Megatrends such as digitisation are rapidly changing our 
society and economy. They also influence our activities. 
Characteristic examples of this include increasing con -
nectivity, the exponential growth in data, new customer 
needs, the mounting importance of software, security 
and data protection, and technological progress towards 
the Internet of Things and artificial intelligence. Digitisa -
tion is increasingly penetrating all areas of life and is 
ushering in new business models. This digital transfor -
mation brings with it opportunities and challenges – for 
our business as well as for the economy, society and the 
environment. Our ultimate aim is to ensure that we and 
Switzerland make the best possible use of these oppor -
tunities and successfully master the challenges, both 
now and in the future.
Sustainable management and long-term responsibility 
have been central values that are deeply rooted in our 
company at least since we began implementing system -
atic sustainability management more than 20 years ago: 
these values are expressed in our vision, promise, corpo -
rate business strategy and code of conduct and are 
addressed in detail in the Sustainability Strategy 2025. 
The Sustainability Strategy affects our entire value chain. 
As a national provider of communications infrastruc -
ture, we have special ties with Switzerland. Our nation -
wide stakeholders, such as customers, employees, inves -
tors and federal authorities, place high demands on us in 
terms of sustainability. Working together with them, we 
identify key strategic issues year after year on which we will focus when implementing the Sustainability Strat -
egy 2025. Through the annual review, we ensure that our commitment keeps pace with current developments in the economy, politics and society.
In addition to the expectations of stakeholders and Swiss 
legislation, the United Nations Agenda 2030 with its 
17  Sustainable Development Goals defines the frame -
work for our Sustainability Strategy. It is the first holistic 
framework for environmentally, socially and economi -
cally sustainable development in the public and private sectors. Every time we make progress in our priority areas, we contribute to achieving these goals.
In implementing our Sustainability Strategy, we are com -
mitted to transparency and an open dialogue with the 
public. After all, we can only be successful if there is 
agreement between the company and society and if we can convince our stakeholders with responsible actions 
based on ethical principles. With this inquisitive, committed and trustworthy atti -
tude, we inspire people in the networked world every 
day and help shape the future. We are ready for people. We are ready for the environment. And we are ready for 
Switzerland. 
Opportunities and challenges of digitisation
Digitisation and how society deals with it are particu -
larly influential in our actions and strategy. At the same time, as the largest ICT provider in Switzerland, we are 
significantly influencing and accelerating digitisation. We believe it is essential that this digital transformation 
serves sustainable development. In order to steer the 
change in the right direction, we are guided by how the risks and opportunities of digitisation are perceived by 
the population. In discussions and surveys, interest 
groups have pointed out the following items:
● Information and communication technologies have an important role to play in promoting sustainable 
lifestyles, while at the same time leading to higher 
resource and energy consumption. 
● ICT technologies (networks, data centres and end devices) consume a lot of energy. At the same time 
they replace or optimise other energy-intensive and 
CO
2-intensive applications.
● Artificial intelligence creates new possibilities but also raises concerns. 
● Digitisation creates new jobs but also makes current jobs redundant.
These prospects illustrate how complex and multi-  
layered individual aspects of digitisation are or at least 
are perceived to be. 
Currently, 5G symbolises the further development of 
digitisation like no other topic. 5G offers great opportu -
nities and at the same time causes a certain amount of 
public uncertainty about the effects of radiation, energy 
consumption or data security. For this reason we com -
missioned the University of Zurich and EMPA together 
with Swisscleantech to conduct a study that examined 
the contribution 5G can make to climate protection. The 
study showed that the expansion of a mobile network with 5G technology is much more climate-friendly and 
energy-efficient than with today’s 4G technology. The 
study also showed that the potential for climate protec -
tion through climate-friendly applications of 5G is much 
greater than the impact on the climate caused by the 
provision and operation of the 5G network. The rapid expansion of the 5G network is thus an opportunity for 
climate protection.
N See www.swisscom.ch/5Gclimatestudy
Digitisation can therefore make a significant contribution 
to sustainability. In the year under review, the Global 
e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) therefore launched the 
“Digital with Purpose” initiative, which aims to highlight and promote the contribution of digitisation to the Sus
-
tainable Development Goals. The initiative is the logical 8Sustainability Report 2020 | Introductioncontinuation of the study of the same name “Digital with 
Purpose”, which was published in 2019 and which we sup -
ported as co-sponsor. We were one of the first telecom -
munications companies worldwide to join the initiative. 
The “Digital with Purpose” initiative will in future require telecommunications companies to take further steps in 
topics such as climate protection or the promotion of 
sustainable services in order to make a significant contri -
bution as an industry to achieving the goals of Agenda 
2030. Digitisation should be part of the solution and not 
part of the problem that we as humanity have to solve in the next decade (see the chapter “Global e-Sustainabil -
ity Initiative”). With this in mind, Swisscom specifically seeks and promotes sustainable applications of digitisa -
tion. For example, the IoT Climate Award, which was 
established in 2020, honours climate-friendly applica -
tions of digitisation. A new Swisscom website on digiti -
sation and sustainability describes sustainable digital applications and highlights their contribution to the Sus -
tainable Development Goals of Agenda 2030.
N See www.digitalwithpurpose.gesi.org
N See www.swisscom.ch/sustainabledigitisation9Sustainability Report 2020 | IntroductionValue chain
We generate the bulk of our added value through our 
activities in Switzerland. In the year under review, activi -
ties abroad contributed only 8% (previous year 8%) to the Group’s added value from operations. 
The statement of added value and the allocation of added value are addressed in the Management Commentary of 
the Annual Report, in the “Financial review” (see Annual 
Report, page 118).
Each year, suppliers deliver goods and services to us worth over CHF 4.4 billion. The importation has a positive and 
negative impact on the economy, society and the envi -
ronment along the value and supply chains:
● Consumer and capital goods contribute to Switzer -
land’s economic development, competitiveness and quality of life. But they have an impact on the climate 
and natural resources. We accept our responsibility and are implementing a number of measures to make our supply chains ecologically sustainable (see the 
chapter “Environmentally friendly and climate-com -
patible supply chains”). 
● We create and maintain jobs in Switzerland as well as 
within the supply chain, thus creating added social 
and economic value. Together with our employees 
and partners, as well as in international industry initi -
atives, we are committed to making the social condi -
tions in our supply chains sustainable (see the chap -
ter “Fair supply chains”).
● In order to provide our customers with services and products, we depend on raw materials from numer -
ous countries and regions, the extraction of which is often associated with environmental and social risks. We are therefore particularly committed to better 
practices in the extraction of raw materials (see the 
chapter “Fair supply chains”).
Increasing  
positive impact
Minimising  
negative impactSupplier Business UseRecycling 
and disposal
Figure SDGs on the value chain10Sustainability Report 2020 | Introduction Group of stakeholders
As a national infrastructure provider, we have special 
ties with Switzerland. Our nationwide stakeholder 
groups such as customers, employees, investors, NGOs 
and authorities at all levels place high demands on Swisscom with regard to sustainability. We maintain close relations with them. Depending on the depth of the relationship, the interests and the size of the groups, we individually tailor our dialogue and interaction with 
them. 
Customers
We systematically consult private and business custom -
ers on their needs and their level of satisfaction. Customer Relationship Managers identify customer needs in direct 
contact. We also conduct regular representative surveys addressing the issues of reputation and customer satis -
faction. One reason for this is to determine the extent to which customers perceive Swisscom as a company that acts responsibly when it comes to environmental and 
social issues. In addition, we conduct targeted qualitative 
and representative surveys on sustainability issues. In the 
reporting year 2020, surveys were conducted on the top -
ics second life, climate-neutral services and sustainable 
packaging. The surveys reveal what customers expect 
from us and for what reason: we discovered they want us 
to offer second-hand mobile phones because of the lower price and increased consumer awareness. They have also 
spoken out clearly in favour of less plastic packaging and 
want us to support them even more in climate-friendly, sustainable consumption.Partners/NGOs
We believe in the importance of sharing insights and information with partners and NGOs within the frame -
work of projects. For example, with myclimate, the Swiss Child Protection Foundation, WWF, SOS Kinderdorf (Children’s Village) and organisations that address the 
special needs of individual groups (e.g. people with a 
sensory impairment). These partnerships and our social and ecological commitment are especially relevant for 
our stakeholder group.
N See www.swisscom.ch/cr-partnerships
Investors and rating agencies
Besides the Annual General Meeting, we regularly foster 
dialogue with our investors at analysts’ presentations, 
roadshows and in teleconferences. Over the years, we 
have also built up contacts with numerous external investors and rating agencies. Above all else, institu -
tional shareholders and external investors expect stabil -
ity, profitability and predictability from us. In the year Customers
Partners/NGOs
Shareholders 
and ratings agencies
Authorities  and legislators
Suppliers MediaPublicEmployees and  
employee representation
Ready for  
the peopleReady for  
the environment
Ready for  
Switzerland
Stakeholder environmentSocial partners 11Sustainability Report 2020 | Introductionunder review, we became the first listed Swiss company 
to successfully issue a EUR  500  million green bond. 
Investors are attaching greater importance to sustaina -
ble investment opportunities. By issuing a green bond, 
we are meeting this need and tapping into a new inves -
tor segment. As in previous years, we were listed in  several ratings among the world’s most sustainable tel -
ecommunications companies.
Public authorities and legislators
We engage in intensive exchanges with various authori -
ties at national, cantonal and municipal level. One of the 
key issues is the expansion of the network infrastruc -
ture: mobile data applications are becoming increasingly 
popular with customers, while at the same time the 
expansion of the necessary infrastructure is not always 
met with the desired acceptance. At present, this is par -
ticularly evident in connection with the expansion of the 
5G network (See the chapter “Mobile telephony and 
society”).
Network expansion can also be a subject of dispute 
owing to the different interests at stake. We have there -
fore been conducting a dialogue with municipal author -
ities and local residents on network planning for many years (See the chapter “Advice and information on wire -
less technologies”). Where construction projects are 
concerned, it gives the parties affected an opportunity 
to suggest suitable alternative locations. We also main -
tain a regular exchange with the relevant authorities, in 
particular with the cantonal economics, construction 
and environmental departments. We seek regular dia -
logue with the authorities, political parties, associations 
and NGOs on political and regulatory issues and play a 
constructive role in the legislative process (see the chap -
ter “Actor in public debates”). 
Suppliers
Our procurement organisations regularly address issues concerning suppliers and supplier relationship manage -
ment. analysing the results of evaluations, formulating target agreements and reviewing performance. In the interests of maintaining dialogue with global suppliers, 
we also rely on international cooperation within the rele -
vant sectors (see the chapter “Fair supply chains”).
 Media
We maintains close contact with the media and are 
available to them at all times. Swisscom’s relationship 
with the media is based on professional journalistic prin -
ciples. In addition to the Media Office, management also 
maintains regular dialogue with journalists and make 
themselves available for interviews and more in-depth 
background discussions.
N See www.swisscom.ch/news
Public
We maintain contact with the public directly via our website, through social media, through surveys of the 
public, at trade fairs and as part of events. 
Employees and employee representation
Using a wide range of communication platforms and 
activities, we promote a corporate culture that encour -
ages dialogue between employees. The CEO and top management travel across Switzerland several times a year to meet with staff locally. This year the meetings 
have taken place online due to the coronavirus. Twice a 
year, Swisscom’s employees are able to share their opin -
ions about their individual situations and issues concern -
ing the company’s organisation. These surveys allow all employees and teams as well as the entire organisation to respond to feedback and make improvements. 
Helping to shape our future is one of the most impor -
tant tasks of the Employee Representation Committee 
by representing the collective concerns of the employ -
ees. This committee comprises 48 members (one repre -
sentative for every 400 employees) distributed across seven representation committees. Twice a year, we 
organise a round-table meeting with the employee rep -
resentatives. Employee concerns mainly relate to social 
partnership, training and development, diversity, and 
health and safety at work (see the chapter “Employees”).
Social partners
Regular contact with our social partners is particularly important to us. Our social partners include syndicom 
(the union for media and communications) and transfair 
(the public service staff association). Both are the dia -
logue and negotiating partners for matters relevant to 
the CEA and strategic participation.12Sustainability Report 2020 | Introduction Material issues
Our activities have an impact on our social, ecological and 
economic environment. At the same time, our company is 
shaped by this environment and our stakeholders. Every 
year, we identify the sustainability issues in this network of relationships that are currently considered relevant or 
even particularly relevant for our stakeholders and for us. We involve the interest groups in this process. This 
approach ensures that the strategic focus of our work for us, our stakeholders and our environment is consistent 
and in line with current developments. For each major 
topic, we also prepare a management approach, which we include in the relevant chapter of this report.
In 2020, we modified and fleshed out the materiality matrix in line with the responses from the stakeholder 
surveys and based on the findings of the 2020 bench -
marking with ten national and international telecom -
munications companies. 
The increasing importance of expansion plans relating 
to the new 5G generation of mobile communications in 
society and with the regulator has had a twofold effect 
on our materiality matrix: we have moved the topic of 
mobile communications and society accordingly to the top left-hand quadrant and the topic of network expan -
sion to the quadrants of topics that are highly relevant to us. We have also extended the latter’s designation to include network expansion and decommissioning, as we 
would like to place more emphasis on the decommis -
sioning activities associated with the network strategy, 
especially the conventional analogue fixed network.
The topic of recycling management is now in the quad -
rant of very relevant topics. This upgrading resulted 
from benchmarking and many significant regulatory 
developments. The topic of accessibility, on the other hand, was discussed somewhat less intensively in the year under review and we therefore shifted it to the rel -
evant topics quadrant. 
Furthermore, in the year under review terminology of the 
main topics was again simplified and topic-related termi -
nology was consolidated. Media competence and the 
protection of minors in the media were combined and all 
topics relating to climate protection were subsumed 
under one term. 
Materiality classification 
To determine the materiality of the individual sustaina -
bility topics, we are applying the following quality crite -
ria:
● Significance and relevance for our stakeholder groups
● Importance in our norms and standards (Vision, Val -
ues, Promise, Code of Conduct)
● Impact of our activities on the subject area
● Effects on our financial position, results of operations 
and reputationMateriality matrix 2020• Energy efficiency (p  . 40) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00170en##
• Network expansion and dismantling (p  . 55)  ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00220en##• Accessibility (p . 27) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00200en##
• Corporate ethics (p  . 21) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00210en##
 • Data protection (p  . 58) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00140en##
• Diversity and equal opportunities (p  . 30) https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00150en##
• Media protection for minors and media skills (p  . 25) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00160en##
• Climate protection (p  . 40) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00170en##
• Circular economy (p  . 45) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00180en##
• Risk factors in the supply chains (p  . 36) ##https://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00190en##
 • Work stress and resilience (p  . 27) ://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00110en##
• Employability (p . 30) ://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00120en##
• Mobile telephony and society (p  . 56) ://reports.swisscom.ch/short/2020/en/NHB00130en##
 
Materiality for SwisscomMateriality for stakeholders
relevant very relevant13Sustainability Report 2020 | IntroductionStakeholder involvement
We involve our stakeholders in the identification of key 
issues and the planning of strategic priorities. 
Internal analysis
● Group Executive Board: members of the Group Exec -
utive Board comment on the status of implementa -
tion of sustainability management during the meet -
ings held two to three times a year and in qualitative interviews on the challenges.
● Internal contact persons:  line managers at all levels 
responded to questions about the anchoring of the 
current strategy and their expectations. This survey 
takes place every two years, most recently in 2018.
● Corporate Responsibility Team:  the corporate 
responsibility team works with the strategy team to 
analyse what contribution Swisscom’s core business 
and growth areas make to the sustainability of soci -
ety and the environment. The results confirmed the 
external analysis: the greatest challenges that we will 
face in the future will be climate protection, ethical corporate management and the responsible handling 
of data.
External analysis
Results from external stakeholder surveys are also 
included in the assessment. The selection of the stake -
holders to be considered is made based on the themes relevant to the Sustainability Strategy. They have to be active in the core Swiss market. We take up their con -
cerns directly. In order to ensure the proximity to and continuous contact with the individual stakeholder groups, we set up our stakeholder group management 
as follows. 
● Benchmarking: in spring 2020, we commissioned a 
benchmarking exercise with ten telecommunications 
companies that are leaders in the field of sustainabil -
ity. The aim was to identify best practices in these 
areas and thus to identify topic setting, priorities, depth of transparency, as well as topic areas and trends. The findings of the benchmarking and the resulting recommendations were presented to the 
Group Executive Board: among other things, trans -
parency on governance in the field of corporate ethics 
is to be addressed. For this reason, a sustainability 
target was added to the Group Executive Board’s 
incentive scheme. 
● Stakeholder survey:  in the summer of 2020, we con -
ducted a stakeholder survey in which we aligned our -
selves with the overarching strategic Sustainable Development Goals. Furthermore, the results of the stakeholder survey are passed on to division manage -
ment and the Group Executive Board. A total of 20 stakeholders took part in the survey. Most of the feedback confirmed that we are working on the right 
sustainability issues and that our market position 
gives us a great deal of responsibility and a role model function. Slight deviations from the previous years 
could be observed in infrastructure issues: the dia -
logue on the expansion and dismantling of network 
infrastructure as well as on the effects of the new 5G 
mobile phone generation (especially its non-ionising 
radiation and its effects on the climate) gained in importance. In addition, the survey confirmed the 
findings of the previous surveys, particularly with 
regard to the opportunities and risks of digitisation and the infrastructure required to implement it. 
Stakeholders expect us to play an active role in this 
regard. Interest groups raise ethical questions and demand faultless conduct.
● Trend scouting: we did not carry out any trend scout -
ing in the year under review. Instead, the observation 
and assessment of relevant trends was carried out 
with the persons responsible for Group strategy. Cer -
tain trends could be identified from the benchmark -
ing exercise mentioned above. 14Sustainability Report 2020 | Introduction
N See www.swisscom.ch/strategy
ValuesVision
As number 1, we are shaping the future.
Together we inspire people in  
the networked world.
Trustworthy
We are close to our  
customers and staff and  
act in a responsible and  
reliable manner.CommittedWe pursue our goals with  
passion and we focus on  
what‘s important.CuriousWe are continually  
developing and always  
grasp new opportunities.15Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability StrategySustainability Strategy
As Switzerland’s leading ICT company, we bear a special responsibility in this respect  . 
We want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital transfor -
mation for the country’s prosperity, but we also want to minimise possible risks and 
thus be part of shaping the future  . We do this by promoting the digital skills of 
people in Switzerland and supporting fair supply chains, protecting the climate and building and maintaining a reliable, high-performance ICT infrastructure  . To be 
successful, we have set ourselves ambitious goals in the three strategic fields of action “Ready for People”, “Ready for the Environment” and “Ready for Switzerland”  . 
These objectives are an integral part of our corporate strategy and contribute to the 
17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations  .
N See www.swisscom.ch/sustainabilityReady for people
From now until 2025, we will  
support 2 million people per  
year to develop their skills in  
the networked  world and  
within our supply chain.Ready for the environmentTogether with our customers,  
we are reducing net CO
2 output 
by 500,000 tonnes. This corre -
sponds to 1% of Switzerland’s greenhouse gas emissions.Ready for SwitzerlandWe provide all people and  
businesses in Switzerland with  
reliable ultra-fast broadband.  
By doing so, we are making  
Switzerland a more competitive country and a better place to live.
Sustainability Strategy 2025
16Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability Strategy Ready for more sustainability – our 
Sustainability Strategy 2025
We are ready to strive for more sustainability for Swit -
zerland, the environment and the people, and are tack -
ling three fundamental challenges head-on:
● People in the networked world: whether children, 
senior citizens, working people or those returning to 
work, we all must keep pace with the demands of the 
digital world.
● Climate protection:  heat, drought, melting glaciers, 
extreme rainfall – climate change is giving us a taste 
of what lies ahead in the coming decades.
● Competitiveness and attractive locations:  thanks to 
a constantly high level of commitment and invest -
ment, we live in one of the countries with the highest 
competitiveness and quality of life.
While technologies advance at great speed, people’s skills do not simply change without help. People nowadays face digital challenges in almost all areas of life. That’s 
why we want to hone the digital skills of people living in a 
networked world. We create attractive jobs for our employees within our company. In addition, we exert our 
influence to promote fair working conditions with our 
suppliers, the majority of whom are located outside Europe.
Climate change is on people’s minds. Digitisation brings 
with it promising opportunities that will have immediate 
impact. Given the urgency of the climate challenge, the 
digital levers for climate protection must be used with resolve. 
A reliable, secure ICT infrastructure is fundamental to 
competitiveness, value creation and quality of life in 
Switzerland. It ensures prosperity and social cohesion.
We are meeting these challenges with three strategic 
areas of action and objectives that have been defined 
accordingly:
Ready for people
We enable people in Switzerland to make use of the oppor -
tunities presented by a networked world. By 2025 at the latest, we will be helping two million people per year to use 
digital media and have improved working conditions for 
employees in our supply chain. New educational opportuni
-
ties for schools, the people, SMEs and our employees bring us closer to this goal. Our teams in the call centres and 
shops are available to answer our customers’ questions. We 
ensure safe and fair working conditions in the supply chain.
The “Ready for People” area of action also includes our commitment to barrier-free access to our services. It also 
stands for our commitment as a responsible employer, 
for example in the training of apprentices, further train -ing of our employees and programmes for health, inter -
nal networking and volunteer work.
Ready for the environment
We care about the environment. We have set ourselves ambitious climate protection targets to help limit the 
global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. Together with 
our customers, we want to reduce CO
2 emissions by a net 
500,000 tonnes of CO2 in 2025. This corresponds to one per 
cent of Switzerland’s greenhouse gas emissions. At the 
same time, we want to bring carbon emissions from our 
operations and our supply chains down to a total of 300,000 tonnes. Our digital Swisscom products also ena
-
ble customers to save at least 800,000 tonnes of CO2. 
We have adjusted these targets slightly from those set in 2018: since CO
2 emissions from operations and the sup -
ply chain decreased faster than expected, we have 
toughened our original target of 400,000 tonnes of CO2 
to 300,000 tonnes. In terms of carbon reductions, we have adjusted the target of 850,000 tonnes of CO
2 by 
50,000 tonnes. To achieve the net target reduction of around 1% of Swiss CO
2 emissions in 2025, a figure of 
500,000 tonnes of CO2 is required instead of the 450,000 
tonnes previously targeted.
We use 100% electricity from renewable sources. We are 
now also offsetting all our Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 emis -
sions as well some of our Scope 3 emissions, meaning 
that we have been a “climate-neutral company” with the 
myclimate label since August 2020.
We have established a comprehensive energy manage -
ment programme to implement our climate protection 
targets. We systematically maximise energy efficiency in 
our operations and supply chains. We develop and pro -
mote visionary services and products that enable people 
in Switzerland to lead a more climate-friendly lifestyle. 
This includes technical solutions for location-independ -
ent working and services supported by IoT (Internet of 
Things) for the optimisation and remote monitoring of 
traffic, building technology and devices. And finally, we 
use resources sparingly and contribute in an innovative way to the conversion to a circular economy.
Ready for Switzerland
We uses the best networks and progressive solutions to create added value for our customers, employees, share -
holders and suppliers, as well as for Switzerland as a whole. We provide individuals and businesses nation -
wide with reliable ultra-fast broadband. All schools in 
the country have free access to the Internet. In this way 
we strengthen the competitiveness, digital fitness and quality of life in the country. 
The “Ready for Switzerland” area of action also includes 
important services for sensitive areas such as health -
care, data protection or regulatory issues.17Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability StrategySwisscom’s contribution to the SDGs
Our Sustainability Strategy is an integral part of our corporate strategy (see chapter on “Corporate strategy” in the 
Annual Report). With this strategy we are making a contribution towards the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 
United Nations.
SDG  Swisscom’s contribution to the SDGs  Further information 
  Promote the health of the population  ● Offerings in the healthcare sector 
  with offers in the area of health care  .  Target:  Ready for people, Work stress and resilience 
  Promote the health of Swisscom employees  ● Occupational health and safety 
  through occupational health management  Target:  Ready for people, Diversity and Work stress 
  as well as occupational health and safety  .  and resilience 
  Promote the populations’ media skills  .  ● Media protection for minors and promoting media skills 
    Target:  Ready for people, By 2025, Swisscom will enable 
    annualy 2 million people to improve their digital skills 
  Contribution to the educational landscape in Switzerland  ● Responsibility towards society; education policy 
  by providing broadband Internet access for schools  .   
  As a contribution to diversity and equality,  ● Diversity and equal opportunities 
  the goal is to increase the proportion of women in management  .  Target:  Ready for people, diversity 
  Contribution to cheaper and cleaner energy  ● For private customers: smart energy with tiko 
  with the offer tiko power, tiko Storage and virtual power plant  ● Climate protection solutions for our customers 
  in the sustainable portfolio  .   
  Swisscom makes its contribution through measures to boost  ● Energy efficiency and climate protection 
  energy efficiency and climate protection within the framework   
  of the sustainability strategy  .   
  Swisscom offers attractive jobs and working conditions  .  ● Recruiting and developing employees 
  Swisscom’s long-term investments in network and infrastructure  ● Ready for Switzerland 
  are a significant direct and indirect contribution to enhancing  ● Fair supply chain 
  Switzerland as a place to do business  .  Target:  Ready for people, Fair supply chains, 
  Swisscom contributes to improved working conditions in the  More for Switzerland, Coverage of Switzerland with fixed 
  supply chains  .  ultra-fast broadband 
  Expansion of the network infrastructure  ● Ready for Switzerland 
  and the sustainable portfolio  .  ● Basic service provision 
  Participation in building up the CO2 sensor network “Carbosense”  .  ● Climate protection through customers and portfolio 
    Target:  Ready for Switzerland, Coverage of Switzerland with fixed 
    ultra-fast broadband 
  Expansion of the portfolio for sustainable services,  ● Climate protection solutions for our customers 
  especially in the area of IoT and Smart City  .   
  By expanding the sustainable portfolio and with initiatives  ● Climate protection solutions for our customers 
  to take back and recycle end devices, Swisscom is making  ● Circular economy in practice 
  its contribution  .   
  Expansion of the portfolio of sustainable services  ● CO2 savings due to ICT services 
  for reducing CO2 .  Target:  Ready for the environment, Reduction of CO2 emissions 
    by 500,000 tonnes by 2025 
  Swisscom makes its contribution through measures to boost  ● Energy efficiency and climate protection 
  energy efficiency and climate protection within the framework  Target:  Ready for the environment, Reduction of CO2 emissions 
  of the sustainability strategy  .  by 500,000 tonnes by 2025 18Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability StrategyTargets Table
The most important indicators for the achievement of Swisscom’s sustainability targets
  Value  2025  Target 
Focus of the sustainability strategy  2020  target  2021 
       
Ready for people    
Main objective: by 2025 at the latest, we will be helping 2 million people per year to use    2,000,000   
digital media and have improved working conditions for employees in our supply chain       
Sensitisation courses (pupils, parents, teachers, adults)  .     
Technical aids (minor-protection pin with Swisscom TV, filter software, child-specific subscriptions)  .     
Media relations (publications, social media, guides)  .     
KPI:  Promoting media skills  226,996  350,000  247,425 
KPI:  Training media use  822,990  1,273,000  897,727 
KPI:  Technical measures  102,444  158,000  111,664 
KPI:  Digital shift  153,693  230,000  162,465 
2021 measures:     
● Launch of elective on the topic of e-sports  .     
● CR-related topics as training content  .     
● Aftersales measure: youth media protection tips for parents  .     
● Offers for teachers and SMEs: use of digital collaboration systems (Microsoft (R) M365 et al  .) .     
Fair supply chains       
Number of audits times number of employees in the audited factories  .     
JAC = Joint Audit Cooperation  .     
KPI:  Number of employees working for suppliers in the audited factories  128,590    150,000 
2021 measures:     
● Implementation of JAC Audit Campaign (onsite audits and mobile surveys)     
● Focus task forces (climate change, circular economy and forced labour) and expansion of the JAC 
Academy + awards programme     
Diversity (GRI 405-1, SDG 5, 8)       
Increasing the diversity of employees, measured by gender distribution, age mix, inclusion,     
origin and language     
KPI:  Proportion of women in management and in the top CEA levels  .  15 .8%    16  .8% 
Decision: increase of 1 percentage points annually       
KPI:  Percentage of employees with health impairments (inclusion)  .  1  .06%    1  .0% 
2021 measures:     
● Promotion of flexible working models for women and men to be pursued further     
● Promotion of diversity with additional, business unit-specific measures     
Work stress and resilience (GRI 403-1, SDG 3)       
Maintain or reduce absenteeism rate compared to the previous year  .     
KPI:  Absences in days/target days (weighted by FTE) x 100  2 .60%    2 .8% 
Target days are based on the standard working hours       
2021 measures:     
● Continuation of 2020 measures: focus topic: mental health with the “Mental Health First Aid” 
trainer and “Stress & Resilience” trainer training sessions, plus leadership training in presence 
management and controlling using a “seismograph” approach     
● Expansion of offering, increasingly provided via online channel (not time or location-dependent) 
to extend reach     19Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability Strategy   Value  2025  Target 
Focus of the sustainability strategy  2020  target  2021 
       
Ready for the environment   
Main objective: reduction of CO2 emissions by 500,000 tonnes by 2025 (GRI 305-5, SDG 7)    500,000   
Together with customers, CO2 emissions are to be reduced by 500,000 tonnes  .     
This corresponds to 1% of Switzerland’s greenhouse gas emissions  .     
Limit CO2 emissions from operations and in the supply chain to 300,000 tonnes by 2025.    300,000   
Reduction of own emissions and those of the supply chain (Scope 1, 2 and 3)  .     
KPI:  CO2 emissions Scope 1 (buildings and vehicles, without refrigerants)  14,420    14,000 
KPI:  CO2 emissions Scope 2 (electricity, district heating, compensated)  0    0 
KPI:  CO2 emissions Scope 3 (supply chain, employee mobility, etc  .)  300,779    333,000 
2021 measures:     
● Refurbishment of buildings and heating systems, replacement of fossil fuel-burning heating 
systems with heat pumps  .     
● Electrification of the vehicle fleet and use of hybrid drives  .     
● Promotion of supplier participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), dialogue with 
individual suppliers  .     
Climate protection solutions for our customers    800,000   
Savings through the portfolio with the help of customers and services  .     
Promotion and development of services that enable people in     
Switzerland to lead a more climate-friendly lifestyle  .     
KPI:  CO2 savings in tonnes  895,092    640,000 
2021 measures:     
● Reduction of traffic through the promotion of homeworking and virtual conferences  .     
● Reduction of traffic through the promotion of remote maintenance and operation using sensor 
(IoT solutions)  .     
● Promotion of energy-efficient cloud-based solutions  .     
       
Ready for Switzerland    
Main objective: coverage of Switzerland with fixed ultra-broadband as a prerequisite       
for Switzerland’s competitiveness.       
Increased bandwidths through modernisation of the existing network and     
the expansion of fibre optic coverage to homes and businesses (FTTH)  .     
KPI:  30-40% coverage of fixed-line apartments and shops with ultra-broadband between  42 .6%  30–40%  - 
300-500 Mbps by modernising the existing network  . Base 5  .3 million apartments and shops       
Switzerland (Swisscom Inventory)  .       
KPI:  50-60% coverage of apartments and shops with ultra-broadband of 10 Gbps  32 .1%  50–60%  - 
by upgrading fiber optics (FTTH)  . Base 5  .3 million apartments and shops Switzerland (Swisscom inventory)  .       
2021 measures:     
● Continuous expansion and modernisation of the existing network  .    20Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability Strategy Governance
Strategic goals of the Federal Council
The Federal Council defines the goals which the Confeder -
ation as our principal shareholder aims to achieve in the 
next four years. During the current target period, to 2021, 
it expects us to pursue a corporate strategy that is, to the 
extent economically possible, both sustainable and com -
mitted to ethical principles. 
N See www.swisscom.ch/ziele_2018-2021  (in German)
Incorporation in the Group strategy
Our Board of Directors is committed to pursuing a strat -
egy geared towards sustainability. It addresses the rele -
vant economic, environmental and social issues. The implementation of the Group strategy is delegated to the CEO, who can transfer tasks and competences to 
subordinate units and is supported in operational man -
agement by members of the Group Executive Board. 
Our Group Communications & Responsibility (GCR) divi -
sion is responsible for the creation and implementation 
of the sustainability strategy. It is also responsible for 
taking the goals of the 2030 Agenda into account and 
therefore also for Swisscom’s sustainable development.
N See www.swisscom.ch/basicprinciples
Responsibility of the Group Executive Board
Our Group Executive Board approved the main goals for the company and goals per division as part of the Sus -
tainability Strategy 2025. Since then it has convened at least twice a year to discuss the further development and implementation of the sustainability strategy. Every 
November, it reviews the past year and approves the 
guide values and planned measures for the coming year (see “targets table”).
Group Communications & Responsibility and the divi -
sions jointly prepare the implementation, which is then 
adopted by the division managers as an overarching 
roadmap for the year in question.
Members of the Group Executive Board as well as the 
Head of Group Communications & Responsibility are also sponsors for the strategic action areas that are aligned 
with their core tasks.
Our environmental target of reducing CO
2 emissions by a 
net 500,000  tonnes together with our customers has 
now been embedded in our incentive scheme. The Board 
of Directors has approved the target revised by the Group Executive Board. From 2021 onwards, a sustaina -bility target will therefore become part of the incentives 
for the Group Executive Board.
The responsibilities and associated guide values were 
adopted in the Sustainability Strategy 2025 and con -
firmed at the end of 2020:
● Overall management: Head of Group Communica -
tions & Responsibility
● Ready for people:  Head of Residential Customers, 
Head of Group Communications & Responsibility (media courses & Swisscom Academy), Head of Group 
Human Resources (employees incl. apprentices), Head of Group Business Steering, CFO (supply chains)
● Ready for the environment: Head of IT, Network & Infrastructure (network issues), Head of Group Busi -
ness Steering, CFO (mobility and real estate issues), Head of Business Customers (sustainable business customers portfolio), Head of Residential Customers 
(sustainable residential customers portfolio)
● Ready for Switzerland:  Head of IT, Network & Infra -
structure
● Ready for our image: Head of Residential Customers, 
Head of Group Communications & Responsibility
This is how we ensure that the action areas of the sus -
tainability strategy are binding and firmly embedded in 
the company.
The Group Executive Board has the following controlling 
instruments at its disposal:
● Weekly reports by Group Communications & Respon -
sibility on the main events
● Half-yearly reports with the main guide values from 
the priorities of the sustainability strategy
● Quarterly reports drawn up by Risk Management
● Half-yearly status reports in the divisional governing bodies on the status of the division roadmap
Responsibility of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors approves the goals and principles of the Group’s corporate policy. Sustainable business 
management is part of our corporate policy. The Board 
of Directors acknowledges the long-term sustainability strategy. It contains the strategic action areas and long-
term sustainability goals, their scope and the corre -
sponding governance. At the end of every year, the Board 
of Directors also acknowledges the guide values for the 
following year. It is informed in writing in half-yearly 
reports on the implementation status of the sustainabil -
ity strategy.
In December 2020, the Board of Directors acknowledged the 2021 roadmap derived from the sustainability strategy.21Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability Strategy Line units and sustainability network
Depending on the strategic priority in question, sustaina -
bility measures are implemented by either project teams 
or line units. Additional management members are also 
designated in each division, and these persons implement 
the measures at an operational level in close collaboration with the sustainability team. Events are held during the 
year for all members of the sustainability network. The purpose of these sustainability community occasions, 
supplemented during the year under review with themed Green Lunches, is to exchange information and explore 
new issues. In the year under review, we could not hold 
any events due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Green Lunches took place virtually. 
Corporate ethics
Our actions have been based on ethical principles for years. With this approach we meet our responsibility to 
all stakeholders – but also to ourselves. Not only have 
public and stakeholder expectations of the business community increased sharply, but we ourselves are also 
increasingly demanding that we act responsibly and 
with integrity.
We endeavour to act in a way that does not lead to any 
disadvantages for customers, employees, the economy, 
the environment, society or the company itself. As our 
main shareholder, the Confederation expects us to pur -
sue a corporate strategy that, to the extent economi -
cally possible, lives up to sustainable and ethical princi -
ples. We are committed to transparency and open dialogue with the public and encourage our employees 
to reflect constantly on whether their professional deci -
sions and actions are in line with the norms and values 
of the company and society. After all, we can only be 
economically successful if we maintain constant dia -logue with our stakeholders and can convince them with 
responsible actions based on ethical principles.
N See www.swisscom.ch/cr-governance
We meet these demands through our commitment to 
the environment, society and the economy. In the ana -
logue as well as the digital worlds, our ethical standards 
take equal account of the needs of Swisscom and our 
stakeholders. We are aware that this results in conflict -
ing objectives. We therefore actively address these and 
strive to collaborate to identify solutions that accord 
with our corporate culture. 
Responsible and ethical actions affect the entire company. 
We trust our employees and appreciate the fact that they 
act responsibly in their day-to-day work in keeping with 
our values. Management sets an example. The Head of Group Communications & Responsibility is also the per
-
son responsible for Swisscom’s ethics. He deals with ethi -
cal issues and impact assessments relating to our business activities, and raises staff awareness. The person responsi
-Sustainability governance structureStrategy
Control
Performance measurement Overall management
Engagement implementationBoard of Directors
Group Executive Board
Sponsors and division 
managementGroup  
Communications  
& Responsibility
Line units and sustainability networkDecisions Reporting
Targets Reporting
Reviews
DecisionsFunctional  
controllingReporting Reporting22Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability Strategyble for ethics also presides over the Data Ethics Board, 
which meets to discuss data projects and makes recom -
mendations for projects and management.
The Sustainability Strategy 2025 creates added value for society, the economy, the environment and the entire 
company. It stands for a brand of entrepreneurship 
where ethical and economic concerns are given equal consideration. With our sustainability strategy, we 
therefore examine projects and engagements not only 
for their profitability, but also for their long-term impact on the environment and society, and thus for compli -
ance with sustainability standards. 
We are committed to the following rules and code of 
practice:
● Code of Conduct: taking responsibility, complying 
with rules, being honest and reporting violations – 
with these four principles Swisscom’s Code of Con -
duct contains the minimum expectations that the 
Board of Directors and CEO have of the managers and 
employees of Swisscom and the Group companies.
N See www.swisscom.ch/cr-governance
● Corporate governance: transparency and clear 
responsibilities characterise responsible corporate 
governance at Swisscom. Sustainability governance 
defines the rules in accordance with which the line units and the sustainability network make decisions, 
oversee and report (see “Governance”).
N See www.swisscom.ch/cr-governance
● Principles of communication: employees adhere to 
Swisscom’s values and principles of communication 
in their day-to-day communication with one another 
and with customers, as well as in media and public relations work.
N See www.swisscom.ch/cr-governance
● Data Ethics Board: we have set up a Data Ethics Board to examine data processing operations based on 
objectifiable values. The Board, chaired by the Head 
of Group Communications & Responsibility, exam -
ines specific application scenarios from day-to-day 
business. The Board consists of representatives from 
HR, Customer Care, Data Analytics and Mobile Solu -
tions for Business Customers. In the year under 
review, the Board met twice to review current cases 
according to ethical criteria. This number may seem small. However, Swisscom generally has few cases 
that raise ethical questions. Our business models and 
services are fundamentally not data-based. And data ethics principles are already being taken into consid -
eration by development teams. This leaves very few complex cases for the Data Ethics Board to look at in depth.
● Transparency and dialogue:  we value and seek con -
tact with the public. We maintain open dialogue with 
interested stakeholder groups on specific topics relat -ing to our core business. Swisscom employees have the option of anonymously reporting suspected 
unfair business practices via a publicly accessible whistle-blowing platform. The incoming notifica -
tions are handled by the Internal Audit department.
● Responsible data handling: data-based applications and services provide opportunities for society, for the 
economy and for us as a company. We are aware of 
the trust our customers place in us when it comes to the handling of data. That is why we have set up a 
data governance procedure. This formulates meas -
ures and processes to systematically establish and 
promote a responsible data culture. The aim is to 
ensure that Swisscom processes data in a legally 
compliant and legitimate manner. This is also an example of how we are involving ourselves in the 
socio-political discourse surrounding the public avail -
ability of data (see “Data protection”).
N See www.swisscom.ch/smartdata
● Code of Conduct for Procurement: with our Code of 
Conduct for Procurement, we set binding rules: for us 
and our conduct as one of the largest buyers in Swit -
zerland, but also for our supply partners, for whom 
we set high standards in terms of operating efficiency 
and innovation, but also in respect of social and eco -
logical matters.
N See www.swisscom.ch/codeofconduct
● Corporate Responsibility Contract Annex: the Code 
of Conduct for Procurement sets out the principles 
and procedures to be followed by the procurement 
organisations. It stipulates the requirements that suppliers accept by signing the CR Contract Annex 
(CRCA). We use a structured risk management system 
to review compliance with these requirements. This system was introduced in the purchasing organisa -
tion in 2015 and has since been expanded in terms of its concept. It covers all the risk areas of the supply chain.
Management approaches within the 
Group
The Group’s precautionary principle
We work in a sustainable manner, in accordance with 
our visions and values. We use established management 
systems and approaches to reduce ecological, economic 
and social risks. Group targets and directives ensure that sustainability is taken into account in operations and 
projects. In addition to the management systems put in 
place, training employees and raising their awareness is an important part of our precautionary principle.
Our management systems adhere to ISO international 
standards. External audits confirm compliance with the 
following standard requirements through certification:
● 9001 Quality management
● 14001 Environmental management23Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability Strategy● 14064 Guideline on greenhouse gas inventory
● 20000 IT service management
● 27001 Information security management system
● 33002 Information technology – process assessment 
We have a certified quality assurance system (QAS) for 
measuring the electromagnetic fields of mobile commu -
nication antennas. This system is designed to ensure 
compliance with the limits set down in the Ordinance on 
Non-Ionising Radiation (ONIR limits) (see “ONIR limits”). Preventive measures are taken as part of our operational 
risk and safety management system (see “Risk manage -
ment system”).
Compliance management 
Swisscom’s wide range of business activities, coupled with 
the complexity of the applicable regulations, calls for an 
effective compliance management system (CMS). Our 
CMS covers all divisions and is based on the following ele -
ments:
● Culture: the compliance culture is the basis for an 
effective CMS and as a code of conduct it sets out the 
minimum expectations of the Board of Directors and 
CEO of Swisscom Ltd. These are communicated throughout the company by its leadership, and 
demonstrated and disseminated in day-to-day col -
laboration.
● Objectives: the Board of Directors defines the compli -
ance objectives: all organisational measures and activities are aligned with these goals.
● Risks: we take account of our business activities as 
well as regulatory and legal requirements to deter -
mine compliance risks. We assess these risks periodi -
cally and also in the event of new business activities 
or changes to the legal framework, and respond to 
these risks through appropriate measures.
● Organisation: the Board of Directors defines mini -
mum compliance tasks. The Group Executive Board then determines further tasks and responsibilities. In 
so doing, they provide the resources required for an effective CMS.
● Communication: employees are informed of their 
tasks, competences and responsibilities as well as the 
measures in the individual compliance areas. Each 
year, a report is sent to the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Board of Swisscom Ltd, as well as to 
the management boards and boards of directors of 
the subsidiaries and other internal units.
● Monitoring and improvements: we monitor the CMS and eliminate any weaknesses on an ongoing basis.
The CMS monitors compliance with the laws in the fol -
lowing legal areas throughout the Group:
● Anti-corruption
● Anti-Money Laundering Act
● Banking law (deposits from the public)
● Data protection and confidentiality (concerning all laws)
● Federal Act on Product Safety● Antitrust legislation
● Telecommunications legislation
● Stock exchange law (including OaEC)
N See www.swisscom.com/basicprinciples
To safeguard trade secrets, Swisscom does not publish any compliance reports. A brief description is provided in 
the GRI Index of this Sustainability Report.
Responsible marketing 
Our marketing is aligned with our visions and values as 
well as the principles of the Swiss Commission for Fair -
ness in Advertising (Schweizerische Lauterkeitskommis -
sion). Group Communications & Responsibility informs our marketing units about any further development of 
the principles. The communicating units are themselves 
responsible for ensuring that the principles are adhered to since they are best placed to recognise any breaches 
of compliance at an early stage and can take preventive 
action.
In our dealings and dialogue with customers, we recog-
nise the fact that customers, regardless of age and gen -
der, respond individually to this ever increasingly net -
worked and digitised world. This approach ensures that we can support them in the digital world without dis -
crimination and according to their own personal level of 
knowledge.
There were no infringements against fair trading in mar -
keting and communications in the year under review. 
N See www.faire-werbung.ch
The protection of human rights within the 
Swisscom Group and throughout the supply chains 
The protection of human rights is an integral part of our 
corporate culture. We are guided here by the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, the SA8000 
standard of Social Accountability International (SAI) and the company’s procurement guidelines. By rigorously 
upholding our own guidelines on human rights, we 
implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the National Action Plan for Business 
and Human Rights (see “Fair supply chains”).
N See www.swisscom.ch/humanrights
Practices in relation to copyright laws 
Copyright is governed by the collective employment 
agreement. Employees assign to Swisscom any copy -
right, associated protective rights (in particular rights to software) and all shared rights relating to their accom -
plishments while employed by Swisscom. In the event 
that Swisscom has no interest in the rights transferred 
to it, the employee’s right to make use of them may be reverted to the employee by contract. 
When using free and open source software (FOSS) to 
develop software, we protect the copyright of third par -24Sustainability Report 2020 | Sustainability Strategyties by adhering to the required FOSS licensing terms. Its 
use is regulated in the existing Group directives. For 
Swisscom software launched on third-party markets, 
FOSS licence compliance must be checked and verified by the internal FOSS Compliance Service explicitly.
Swisscom security
We make the networked world more secure by placing the needs of our employees, customers and partners at 
the heart of all our security considerations. By combin -
ing professional security services, skills, processes and 
tools, we offer highly effective security and thus the best 
possible protection for our company and our stakehold -
ers. Security is guaranteed at all times by clear and sim -
ple measures as well as by a modern infrastructure and competent specialists. With training and awareness 
campaigns on current security issues, we contribute to a security culture and thus help to ensure that employees 
always behave in a security-conscious manner as a mat -
ter of course.
Advancing digitisation and growing dynamism mean 
that security is becoming more and more important. We use the issue of security to further differentiate our brand from those of competitors and to open up new growth areas. For that reason, we offer our customers 
security solutions, products and services that are as pro -
gressive as possible. 
N See www.swisscom.ch/dataprotection
Fraud management 
We actively minimise fraud risks and thereby prevent 
losses by drawing on our own experiences (e.g. with cus -
tomer fraud cases). The combination of detection and prevention measures as well as the use of appropriate means (tools and personnel) 
● depicts the risks of fraud in a transparent manner;
● prevents cases of fraud;
● reveals fraud cases quickly, enabling security loop -
holes to be closed;
● reduces costs since resources are not burdened with exceptional tasks;
● reduces financial losses and enables the recovery of misappropriated assets;
● strengthens our reputation and increases customer confidence.25Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleReady for people
We provide everyone in Switzerland with secure and barrier-free access to the digital 
world  . By 2025 at the latest, we will be helping two million people to use digital media 
and have improved working conditions for employees in the supply chain  . We pay 
particular attention to the sensible use of media by children and young people  . We 
have developed a comprehensive range of training courses for this purpose  . Our 
employees provide high-quality services  . In return, we offer them attractive working 
conditions with flexible working models and numerous opportunities for further training and an appreciative environment  . We promote diversity and combat all forms 
of discrimination  . We are also committed to fair supply chains Because the same 
principle applies here as there: healthy and motivated employees do a better job  .
Digitisation and competent media use
Our goal is for everyone in Switzerland to be able at all 
times to communicate in both the public and private 
spheres and to exploit the opportunities provided by digi -
tisation. We see it as our duty to train users in the compe -
tent and safe use of digital media. We want to promote 
digitisation in Switzerland and thus enable the digital pen -
etration of everyday life. In particular, we support children and young people in dealing competently with new 
opportunities. But we are also keen for the working popu
-
lation and senior citizens to recognise the opportunities 
that the information society holds for them.
Management approach
Media users today are faced with a wide range of chal -
lenges. Different value systems create tensions. Young 
people experience media as a natural element of their 
everyday lives, and any limitations lead to conflicts. Adults tend to recognise time lost in online presence and 
try to keep their children away from digital media. Older 
people risk missing out on digitisation, although they too could simplify and enrich their everyday lives with 
the help of digital media.
We see ourselves as bearing some responsibility in this 
field of tension. We therefore do not turn a blind eye to 
the risks of inappropriate and excessive media consump -
tion. For this reason, we decided at a very early stage not 
just to conscientiously fulfil the legal requirements in 
relation to children and young people, but also to adopt additional measures to establish sensible media use in 
Switzerland. The Confederation’s strategy for a healthy 
and value-adding information society serves as a guide -
line for us.
Sustainability team members are responsible for youth 
media protection and media competence. When it 
comes to the former, we rely on technical measures such as filters, clearly regulated processes in the advisory and 
sales process and the blocking of value-added services. 
To promote media competence, we adopt preventive 
measures such as targeted education, sensitisation and information for the various stakeholder groups. In addi -
tion, we are in regular dialogue with individual stake -
holders from the family policy arena, schools and par -
ents’ organisations.
By 2025 at the latest, we will be helping two million peo -
ple per year to use digital media and have improved 
working conditions for employees in our supply chain. 
The rapidly changing media landscape is leading to new challenges all the time – for children and young people 
as well as for grandparents, parents, teachers, people 
with disabilities, employees in our supply chain and other people involved. This is why we continuously 
adapt our measures to the new issues that arise. We 
measure the number of contacts made per measure in order to determine how effective the respective mea -
sures are.
Media protection for minors and promoting 
media skills 
We teach children and young people how to deal compe -
tently with new digital opportunities. To this end, we 
rely on various measures for young people (see “Educa -
tion Sponsorship Charter”) as well as for parents and 
teachers.
Swisscom’s media courses are aimed at parents, teach -
ers and students and highlight both the risks and the 
opportunities of digitisation.
N  See www.swisscom.ch/medienkurse  (in German, French and 
Italian)
The “media smart” platform is aimed at families. With its 
answers to questions about media consumption, the plat -
form registered over 150,000 hits in 2020. 
N See www.swisscom.ch/getmediasmart26Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleThrough publications in the parents’ magazine “Fritz 
und Fränzi”, we raise awareness of issues relating to 
media education and literacy among various target 
groups. “Fritz und Fränzi” is one of the most successful magazines in Switzerland, and we reach over 58,240 
readers every year.
With the JAMES study and the in-depth JAMESfocus 
reports, we carry out important basic research together 
with the Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW). The study surveys the leisure and media behaviour of 
young people aged 12 to 19 in Switzerland in a repre -
sentative form across all language regions. In this year’s 
study, the sixth of its kind, special attention is paid to 
the Covid-19 lockdown and its impact on media con -
sumption by our youth.
N See www.swisscom.ch/james
We are available to a large number of stakeholders 
involved in youth media protection as a discussion part -
ner and supporter. Of particular note is the exchange with the Federal Social Insurance Office, whose task it is to devise an effective legal basis for media protection for 
minors.
Swisscom Academy
Since 2005, the Swisscom Academy has been teaching 
people how to use mobile devices and the Internet. The 
courses are aimed at everyone in Switzerland, regardless 
of their telecommunications provider, and make an important contribution to narrowing the digital divide 
between the generations. They take place regularly at 16 
locations. 
In 2020, a total of 25,000 people attended training courses on how to use modern communications media. This means 
that since the launch of Swisscom’s courses over 640,000 
people have attended.
In 2020, we created an offering for SMEs. They too are being challenged greatly by the changes in the media 
and business world: Swisscom Academy trainers offer 
SME employees courses in the use of digital tools. We are also considering extending this offering to teachers 
in schools who would also like to benefit from the oppor -
tunities offered by digital collaboration.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we had to close our course 
venues. We were able to offer a considerable portion of our course offering digitally. Participants attended their 
first online seminars as early as April. The offering was 
extremely popular: 19,500 participants used our online formats this year. Similarly, since the early summer of 
2020, various offerings have also been available in digital 
form for schools. Since then, schools have been able to bring our media trainers into the classroom virtually with 
just a few clicks.However, a limit to what was feasible also became 
apparent. Some of our customers were not convinced by 
this form of knowledge transfer and are sceptical about 
online training. We are motivated to provide help, sup -
port and education in this area as well.
Responsible eSports 
We launched our own eSports offering in 2018. Accom -
panying measures are needed to support competitive 
computer gaming in a responsible manner. The Code of 
Conduct of the Swiss Interactive Entertainment Associa -
tion (SIEA), the information platforms at trade fairs, 
eSports events and eSports as an optional subject at pri -
mary schools are the main projects. In discussions at all 
Swisscom eSports events, media educators provide par -
ents and other interested parties with competent advice on media education. In addition, they provide scientif -
ically sound and committed assistance with forming 
opinions about gaming and eSports, and they supply 
informative materials. This enables children and young people to receive the best possible protection against 
the potentially negative effects of gaming and eSports.
Gaming is a complex area not only for parents, but also 
for schools: according to the JAMES studies of recent 
years, computer and mobile phone games are extremely popular leisure activities and pose particular challenges. 
For this reason, in the year under review, we developed a 
separate school subject on this topic together with experts from the fields of education, psychology and the 
world of eSports.
Education Sponsorship Charter
The Association of Swiss Teachers (LCH) used the Swiss 
Education Days in November 2016 to present their char -
ter on the sponsorship, promotion and funding of public education by private providers. It aims to support school directors and teaching staff in evaluating sponsorship 
services offered by private sector partners. The charter 
does not deem it appropriate, for instance, if school chil -
dren are used as advertising space or if the use of user 
data is not made transparent or is not in accordance Swisscom Educational offers
Number of participants (cumulative)
361,923 456,377 578,305 642,674  
2016 2017 2019 2020 2018 515,960 27Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peoplewith a canton’s legal requirements. We were one of the 
first companies to sign this charter. We consider it 
important to act with due care in the sensitive area 
between the public sector and private business partners or sponsors. We hope to serve as a role model for other 
companies through the work we do. First and foremost, 
the Swisscom brand should serve to identify the sender and promote transparency. At no time do we use the 
entrusted data for marketing purposes, and we there -
fore refrain from any advertising measures in schools.
N See www.swisscom.ch/sponsoring
Accessibility
Management approach
For us, accessibility is not merely a legal or economic 
obligation. We see this above all as a service that we are 
proud to offer our customers. We attach great impor -
tance to accessibility for two reasons: firstly, as a matter 
of principle, we observe the national Law on Equal Rights 
for Persons with Disabilities (BehiG) and therefore com -
ply with the recommendation of offering products with -
out barriers. Secondly, everyone should be able to access all our products and services.
Our strategy is to start by making the most popular prod -
ucts and channels fully accessible. Given the large num -
ber of Swisscom products, services and communications 
channels, this concentrated approach makes sense.
In the future, various partners will evaluate the accessibil -
ity of our services such as contact services, our website or applications. For example, the evaluation of the latter will 
be carried out by the “Access for All” foundation. These 
evaluations will help us to meaningfully implement our strategy for improving accessibility and to ensure the 
effectiveness and sustainability of the measures.
Barrier-free access to services
Swisscom shops and call centres meet strict require -
ments to enable barrier-free access for people with disa -
bilities. We are continuously improving their accessibility. 
To this end, we collaborate with well-known associations and organisations such as the Vision Positive agency, the 
Swiss Association for the Deaf (SGB-FSS) and Procap. 
Shop and call centre staff are trained and given practical tools to identify the needs of customers with disabilities.
Customer service can be contacted in several ways. Peo -
ple with impaired vision or mobility who cannot use the 
telephone directory have the option of being connected 
directly to the desired person via the short number 1145 at no additional cost. Swisscom provides this service free 
of charge as part of its basic service provision. In addition, 
a service for translation into sign language is available for people with hearing impairments. This enables them to 
talk on the phone with hearing people. We offer this ser -vice, which is also part of the basic service provision, free 
of charge in cooperation with the Procom foundation.
We make our website and applications accessible to 
people with disabilities. Here we are striving to achieve the AA level of the international Web Content Accessibil -
ity Guidelines (WCAG). We have already achieved good results with the My Swisscom customer centre and the My Swisscom application.
To promote the use of smartphones by visually impaired 
and blind people, we have also entered into a partner -
ship with the Apfelschule. Customers concerned who take part in a course provided by this school receive a voucher from us worth CHF 50.
N See www.swisscom.ch/accessibility
Employees
We want to help shape the future and to make use of the opportunities presented by a networked world. Wher -
ever a customer comes across Swisscom, they should find us to be trustworthy, committed and curious. Accord -
ingly, motivated, competent and dedicated employees 
are of the utmost importance. A meaningful, apprecia -
tive corporate culture, dialogue-oriented corporate com -
munications and a willingness to embrace diversity underpin our human resources policy. We can therefore 
count on employees who work together and every single day afresh put their heart and soul into making people 
enthusiastic about the networked world.
Our commitment to employees is fundamental in three 
areas:
● Work stress and resilience
● Diversity and equal opportunities
● Employability
We want to further increase the proportion of female 
employees, especially in technical professions, and are committed to equal opportunities and diversity in our 
company. We take decisive action against conscious and 
unconscious discrimination. In the year under review, we launched a new awareness campaign, tested a partial 
retirement model for employees over 58 years of age 
and trained over 900 apprentices, including five recog-nised or provisionally admitted refugees.
We guide and support our employees through the ongo -
ing development of digitisation. We offer a comprehen -
sive professional development programme for this pur -
pose. The digital learning platform SKILLup was added in 
the year under review. It provides employees with learn -
ing content that meets their needs, regardless of time and location.
The dynamic economic environment demands a high 
degree of flexibility from our employees. As an employer, 28Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peoplewe make every effort to ensure that our employees 
remain healthy and motivated for the long term. To this 
end, we pay particular attention to the maintenance of 
a  good work-life balance, stress prevention, resilience and also the practice of going to work despite being ill 
(presenteeism).
Dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic
The coronavirus has presented our company with a 
number of challenges. We set up a Covid-19 taskforce 
specifically for this, to make rapid, current decisions and 
inform employees transparently. With the emergence of the virus, we enabled a large proportion of our employ -
ees to work from home: within a very short time, over 80% of Swisscom employees were able to switch to a home office.
Employees on site
Additional specialised cleaning services were provided for employees who came to the office. We also supplied 
them with the appropriate means for their personal pro -
tection (disinfectants, protective masks, protective 
clothing and Plexiglas screens).
Employees in their home office
The opportunity to work from home was highly appreci -
ated by many employees, but also led to challenges. 
Some employees with children felt the strain of combin -
ing working from home, childcare and home schooling. 
Additional issues that arose related to inadequate ergo -
nomics and movement in the home office, insecurity, stress and fear for health. We actively addressed these issues with intranet news, blogs, webinars and online 
workouts. We also expanded the opening hours and 
capacities of our Care Gate advisory services.
The measures were accompanied by comprehensive 
internal communication:
● Coronavirus ticker and Q&A on the Intranet
● Raising employees’ awareness of preventive mea -
sures (notices in buildings, fact sheets, Intranet, etc.) 
and instructions on conduct 
● Interviews on the subject of home offices (incl. health 
aspects) 
Staff experiences with their home office during the lock -
down were taken as an opportunity to evaluate in detail 
how working from home is handled (see “Home office”).
General terms and conditions of 
employment
Swisscom’s collective employment agreement (CEA) 
offers employees progressive employment conditions. 
They were drawn up jointly with the social partners and 
exceed the statutory minimum.
Remuneration and equal pay
We remunerate our employees fairly and in line with market conditions and also ensure equal pay between the sexes. The salary system is structured in such a way that equal salaries are paid for equivalent tasks and ser -
vices. We adjust employees’ salaries in our annual salary review. Employees who have put in an above-average performance and whose wages are at the lower end of 
their respective salary bands generally receive an 
above-average wage increase.
We also periodically review the salary structure for differ -
ences between men’s and women’s wages using the fed -
eral government’s equal pay tool (Logib). Previous reviews 
(most recently in 2020) have revealed minor pay discrep -
ancies that are below the 5% tolerance threshold set by 
the Federal Office for Gender Equality.
Profit-sharing
All Swisscom employees share in the company’s success by way of a variable salary component. The employee’s job 
grade determines the level of profit-sharing. It ranges 
from 2% of the basic salary at the lowest level to 30% at the highest. Employees at this job level and members of 
the Group Executive Board receive a proportion of their 
variable profit-sharing in the form of Swisscom Ltd shares.
comPlan pension fund
We offer our employees an attractive pension solution, with benefits that exceed the statutory minimum, 
through the comPlan pension fund. At the end of 2020, 
some 17,200 Swisscom employees and 9,100 pensioners were insured under comPlan.
Fringe benefits
All Swisscom employees receive fringe benefits in the form of an allowance towards Swisscom services as well 
as the SBB half-fare travelcard, irrespective of their job 
and whether they work full-time or part-time. Most loca -
tions also offer a selection of discounted lunch options.
Supplementary regulations governing 
management staff
Management employees are entitled to 30 paid sabbatical 
days after every five uninterrupted years of managerial 
employment. They are also covered by a management 
staff risk insurance policy in the event of death.
Social partnership
As part of our agreed participation arrangements, we allow staff representatives and trade unions a consulta -
tion period of at least two weeks. Participation includes rights to information, participation, decision-making and self-responsibility and is set out in the CEA. The con -
sultation period is determined by the legal basis, case law and established practice. We generally give longer notice periods than required by law and attach great 
importance to dialogue between management and the 
social partners.29Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleAnnual leave
Depending on their age, Swisscom employees are enti -
tled to between 25 and 30 days’ annual leave. In addi -
tion, they have the opportunity to buy ten further days 
of annual leave per year. Employees subject to the CEA who organise working time autonomously (time auton -
omy, in compliance with Ordinance 1 to the Employment Act) receive five additional days of annual leave per year. All employees subject to the CEA also receive five addi -
tional days of annual leave every five years as a reward for their loyalty to the company.
Working models
New technologies make innovative forms of organisa -
tion possible. We purposefully advance the develop -
ment of new working models and test them within our own company. Agile forms of collaboration have their origins in software development, and it is no longer pos -
sible to imagine software development without them. Accordingly, we have introduced agile setups in the IT, Network & Infrastructure department first. Flat hierar -
chies with interdisciplinary, autonomous teams, in which everyone thinks and acts entrepreneurially, char -
acterise this way of working. This facilitates the dynamic 
and flexible provision of services. It is apparent that 
after the first few months, employee satisfaction with this collaborative work culture is increasing. Over 5,000 
Swisscom employees now work in various agile settings.
Flexible working hours
Our working week is 40 hours. Some subsidiaries have 
working weeks of 41 or 42 hours. At the same time, we 
allow our employees to organise their work flexibly in 
terms of place and time in line with the requirements of their job. We provide them with the necessary tools.
Home office
Our company plays a pioneering role in the home office model throughout Switzerland. Even before the Covid-
19 pandemic, working from home, on the road or at dif -
ferent locations was very popular and widespread 
among our staff. With the fringe benefits, we already 
pay our employees a generous monthly allowance 
towards their mobile and Internet costs. Employees appreciate the flexibility, the elimination of commuting 
and a better work-life balance. However, this working 
model also requires more self-discipline on the part of employees when it comes to structuring their day, keep -
ing to working hours and taking breaks.
In a questionnaire in May, employees were asked about 
their home office experience. The results are clear:
● Employees have a positive perception of working 
from home. Over 90% are satisfied or very satisfied 
with their personal situation in their home office.
● The proportion of employees who never work from 
home is negligible (20.5% before the lockdown, 1.1% 
after the lockdown).● In future, employees would like to work more in their 
home office than before (maximum of one day before 
the lockdown, two to three days after the lockdown).
This questionnaire confirms our progressive attitude towards home offices. We will therefore continue to pro -
mote and expand this working model in the future. 
However, meeting regularly in the office and thus main -
taining an informal exchange remains important.
Combining work and home life
Flexible working models make an important contribu -
tion to the integration of all employees in different life 
situations. We therefore advertise the majority of jobs 
with 80 to 100% working hours. In order to make part-time work more popular, especially among men, it can 
be chosen for a three-month trial period.
We attach particular importance to the compatibility of 
work and family life and support parents with contribu -
tions to extra-familial childcare or with advisory services 
provided in cooperation with Familizy. We offer our 
female employees 18 weeks’ maternity leave on the 
birth of their child. Employees can claim 15 days of paternity leave and a month of unpaid leave in their 
child’s first year. Parents who adopt children are entitled 
to ten days’ adoption leave. The Work & Care model ena -
bles employees who care for sick relatives to temporarily 
reduce their workload and thus meet the needs of their 
family. 
Thanks to this commitment, the Pro Familia organisa -
tion has awarded us the “Family Score” seal of approval. 
This confirms that we are effective in promoting balance 
between work and family life. 
Professional development
Management approach
In order to take advantage of the emerging opportuni -
ties of digital change and to master its challenges, com -
petent employees are essential. We therefore offer our 
employees the opportunity to keep up with technical progress and to continuously enhance their skills. 
For this reason, we grant them five training and develop -
ment days per year, which are firmly enshrined in the 
collective employment agreement (CEA). We have also 
set a target that a majority of employees use this: whether through the varied internal training offering, 
on-the-job development or external training and contin -
uing professional development e.g. in conjunction with 
the Swiss education portal.
The One Swisscom Academy is designed to strengthen 
the employability of employees with a broad range of 
training and development opportunities. We have also 
signed Digital Switzerland’s “Life Long Learning” initia -
tive and we are committed to life-long learning. 30Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleCareer starters
We provide around 900 apprenticeships in eight differ -
ent vocational areas. Added to these are roughly 
50 apprenticeships in three vocational areas at the sub -
sidiary cablex. In 2020, 266 apprentices with Swisscom 
and 16 cablex apprentices successfully completed their 
vocational training. This corresponds to a success rate of 
95%. At the same time, 267 young people started their apprenticeship at Swisscom and 13 at cablex. The range 
of apprenticeships on offer means that there are oppor -
tunities for young people at all qualification levels: we 
offer training places for graduates of basic school educa -
tion (secondary level I) as well as for grammar school graduates (secondary level II) and for students of the practice-integrated degree course in information tech -
nology. Every year, around 70 graduates from universi -
ties of applied sciences and universities gain their first practical experience in our company as part of a step-in 
internship. In addition, the trainee programme enables 
nine selected students to embark upon their careers after completing their studies.
Training and education 
By giving employees the freedom to shape their own professional development and to take responsibility for 
themselves, we promote an inspiring learning culture 
and competitiveness. 
The One Swisscom Academy offers a wide range of train -
ing and development opportunities. The majority of 
these rely on digitised learning methods. In this way, 
employees can acquire knowledge independent of time 
and location. On the SKILLup learning platform intro -
duced this year, employees are given access to learning 
content based on their skills, abilities and interests. Via 
various formats such as tutorials, articles, podcasts and webinars, they can also share their new knowledge with 
colleagues. Depending on the educational goal, we also 
participate in external training courses by freeing up working time and/or contributing financially. Around 
58% of Swisscom employees used at least one of the five 
training and development days in 2020. Employees who had less work during the lockdown were encouraged to 
use the time freed up for further training.
Programmes for talented employees
We offer a wide range of talent opportunities to employ -
ees with motivation and potential, enabling them to improve their skills and move into more responsible 
positions. To avoid talented employees being overlooked in the selection process, employees can themselves 
apply for the talent programmes.
Evaluating performance and professional 
development 
We consider it vital that employees pay attention to 
their employability. We support them in this with the 
virtual career adviser “My Employability”. This helps 
them to refine their job profile, uncover missing skills and define appropriate further training measures. “My Impact” serves employees and managers as a compass for their performance evaluation. Together with their 
managers, the teams define the contributions they wish 
to make in order to jointly achieve the company’s objec -
tives. They regularly gather feedback from their profes -
sional environment, discuss this with their line manag -
ers and, based on this, plan their professional development path in order to improve their readiness to 
perform.
Diversity and equal opportunities
Management approach
We benefit from a diverse workforce, which creates an 
enormous competitive advantage for us: with their differ -
ent views and approaches, experiences, ideas and skills, employees inspire and learn from each other. As a result, 
the company gains greater creativity, innovation and suc
-
cess. We take care to treat colleagues fairly, regardless of 
their gender, age, origin, language or sexual orientation. 
We also ensure the inclusion of employees with physical 
and psychological impairments. In doing so, we design rel -
evant processes in recruitment, appointment, develop -
ment, talent management and leadership culture in such a way that they counteract even unconscious stereotyp
-
ing and enable true equal opportunities.
In the past year we pushed ahead again with the promo -
tion of diversity. Three specialists and managers from dif -
ferent business areas jointly assumed the lead for diversity 
and are actively promoting it. A diversity strategy was 
drawn up based on extensive data analysis, and clear gov -
ernance was confirmed by the BoD. Furthermore, a Diver -
sity Community, with more than 120  employees from 
across the entire entity, was founded and actively sup -
ports anchoring diversity at Swisscom. To measure suc -
cess, Group Executive Board members have set diversity goals for their areas and adopted these at the division 
management level. We use key indicators to monitor and 
optimise our performance in this area. The development of the diversity focus areas is presented transparently in a 
dashboard.
One of the focus areas is the proportion of female 
employees in the company. Technological professions 
are still mainly performed by men. We have taken a 
number of measures to increase the share of women, from trainees in technological professions all the way up 
to the Group Executive Board. We have also set up 
adapted working conditions or programmes for better inclusion of physically or psychologically impaired peo -
ple, young people in difficult situations and recognised or temporarily admitted refugees.
In addition, we have partnerships with specialist organi -
sations and research institutions, including with 
Advance, an initiative for the promotion of women, and 
Compasso, an inclusion group. 31Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleWe have no tolerance for discrimination and the abuse 
of power. This principle is communicated to employees 
and, especially, to managers. In cases of discrimination, 
the neutral Care Gate contact point is available to all employees. 
Recruitment
In the recruitment process we focus on the qualifica -
tions of the applicants and their attitude towards our 
values. Criteria such as age, origin and gender must not 
lead to discrimination. Applications may also be submit -
ted anonymously. Candidates are selected without the 
support of artificial intelligence. With regard to the 
employment of persons from third countries, we comply with the legal regulations and give priority to Swiss 
nationals. In the year under review, we pledged our sup -
port to Ecole42 in Lausanne. Ecole42 trains IT specialists 
regardless of their previous career path (career changers) 
and thus helps to create more equal opportunities. The 
first year will commence in June 2021.
Combating subconscious discrimination and 
subconscious prejudice
Discrimination often takes place subconsciously. We are 
working hard to counteract this and are registering initial 
successes. For example, the mix of gender and language 
regions in the talent programmes has increased since can -
didates are no longer proposed by their line managers but can apply themselves. We also launched a company-wide 
campaign on diversity in November 2020, with core mes
-
sages, a self-test and knowledge transfer on the topic of 
“Subconscious Prejudices”.
Diversity in management bodies
Our Board of Directors currently comprises three women and six men. A woman will also join the Group Executive 
Board as Head of Group Human Resources in February 
2021. Top management includes nine women. The Group Executive Board has set itself the goal of further 
increasing the proportion of women in management 
positions. We are represented in every language region of Switzerland and attach great importance to ensuring 
that the various languages are adequately represented 
on the governing bodies. However, this has yet to be achieved everywhere to the desired degree. We have 
therefore set ourselves the target for 2021 of primarily 
achieving diversity ambitions in the Swisscom divisions, as well as promoting linguistic diversity, spreading 
awareness and knowledge about subconscious preju -
dices and establishing job-sharing models more strongly. 
Gender equality
In the professions in demand by Swisscom, the majority 
of trainees are still men. To get young women interested 
in ICT professions, we organise the annual “Digital Days 
for Girls”. Female apprentices from ICT training courses present their everyday working life to female students 
and, in so doing, make them more familiar with ICT. 
Events were held in Zurich, Berne and Bellinzona during 2020. This initiative has proven popular and is showing initial success. The proportion of young female profes -
sionals in ICT occupations at Swisscom rose from 27.8% 
to 34.2% year on year. 
As a member of the nationwide Advance initiative, we 
promote access to training and networking opportuni -
ties for our female employees. In this way, they can 
increase their chances of a career move into a more 
responsible role.
Generations
We employ people of all ages. On the one hand, with the 
“Check Your Chance” initiative of the Swiss Employers’ 
Association, we support young people in difficult situa -
tions as they embark upon a career. On the other hand, 
we make it easier for our older employees to leave the 
workforce by offering them partial retirement. 
In the year under review, we agreed with the social part -
ners on an age-related part-time model aimed at employ -
ees aged 58 and over. If they wish, they can reduce their 
employment level for the next two years and then retire. 
We will make a financial contribution to cushion the 
impact of pension reductions in the pension fund, and will guarantee employment for two years. The model was 
launched on 1  September  2020 and is initially valid for 
2020. A total of 202 employees have opted for this part-time model for older employees. 
We are also a business partner to the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts for the Integrative Genera -
tion Management project.
Nationality and language
People from 88 different nations work for us at various locations in all regions of Switzerland. When recruiting 
new employees, wherever possible we prioritise appli -
cants from the respective language region as they are 
familiar with local customs. To attract talented people 
with the necessary profiles, we maintain partnerships 
with universities in the separate language regions of Switzerland. 
Inclusion
We build on the individual strengths and skills that each employee possesses. Where employees’ work perfor -
mances are impaired due to health reasons, we attach great importance to keeping them in the workforce and guaranteeing them meaningful continued employment. 
To promote inclusion, we reserve at least one per cent of 
all jobs for employees with physical or psychological impairments. We take advice from the Compasso associ -
ation, of which we are a member and sponsor. Compasso specialises in providing employers with support in how to deal with people with health problems. 
In the year under review, we expanded our cooperation 
with the Powercoders association and now offer 32Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for people internships for refugees, wherever possible with the 
prospect of subsequent permanent employment. 
Occupational health and safety 
Management approach
The health and safety of our employees and everyone affected by our business activities is our number one pri -
ority. As an employer, we can exert a considerable influ -
ence on the health of our employees through various measures and support them in remaining healthy and 
motivated in the long term. 
We place particular emphasis on the prevention and early 
detection of psychosocial disorders such as stress, emo -
tional strain and presenteeism. In order to reduce work stress and strengthen resilience we promote a healthy 
work-life balance among our employees, e.g. through flex
-
ible working hours (see “Working models”) and by sup -
porting sporting and other balancing activities. We also 
offer our employees regular stress and resilience courses. 
Employees with health and social concerns can obtain anonymous and confidential advice from the indepen -
dent Care Gate contact point. All offerings were availa -
ble online during the lockdown. 
We are committed to consistent adherence to safety rules in the workplace in order to protect the life and health of 
everyone involved. To this end, we implement the legal 
provisions in the form of the comprehensive “Safety at Swisscom” system as part of our occupational health 
management. The steering committee meets once a year. 
This consists of the Group Executive Board, executive  bodies, occupational safety experts and staff representa
-
tives. It ensures the framework conditions for promoting 
all necessary measures. “Safety at Swisscom” is evaluated 
every two years with targeted audits conducted by occu -
pational safety specialists.
The “Group Safety Board” meets every two months. This 
consists of safety experts who meet to exchange infor -
mation, discuss common problems and solutions, and define Swisscom-wide measures and campaigns. A number of safety tasks have been assigned to external 
service providers (e.g. occupational doctors). The “Safety 
Board TUs” platform is used to coordinate with them. The safety officers investigate accidents quickly and sys -
tematically and examine possible improvements. In combination with numerous awareness-raising and pre -
vention measures, this leads to lower accident rates and 
reduced absenteeism. Key figures on work-related acci -
dents and illnesses are collected via a central reporting 
system. Twice a year, a survey of the personal work situ -
ation is conducted to measure the general stress level and presenteeism of employees.Safety certifications and partnerships
On 8 July 2016, the Federal Coordination Commission for Occupational Safety (FCOS) certified the Swisscom safety 
system, based on national standards, as an operational 
group solution. The operational group solution according to FCOS directive 6508 and FCOS guidelines 6508/10 is 
comparable to the standard according to ISO 45001:2018. 
The certification will expire on 30 June 2021. The process of recertification for another five years started in 
June  2020. The necessary documents were sent to the 
FCOS office by the end of 2020. 
As the 2020 “Health and Safety Regulatory Compliance” 
audit proves, we have a comprehensive safety system in place that complies with the law. This is based on the 
requirements of the directive on the deployment of occu -
pational doctors and other occupational safety special -
ists (ASA directive) of FCOS and on the ten system points of Suva, the Swiss National Accident Insurance Fund. 
We are a signatory to Suva’s “STOP in case of danger” 
safety charter. Thanks to our systematic anchoring of 
health in the company, our targeted prevention approach and impact measurement, we were awarded the 
“Friendly Work Space” label by Health Promotion Swit -
zerland in 2018. This label is valid for three years.
The Employee Representation Committee’s 
commitment to safety
The members of the Employee Representation Commit -
tee are familiar with the realities of life within the com -
pany from their own day-to-day work and are therefore 
able to contribute quickly and effectively to the well-be -
ing of their colleagues. They develop proposals for 
improving ergonomics and occupational health and 
safety, and they bring these to the meetings of “Safety at Swisscom” and the “Group Safety Board”.
Prevention of psychosocial risks
We offer numerous programmes aimed at preventing health risks within the framework of occupational 
health management (OHM). To reduce psychosocial 
risks, we regularly organise stress and resilience courses as well as “Mental Health First Aid” (MHFA) courses 
together with Pro Mente Sana. We are pioneers in this 
field in Switzerland. With the help of the Institute for Occupational Medicine (IFA), we are now also training 
course participants on the subject of presenteeism.
A long-term indicator of work stress is the absence rate. In 
2020, the absence rate was 2.6% (prior year: 2.9%). The 
number of absences fell by 18.5% year on year, but the duration of the individual absences increased. From 
April 2020, we recorded much lower figures. It is reasona -
ble to assume that the lockdown with home offices, 
reduced social exchange and awareness of hygiene mea -
sures such as hand washing led to this lower figure. 33Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleThe feedback from the internal Pulse survey provides a 
further indicator of health risks. This survey explicitly 
asks whether employees experience negative stress in 
their working environment. If a team has high stress readings, we offer the opportunity to carry out an 
in-depth stress analysis. This includes the measurement 
of presenteeism (the practice by employees of going to work despite being ill). This is a psychosocial risk that is 
increasingly being taken into account in our company, 
right up to Board level. Awareness of this issue was raised among the members of the Board of Directors in 
January 2020. 
Work-related accidents and illnesses 
The risk and the number of occupational illnesses pursu -
ant to the Federal Accident Insurance Act (UVG) are mini -
mal at our company. The number of occupational acci -
dents per thousand full-time employees showed a 
positive trend in the year under review (20%). At 14 acci -
dents per one thousand full-time employees per year, the incidence rate is well below that of comparable sectors 
(e.g. insurance). 
More than a third of all occupational accidents at 
Swisscom occur in the office and home office. Most of 
them are falls caused by inattentiveness, stumbling or slipping. As these are minor accidents, they cause no or 
only a few days of absence or absences from work. The 
reported occupational accidents are systematically ana -
lysed by the Safety Officer. If necessary, technical, organ -
isational and personal measures are taken. 
In the current year, Suva found no cases of work-related 
illness at our company. Likewise, no fatal accidents at 
work were recorded. 
Among long-term absences, the number of cases 
remained stable, as did the average length of absence. A total of 1,854 absences were due to non-occupational 
accidents (NOAs).34Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for people   2018  2019  2020 
Number respectively as indicated  Male  Female  Total  Male  Female  Total  Male  Female  Total                    
Illness and accidents (S+A)                   
Regular working days in FTE  3,130,289  934,895  4,065,183  3,103,967  1,028,765  4,132,732  3,036,402  986,088  4,022,490 
Days lost due to illness                   
(w/o work-related illness)  66,143  38,138  104,281  65,149  36,077  101,227  59,583  28,952  88,535 
Days lost due to work-related                   
illness  8  180  188    57  57  –  –  – 
Days lost due to work-related                   
accidents  2,653  488  3,142  2,673  259  2,932  2,513  152  2,665 
Days lost due to                   
non-work-related accidents  12,764  3,862  16,626  12,984  3,409  16,393  10,567  2,792  13,359 
Days lost total (S+A)  81,569  42,669  124,238  80,806  39,803  120,610  72,663  31,896  104,559 
Number of cases of illness  15,401  7,629  23,030  15,045  7,197  22,242  11,373  5,385  16,758 
Work-related accidents  248  30  278  241  43  284  197  32  229 
Number of non-work-related                   
accidents  1,877  568  2,445  1,906  572  2,478  1,452  402  1,854 
Total cases 1 17,526  8,227  25,753  17,192  7,812  25,004  13,022  5,819  18,841 
Share of days lost due to illness                   
(w/o work-related illness)  2 .12%  4 .08%  2 .57%  2 .10%  3 .51%  2 .45%  1 .96%  2 .93%  2.20% 
Share of days lost due to                   
work-related illness      0 .0050%    0 .01%  0 .0014%  0 .000%  –%  0.000% 
Number of work-related accidents  0 .09%  0 .05%  0 .08%  0 .09%  0 .03%  0 .07%  0 .08%  0 .02%  0.07% 
Share of days lost due to                   
non-work-related accidents  0 .41%  0 .41%  0 .41%  0 .42%  0 .33%  0 .40%  0 .35%  0 .28%  0.33% 
Rate of days lost total (S+A) in %  2 .61%  4 .56%  3.06%  2 .61%  3 .87%  2.92%  2 .40%  3 .20%  2.60% 
Work-related deaths      –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Net presence in FTE  10,813  3,307  14,119  9,864  2,458  12,279  7,816  2,117  9,921 
Total productive hours                   
performed  21,473,128  6,432,428  27,905,556  20,306,884  5,753,271  26,060,156  16,294,051  5,005,499  21,299,551 
Productive time per FTE in hours  1,734  1,749  1,738  1,684  1,636  1,673  1,402  1,505  1,425 
1 Failure of working time which generates medical costs
Employee age structure
in headcount (HC)
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 
between 30 and 50 years     over 50 years     up to 30 years     18,549 
2,374 
10,175 
5,238 17,120 
2,258 
9,629 
5,233 16,230 
2,019 
8,985 
5,226 18,741 
2,662 
10,660 
5,227 15,780 
1,922 
8,639 
5,219 35Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for people Overall balance in Switzerland
  2018  2019  2020 
Number respectively as indicated  Male  Female  Total  Male  Female  Total  Male  Female  Total                    
Total workforce in Switzerland                   
Average workforce FTE      17,363      16,872      16,234 
Workforce end of year FTE      17,147      16,628      16,048                     
Reporting limit in Switzerland                   
according to the personnel information system                   
Coverage report limit      95%      93%      93% 
Average workforce FTE  12,610  3,845  16,455  12,062  3,516  15,578  11,652  3,337  14,989 
Employees in FTE per end of December  12,448  3,759  16,207  11,938  3,443  15,381  11,584  3,318  14,902 
in headcount (HC)  12,755  4,365  17,120  12,231  3,999  16,230  11,919  3,861  15,780 
Temporary positions (HC)  1,074  389  1,463  945  292  1,237  806  225  1,031 
Permanent work contracts (HC)  32  25  57  120  92  212  177  117  294 
Temporary work contracts (HC)  12,723  4,340  17,063  12,111  3,907  16,018  11,742  3,744  15,486 
Gender ratio (HC)  74 .5%  25 .5%  100 .0%  75 .4%  24 .6%  100 .0%  75 .5%  24 .5%  100 .0% 
Full-time employment (HC)  11,279  2,378  13,657  10,692  2,101  12,793  10,172  2,001  12,173 
Part-time employment (HC)  1,476  1,987  3,463  1,419  1,806  3,225  1,570  1,743  3,313 
Ratio full time employees (HC)  88 .4%  54 .5%  79 .8%  88 .3%  53 .8%  79 .9%  86 .6%  53 .4%  78 .6% 
Ratio part time employees (HC)  11 .6%  45 .5%  20 .2%  11 .7%  46 .2%  20 .1%  13 .4%  46 .6%  21 .4% 
Employees in collective employement                   
agreement (CEA)  10,036  4,003  14,039  9,538  3,614  13,152  9,247  3,462  12,709 
Rate collective labour agreement (CEA)                   
to total workforce  78 .7%  91 .7%  82 .0%  78 .0%  90 .4%  81 .0%  77 .6%  89 .7%  80 .5% 
Top Management (HC)  75  5  80  76  9  85  69  9  78 
Management (HC)  2,644  357  3,001  2,617  376  2,993  2,603  390  2,993 
Rate of employees within                   
Management (HC)  88 .3%  11 .7%  100 .0%  87 .4%  12 .6%  100 .0%  87 .0%  13 .0%  100 .0%                     
Fluctuation in Switzerland                   
Average age  43 .8  41 .1  43 .1  44 .1  41 .5  43 .5  44 .3  41 .7  43 .7 
Leavings 1 1,643  686  2,329  1,382  497  1,879  1,092  317  1,409 
Leavings < 30 years 1 237  158  395  197  123  320  170  74  244 
Leavings 30–50 years 1 866  375  1,241  708  256  964  524  158  682 
Leavings > 50 years 1 540  153  693  477  118  595  398  85  483 
Rate of leavings < 30 years  14 .4%  23 .0%  17 .0%  14 .3%  24 .8%  17 .0%  15 .6%  23 .3%  17 .3% 
Rate of leavings 30–50 years  52 .7%  54 .7%  53 .3%  51 .2%  51 .5%  51 .3%  48 .0%  49 .8%  48 .4% 
Rate of leavings > 50 years 2 32 .9%  22 .3%  29 .8%  34 .5%  23 .7%  31 .7%  36 .4%  26 .8%  34 .3% 
Enterings 1 1,203  437  1,640  908  239  1,147  705  177  882 
Enterings < 30 years 1 429  217  646  278  109  387  214  82  296 
Enterings 30–50 years 1 622  187  809  547  120  667  434  88  522 
Enterings > 50 years 1 152  33  185  83  10  93  57  7  64 
Rate of Enterings < 30 years  35 .7%  49 .7%  39 .4%  30 .6%  45 .6%  33 .7%  30 .4%  46 .3%  33 .6% 
Rate of Enterings 30–50 years  51 .7%  42 .8%  49 .3%  60 .3%  50 .2%  58 .2%  61 .6%  49 .7%  59 .2% 
Rate of Enterings > 50 years 2 12 .6%  7 .6%  11 .3%  9 .1%  4 .2%  8 .1%  8 .1%  4 .0%  7 .3%                     
Further KPIs                   
Education and training days      51,097      52,776      45,734 
Number of days training and education                   
per employee (headcount)      3 .0      3 .3      2 .9 
Maternity and paternity leave  571  206  777  584  210  794  580  195  775 
Total CEO compensation in kCHF      1,829      1,759      1,853 
Median salary in kCHF      135      137      139 
Ratio CEO compensation / median salary      14      13      13 
Variation of CEO compensation      –2 .1%      –3 .8%      5 .3% 
Variation of median salary      1 .5%      1 .5%      1 .5% 
Minimum full time salary in kCHF                   
according to the CEA      52      52      53 
Peformance Dialogues 3     93 .9%      91 .4%      95 .4% 
1 without fixed-term contracts of employment
2 without retirements3 without apprentices36Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for people Fair supply chains
The continuous improvement of working conditions 
along the supply chains is an important part of our Sus -
tainability Strategy 2025. Each year, suppliers deliver goods and services to us worth over CHF 4.4 billion. The majority of our suppliers belong to the ICT industry and 
are active in the areas of network infrastructure and 
merchandise. We are committed to fair and effective partnerships with them. We therefore actively involve 
them, define development targets together, and strive 
for the continuous optimisation of our joint procure -
ment processes. With the help of international industry 
initiatives, we can bring about progress in respect for 
human rights and environmental protection in our eco -
nomic sector. 
Management approach 
We are committed to better working and environmental conditions at our suppliers and require them and their 
subcontractors to commit to acting in a sustainable 
manner. The corresponding economic, ecological, legal and social principles are anchored in the Code of Con -
duct for Procurement. The Code sets out binding rules that suppliers commit to comply with by signing the Cor -
porate Responsibility Contract Annex (CRCA). The Code 
also obliges our own employees to act responsibly in 
purchasing. It serves as the basis for our reliable partner -
ships with our suppliers. 
We monitor compliance with the requirements with the help of a structured, holistic risk management system, 
which we continuously expand conceptually and imple
-
ment in procurement. The risk management system sys -
tematically covers all risk areas of the supply chains and the 
entire supplier portfolio (see “Risk management system”).
N See www.swisscom.ch/procurement
The measures that ensure fair supply chains also actively contribute to risk management in the supply chains. 
They help to identify potential risks at an early stage or 
to deal with them quickly if they occur. This avoids repu -
tational damage and financial losses. This management 
approach has been in place for years and has proven its 
worth. It is fostered and implemented successfully at our company, and therefore is not currently in need of an 
update. 
Overall responsibility lies with our Head of Group Busi -
ness Steering. A specialist unit defines the strategic 
direction and implements the operational business. Risk management covers suppliers from Switzerland, the EU 
and overseas (North America and the Far East), most of 
whom are active in the ICT sector in the area of network infrastructure and merchandise. Main risk factors in the supply chains 
Human rights
We attach great importance to the observance of human rights in the areas specified by the Social Accountability 
International (SAI) SA 8000 standard, which include child 
labour, forced labour, health and safety, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, dis -
crimination, discipline, working hours and remunera -
tion. Our guidelines on human rights are published on our website.
N See www.swisscom.ch/humanrights
As part of our supplier risk management approach, we monitor suppliers systematically and in some cases on an 
annual basis (self-assessment/audits), with massive short
-
comings in human rights identified and continuously 
addressed through improvement measures. 
We are actively committed to establishing the Innova -
tors Network to Enable Human Rights (INHR) initiated by 
the GeSI. This network seeks initially to develop an 
“intelligence platform” which, based on big data and artificial intelligence, will uncover and report on current 
weaknesses in global supply chains. Since 2019 we have 
also been a member of the UN Global Compact initia -
tive.
N See www.unglobalcompact.org
N See www.gesi.org
Climate risks 
Climate change poses risks, e.g. in the form of increasing levels of precipitation, higher average temperatures and 
extreme meteorological events. These risks may compro -
mise the manufacture of telecommunications products 
and network equipment as well as their transport into 
Switzerland, and thus have a negative effect on our mar -
ket opportunities and operations. Our greenhouse gas 
inventory (see “Energy consumption and climate foot -
print”) shows that the majority of our CO
2 emissions are 
attributable to the supply chains – a fact we take into 
account in our strategic priority on climate protection (see 
“Ready for the environment”).
Raw materials
The raw materials contained in Swisscom’s various prod -
ucts come from numerous countries and regions. Ques -
tions are increasingly being raised on the origin of the raw materials used and the associated sociological and environmental risks. As a member of the Global e-Sus -
tainability Initiative (GeSI), we are also affiliated with the Responsible Mining Initiative (RMI). The goal of this initi -
ative is to monitor the origin of conflict minerals more 
strictly. This gives us access to the initiative’s regular 
reporting.
N  See www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/about/members-and-
collaborations/
N See www.responsiblebusiness.org/37Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleCorruption
We have established a policy of zero tolerance in our 
approach towards corruption. We implement our inter -
nal guidelines through regular training, reviews and audits across the Group. In addition, we also require our suppliers to comply with these guidelines. We expect our 
own employees and those of our suppliers not to grant or 
accept any undue advantages. Infringements may result in disciplinary actions for our own employees, up to and 
including dismissal. If it is established that a supplier vio -
lated anti-corruption laws, they are reprimanded and, as 
a last resort, removed from the supply chains.
Supplier risk management 
Risk management system 
We purchase services and goods from several hundred suppliers and subcontractors, which we regularly check 
for risks. In order to identify supply partners with effec -
tive risk potential at an early stage, we use a two-stage 
system. As a first step, we classify product groups 
according to their ecological and sociological risk profile. 
As a second step, we use a specially developed grid to identify individual suppliers of goods with high and medium risk profiles. At our own discretion, we also include other trading partners or entire supply chains in our risk monitoring. 
Our Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM 360) follows 
a holistic approach. The goal is to reduce the risks not 
only in terms of the environment and society, but also 
with regard to finances, security, logistics and quality. We continuously check external data sources using indi -
vidual, weighted score cards (featuring more than 50 risk indicators). 
If a top 100 supplier, strategic supplier or critical supplier 
or one of the numerous upstream suppliers breaches a pre-defined threshold, our purchasing organisation is 
automatically notified. The top 100 suppliers are 
selected based on the purchase volume, strategic impor -
tance and risk profile of the product groups. 
In the case of potential supply partners and generally in 
connection with invitations to tender, we make an initial 
assessment of the overall risk of a supplier or subcon -
tractor. We introduce new suppliers step by step by 
means of an in-phasing process. 
In 2020, following this procedure, our risk monitoring reg -
istered over 500  suppliers, subcontractors and potential suppliers in 51 countries and more than 90 supply chains with roughly 530 delivery paths. A supply chain consists of at least two delivery paths, i.e. delivery paths are linked to/with supply chains.Product groups 
Suppliers
CR Contract Annex  
Audits  
Self-declarations  
Material testing  
GeSI/NGOs  
OtherRisk assessment
Risk handling
Crisis management
Risk management suppliers38Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for people
Self-declarations and self-assessments 
All major suppliers are registered on EcoVadis. We have 
evaluated 175 suppliers via this audit platform. Suppli -
ers included in risk monitoring are registered and invited 
to an assessment. 
EcoVadis evaluates suppliers in the core disciplines of 
environment, human rights, ethics and supply chain 
management. If deficiencies occur, the suppliers con -
cerned are required to remedy them by means of correc -
tive measures with appropriate evidence. Implementa -
tion is monitored in the course of a reassessment, which is completed if successful. We invited 16 suppliers for 
reassessments in 2020. 
The average overall score of our suppliers is compara -
tively high. In the year under review, with an average 
score of 58.1 out of 100 points, Swisscom suppliers per -
formed significantly better than the suppliers recorded 
on the platform worldwide. Their average overall score 
was 42.9 points. 
Some 93% of our suppliers on EcoVadis have already undergone one or more reassessments. This is otherwise 
only the case for 38% of all suppliers evaluated on the plat
-
form. As part of the reassessments, our suppliers improved 
their overall score by an average of 11.5 points compared 
with the initial assessment (environment +11.0 points, 
labour and human rights +12.0 points, ethics +10.9 points and sustainable procurement +12.4 points). 
In 2021, we intend to conduct another critical review of the list of suppliers in high-risk product groups. We also 
completed a reassessment of our own sustainability on 
the EcoVadis platform in 2020 and again improved our overall score. In an industry comparison, we are well 
above the average of 45 points thanks to an overall score 
of 80 out of 100 points. The overall score covers the entire Swisscom Group, including Fastweb. In the area of 
sustainable procurement, Swisscom scored 80, which is 
an excellent result compared with the industry bench -
mark (39). 
Audits 
We are a member of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). JAC is a consortium of 15 telecoms enterprises which 
checks the safeguarding of social responsibility in the 
production centres of the major multinational ICT sup -
pliers. Most of these are located in China, Taiwan, India, 
Japan, South Korea and South America. 
We use audits to identify socially or environmentally 
unsatisfactory practices and take appropriate measures 
to address them. Uncovered issues often concern work -
ing hours, occupational safety, the environment, salary, 
health and safety. In the event of irregularities, dead -
lines are agreed for the concrete implementation of 
improvements. These are usually three, six or twelve 
months. In the case of critical shortcomings, we can gen -
erally terminate the collaboration with a supplier. Thanks to the tried and tested, systematic risk manage -
ment approach, such serious cases have not yet arisen. 
In addition to the normal sustainability audits, the partner 
organisation Elevate again conducted mobile surveys in 
2020. Workers answered questions about their working 
conditions on their mobile phones outside the factories. These mobile surveys are a survey method that offers a 
great deal of potential for the future. JAC organised a total 
of 13 mobile surveys in the year under review. In 2020, the JAC initiative implemented its measures with Covid-19-re
-
lated restrictions. The JAC Academy conducted sustaina -
bility training at suppliers. The JAC Awards honoured the best achievements in the field of sustainable supply chains 
for the fourth time. The certificates are awarded annually 
at the JAC CSR Forum in China. Overview and requirements of risk management in the supply chain
Risk profile  
suppliers1
Suppliers with  
high risk profile
Suppliers with 
medium risk profile
Suppliers with 
low risk profileRisk profile product groups2
Product groups 
with low risksProduct groups 
with medium risksProduct groups 
with high risks
Conduct audits. Inclusion in EcoVadis
Check inclusion in EcoVadis
No measures
1 The suppliers are classified according to the product groups.
2 New suppliers, specific evaluations and  re-evaluations take place via selective risk profile of the suppliers.39Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for peopleAudit results
Only 78 audits of direct suppliers were carried out within 
the JAC network in the year under review due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic (prior year: 124). The proportion of 
audits at supply partners was 72%. 
The audits involved production facilities, most of which 
are located in China, Taiwan, India, Japan, South Korea and South America. They identified 665 vulnerabilities. 
Most of them are related to working hours, occupational 
safety and the environment. Deviations in terms of the employment of young people relate to excess hours or 
night shifts, but not child labour. The audits also identi -
fied 21 cases of discrimination and the employment of 
minors. The cases of discrimination that have been high -
lighted involve cases of inadequate formalisation of con -
tracts, but not forced labour. Environmental shortcom -ings refer to the storage of chemical products and the lack of environmental reports. 
The time period for rectifying the problems depends on 
the category concerned. Due to the impact on the human resources of the company concerned, rectifying 
irregularities with respect to working hours in particular 
(e.g. limiting regular working hours and overtime) gener -
ally requires several months. 
The JAC initiative has conducted a total of 728 audits in 
39 countries on four continents since 2010. These audits 
have covered 1.4 million employees and identified 4,732 
cases of shortcomings, with 559 still to be resolved. The table lists the shortcomings still outstanding in the year 
under review: 
Number of issues  2018  2019  2020 
Health and safety  177  166  171 
Working hours/overtime  84  69  64 
Business ethics  49  38  47 
Child and juvenile labour  6  6  5 
Remuneration  24  30  35 
Environment  56  69  72 
Forced labour and discrimination  13  18  12 
Disciplinary practice and freedom of association  6  6  9 40Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentReady for the 
environment
The protection of the environment and especially the climate is an important part of 
our corporate philosophy  . For over 20 years we have been systematically decarbon -
ising our activities  . We are using new financing instruments to raise funds to increase 
our energy efficiency and accelerate our conversion to renewable energies  . Together 
with our customers, we aim to save significantly more greenhouse gas emissions than our entire operation and supply chains generate  . To this end, we are developing 
an attractive range of technology-supported services  . We are also driving forward 
the conversion to a circular economy of ICT devices with innovative solutions  .
Climate protection and energy 
efficiency
Management approach
Limiting the global rise in temperature is a major chal -
lenge for our society. In our role as an IT and telecommu -
nications provider and as a major consumer of energy, 
we are intensively and proactively concerned with cli -
mate protection and energy efficiency. We operate the 
largest telecommunications and IT infrastructure in 
Switzerland and one of the largest fleets of company and commercial vehicles. In addition, we have a real 
estate portfolio consisting of offices, business premises, 
shops and data centres. Every year we procure goods and services worth CHF 4 billion and provide our many 
customers with a wide range of products and services. 
We want to use our influence to make a significant con -
tribution to a climate-friendly Switzerland. To this end 
we have drawn up an ambitious climate strategy and a 
comprehensive raft of measures. 
Our climate protection strategy is also based on the IPCC 
Special Report, which represents a tightening of the Paris climate target, recommending that a maximum 
temperature increase of 1.5 °C be observed. Our reduc -
tion path is aligned with climate science up to 2030 (Sci -
ence Based Targets). In line with these targets, we have also identified new measures, including the electrifica -
tion of our fleet and the use of heat pumps for our heat -
ing systems. 
We manage all measures to protect the climate using an 
environmental management system. We use norms, 
standards and internal directives to implement the 
planned savings and efficiency measures systematically. All subsidiaries with operations that are of significant 
environmental importance are certified according to ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. These are Swisscom (Switzer -
land) Ltd, Swisscom Broadcast Ltd and cablex Ltd. Our 
Italian subsidiary Fastweb S.p.A. is also ISO 14001-certi -
fied. The environmental management system used and 
its efficiency are subject to an annual external audit. We 
have determined our energy requirements on the basis of scenarios and defined energy efficiency and CO
2 
reduction targets. In addition, we have concluded target 
agreements with the Energy Agency of the Swiss Private 
Sector (EnAW) and the federal “Exemplary Energy and Climate” initiative (VBE). 
Building on an 80% reduction in our direct greenhouse gas emissions over the past 30 years, we intend to continue on 
this reduction path. This is reflected in our Sustainability 
Strategy 2025. We aim to further decarbonise our opera
-
tions and supply chains and to limit our direct and indirect CO
2 emissions to 300,000 tonnes between 2020 and 2025. 
The remaining, unavoidable operational emissions will be 
completely offset with myclimate from 2020 onwards. As 
a result, we have become a climate-neutral company. 
Periodic analyses of our impact on the environment prove that our energy consumption is the most impor -
tant internal lever for reducing CO
2 emissions. By 2025, 
we want to increase our energy efficiency by a further 
25% compared with the level on 1 January 2020. In addi -
tion, we will focus even more strongly on renewable 
energies in the future. By purchasing certificates of ori -
gin, we already use 100% renewable energy today. In the coming years, we want to further increase the propor -
tion of solar power we generate ourselves and reduce 
our use of fossil fuels. 
These conversions cannot happen without investment. 
We are currently examining our climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the basis of the official Swiss cli -41Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentmate scenarios (climate scenarios CH-2018) and will 
align our business strategy accordingly as required. We 
follow the recommendations of the Task Force on Cli -
mate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of the Finan -
cial Stability Board (FSB) in the areas of governance, strategy and risk management, and publish information 
on our approach to adaptation and mitigation as well as on our conclusions. Full implementation of the recom -
mendations of the TCFD (incl. metrics and targets) is planned for the 2021 financial year. In this way we will ensure the long-term resilience of our business and cre -
ate the basis for our investors to trust us and accompany us on this path. In the year under review, we became the first listed Swiss company to successfully issue a 
EUR  500  million green bond. The resulting capital will 
enable us to press ahead vigorously with our climate protection measures. Reports on the allocation of the 
capital and the impact achieved are publicly accessible 
on our website.
N See www.swisscom.ch/financingOur ambitions do not stop at net zero emissions. Through our portfolio and together with our customers, 
we aim to save a total of 800,000 tonnes of CO
2 by 2025. 
The savings should exceed our own emissions by 500,000 tonnes, which corresponds to around one  per 
cent of Switzerland’s greenhouse gas emissions. In this way we are making a significant contribution to climate 
protection in Switzerland. We promote and develop ser -
vices that enable people in Switzerland to lead a cli -
mate-friendly lifestyle. In the year under review, we added a number of such services to our portfolio. For 
example, we offer our customers the option of offset -
ting the climate emissions of their smartphones, and 
with the “Swiss Climate Challenge” app we raise public 
awareness of climate-friendly mobility. With the IoT Cli -
mate Award we honour particularly climate-friendly 
Internet of Things solutions.
Our supply chains are responsible for the bulk of our CO
2 
emissions. Together with our suppliers, we therefore set 
reduction targets and support them in improving their 
ecological footprint.
    Start year  Target year   
Partnership  Target agreement  January 1st  Dec  . 31 st  Target 
Swisscom  Ratio CO2 savings achieved by customers to CO2 emissions Swisscom  2016  2020  2:1 
Swisscom  Energy efficiency (savings measures over total energy consumption, not weighted)  2016  2020  +35% 
EnAW  Energy efficiency (savings measures over total energy consumption, not weighted)  2013  2022  +35% 
EnAW  CO2 intensity of heating fuels  2013  2022  –8% 
  (CO2 emissions as a proportion of total CO2 emissions and CO2 savings)       
EnAW  CO 2 intensity of fuels  2013  2022  –24% 
  (CO2 emissions as a proportion of total CO2 emissions and CO2 savings)       
VBE  Energy efficiency (savings measures over total energy consumption, not weighted)  2006  2020  +25% 
SBTI  CO 2 Reduction Scope 1  2013  2020  -10% 
SBTI  CO2 Reduction Scope 2  2013  2020  -100% 
SBTI  CO2 Reduction Scope 3  2013  2020  -18% 
Energy efficiency increase in 
Switzerland since 1. January 2016 and forecasts
in %
1 .30 2.87 
1 .48 
2018 2019 2020  Ratio CO2 reductions to CO2 
emissions
20 .5% 28 .5% 38.0% 
2018 2019 2020  42Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environment Energy efficiency in operations
We are investing an enormous amount in telecommuni -
cations networks. The network infrastructure is 
described in detail in the “Infrastructure” section of the 
Annual Report and in the “Ready for Switzerland” sec -
tion of this report. To operate the networks we need var -
ious energy sources, primarily electricity.
Energy management according to the standard 
Through systematic energy management, we are increas -
ing our energy efficiency, reducing costs and minimising 
our company’s direct and indirect carbon footprint, espe -
cially our CO2 footprint. In line with ISO Standard 50001 
on energy efficiency, our energy management approach consists of the following process steps:
● Determining energy requirements over a specific 
period
● Defining and approving energy efficiency targets and corresponding measures 
● Determining the energy mix (particularly the electricity mix)
● Implementing energy efficiency measures
● Monitoring, energy balancing and reporting
● Implementing research and development projects (e.g. relating to balancing energy) and virtual power 
plants (tiko)
● Developing and marketing sustainable ICT products 
and services
Determining energy demand up to 2030
In the year under review, we determined our energy demand and its CO
2 footprint beyond the strategy target 
year 2025 to 2030. The hypotheses and scenarios consid -
ered postulate total electrification of mobility and strong electrification of building heating. The demand for fossil fuels should thus decrease. The switch to elec -
trical processes will be accompanied by considerable increases in efficiency, as electric motors and heat pumps are particularly efficient. Determining the energy mix  
(particularly the electricity mix)
We pay attention not just to the quantity of energy con -
sumed, but also to its quality and therefore to its carbon 
footprint. In the year under review, we published our 
procurement policy for renewable energy. We obtain our energy as far as possible from clean sources that are 
renewable or cause low CO
2 emissions. These include pri -
marily hydropower, photovoltaics, wind power and, to a lesser extent, biomass for heating systems. 
N See www.swisscom.ch/renewable-energy
At 88%, electricity accounts for the largest share of our 
total energy consumption. We are committed to the use 
of 100% electricity from renewable energies and are a 
member of RE100, an international initiative to promote electricity from renewable resources. We obtain our 
renewable energy through three mechanisms: 
● We have our own photovoltaic systems.
● We purchase the majority of our hydroelectricity from 
established suppliers in Switzerland. 
● We buy certificates of origin (HKN) for the non-re -
newable part of the energy mix. 
As a result, the proportion of renewable energy used in the year under review, as in previous years, was 100%, as 
verified by the independent inspection authority SGS.
Energy-efficient operations
We are continuously committed to increasing energy 
efficiency and the associated reduction of the CO2 foot -
print in our operations. The following measures make 
the greatest contribution. They are among the projects 
that we can finance with green bond funds.
Network modernisation
The steady expansion of our network generated addi -
tional electricity consumption this year as well. We were able to offset some of this through new architectures, the 
use of improved technologies, more energy-efficient pro
-
cesses (e.g. fresh air cooling of base stations in the mobile 
network) and the dismantling of obsolete network ele -
ments (e.g. the TDM platform). An additional advantage of the new networks is their lower material intensity. This 
enables us to save on less efficient copper lines. 
Replacement of antennas and cooling devices
A few years ago we introduced a new antenna system that 
requires considerably less cooling than its predecessors. 
The remote radio units (RRU) are located directly on the 
antenna mast. They are cooled by the outside air, which reduces the heat load and therefore the required cooling 
capacity within the base station. We are now replacing the 
remaining oversized and energy-intensive cooling sys
-
tems with modern and sustainable alternatives.
We are currently replacing those cooling systems that consume a lot of energy or have been in operation for 
more than eight years. At 1,250 locations, the chillers and 521  548  563 546  558 Total energy consumption 
Swisscom
in GWh
2016 2017 2019 2020  201843Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentsplit units are being replaced with new systems. Wher -
ever possible, environmentally friendly and cost-effec -
tive ventilation systems are being used, which operate 
without compressors and coolants.
Innovative data centres
The power usage effectiveness (PUE) value represents the total power consumed by a data centre relative to 
the power consumed by the IT infrastructure used there. 
In the year under review, our data centres had an aver -
age PUE value of 1.32 (prior year: 1.35). We strive to 
improve this figure all the time.
Our most innovative data centre is located in Berne 
Wankdorf. This is cooled with recirculated air and rain -
water and achieved a PUE value of 1.26 in 2020. Its waste 
heat flows into the city of Berne’s heating network and 
directly heats homes in the vicinity. 
In order to further boost the efficiency of our data cen -
tres, we are focusing primarily on server virtualisation. 
This means that less IT infrastructure and therefore less energy are required for the same performance.
Savings in buildings
We monitor and improve electricity consumption in buildings as part of efficiency measures in accordance 
with the internal Pioneer standard. In the year under 
review, the corresponding checks helped optimise the operating conditions of buildings, saving 1,003 GWh of 
energy, 32% as a result of lighting measures alone. 
We measure the consumption of heating oil, natural gas, 
district heating and water on a monthly basis in our 
120 largest buildings. Together, these buildings account for more than half of our total floorspace. We then 
extrapolate these figures to calculate the overall annual 
consumption. The monthly measurements have also revealed cases of disproportionately high energy con -
sumption, which have been optimised. Practically no change was seen in energy consumption for heating buildings, as offices were heated irrespective of the num -
ber of occupants, but CO
2 emissions from the buildings 
fell slightly as a result of adjustments to the heating mix 
– such as the use of biomass (wood), including indirectly 
via district heating as a supplementary energy source.
As part of a large-scale efficiency programme, we have 
been replacing all heating systems that were due to be refurbished with CO
2-free systems since 2016. The new 
heating systems generate heat by means of heat pumps, 
biomass (wood) and, where possible, heat recovery from 
their own operation. They are contributing to the shift from fossil fuels to electricity to cover energy needs, 
while at the same time increasing efficiency.
Utilising waste heat
We use the waste heat from the IT infrastructure in the 
operating rooms or from data centres to heat our offices or neighbouring areas. For example, we feed waste heat into the district heating systems in Zurich (Binz and Herd -
ern), St. Gallen and Berne Wankdorf to heat residential and office buildings in the neighbourhood. In 2020, we also began supplying waste heat from our operation 
building in Ittigen to the energy network of the federal 
offices. We are thus providing heating for our regulatory authority DETEC (Federal Department of the Environ -
ment, Transport, Energy and Communications), an exam -
ple of a measure (heat recovery) from the action plan of the “Exemplary Energy and Climate” (VBE) programme, 
which Swisscom is committed to implementing. During 
the year under review, a total of 12.8 GWh (prior year: 8.8 GWh) of thermal energy was fed into neighbouring 
areas as district heating, saving 1,280,000 litres of heat -
ing oil (prior year: 880,000 litres).
Generating our own solar energy
We generate and use our own electricity from photovol -
taic systems on our transmitter stations, base stations and telephone exchanges. At the end of 2020, the total 
output of our 84 solar installations was 3,321 kWp (+ 5%) and electricity production was 2.9  GWh. In 2020, we 
launched a new project for the construction of photo -
voltaic systems on buildings with mobile communica -
tions installations. This means that we can exceed the declared target of 4,000 kWp by 2023. 
Fleet of climate-neutral vehicles
Our employees depend on needs-oriented mobility and 
a modern vehicle fleet for their professional activities 
such as after-sales support and network maintenance. 
We have decided to gradually make our entire fleet cli -
mate-neutral: by 2025, we will halve the CO2 emissions 
of our vehicle fleet, and by 2030 the entire Swisscom 
fleet will be CO2-neutral (passenger cars and commercial 
vehicles).
In the meantime, the traditional drives will continue to 
be optimised and energy-efficient models will be pro -
cured. We have adjusted our procurement strategy accordingly: criteria such as efficiency category and CO
2 
emissions are even more important than before. In 2020, 
87.3% (prior year: 88.6%) of the vehicle fleet was classi -
fied as energy efficiency categories A and B. The passen -
ger car fleet had average CO2 emissions of 100 grams per 
kilometre according to NEDC and 115 grams per kilo -
metre according to WLTP, while commercial vehicles had 
emissions of 170 grams per kilometre. We have there -
fore achieved our target for the passenger car fleet, set 
in 2013, of 95 grams of CO2 per kilometre in accordance 
with NEDC, within a tolerance interval of 5%. Starting next year, we will only report on the WLTP value. 
Climate protection solutions for our 
customers
Our climate targets not only include our internal CO2 
emissions. As an ICT company, we can also make a signif -
icant contribution to the climate-friendly lifestyle of 44Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentpeople in Switzerland. This is why we are consistently 
committed to the use of innovative ICT services in our 
own company and by our customers. Together with 
them we want to save 800,000 tonnes of CO2 by 2025. 
The Internet of Things (IoT), for example, is described as a key technology for reducing CO
2. Artificial intelligence 
(AI) can also contribute to a more climate-friendly life -
style. Through the use of services for Work Smart, for the remote monitoring and optimisation of vehicles, machines and buildings and for climate-friendly cities, 
everyone can reduce their own CO
2 footprint. We pro -
vide some of the necessary solutions ourselves, while others are offered by SMEs or start-ups on the basis of 
our technical infrastructure. 
In the year under review, we further expanded our range 
of sustainable solutions. In addition, we updated the models for calculating our target achievement on the 
basis of current industry findings and new studies. 
Our products and services with sustainability recogni -
tion make a significant contribution to ecological and 
social sustainability. Their added value is verified by independent partner organisations (Pro Familia and 
myclimate). A list of the relevant products can be found 
on the Internet. We attach great importance to high -
lighting the sustainability messages relating to our prod -
ucts and services in our communications, thus helping to raise public awareness. 
Our services enable flexible working, the reduction of 
travel and logistics trips, the lowering of power con -
sumption and the efficient and safe use of digital media. 
Here you will find an overview of our sustainable ICT 
offerings:
N See www.swisscom.ch/sustainableproducts
For residential customers
● Online bills: online bills are an environmentally friendly alternative to paper bills and save money and 
time. The proportion of our customers who receive 
their bills online grew to 56% (2019: 48%). 
N See www.swisscom.ch/billonline
● Energy-optimised operation of end devices: the energy consumed by customer devices can be extrap -
olated to 287 GWh (2019: 304 GWh) based on the power consumption of each device and typical usage profiles. We would like to reduce this amount and 
draw the attention of our customers to the numerous 
energy-saving possibilities. On our website, for exam -
ple, we recommend the appropriate settings for 
energy-optimised operation of devices. We also pro -
vide information on the energy consumption of end 
devices such as Internet and TV boxes.
N See www.swisscom.ch/save-energy● blue TV:  despite steady growth in customer numbers 
for blue TV, we have gradually reduced the energy 
consumption of all TV boxes in operation. In 2020, the 
TV boxes together required 59 GWh. This was achieved thanks to extensive efficiency improve -
ments in the box and its operating system. 
N See www.swisscom.ch/tv
● Routers:  we launched the Internet Box 3 at the end of 
2019. With a similar power consumption, the new 
box is even more powerful than its predecessor. It 
offers several energy-saving features. One is a time switch allowing users to set times during which the 
Wi-Fi, central storage or telephony (Digital Enhanced 
Cordless Telecommunications – DECT) functions are switched off. The Internet Box 3 also means fewer 
devices are used in home networks because it 
replaces the multiple devices that used to be required to connect computers, TVs and HD fixed-line tele -
phony wirelessly, thereby significantly reducing energy consumption.
N See www.swisscom.ch/router
● Climate-compensated smartphones:  in 2020, a cli -
mate-neutral smartphones pilot involving four 
Swisscom shops was launched. In cooperation with 
our partner South Pole, we offer our customers the opportunity to offset the CO
2 emissions of their 
smartphone. These occur during production, opera -
tion and disposal.
N See www.swisscom.ch/compensation
● Swiss Climate Challenge: we have launched the Swiss Climate Challenge (SCC) together with Energy Swit -
zerland, Engagement Migros and South Pole. SCC raises public awareness of climate-friendly mobility by means of apps. Some 14,000 users are already par -
ticipating in SCC, thereby reducing their CO
2 footprint. 
In an accompanying research project, ETH Zurich is 
investigating the impact on the reduction of the per -
sonal footprint. 
N See www.swissclimatechallenge.ch
● Smart mobility with autoSense:  the autoSense IoT 
platform from our joint venture with AMAG and Zurich Insurance assists car owners in networking 
their vehicles. In addition to services related to servic -
ing and repairs, autoSense provides feedback and rec -
ommendations relating to your personal driving style.
N See www.autosense.ch
● Smart energy with tiko: tiko Energy Solutions Ltd, in which Swisscom holds a minority interest, enables its 
residential customers to use technology to manage 
the energy consumption of their heat pumps, electric heaters and boilers. tiko sun, for example, increases 
the consumption of self-produced energy from the 
customer’s own photovoltaic system, and deliber -45Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentately puts heat pumps or boilers into operation as 
soon as solar power is produced. 
N See www.tiko.ch
For business customers
● Work Smart:  collaboration platforms with video, chat 
and filing functions allow people to work from home 
or on the go. The relevance of these technologies has 
been demonstrated during the Covid-19 pandemic in particular, e.g. for coping with the home office and 
home schooling. As a funding member of the Work 
Smart initiative, we contribute to the promotion of Work Smart in Switzerland and make our experience 
and knowledge available to other companies.
● Virtual conferences:  conferencing services enable 
location-independent and interactive collaboration with employees, customers and partners around the 
world. With virtual conferences, numerous business trips can be avoided and commuter traffic reduced. 
This saves time and massively reduces CO
2 emissions.
● Data centre services:  by offering the server infra -
structure in our efficient data centres and our cloud services, we help businesses improve efficiency, secu -
rity and scalability, while saving energy and costs.
● Dematerialisation:  various collaboration solutions sup -
port paperless work and reduce paper consumption.
N See www.swisscom.ch/billonline
● Swisscom Smart City:  networked and smart devices 
and applications help buildings and transport systems to be operated more efficiently. For example, with the 
smart control of heating systems, boilers, solar instal -
lations and batteries we enable corporate customers 
to lower their energy consumption, reduce their CO
2 
emissions and produce balancing energy. Further -
more, the networking and remote monitoring of 
plants and vehicles make it possible to reduce the logistics costs of companies and cities. For example, 
networked waste containers optimise collection 
routes within city limits. These IoT solutions are mostly developed and marketed by innovative SMEs 
and start-ups. 
N See www.swisscom.ch/smartcity
● IoT Climate Award:  to provide an incentive for the 
development and dissemination of innovative IoT solutions, we launched the IoT Climate Award in the 
year under review. With this award we honour cli -
mate-friendly IoT solutions. Winners of the award in 
2020 were Cadec for its remote control of heating 
systems in holiday homes, Sensile for its remote monitoring of gas and oil tanks and Avelon for its 
monitoring and optimisation of heating, ventilation 
and cooling systems.
N See www.swisscom.ch/iotclimateaward
● Mobility analyses of companies, cities, municipali -
ties and events: on the basis of anonymised mobility 
data, we create mobility analyses that can be used by companies, cities, municipalities and events to opti -
mise transport planning. In the year under review, we 
analysed anonymised mobility data from the mobile network for the first time so that multiple companies 
can record their CO
2 emissions from business and 
commuter traffic, evaluate the efficiency of their work smart culture and plan new solutions, for exam -
ple in the field of electromobility.
N See www.swisscom.ch/mip  
● Myni Gmeind: the association Myni Gmeind is a collab -
oration between the Association of Swiss Municipali -
ties, Swisscom, Swiss Post, Cisco and Academia. With 
the help of digital solutions, we strengthen the attrac -
tiveness and sustainability of municipalities. In the year under review, for example, we conducted a campaign 
to promote video conferencing in municipalities and 
set up mountain hubs for smart working in pilot munic
-
ipalities. During the lockdown, we  supported munici -
palities with a video conferencing campaign.
N See www.mynigmeind.ch
For all sustainable offerings for residential and business customers, see:
N See www.swisscom.ch/sustainableproducts
Use of resources and circular economy
Management approach
It takes not only energy but also a multitude of other resources, such as land and water, etc. to operate tele -
communications networks. Careful handling of these makes sense from an economic perspective and is essen -
tial from an ecological point of view. We therefore contin -
uously develop our operational environmental compati -
bility and our sustainable use of resources in accordance with ISO  14001. We intend to reduce or stabilise con -
sumption in our operations. 
The resources used by us and our suppliers are finite and 
in some cases scarce. Therefore, the choice and applica -
tion of materials plays a central role. The longer a 
resource is used, the more eco-friendly it is. Manufactur -
ers, retailers and telecommunications companies have become aware that the linear economy, however effi -
cient it may be, must gradually be replaced with a com -
pletely closed circular economy throughout the value chain. This extends the lifetime of resources, reduces waste and greenhouse gas emissions, and thus effec -
tively takes pressure off the environment. 
Based on the commitments of our sustainability and 
supply chain strategy, we have prepared an internal cir -
cular economy analysis. The analysis structures the busi -
ness activities and framework conditions, and also reveals strengths and action areas. The analysis has 
shown that we are very well positioned with the take-back and second-life programmes (e.g. Swisscom Mobile 46Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentAid). There is potential for improvement with the circu -
lar economy compatibility of our own products and 
through greater transparency in network dismantling. A 
working group, consisting of internal experts and led by the sustainability team, is dedicated to the implementa -
tion of the knowledge gained. This working group coor -
dinates the Group-wide circular economy programmes by exploiting synergies and challenging the status quo. 
It also reports on key figures and supports major pro -
jects from a circular economy standpoint. The deci -
sion-making authority lies with the line managers.
We can play a relevant role in the circular economy on 
the Swiss market as a supplier of merchandise (mobile 
phones, etc.) and self-developed and branded devices 
(e.g. TV and Internet boxes) and also as a network oper -
ator. Our innovations give customers access to better 
products and services and eliminate the need for out -dated platforms. An example of this is the dismantling 
of the previous TDM transmission technology: the exist -
ing analogue fixed network is no longer needed after the complete migration to All IP. In keeping with circular economy principles, we will return its components to 
the cycle instead of disposing of them. In the year under 
review, we also collected used mobile devices via com -
panies, offered second-hand devices for purchase and 
improved the logistics for returning faulty equipment.
Circular economy in practice
Measures
We enable resources used in our operations to be 
returned to the cycle via our recycling, repair and reuse 
initiatives and provide our customers with straightfor -
ward offers for the reuse of materials and resources. 
Waste presentation cycle in mobile phone withdrawals SwisscomRecycling
CustomersDesign/ 
Procurement
Operation/  
DistributionReturn  
and triage  
equipmentReuseRaw materials Waste47Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environment Sustainable resources for own products
In-house products are devices that bear the Swisscom 
logo (e.g. TV boxes and routers). 
For our own products, we strive continuously to use 
new, more sustainable materials that are reused from 
other sources. We have carried out a pilot project with 
new biopolymers derived from 100% renewable mate -
rial and used as plastic substitutes. This material cannot 
be mass produced yet. In the year under review, we con -
tinued to work on making our own products more sus -
tainable and compliant with circular economy principles.
Repairs
If a device happens to be faulty, we offer on-site repairs 
within 24 hours at our nine repair centres. We even pro -
vide an express service for repairs within three hours for an extra fee. One in five mobile phones purchased from us will be repaired by us at least once during its lifetime 
and will not have to be replaced. Most repairs relate to 
cracked displays or remedying battery and software problems. The manufacturer’s warranty remains intact 
thanks to our certified specialists involved and the use of 
original parts. In 2020, we repaired 16,600 mobile phones at our repair centres. This corresponds to 22% of 
the total repairs we receive. 
Reuse of packaging
Customers play a major role and contribute to a success -
ful circular economy. After all, they decide what will hap -
pen to their products and packaging after use. On the 
“ReThink” website, we outline tips on how to reuse pack -
aging. This makes it easy for our customers to reduce the 
amount of their waste.
N See www.swisscom.ch/rethink
We have also further developed our packaging concept 
to facilitate reuse. The ReBox packing box without any 
branding on it can be reused independently. We tested it 
with the Internet Box 3 and are now gradually adapting it to suit our other proprietary products.
In the year under review, we sent 1.187 million parcels to our customers via our logistics partner ALSO. Of these, 
612,000 had outer packaging. The shipping packages are 
designed to protect the product in the best possible way. They are constantly being optimised. In the year under 
review, more than 95% of the outer packaging no longer 
required any additional filler. This is very welcome from an ecological point of view.
Return of materials
In 2020, we further improved the “Take me back” pro -
gramme introduced in the previous year. This comple -
ments the existing options in reverse logistics. Selected routers in the case of assurance and replacement contain 
return labels for the return shipment of faulty devices. 
This means that equipment can be collected by the postal service from the customer’s own mailbox. The increased comfort for customers is leading to a rising return rate: at the end of 2020 it reached 48%. We are planning to offer 
“Take me back” for other product categories.
N See www.swisscom.ch/material
“Refreshed smartphones”
We successfully launched the new “refreshed smart -
phones” offering in mid-2020. We now offer used sec -
ond-hand devices in our online shop. Most of these 
devices come from our Buyback and Buyback Business programmes, with which we buy back old devices. 
Extending the service life of the devices makes a lot of 
sense from an environmental point of view. The growing customer interest in “refreshed smartphones” comes 
from both price-sensitive and environmentally con -
scious customer groups.
N See www.swisscom.ch/refreshed
Swisscom Mobile Aid and Mobile Aid Business
Returned functional devices have the potential for reuse. 
In 2020, Swisscom Mobile Aid collected 90,000 used 
mobile devices that had been returned by consumers. 
We sell around a third of these devices via a third-party company to countries where there is demand for low-
priced second-hand devices. All proceeds from the sales 
go to the social enterprise réalise in Geneva and the SOS Kinderdorf Schweiz relief organisation. 
Réalise inspects and sorts the devices collected, sepa -
rates working devices from faulty ones, deletes the data 
from working devices and prepares them for resale. 
Devices that can no longer be sold are professionally recycled by a SWICO-licenced company. The initial 
stages are carried out by the recycling company Solen -
thaler Recycling AG (SOREC) together with Dock Gruppe 
AG. Dock Gruppe AG helps long-term unemployed peo -
ple to reintegrate into the workforce. Compared with the previous year, the response rate fell slightly to 15.5% (2019: 15.9%).
N See www.swisscom.ch/mobileaid
In the year under review, we adapted our logistics pro -
cesses to introduce the Mobile Aid Business offering. Com -
panies can now work with their employees to collect old mobile phones for Mobile Aid. They then receive an evalua -
tion of the success of the collection and communications 
from SOS Kinderdorf Switzerland on how the proceeds will 
actually be used for children in need.
N See www.swisscom.ch/mobileaidbusiness
Dismantling of network infrastructure
In the year under review, we newly awarded the recycling of raw materials to Thommen AG Regensdorf. It records 
recycling more uniformly across the entire company and 
processes it more efficiently. With greater transparency of goods flows and quantities, we obtain a better basis for 
decision-making for the divisions. 48Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentIn places where we install new, more powerful networks, 
we also regularly dismantle old network infrastructure. In 
June 2020, the last customers were migrated to IP. Thus, the 
All IP project was successfully completed and the disman -
tling of the old platforms that are no longer required was 
started. This dismantling work will create a lot of empty 
spaces which will either be returned to landlords or used by us for new purposes. The (reusable) materials produced in 
the process will be either reused, resold to other providers 
or recycled. Unlike with new technologies, the previous material and space requirements were much greater. This 
is why much more material is currently accruing for recy -
cling than in recent years. With the completion of the dis -
mantling of the material-intensive platforms (TDM), the quantities to be recycled will also decrease. In the year 
under review, we dismantled and recycled 1,286 tonnes of iron, 140 tonnes of aluminium, 763 tonnes of cable and 437 
tonnes of electrical waste and printed circuit boards. In 
some cases, we sell the materials in granular form to com -
panies that recover silver, gold, palladium, copper and 
nickel from them. We use some components ourselves or 
sell them to other, usually foreign, network operators. Both reuse (of components, e.g. as spare parts) and resale (of 
entire systems or parts thereof on the market to other pro -
viders) reduce the general demand for newly manufac -
tured parts and thus lower the environmental impact.
Recycling
Wherever possible, we reuse materials that have already 
been used in the office and in the company, e.g. recycled 
paper and rainwater, our own waste heat and district 
heating. At our headquarters, for example, we use district heating from a nearby purification plant. The recycling 
category in the waste categories table comprises the fol
-
lowing materials which are accumulated during opera -
tions: metals (copper, iron, aluminium), paper and card -board, plastics (PET, PE, PP) and toner cartridges. These 
materials are fed into a new cycle outside Swisscom.
Economical use of resources
In addition to our energy-saving measures, we also endeavour to reduce the use and consumption of other 
resources in our operations or at most to keep them at the 
same level as in the previous year. The following principles are essential for us in terms of environmental protection: 
whenever possible, we avoid the use of short-lived materi
-
als. We favour the use of substances with no or little 
impact on the environment and ensure that they are inte -
grated into an economic cycle (see “Circular economy”).
Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
The increased use of working from home in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic had an impact on the consump -
tion of resources in the year under review. Far less paper was consumed, for example. Water consumption also decreased, and there was less waste. The number of 
business trips fell. Almost no change was observed in 
the heating of the buildings, as the offices were heated regardless of the number of users. 
Paper
We are massively reducing paper consumption thanks to the complete digitisation of work processes in the com -
pany and at our customers. In everyday office life we have reduced the number of print jobs with the “Fol -
lowMe Printing” service, and externally we promote 
paperless online billing. Since our offices are not yet com -
pletely paperless, we use recycled paper with the Blue 
Angel environmental label. From such paper we also 
make the telephone directories, whose circulation is 
declining. For advertising and print media, we use only paper with the FSC label.
In tonnes  Quality  2018  2019  2020          
Paper         
Office (copiers, printers) (80 g/m2 = 5 g/sheet)  Blue Angel  1 69  59  42 
Print media  FSC Label  1,710  1,488  1,201  2
Bills and envelopes (envelopes = 6 g/per envelope)  FSC Label  3 362  307  232 
Phone directories  Blue Angel  1,567  1,383  1,197 
Total paper consumption    3,708  3,237  2,672 
1 95%2 Derived from experience from the previous year or on the basis of the previ-
ous year’s order volume, converted (2020).3 88% Blue Angel, 12% FSC Label49Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environment Cables, optical fibres and telephone masts 
We have modified the materials used in the fixed net -
work. The laying of optical fibres in plastic pipes made of 
environmentally friendly polyethylene up to the street 
or even to the building enables broadband usage of the existing copper cables over the last few metres. Wher -
ever possible, we replace copper cables in the distribu -
tion network with optical fibres. We are not installing any new large-wire copper cables in the trunk zone.In mountain regions, the number of telephone masts is rising on the back of the network expansion. To prolong 
their service life, we treat them with a biological process 
that naturally combats copper-resistant rot fungi. At the same time, we are reducing the number of faulty masts 
due to regular checks.
in km, tonnes or number  Unit  2018  2019  2020          
Consumamble material         
Optical fibre  fkm  1 1,318,293  1,124,379  1,178,491 
Copper pairs  pkm  1 54,750  47,830  37,931 
Plastic pipes PE  km  395  359  351 
Copper 2 Tonnes  629  575  504 
Plastic pipes PE 2 Tonnes  355  322  318 
Telephone poles (wood)  Number of items  6,585  6,437  5,250
1  Fibre- respectively pair km 2  Converted from plastic pipes, respectively copper pairs
Water 
We need water for the sanitary facilities in our office 
buildings and for cooling some data centres. In the year 
under review, the daily average water consumption in 
our office buildings was 40 litres per FTE. This calculation is based on a monthly measurement in our main build -
ing. The measured amount is extrapolated to the num -
ber of average full-time positions. The measurement covers more than half of Swisscom’s FTEs and is there -
fore representative. 
In order to reduce water consumption in our offices, the water pipes in existing buildings have been retrofitted 
with flow limiters. During renovation work, advanced 
valves with a reduced flow rate are integrated, which lower the consumption of water by 90% compared with 
traditional valves.
 
Our data centres generate a lot of heat and must be cooled 
in order to function properly. For this purpose, we use dry 
or hybrid cooling. For the latter, we prefer to use rainwater 
or, if permitted, river/lake water. We add an anti-freeze agent (glycol) with a low environmental impact to the 
heat transfer medium during the winter. At the data cen
-
tre in Berne Wankdorf, the share of rainwater used for 
cooling return air must be over 80%. Operation of the 
return air coolers using water must not exceed 15% of the 
total annual operating time. The cold rooms or refrigera -
tion appliances are supplied with cooled water as the refrigerant, which circulates in a closed circuit and there
-
fore causes no consumption. Water consumption for cool -
ing thus accounts for only a small proportion of our total water consumption.
Cooling systems and refrigerants 
We cool our operation buildings and mobile base sta -
tions with outside air all year round if possible so that we 
do not need cooling systems or additional coolants. In collaboration with an external company, we have installed a cooling module for the mobile base stations 
that allows a rapid and cost-effective conversion to cool -
ing with fresh air.
Data centres and very densely packed centres, where the 
high heat load and the unfavourable room situation 
make cooling with fresh air difficult, are cooled with 
coolants in compression cooling systems. Checks are carried out regularly to make sure that there are no 
refrigerant leaks in the systems. We uses natural low 
GWP refrigerants (type HFO-1234ze) with an extremely low global warming potential (GWP = 7) as standard for 
their conversion or expansion. The quantity of refriger -
ant emissions in the year under review was determined 
on the basis of the refill volume. This has a global warm -
ing potential of 35.9 tonnes CO
2 (prior year: 153) and no 
ozone-depleting potential (ODP, 0 kg R-11 equivalent).
N See www.swisscom.ch/climatereport2020
Batteries and emergency power systems 
Our services must also be available in the event of power outages. To ensure this, batteries and emergency power 
systems have been installed at our telecommunications 
buildings and data centres. We regularly review the pre -
scribed safety measures in the battery rooms to prevent 
any danger to the environment through the use of batter -
ies. At the end of their service life, we dispose of or recycle 
the batteries in an environmentally friendly manner. The 
emergency power systems are only used during power out -
ages and for a few hours a year during annual test runs. The 
necessary fuel consumption is included in the overall figure 
of our fuel consumption.
Waste 
We undertake to avoid waste and select products based 
on their life cycle. Our recycling management includes 
working with partner companies to ensure that waste is 50Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentreused wherever possible. The volume of waste is on a 
downward trend, and the majority of waste is recycled. 
Waste is categorised according to the Ordinance on Han -
dling Waste (VeVA) (six-digit waste codes) and falls under 
the four main categories of recycling, household waste, 
operational waste disposed of in municipal solid waste incinerators, and special waste that is subject to inspec -
tions (refrigerants [14 06 01], batteries [16 06 01/16 06 98], old wooden telephone masts [17 02 97] and fluorescent lighting tubes [20 01 21]). The waste is separated into 
25 sub-categories. We record the corresponding data. If 
there is a maintenance agreement with authorised third parties, these dispose of the special waste. We do not record information on such waste. This includes used oil [13 03 07] and scrap wood from construction sites 
[17  02  97]. Leftover cables and building materials are 
sorted on the construction site and disposed of directly. Other special waste is disposed of in accordance with the 
legal provisions described on the FOEN website.
The volume of in-house household waste is calculated by 
extrapolating the actual figures recorded in 2020 at six 
major Swisscom locations throughout Switzerland. We multiply the calculated average volume of 15 kg per FTE 
by the total number of full-time positions. For the dis -
posal of such waste, there are contracts in place with 
Swiss Waste Exchanges and other external partners. 
In tonnes  2018  2019  2020  2020 in %          
Waste categories         
Recycling  2,749  3,008  2,059  46 .2% 
Domestic waste disposal in incineration plants  695  623  225  5 .0% 
Operational waste disposal in incineration plants  923  1,168  2,149  48 .2% 
Special waste  18  23  28  0 .6% 
Total waste  4,385  4,822  4,461  100.0% 
Protection of the landscape and building land 
The base and transmitter stations ensure that the whole of Switzerland has access to telecommunications, radio 
and TV services and form the backbone of every mobile 
network. When positioning the antennas, we focus not only on radio technology aspects, but also on their 
seamless integration into the landscape and townscape 
as well as the efficient utilisation of the building land. We make sure that as little surface area is sealed as pos -
sible. In the search for a suitable location we visit the possible sites and take into account the inventories of sensitive locations and buildings. In the year under 
review, we operated stations in the following locations: 
● Swisscom Broadcast Ltd transmitter stations:  as in 
the previous year, there are five locations of Swisscom Broadcast Ltd in Emerald areas (protected areas for 
the preservation of particularly precious habitats and 
species) and two on the edge of an Emerald area or on 
the edge of moorlands. One other location stands in moorlands (protected area of national significance). 
When dismantling decommissioned transmitter sta -
tions, we restore the ground to its natural state in 
accordance with internal guidelines issued by 
Swisscom Broadcast Ltd. In the year under review, we 
dismantled three stations and restored the ground affected to its natural state.
● Swisscom (Switzerland) Ltd base stations:  74 mobile 
radio base stations (two more than last year; equiva -
lent to 1.52% of the 4,851 macro-antennas) are located in the Ramsar and Emerald protection areas, water protection areas, bird sanctuaries or moor -
lands, two of which are in the Swiss National Park. One of the aforementioned new structures in 2020 was erected in an Emerald area in Upper Aargau; the other stands in moorland near Lucomagno Dötra.
Biodiversity
We support partners who work to protect the soil and biodiversity. This support takes the form of financial 
assistance, but also direct assistance in the shape of the 
personal efforts of our employees on site as part of the corporate volunteering programme “Give&Grow”. In the 
year under review, our employees clocked up a total of 
386 volunteer days (prior year: 719) for nature and land -
scape conservation. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there were significantly fewer engagements than usual.
Other air emissions
Besides CO2 emissions, burning fossil fuels for heating and 
transport also produces NOx and SO2. These emissions are 
determined using the relevant conversion factors and 
depend on the amount of vehicle fuel and heating fuel 
consumed. Our reduction target for CO2 also applies to 
NOx and SO2, since all three gases originate from the same 
combustion processes (heating or engines). We are reduc -
ing their emissions by continually optimising heating boil -
ers and using more efficient drive motors. The emissions are listed in the table of environmental key figures. 
Environmentally friendly and climate-
compatible supply chains
We procure goods and services worth over CHF 2.6 bil -
lion a year. We are committed to fair and efficient part -
nerships with suppliers who share our social and envi -
ronmental objectives and our values. International 51Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentinitiatives help us to ensure that measures are imple -
mented in close collaboration with our suppliers. 
Partnerships for green procurement
The following section highlights the partnerships for 
sustainable procurement with regard to environmental 
aspects. For details of our social responsibility in supply 
chains, (see “Fair supply chains”).
Carbon Disclosure Project 
In the year under review, we continued to develop our cooperation with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 
This not-for-profit organisation encourages companies 
to publish relevant environmental data. Once a year, the CDP, on behalf of investors, uses standardised question -
naires to collect data from companies with regard to CO
2 
emissions, climate risks, and reduction goals and strate -
gies. The CDP maintains the world’s largest database of this kind. 
As part of our cooperation with the CDP, we contacted 
and surveyed 78 (prior year: 77) of our key suppliers. The companies surveyed have a high order volume or a high 
degree of environmental relevance. They cover 61% of 
the order volume. The response rate was more than 92%, which allowed the survey to be brought to a suc -
cessful conclusion. The results processed by the CDP are partially incorporated into the EcoVadis platform and also used as a basis on which to comprehensively assess 
our key suppliers. We have also, through this pro -
gramme, disclosed our own commitment to climate pro -
tection to 87 customers.
Our supply chains are responsible for the bulk of our CO
2 
emissions. Scope 3 emissions in the supply chains there -
fore play a fundamental role in climate protection. With 
the emissions data from suppliers, the CDP gives us a reliable basis for determining the carbon footprint and 
reduction targets for our company (Science Based Tar -
gets) as well as for selected key suppliers.
N See www.cdp.net
Global e-Sustainability Initiative 
As part of the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), the 
world’s leading ICT providers are committed to sustaina -
ble change using new technologies. GeSI has heavily geared its organisation and activities towards the SDGs. 
We work within the GeSI framework in a variety of pro -
jects, e.g. to promote fair supply chains and the circular 
economy. We also play an active role in various GeSI sus -
tainability projects. These projects include, for example, the “Digital with Purpose” initiative launched in 2019 based on the SMARTer2030 Report and the establish -
ment of the Innovators Network to Enable Human Rights (INHR). As part of the Better World Program, we help selected suppliers to implement best practices in 
the area of corporate responsibility.
N See www.gesi.orgBetter World Program / 
Supplier Development Program
We work in partnership with our suppliers so that they 
can meet the high sustainability requirements. With this 
in mind, we are involved in the Supplier Development 
Program (SDP) for strategically important suppliers. Over the past two years, we have worked with partici -
pants to develop solutions in relation to issues such as environmental protection, working time regulations and health and safety. Since 2019, the development pro -
gramme has been running as an industry approach under the umbrella of GeSI. 
A major innovation of the SDP industry approach is an 
online tool that facilitates the collection and evaluation of sustainability-relevant data. In addition, the tool ena -
bles a simple and effective measurement of the success of all SDP activities using various key figures. This makes contributions to individual SDGs visible. After the SDP 
participants themselves have successfully completed the 
development programme, they can use it independently and apply it to their suppliers. In this way, the programme 
has an impact on downstream stages of the supply 
chains. 
We expect that the supplier programme will produce 
results at our new suppliers that are similar to the results for those who participated in last year’s programme. It 
not only brought them social and ecological improve -
ments, but also economically measurable benefits: bet -
ter working conditions reduce staff absenteeism, have a positive effect on their motivation and increase their 
productivity. All this also improves the quality of the products, which in turn reduces the number of com -
plaints. Environmental improvements include resource savings, for example in energy and water consumption.
N See www.gesi.org
Promoting the circular economy 
in the supply chains
Within the framework of our cooperation with the JAC 
initiative and GeSI, we participate in two circular econ -
omy task forces. These are committed to more recycling in the manufacturing industry and include circular econ -
omy criteria in common tendering procedures and joint 
JAC audit guidelines. Both task forces cooperate with 
international expert bodies such as the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the Circular Econ -
omy Partnership (CEP).
Overall assessment of 2020
Energy consumption and climate footprint
The following overview summarises our key figures for the year under review. They provide information on the 
status of achievement of our climate targets. Detailed 
information can be found in the 2020 Climate Report.
N See www.swisscom.ch/climatereport202052Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environmentEnergy consumption and efficiency
Our total energy consumption in Switzerland was 
546  GWh (prior year: 563 GWh). Total consumption is 
made up of 88% electricity, 7% heating fuels and 5% vehi -
cle fuels. Thanks to the efficiency measures imple -
mented, the avoidance of energy consumption amounted to 55 GWh. The cumulative efficiency since 1  Janu -
ary 2016 is 38%. The target for 2020, set in 2015, has thus 
been reached. 
We calculate efficiency as the ratio of total energy used 
and cumulative energy saved or avoided to total energy 
consumption. We hereby follow the definition of the 
Swiss Federal Office of Energy (SFOE) and the Federal Office for the Environment (FOEN) within the scope of 
the target agreement with the Energy Agency of the 
Swiss Private Sector (EnAW). 
In the year under review, we again used 100% electricity 
from renewable energies and thus met our target here as well. Thanks to the use of electricity from renewable 
sources, the declining consumption of fossil fuel and off -
setting for the remaining consumption, the share of 
renewable energy (electricity, biomass and district heat -
ing) was 89.8% (prior year: 88.8%).
Greenhouse gas emissions
We maintain a greenhouse gas inventory, publish our emissions in a Climate Report according to recognised 
standards (ISO 14064 and Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
[GHG]), and have these verified externally.
Scope 1 emissions
Direct emissions, under Scope 1, from the combustion of fossil fuels for heating and mobility and from refrigerants 
amounted to 14,420  tonnes of CO
2, including 36  tonnes 
(prior year: 153 tonnes) as fugitive emissions from the loss of refrigerants.
Scope 2 emissions
Scope  2 emissions from electricity and district heating 
consumption before offsetting (on site) amounted to 54,001 tonnes of CO2. We offset this by purchasing certifi -
cates of origin. So, under Scope 2, we did not emit any CO2.
Scope 3 emissions
Scope 3 emissions (all indirect CO 2 emissions, for example 
in the supply chains) amounted to 301,000 tonnes of CO2. 
Emissions in the supply chains for the categories of pur -
chased goods and services (category 1), capital goods (category 2) and transport and distribution to distribu -
tion centres (category 4) account for the greatest share of 
our Scope 3 emissions. Fastweb emissions are included in 
category 15. The categories of processing of sold prod -
ucts (category 10), downstream leased assets (cate -
gory 13) and franchises (category 14) were not relevant as we did not manufacture any products, did not main -
tain any distribution centres and did not operate any 
franchises.
CO2 savings due to ICT services
Our customers save CO 2 by using our offerings. These 
savings amounted to 895,092 tonnes of CO2 in 2020 (see 
“Climate protection solutions for our customers”). Use of ICT services has increased significantly because of 
coronavirus and working from home.
Carbon footprint
Our total emissions including those in our supply chains amounted to 312,173  tonnes of CO
2 in the year under 
review. Thanks to our portfolio of products and services, 
we were able to avoid 895,092 tonnes of CO2 together 
with our customers. The ratio between savings and emissions was 2:87. The difference between savings and 
emissions was 582,919 tonnes of CO
2, which corresponds 
to 1.26% of Swiss emissions.
CO2  intensity
We have continually reduced our CO 2 intensity in recent 
years. Intensity is calculated by the EnAW on the basis of 
our consumption statistics.53Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for the environment Environmental key figures in Switzerland
  Unit  2018  2019  2020          
Land/buildings         
Net floor space (NFS)  million m2  0 .93  0 .92  0 .91          
Paper consumption         
Total paper consumption  Tonnes  3,708  3,237  2,672          
Water/sewage         
Water consumption 1 m3  182,424  182,135  130,647          
Waste         
Total amount of waste  Tonnes  4,385  4,822  4,461          
Mobility         
Vehicles  Number  3,040  2,249  1,736 
Kilometers driven  million km  53 .4  52 .5  40 .6 
Average CO 2 emissions 2 g per km  104 .0  101 .0  100 .0 
         
Energy, electricity         
Electrical energy consumption 3, 4 Terajoule  1,747  1,763  1,725 
  GWh  485  490  479 
of which electricity for the heat pumps  GWh      1 .1 
of which electricity for cooling (district cooling)  GWh      0 .2          
Energy, thermal (heat/cooling) 5        
Heating oil  Terajoule  69 .1  72 .1  69 .6 
Natural gas 6 Terajoule  27 .3  28 .3  28 .6 
Biomass 7 Terajoule  1 .1  1 .2  1 .1 
District heating 8 Terajoule  37 .2  35 .7  37 .9 
District cooling  Terajoule      2 .7 
Total thermal  Terajoule  134 .8  137 .4  139 .9          
Energy, fuel 9        
Petrol  Terajoule  16 .8  17 .1  13 .7 
Diesel fuel  Terajoule  110 .9  108 .4  88 .6 
Natural gas  Terajoule  0 .2  0 .4  0 .3 
Total fuel  Terajoule  127 .8  125 .9  102 .6          
Energy, total         
Energy consumption  Terajoule  2,009  2,027  1,964 
  GWh  558  563  546 
Air emissions         
Carbon dioxide CO 2-eq according to Scope 1 of the GHG Protocol 10 Tonnes  16,171  16,295  14,420 
Carbon dioxide CO2-eq according to Scope 2 of the GHG Protocol (“market-based”) 10   1,052  –  – 
Carbon dioxide CO2-eq according to Scope 2 of the GHG Protocol (“location-based”) 10 Tonnes  59,220  55,702  54,001 
Nitrous gases NO x 11 Tonnes  13 .9  15 .0  11 .2 
Sulphur dioxide SO 2 12 Tonnes  2 .3  2 .4  0 .9          
 
1 The water consumption (with cooling water) is extrapolated on the basis of 
the average rate of 47.8 litre per FTE per day (before 2020) resp. 24.25 (2020).
2 Average emissions per kilometre refer to manufacturer’s indications, accord-ing to the NEDC method.
3 Energy conversion: 1 terajoule (TJ) = 0.278 gigawatt hours (GWh).
4 Electricity 100% renewable (non-renewable part of the mix compensated with proof of origin)
5 The heating energy consumption is based on a forecast of monthly measures 
of the consumption of 120 buildings from 2018 (with a total area share of 
53%). The delivery of heat is not included in the calculation of total energy consumption.
6 Biogas (~10% renewable) included
7 renewable8 District heating 100% renewable (non-renewable share of the mix compen -
sated with proof of origin)9 The fuel consumption was adjusted from private use. The km driven, energy consumption and the air emissions were adjusted accordingly.
10 Scope 1: direct CO
2 emissions from fossil energy consumption and loss of 
refrigerants. Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from purchased energy (elec-
tricity and district heating). Swisscom publishes a complete climate report in 
accordance with ISO 14064. GHG Protocol = Greenhouse Gas Protocol
11 From Mobitool (www.mobitool.ch), car traffic, national 5-200 km, direct use, 
load factor 1.25; consumption 5.5 litres per 100 km (2018), 5.2 (2019) and 5.0 
(2020).
12 Emission factor SOx according to the final report of 24.11.2017 ““Pollut -
ant Emissions from Road Transport 1990-2050”, Infras, commissioned by FOEN, update 2010, Annex 6, p. 135, PW and fact sheet “Emissionsfaktoren 
Feuerung”, FOEN, June 2015.54Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for SwitzerlandReady for Switzerland
In international studies on infrastructure and digitisation, Switzerland repeatedly 
ranks among the top countries  . The reasons for this are secure and high-performance 
access to the Internet as well as free Internet access for all schools in the country  . We 
are very proud of this  . Our reliable supply of high-performance broadband connec -
tions forms the basis for a digital Switzerland with innovative business segments, mobile working and entertainment  . It also allows us to provide important services for 
sensitive areas such as healthcare  . This extraordinary year 2020 has clearly shown the 
value of this infrastructure: during the lockdown, the demand for telecommunications 
services in Switzerland rose sharply  . With additional data volumes, home office 
solutions and roaming credits, we stood by our customers in these challenging times  . 
Broadband coverage
Management approach
Our investments in digital infrastructures not only create 
CHF 4.6 billion a year of added value for ourselves, but 
also indirectly make an important contribution to Swit -
zerland’s future and its ability to compete. The Swisscom 
network is at the very heart of our company. In addition 
to the nationwide basic service, we provide Switzerland 
with particularly powerful and fast broadband technolo -
gies. This underpins our services and the support we 
 provide to Switzerland as well as its population and com -
panies in discovering new digital possibilities. 
The IT, Network & Infrastructure division is responsible for 
expanding our network. The approximately 3,600 employ -
ees of this division ensure that we offer our customers an optimal mix of technologies and that they can easily make 
the most of their opportunities in the networked world. 
In order to keep up with the rapidly increasing data traf -
fic, further expansion of the network is essential. Our goal is to be the first telecommunications provider in 
Switzerland to make innovations available to our cus -
tomers. By the end of 2021, for example, we are aiming 
to supply 90% of Swiss homes and businesses in building 
zones with speeds of at least 80 Mbps via the fixed net -
work, and by the end of 2025 we want to double the cov -
erage of the fibre-optic network (FTTH) compared with the start of 2020. The first step towards a sustainable infrastructure has already been taken: Since the end of 
2019, we have been providing 90% of the Swiss popula -
tion with a basic version of 5G, and by the end of 2020 
we offered the full version of 5G (5G+) in 522 locations.
Network and infrastructure 
Cities and villages, remote alpine huts and industrial buildings – in short, the whole of Switzerland should be 
able to benefit from the digital world. We rely on a mix of technologies so that we can introduce new services 
quickly in the future and thus always have our finger on 
the pulse. The All IP transformation has been completed 
after twelve years. In the fixed network, we have pushed ahead with the strict separation of access technologies 
and services. Our innovative architecture also enables us 
to renew all components, from the core network to the connection. Advanced technologies like the Internet 
Booster help to increase bandwidth in places with less 
than ideal coverage. Thanks to our network, by the end of 2020 over 4.4 million (more than 82%) of homes and 
offices were benefiting from bandwidths of at least 
80  Mbps, with 3.2  million (over 59%) even exceeding 200 Mbps. 
The 5G expansion continues to progress and is bringing 
the urgently needed additional capacity to the mobile 
network. By the end of 2019, 90% of the Swiss popula -
tion had been provided with basic 5G coverage. The full 
version of 5G is based on the new 5G frequencies 
(3.5 GHz), while the basic version uses the mobile spec -
trum that was acquired years ago. 
We were also able to present groundbreaking innova -
tions in 2020. Using a specially developed antenna corri -
dor, we successfully achieved transmission speeds of 
over 1 gigabit per second in a moving train on a test track 
at Lake Walen. This was done by pooling 4G and 5G. The result is a benchmark for the entire mobile communica -
tions industry because good reception on trains is the ultimate in network construction. An equally important milestone was the first voice call with commercially 
available devices over 5G in a 5G-only environment.
Our mobile network currently supplies 99% of the Swiss 
population with 4G and 3G coverage. More than 99% 
surf at speeds of up to 300 Mbps, over 96% at speeds of up to 500  Mbps, and some 55% at speeds of up to 
700  Mbps. International independent tests show that 55Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for Switzerlandour mobile network regularly occupies a leading posi -
tion within Switzerland as well as in comparison with 
Germany and Austria. In 2019/2020, we once again won 
relevant network tests (performed by connect, Chip and Ookla). 
At the beginning of 2020 we experienced several major 
network faults. In addition to providing information to 
the authorities and the public, we informed the two 
competent parliamentary commissions (TTC) in detail about the incidents and the measures taken. An external 
audit enabled us to identify weaknesses, reduce net -
work complexity and make organisational adjustments. 
A special focus was also placed on the improvement of 
multiple safeguards (redundancies) for emergency call 
services.
Network expansion and dismantling
Bandwidth requirements in the Swiss fixed and mobile telephone networks are growing all the time. We there -
fore invest around CHF 1.6 billion in IT and infrastructure in Switzerland every year in order to maintain our high level of service provision. This is the highest investment 
of any provider in Switzerland. By doing this, we make a 
substantial contribution to one of the best IT and tele -
coms infrastructures worldwide. In the EU Commission’s 
annual study “Broadband Coverage in Europe”, Switzer -
land ranked second behind the densely populated island 
state of Malta in the 2019 reporting year for high band -
width connections exceeding 100 Mbps. 
Good mobile and fixed network coverage is key to a suc -
cessful Switzerland. In the most recent international 
comparison of broadband coverage, Switzerland was outstanding.  Almost every Swiss person already bene -
fits from ultra-fast broadband networks.
Switzerland’s coverage is excellent compared with that 
of other European countries. In terms of high bandwidth 
connections exceeding 100  Mbps, Switzerland ranks among the top countries with coverage of just under 
99% of all homes (EU average: 68.4%).  Switzerland is 
therefore clearly exceeding the objectives of the EU’s “Digital Agenda for Europe 2020”.
For fibre-optic coverage (FTTP) too, with 40.9% of house -
holds connected, Switzerland is above the EU average of 
33.5%. Its better coverage of rural areas, by European 
comparison, is striking: according to the study “Broad -
band Coverage in Europe 2019”, around 94% of rural 
Switzerland can surf with bandwidths of at least 
30 Mbps. This is considerably more than in the EU. Less than 60% of rural areas in the EU even receive 30 Mbps. 
This leading position is a consequence of strong infra -
structure competition and the resulting high level of 
investment in the Swiss broadband infrastructure. 
We plan to modernise the fixed network in all Swiss 
municipalities by 2021, covering 90% of homes and offices throughout Switzerland with ultra-fast broad -
band (at least 80  Mbps). By 2025, fibre-optic coverage 
(FTTH) should nearly double compared with 2019. This 
means that 50 to 60% of all homes and offices will have a bandwidth of up to 10  Gbps in future. At the same 
time, we will continue to modernise the existing net -
work in the coming years, giving 30 to 40% of homes and 
offices access to a bandwidth of 300 to 500 Mbps.
Networks for advanced solutions
The expansion of the fifth generation of mobile commu -
nications (5G) will continue to shape us in the years to 
come. It will provide the necessary capacities for the 
increasing data traffic in the mobile network and enable a digital, innovative Switzerland. 5G makes smart cities, 
smart farming, networked factories and intelligent 
houses technically feasible, unites diverse technologies, and lays the groundwork for the expansion of an effi -
cient Internet of Things (IoT). 
In the year under review, the expansion of 5G affected not only us but also the population. Fears and uncer
-
tainty led to numerous political initiatives at communal, cantonal and national level and, in some cases, culmi
-
nated in the unlawful issuance of moratoria calling for a halt to building permits. As a result, the expansion of 5G 
and to some extent also of 4G has been delayed region
-
ally. The consequences will only become apparent in the 
future because the expansion of mobile communications 
is anticipatory. We take the concerns and uncertainty of 
the population regarding the new technology seriously. However, we believe that further expansion is necessary 
to meet the growing need for mobile data: last year, data 
traffic increased by 29%. However, capacities could only be increased by 5%. 
If Switzerland is to make full use of the possibilities offered by 5G, the framework conditions will need to be 
adjusted (see “Current challenges”). The Mobile Radio 
and Radiation working group set up by DETEC has pre -
sented various options. In order to improve the level of 
information, we provide information on our channels 
and support the industry association asut in its informa -
tion campaigns, most recently with the establishment 
of the information platform CHANCE5G. 
Basic service provision – 
comprehensive network coverage
We are responsible for providing basic telecoms services 
in Switzerland, and have been mandated to do so until 
the end of 2022 in accordance with the current universal 
service licence. The purpose of the mandate is the provi -
sion of network access throughout Switzerland, primarily 
voice telephony and broadband Internet access. Since 
2020, the guaranteed minimum transmission speed for a broadband Internet connection has been 10  Mbps 
(downloads) and 1  Mbps (uploads). Depending on the 
scope of the services purchased, the price ceiling for this 56Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for Switzerlandservice (including fixed-line telephony) is CHF  55 per 
month (excluding VAT).
A motion by the National Council’s Transport and Tele -
communications Committee (TTC), calling for an increase 
in the minimum speed to 80 Mbps within the universal 
service, is currently pending in the national parliament. In addition, a cantonal initiative by the canton of Ticino, 
calling for a nationwide high bandwidth network, has been placed on hold in parliament. The implementation 
of both these proposals will raise fundamental questions 
about the future structure of the universal service and 
the financing of network expansion in Switzerland. The issues of “public service” and “governance” in companies 
with strong links to the government are currently the 
subject of various political initiatives and are also highly relevant to Swisscom’s business activities.
  Unit  2018  2019  2020 
Emergency calls  in thousand  2,824  3,000  3,036 
Calls to the service for visually and hearing impaired  in thousand  293  252  286 
Even in locations that are difficult to access, we meet the technical challenges and guarantee the basic service. As 
part of the conversions, in the past two years we have 
retrofitted 304 alpine businesses and huts with the lat -
est technologies (All IP and power supply). 
As part of basic service provision, we also maintain special services for persons with disabilities (see “Accessibility”).
Net neutrality 
In 2014, together with other network operators and the Suissedigital and asut associations, we drew up a code of 
conduct for an open Internet. The code lays down that 
everyone in Switzerland should be able to use the con -
tent, services, applications, hardware and software of 
their choice. Subject to regulatory requirements, we 
therefore do not block or impede any services or applica -
tions. This ensures that freedom of information and free 
expression of opinion on the web are not limited in any 
way. In 2015, Suissedigital and asut set up the indepen -
dent net neutrality ombudsman’s office. Anyone who 
believes that their service provider has breached the 
code of conduct can contact the ombudsman’s office if the issue is not resolved in prior discussions with the 
network operator. None have so far been found by the 
ombudsman’s office to have violated net neutrality. 
The revised Telecommunications Act (TCA) now includes 
provisions on the granting of net neutrality and adopts specific rules which were previously only contained in 
the aforementioned code. In view of this, the ombuds -
man’s office and the industry code were abolished at the 
end of 2020.
Mobile telephony and society
Management approach
Some 8.5 million Swiss citizens use 11.5 million mobile phone connections. The amount of data transmitted on 
the mobile network is growing all the time. The infra -
structure therefore has to be constantly expanded (see “Network expansion and dismantling”). However, some 
sections of the population are voicing health concerns about the electromagnetic fields which carry the mobile 
communications. To date, there is no scientific evidence 
that mobile telephony represents a health risk. This was confirmed in the year under review by the WHO, the 
International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation 
Protection and the US Food and Drug Administration. 
Nevertheless, we take the concerns of the population 
seriously and have therefore engaged in dialogue in rela -
tion to the controversy surrounding mobile communica -
tions and the environment for 20 years now. This was particularly important in the year under review due to 
the expansion of the 5G mobile communication stand -
ard. We employ experts from the fields of research, tech -
nology and communications so that we act as a compe -
tent, trustworthy and reliable player in this area of conflict. The team of experts has direct access to the 
management, reports to a committee of the Group 
Executive Board (which includes the CEO and CIO) and, together with a representative of the top management, 
forms a specialist group. 
The aim of our efforts is to increase acceptance of the 
mobile communications infrastructure. To this end, we 
consider it essential to impart knowledge, clarify misun -
derstandings and counteract untruths. This is done 
online, by telephone and often in direct conversation 
with people and stakeholder groups. We communicate with people in a precise and fair manner. 
We also attach great importance to promoting high-qual -
ity research in order to clarify outstanding issues relating to mobile communications and the environment. In par
-
ticular, we support the Swiss Research Foundation for Electricity and Mobile Communication (FSM) based at the 
Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich (ETH Zurich). 
N See www.swisscom.ch/radiation
Electromagnetic fields
As a responsible player, we have a fundamental interest in 
operating a technology that harms neither people nor the 
environment. We do not limit ourselves to merely comply -
ing with the relevant laws. On the contrary, we provide 
technical, scientific and communicative support for the 57Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for Switzerlandissue of mobile communications and the environment on 
a voluntary basis. Our aim is to further the development of 
mobile communications, to promote research and to 
engage in dialogue with stakeholder groups. 
When operating our mobile communications installa -
tions, we comply with environmental requirements at 
all times and in every respect. The electromagnetic fields 
of antennas have been the subject of scientific research for over 30 years. So far, no negative effects on organ -
isms have been demonstrated. Science therefore consid -
ers such concerns to be unfounded. However, it admits that there are still open questions, and we are support -
ing the research that seeks to answer them. 
The Sustainability, Public Affairs, Technical and Scientific 
Governance, and ONIR Governance (Governance of the 
Ordinance on Non-Ionising Radiation) areas are respon -
sible for the issue of mobile communications and the 
environment. There is also an interdisciplinary team that 
coordinates the measures.
The following sections illustrate how Swisscom advises, 
researches, certifies and informs:
Advice and information on wireless technologies
Local construction projects or articles in the media often lead to questions and demands on Swisscom. Open and 
honest dialogue with our stakeholders is important to 
us. This is why seven trained Swisscom employees dedi -
cate themselves exclusively to these issues. In the year 
under review, we held 106 discussions (prior year: 265) 
and conducted correspondence and telephone calls 181 times (prior year: 427) with key stakeholder groups 
on the subjects of mobile communications and the envi -
ronment and presented our position at public informa -
tion events. Compared with the previous year, our com -
munication in this area was clearly reduced. We also note 
that the controversy surrounding the expansion with 5G has become more objective. Nevertheless, we continue 
to attach great importance to information in the field of 
mobile communications and the environment.
We maintain a regular exchange with environmental 
agencies to ensure that we fulfil the environmental requirements for mobile communications correctly at all 
times and to share knowledge. Two experts deal with 
electrosensitive persons who feel unwell as a result of immissions from mobile communications installations 
or other transmitters used by Swisscom. Three commu -
nications experts prepare information on mobile com -
munications and the environment for online and print media. 
In the year under review, we investigated the opportuni -
ties and limitations of a small-cell mobile communica -
tions network in a simulation project with the city of 
St. Gallen. The simulation confirmed that our network 
expansion strategy, which combines the advantages of macro and micro cells, has significant advantages over a 
small-cell network.
Research and development
In electromagnetic field research, we cooperate with 
internal and external specialists who analyse studies and 
support relevant scientific work. We collaborate with and 
financially support the Swiss Research Foundation for Electricity and Mobile Communication (FSM) based at the 
Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich (ETH Zurich). The 
FSM continually monitors, interprets and comments on the latest research published on the effects of electromag
-
netic fields on organisms and the measurement of immis -
sions. In the year under review, the Foundation Board elected a new administrative office manager as the 
long-serving incumbent will retire in spring 2021.
ONIR limits
In Switzerland, the legal obligation to limit emissions 
from mobile communication installations is set out in 
the Ordinance on Non-Ionising Radiation (ONIR). In the 
year under review, we again met all federal legal require -
ments and transferred the transmission data from all 
mobile radio installations to a central database. The 
municipal and cantonal enforcement authorities have protected access to this database and can check compli -
ance with ONIR limits independently and on the basis of random samples at any time. We are required to operate a quality assurance system (QAS) for our mobile base sta -
tions. Our QAS is certified in accordance with ISO stand -
ard 33002:2015. A monitoring audit of the QAS in accord -
ance with ISO 33002:2015 was conducted in November 
by an external auditor mandated by Société Générale de 
Surveillance (SGS). We passed the review with our tar -
geted capability rating of three out of a maximum of five.
For places where people spend longer periods of time, 
the ONIR sets limits that are 10 times stricter than those 
recommended by the WHO for prevention. These instal -
lation limit values therefore represent a precautionary 
measure. The mobile phone industry and some politi -
cians wanted to relax these installation limit values moderately by political means – but not to abolish them because they too are committed to the very strict Swiss 
precautionary approach.
Information about radiation values of devices
Interested parties can find information on the levels of 
radiation emitted by available mobile handsets (SAR val -
ues) at Swisscom points of sale and on the website. There is no legal obligation to provide this information. We provide this information in response to the desire of 
some customers to take account of the radiation level 
when selecting a device. All mobile telephones offered by Swisscom comply with the limit of 2  W/kg, in line 
with the WHO recommendations. At the end of 2020, 
we offered 39 different smartphones. A total of 35% are below 0.8  W/kg (prior year: 55%), while 23% are even 
below 0.6 W/kg (prior year: 50%).58Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for SwitzerlandThe fact that the average SAR limits are currently higher 
than those of the device portfolio a year ago proves how 
marginal this issue is for manufacturers. Also, at most 2% 
of our shop customers are interested in it. However, a lower SAR value should not be overestimated: if you want 
to protect yourself against mobile phone emissions, you 
can do this more effectively by making calls with a good connection and using a headset for long conversations.
The calculated field intensities of Swisscom locations can also be accessed online for almost any residential 
address in Switzerland.
N See www.swisscom.ch/fieldstrength
Current challenges
Due to strict legal limits, the new 5G technology will not 
be able to exploit its full potential in Switzerland for the 
time being: the majority of the current sites have already 
exhausted the approved power reserves. Therefore, a large number of new antennas must be installed, which 
is slowing down and increasing the cost of 5G expan -
sion. The decommissioning of the second generation of 
mobile communications (2G) at the end of 2020 offers 
hardly any relief. 
We are therefore advocating a moderate adjustment of 
the Ordinance on Non-Ionising Radiation (ONIR) and its 
enforcement regulations so that Switzerland can make 
full use of the possibilities offered by 5G and meet future requirements. The experts of DETEC’s Mobile Radio and 
Radiation working group have elaborated measures that 
meet the needs of mobile network operators and our cus
-
tomers as well as take account of the precautionary princi -
ple required by the Environmental Protection Act (see “Electromagnetic fields”).
Data protection
Swisscom attaches great importance to the legally com -
pliant and responsible processing of personal data. For 
this reason, in the year under review we further 
expanded the measures for the protection of personal data and introduced a framework to ensure data ethics.
Data protection within our company is controlled and 
monitored by a central data governance unit, which 
works closely with all the relevant divisions and other 
staff units. In order to ensure adequate data governance, the responsible unit issued several directives and infor -
mation sheets in the year under review. In addition, employees with a data governance role at Swisscom and at Group companies received in-depth job-specific train -
ing. The awareness of the rest of the workforce with regard to data protection and confidentiality was fur -
ther raised by means of appropriate learning content. 
What is more, we significantly expanded the testing of 
systems and applications for their compliance with legal data protection and confidentiality requirements. Fur -ther progress was also made with the development of technical tools to support data governance.
Swisscom began implementing the new Federal Act on 
Data Protection (FADP) in the year under review. The 
FADP regulates the handling of personal data and had 
been undergoing revision since 2016. The revised ver -
sion was adopted by the Federal Assembly in the autumn 
2020 session. It is not yet known when it will come into 
force. Swisscom predicts the new FADP will come into force in 2022.
To ensure data ethics, a newly created, diversely com -
posed Data Ethics Board has reviewed various cases to 
ensure that they comply with Swisscom’s ethical princi -
ples. The data ethics framework has proven itself and 
will be continued.
N See www.swisscom.ch/dataprotection
Responsibility towards society
Our history is closely tied to Switzerland and the people of this country. Our commitment therefore goes back a 
long way. 
We share our expertise at a European, national and 
regional level and, on our own or in partnership with 
others, we support activities that contribute to social cohesion, the digitisation of society and the common 
good. There are three areas in which we focus our activ -
ities: the fostering of technical, cultural and political 
relationships, projects carried out as part of our corpo -
rate responsibility, and support for national and regional events, mainly in culture and sport.
Memberships and partnerships 
We work with various partners at national and interna -
tional level on a project-specific basis in order to further 
develop our strategic priorities. In choosing our partner -
ships and memberships, we attempt to ensure that the 
institutions concerned serve as an ideal complement to 
our company in terms of their professional competence 
and thus make an important contribution to the achieve -
ment of our strategy. They must also share our values 
and have an excellent reputation and a high level of 
credibility in their area of activity.
N See www.swisscom.ch/cr-partnerships
Our sponsoring activities are spread across all regions of Switzerland and aimed at a wide range of stakeholder 
groups.
N See www.swisscom.ch/sponsoring
Actor in public debates
In the representation of our interests, we follow a solu -
tion-oriented approach, both for the common good and in the interests of our company. We are committed to 
maintaining transparent and trusting relationships with 59Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for Switzerlandpoliticians, public authorities and the community. We 
participate in public hearings and events and play our 
part in the political process by issuing written state -
ments. In line with our own anti-corruption directive 
and based on the relevant ethical codes (the Code of Lis -
bon and the Code of Professional Conduct of the Swiss Society of Public Affairs, SSPA), we reject unlawful or ethically questionable practices aimed at exerting influ -
ence on opinion leaders and decision-makers. Moreover, we are a non-denominational and politically neutral organisation and we do not support any parties finan -
cially. An internal ethics board assesses planned projects and services for compatibility with ethical principles (see “Corporate ethics”). 
We maintain contact with the European Telecommuni -
cations Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), national 
politicians, authorities and associations in all regions of 
Switzerland. First and foremost, we provide information on infrastructure and security issues, on the necessary 
framework conditions in line with our corporate strat -
egy and on our engagements. 
As a responsible corporate citizen, we contribute both 
with planned projects and services as well as profession -
ally to public discussions on the following issues:
● Education policy: we support ICT training places and the “digital switzerland” initiative, which hosted Dig-
ital Days 2020 among other things, we promote Swit -
zerland as an ICT location, we support schools in the 
area of youth media protection and we are continu -
ing to develop the “Internet for Schools” project.
● Digitisation:  through the switch to All IP, we have put 
in place the technical requirements for digitising 
communication and ensuring the competitiveness of 
Swiss business.
● Mobile expansion:  by obtaining the licences to build 
the fifth generation of mobile communications, we 
are assuming the obligation to expand the 5G net -
work in Switzerland as rapidly and broadly as possible.
● Broadband expansion:  the majority of the Swiss pop -
ulation should have access to greater bandwidths in the fixed network by the end of 2021. We are thus 
laying a solid foundation for digitising and strength -
ening Switzerland as a place to do business.
● Basic service provision:  ComCom has awarded 
Swisscom the current universal service licence until 
31 December 2022.
● Customer friendliness:  we are continually improving 
our customer information systems, for example with services such as Swisscom Cockpit for customers who 
are travelling abroad.
During the lockdown, the demand for telecommunica -
tions services in Switzerland rose sharply. With addi -
tional data volumes, home office solutions and roaming 
credits, we stood by our customers in these challenging 
times. Swisscom shops were open at certain times so that the population could receive local advice or support alongside the online offerings.
During the year under review, as in the previous financial 
year, we submitted statements as part of numerous 
consultations at federal level. These included state -
ments on the Ordinance on the Return, Taking Back and 
Disposal of Electrical and Electronic Equipment (VREG) 
and the Dispatch on Culture for 2021–2024, which pro -
vides for the promotion of European and Swiss works by 
adjusting the levies laid down in the Film Act. In the con -
text of the current political deliberations, the implemen -
tation of the parliamentary initiative to introduce a wage cap for executives of companies with close ties to 
the federal government and the motion calling for an 
increase in the minimum bandwidth in the basic service to 80 Mbps are of particular importance to us.
Unresolved regulatory issues
The following additional business relating to Swisscom is currently being discussed in Parliament: 
A referendum was successfully called after the conclu -
sion of the deliberations on the Federal Act on the Intro -
duction of an Electronic Identity Card (eID). The Swiss 
people will therefore vote on the bill. The date of the referendum is not yet known. 
In connection with the package of measures to cushion 
the economic consequences of the spread of the corona -
virus, amendments concerning media promotion and support were adopted in Parliament in the area of elec -
tronic media. These are to be implemented in the exist -
ing decrees of the Radio and Television Act (RTVA) and the Postal Act (PA). In addition to the expansion of indi -
rect press promotion, support measures for online and 
electronic media are planned. We are not directly 
affected by these measures. 
The revised Telecommunications Act (TCA) and its imple -
menting ordinances came into force on 1 January 2021 
and 1 July 2021 respectively. The regulations in the area 
of consumer protection (per-second billing in roaming, 
obligation to introduce a call filter, etc.) drew particular public attention. 
Among the general public and in political inquiries and 
initiatives, the security of ICT equipment has gained in 
relevance due to the trade dispute between the USA and 
China. We pursue a multi-vendor strategy and work with Huawei, among others. Swiss politicians are currently 
refraining from interfering in the commercial freedom of 
ICT companies. We are closely following the relevant developments in Switzerland and the EU. 60Sustainability Report 2020 | Ready for SwitzerlandOfferings in the healthcare sector
The healthcare sector is in the midst of a digital transfor -
mation. As a leading ICT company, we are supporting this 
transformation with appropriate technology. We are con -
tributing to a more efficient and patient-centred health -
care system and opening up promising and exciting busi -
ness opportunities.
We are networking the Swiss healthcare system by mak -
ing health information digitally accessible to customers 
and nursing staff. We are enabling a simple and secure 
exchange of data and thus increasing quality in the health -
care sector.
In 2020, we expanded our customer base in the health -
care sector: currently, some 4,000 medical practices, 550 
therapy practices, 150 hospitals and 70 laboratories and 
institutes use our solutions. 
In addition, 14 Swiss cantons are relying on our technol -
ogy as they introduce electronic patient dossiers (EPD). 
Around 60% of hospitals, nursing homes and general 
practitioners are in the catchment area of the XAD core 
community and more than half of the population live there. In the year under review, we made decisive pro -
gress in establishing the necessary infrastructure. As soon as the certification procedure of the core commu -
nities is completed, the inhabitants will be able to open 
an EPD. This is expected to happen in spring 2021.Greater efficiency thanks to digitisation
Healthcare costs in Switzerland are increasing year on 
year. According to the Swiss Federal Statistical Office, 
they stood at CHF 80.2 billion in 2018, up 0.8% on the 
previous year. The ratio of health expenditure to gross domestic product was therefore 11.2%. Expenditure per 
capita and per month amounted to CHF 785. 
The digitalisation of processes and information leads to 
greater efficiency in the healthcare system and thus 
holds great potential in the fight against rising health -
care costs. This is where our solutions come into play. 
Among other things, we optimise processes such as 
recording of the digital medical history, referrals and the exchange of information between the parties involved.
A focus on people
In addition to increasing efficiency, digitisation in the healthcare sector enables the patient to be put even 
more clearly at the centre of all activities (“patient 
empowerment”). On the one hand, the EPD allows healthcare professionals quick and secure access to treat -
ment-relevant documents and information. As a result, unnecessary or duplicate treatments can be avoided. On the other hand, each EPD owner can easily access his or 
her own health data, regardless of location, and deter -
mine which other persons may view this information.61Sustainability Report 2020 | About this reportAbout this report
Scope of the report
Principles
The Sustainability Report relates to Swisscom Ltd and all 
subsidiaries domiciled in Switzerland which were fully 
consolidated in accordance with the International Finan -
cial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The participation in the 
Group company blue Entertainment Ltd is excluded 
because its effect is immaterial and not all of the require -
ments listed in the management approach of the IFRS 
apply to blue Entertainment Ltd. In line with GRI report -
ing requirements, acquisitions are included from 1 Janu -
ary of the year following the date of acquisition and dis -
posals up to the date of disposal. Group companies 
domiciled abroad and investments in associates and 
joint ventures are not included in the scope. Swisscom’s most important foreign holding is Fastweb in Italy. Fast -
web publishes its own sustainability report in line with GRI standards (“Core”), which is reviewed by Bureau  Veritas AG, an external, independent auditor. The closely 
related foundations comPlan (pension fund) and sovis 
(social foundation) are also not included in the scope. Our Group structure is described in the “Group structure 
and shareholders” section of this year’s Annual Report. A 
list of Group companies, comprising all the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, is provided in the Notes to 
the consolidated financial statements 2020 (see Annual 
Report, page 118).
Personnel information system
The following Swiss subsidiaries were not included in the central personnel information system in the year 
under review, but in local, company-specific personnel 
information systems: Swisscom Directories Ltd, Blue Entertainment Ltd, Swisscom Digital Technology AG, 
United Security Providers AG, itnetX (Switzerland) AG, 
Ajila AG, Swisscom Blockchain Ltd, AdUnit AG, Custodigit AG and Global IP Action AG. The central personnel infor -
mation system thus has a coverage ratio of 93% (prior year: 93%).
Environment 
The environmental key figures (especially energy, water and waste water, emissions and waste) cover almost 
100% of our FTEs in Switzerland, with the exception of 
the Group company CT Cinetrade Ltd. The CO
2 emissions 
of Fastweb are included, but are excluded from the cal -
culation of the target for “Ready for the environment”. All buildings in Switzerland that are managed by our real estate management and the vehicle fleet managed by 
our mobility management are included in the reporting. 
As regards electricity generation and consumption, the data compilation system also encompasses Swisscom 
(Switzerland)  Ltd’s mobile base stations, proprietary 
production of solar energy and the transmitter stations Swisscom Broadcast Ltd operates in Switzerland and just across the Swiss borders. The consumption of our third-
party tenants is deducted from the total energy con -
sumption. The data regarding emissions in our supply 
chains is based on a projection that takes account of 72% 
suppliers (prior year: 71%) as well as audits carried out as 
part of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). The data on which the projection is based and the audits account for 
61% of our order volume (prior year: 54%).
Social aspects
Information on social relationships in our supply chains 
is based on audits carried out as part of the Joint Audit 
Cooperation (JAC) and on self-declarations and Corpo -
rate Responsibility contract annexes. The latter cover 
almost all our suppliers, with particular importance 
attributed to the situation outside OECD countries.
Reporting
Consideration of international guidelines
This Sustainability Report complies with the GRI princi -
ples on reporting. It therefore contains specific GRI standard information in addition to the general stand -
ard information. The recommendations of the SDG 
Compass for reporting on contributions to the 2030 
Agenda were again considered and implemented. We 
also took into account the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 
the areas of governance, strategy and risk management 
as well as the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTI) in “Ready for the environment” and in the Climate Report. 
Dialogue with stakeholders
We involve our internal and external stakeholder groups in order to assess the importance of our issues and to 
determine the strategic priorities. The issues are included 
in the materiality matrix (see page  12). They form the basis for the report. Every two years we conduct a corre -
sponding survey of representative stakeholders, with the response rate ranging from 50 to 75%. In addition, stakeholder groups present issues directly to us. The 
analysis of these responses is described in “Stakeholder 
involvement”. 
We also use findings from current studies, market 
research, trend analyses and benchmark reports. 
If necessary, we work with specific stakeholder groups 
to develop processes and measures to address individual key issues and strategic priorities: for example, together 
with the Swiss Federal Office of Energy (SFOE), we pro -
vide information about our contribution to the “Exem -
plary Energy and Climate” (VBE) initiative and contribute 62Sustainability Report 2020 | About this reportto media skills in collaboration with other businesses in 
the ICT sector and in contact with the Federal Social 
Insurance Office (FSIO). In addition, we work with the 
Energy Agency of the Swiss Private Sector (EnAW).
Validation and verification
The reporting process comprises the Annual Report, “2020 at a glance”, the Sustainability Report and the Cli -
mate Report. The Annual Report and the Sustainability Report are subject to the same internal validation stages: they are validated by the Disclosure and Review 
Committees and acknowledged by the Audit Committee 
to ensure the quality of the disclosures. The Sustainabil -
ity Report and the Climate Report are independently 
verified by Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS). We 
also voluntarily chose opting-in and registered our Sus -
tainability Report with SIX Exchange Regulation AG.63Sustainability Report 2020 | About this report
  
GP5008 Issue 1  
 
 
 
 
SGS CERTIFICATION of the Swisscom AG 2020  GRI Sustainability Report  
SCOPE   
SGS was commissioned by Swisscom to conduct  an independent assurance of the GRI -based disclosure on sustainability in 2020.  Our 
assurance scope included the GRI disclosure obligations and figures in accordance with the GRI Index included in the sustainability 
report . The scope of the assurance, bas ed on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included all texts and 2020 data in 
accompanying tables contained in  the Sustainability Report 2020 and referenced information in the Annual Report 2020 and on the 
webpage of Swisscom as quoted in the GRI index.  The assurance process did not consider any data from previous years.   
 
CONTENT  
The Board of Directors or the Managing Director and the Management of the organisation are responsible for the details provid ed in the 
sustainability report , in the annual report and on the website.  SGS was not involved in the preparation of any of the mat erial included in 
the GRI Index and acted as an independent assuror of the data and text using the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability R eporting 
Standards, Version 2016  as a standard.  The content of this Assuror’s Statement and the opinion(s) it gives is the responsibility of SGS.  
 CERTIFIER INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCIES  
The SGS Group is active as a globally leading company in the areas of assurance, testing, verifying and certifying in more th an 140 
countries and provides services, including the certification of management systems and services.  SGS confirms that it is independent from 
Swisscom.  It is unbiased and no conflicts of interest exist with the organisation, its subsidiaries and beneficiaries.  The assurance team 
was assembled based on knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment.
 
 METHODOLOGY  
The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the assurance of Sustainability Reports based on current best practice gui dance 
provided in the Global Reporting Initiat ive Sustainabi lity R eporting Standards, Version 2016 . SGS has also certified the environmental 
management systems of Swisscom (Switzerland ) Ltd. , of Swisscom Broadcast Ltd. and of Cablex Ltd. in accordance with ISO 
14001:2015 . In addition  the greenhouse gas inventory of Swisscom AG was verified by SGS according to ISO 14064.  
The assurance comprised the evaluation of external sources, meetings with relevant employees, a verification of the documenta tion and 
recordings as well as the validat ion of these with external institutions and/or beneficiaries, where required.  Financial data drawn directly 
from independently audited financial accounts was not  checked back to its source as part of this assurance process.
 
 OPINION  
The statements in the report refer to the system threshold disclosed (Group companies based in Switzerland).  On the basis of the above 
methodology, we did not detect any instances from which we would have to conclude that the information a nd data disclosed  by 
Swisscom Ltd.  in accordance with the GRI Index 2020 may be incorrect.  The information and data disclosed represent, to our mind, a fair 
and balanced picture of the sustainability efforts made by Swisscom in 2020. The implementation of the GRI -relevant instructions was 
carried out at those parties involved, where Swisscom regarded them to be significant or feasible . In an internal report, we made 
recommendations in regard to the further development of the sustainability report as well as the management system
.  
We believe that the existing gaps are not significant and the sustainability report in accordance with the GRI Index meets th e requirements 
of the option “comprehens ive” of the GRI Standard (2016 ). 
 
 
SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF SGS 
  
 
 Albert von Däniken , Lead Auditor  Elvira Bieri, Lead Auditor  
 
Zurich, 25.01. 2021   www.SGS.COM  
CERTIFICATION  
 64Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index
GRI Index
The GRI Index provides a standardised overview of reporting which is broken down by subject.
      Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
102 General Disclosures          
Organizational profile          
102-1  Name of the organization  ˇ  AR: Notes to the consolidated financial statements: Other disclosures 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00130en## 
102-2  Activities, brands, products  ˇ  AR: Brands, products and services 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00210en## 
  and services     
  
102-3  Location of headquarters  ˇ  See 102-1, CH-3048 Worblaufen 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00870en## 
102-4  Location of operations  ˇ  AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 5 .4 Group companies 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00120en## 
102-5  Ownership and legal form  ˇ  AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: Notes to the consolidated financial statements: Other disclosures 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00130en## 
102-6  Markets served  ˇ  AR: Swiss market trends in telecoms and IT services 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00150en## 
102-7  Scale of the organization  ˇ  AR: KPIs of Swisscom Group 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00220en## 
      AR: Business overview 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00250en## 
      AR: Financial review 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00230en## 
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
102-8  Information on employees and  ˇ  AR: Employees 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00180en##   
 other workers     
  
      SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
      SR: Scope of the report: Personnel information system 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00810en## 
102-9  Supply Chain  ˇ  SR: Value chain, supply chain and key aspects of Corporate Responsibility 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00850en## 
      SR: Fair supply chain 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00470en## 
102-10  Significant changes to the  ˇ  AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en##   
 organization and its supply chain     
  
      No significant changes in the supply chain  . 
  
102-11  Precautionary principle or approach  ˇ  AR: Health and the environment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00300en## 
      AR: Pension fund and fringe benefits 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00100en## 
      AR: Pension plans 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00110en## 
      SR: The Group’s Precautionary principle 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00310en## 
      SR: comPlan pension fund 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00370en## 
      SR: Supplier risk management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00500en## 
102-12  External initiatives  ˇ  www  .swisscom  .ch/cr-partnerships 
  
102-13  Membership of associations  ˇ  SR: Memberships and Partnerships 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00770en## 
      www  .swisscom  .ch/cr-partnerships 
  65Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index
       Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
Strategy          
102-14  Statement from senior decision maker  ˇ  AR: Shareholders’ letter 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00270en## 
      SR: Stakeholders’ letter 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00620en## 
102-15  Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  ˇ  Context: 
  
      AR: General conditions 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00130en## 
      SR: Sustainable environment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00830en## 
      Risks: 
  
      AR: Risks 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00290en## 
      SR: Main risk factors in the supply chain 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00190en## 
      Chances: 
  
      AR: Brands, products and services 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00210en## 
      Goals and strategy: 
  
      AR: Corporate strategy 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00110en## 
      SR: Sustainability strategy 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00120en##                
Ethics and integrity         
102-16  Values, principles, standards, and  ˇ   
    
 norms of behaviour     
         Link: 
  
 
     www  .swisscom  .ch/basicprinciples –  Code of Conduct 
  
      SR: Vision 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00260en## 
      AR: Compliance Management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
      SPAG: 
  
      SPAG: http:/ /www  .public-affairs  .ch/de/standeskommission/standesregeln 
  
      Codex from Lisbon: 
  
      https:/ /prsuisse  .ch/uploads/media/prsuisse/1105/kodex_von_lissabon_verhaltensno256 .pdf 
  
      SR: Corporate ethics 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00210en## 
102-17  Mechanisms for advice and concerns  ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en##   
 about ethics     
  
      AR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00190en## 
      AR: Internal auditing 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00200en## 66Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index      Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
Governance          
102-18  Governance structure  ˇ  SR: Governance 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00290en## 
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus  operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
      AR: 4 .11 Assignment of powers of authority 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00160en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
102-19  Delegating authority  ˇ  SR: Governance 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00290en## 
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus  operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
      AR: 4 .11 Assignment of powers of authority 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00160en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
102-20  Executive level responsibility for   ˇ  SR: Governance 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00290en##   
 economic, environmental, and social topics     
  
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus  operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
      AR: 4 .11 Assignment of powers of authority 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00160en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
102-21  Consulting stakeholders on economic,  ˇ  AR: 7 .3 Convocation of the Annual General Meeting and agenda items 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00230en##   
 environmental, and social topics     
  
      Internet contact page www  .swisscom  .ch/de/about/investoren/kontakt  .html; 
  
      See also Website https:/ /ip-ho  .computershare  .ch/swisscom  
  
      for registered shareholders of Swisscom  . 
  
102-22  Composition of the highest governance   ˇ  AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en##   
 body and its committees     
  
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
102-23  Chair of the highest governance body  ˇ  AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
102-24  Nominating and selecting the highest  ˇ  AR: 4 .5 Election and term of office 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00130en##   
 governance body     
  
      AR: 4 .10 Committees of the Board of Directors: Nomination Committee 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00150en## 
102-25  Conflicts of interest  ˇ  www  .swisscom  .ch/basicprinciples – Organisational Regulations 
  
      AR: 4 .12 Information and controlling instruments of the Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00170en## 
      vis-à-vis the Group Executive Board 
  
102-26  Role of highest governance body in   ˇ  www  .swisscom  .ch/basicprinciples – Organisational Regulations 
    
 setting purpose, values, and strategy     
  
      SR: Governance 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00290en## 
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus  operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
      AR: 4 .11 Assignment of powers of authority 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00160en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
102-27  Collective knowledge of highest   ˇ  AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
  governance body     
  
102-28  Evaluating the highest governance   ˇ  SR: Governance 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00290en##   
 body’s performance     
  
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus  operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
      AR: 4 .11 Assignment of powers of authority 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00160en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
      AR: 4 .12 Information and controlling instruments of the Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00170en## 
 
     vis-à-vis the Group Executive Board 
  
      Group Executive Board members were nominated as internal sponsors for the strategic priorities 
  
 
     of the sustainability strategy 
  
      The Audit Committee from the Board of Directors is validating the report in two steps 
  
      before the publication: An independent proxy is validating the Remuneration Report; 
  
      The report is released by the Board of Directors  . 
  67Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index
       Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
102-29  Identifying and managing economic,  ˇ  SR: Governance 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00290en##   
 environmental, and social impacts     
  
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus  operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
      AR: 4 .11 Assignment of powers of authority 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00160en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
      AR: 4 .12 Information and controlling instruments of the Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00170en## 
      vis-à-vis the Group Executive Board 
  
102-30  Effectiveness of risk management   ˇ   
    
 processes     
         AR: 4 .12 Information and controlling instruments of the Board of Directors visa-vis 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00170en## 
 
     the Group Executive Board 
  
      AR: Risk management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00180en## 
      AR: Internal auditing 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00200en## 
102-31  Review of economic, environmental,  ˇ   
    
 and social topics     
         AR: 4 .12 Information and controlling instruments of the Board of Directors visa-vis 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00170en## 
 
     the Group Executive Board: annually 
  
      AR: Risk management: quarterly at the Audit Committee 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00180en## 
      AR: Internal control system and financial reporting:  
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00210en## 
      quarterly at the Audit Committee 
  
      AR: Compliance management: quarterly at the Audit Committee 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
      AR: Internal auditing: quarterly at the Audit Committee 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00200en## 
      In urgent cases: contemporary 
  
102-32  Highest governance body’s role in  ˇ   
    
 sustainability reporting     
         The Audit Committee from the Board of Directors is validating the report in two steps 
  
 
     before the publication: An independent proxy is validating the Remuneration Report; 
  
 
     The report is released by the Board of Directors 
  
      SR: Governance 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00290en## 
      AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en## 
      AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en## 
      AR: 4 .9 Internal organisation and modus  operandi 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00140en## 
      AR: 4 .11 Assignment of powers of authority 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00160en## 
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
102-33  Communicating critical concerns  ˇ  AR: 4 .12 Information and controlling instruments of the Board of Directors vis-à-vis 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00170en## 
      the Group Executive Board 
  
      The Chairman of the Audit Committee is informed in real time  
  
      in urgent cases on new essential risk  . 
  
102-34  Nature and total number   ˛  As a basic principle of the Whistleblowing anonymity is guaranteed, for this reason, 
  
  of critical concerns    Swisscom communicates neither the number nor other details about concerns  . 
  
102-35  Remuneration policies  ˇ  AR: 3 Remuneration of the Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBVB00100en## 
102-36  Process for determining remuneration  ˇ  AR: 4 .2 Key management compensation 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00140en## 
102-37  Stakeholders’ involvement   ˇ  SR: Stakeholders and strategic priorities 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00230en##   
 in remuneration     
  
      AR: 7 .3 Convocation of the Annual General Meeting and agenda items; Protocol 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00230en## 
102-38  Annual total compensation ratio  ˇ  SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
102-39  Percentage increase in annual   ˇ  SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
  total compensation ratio     
                 
Stakeholder engagement          
102-40  List of stakeholder groups  ˇ  SR: Stakeholders and strategic priorities 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00230en## 
102-41  Collective bargaining agreements  ˇ  SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
102-42  Identifying and selecting stakeholders  ˇ  SR: Stakeholders and strategic priorities 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00230en## 
102-43  Approach to stakeholder engagement  ˇ  SR: Stakeholder involvement 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00250en## 
      SR: Stakeholders and strategic priorities 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00230en## 
      SR: Scope of the report 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00800en## 
      SR: Reporting: procedure and organisation 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00790en## 
102-44  Key topics and concerns raised  ˇ  SR: Material issues 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00240en## 
      SR: Group of stakeholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00230en## 68Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index       Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
Reporting practice         
102-45  Entities included in the consolidated   ˇ  AR: 2 Group structure and shareholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00110en##   
 financial statements     
  
      AR: 5 .4 Group companies 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00120en## 
102-46  Defining report content   ˇ  SR: Scope of the report 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00800en##   
 and topic boundaries     
  
      SR: Reporting: procedure and organisation 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00790en## 
102-47  List of material topics  ˇ  SR: Material issues 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00240en## 
      SR: Materiality matrix 2020 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00240en## 
      SR P . 61 Reporting 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00790en## 
102-48  Restatements of information  ˇ  No “Restatments” in 2020 
  
102-49  Changes in reporting  ˇ  SR: Group of stakeholders 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00250en## 
      SR: Material issues 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00240en## 
      SR: Materiality matrix 2020 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00240en## 
102-50  Reporting period  ˇ  01 .01 .2020–31 .12 .2020 
  
102-51  Date of most recent report  ˇ  www  .swisscom  .ch/report2019 
  
102-52  Reporting cycle  ˇ  annual 
  
102-53  Contact point for questions   ˇ  www  .swisscom  .ch/en/about/impressum  .html 
  
  regarding the report     
  
102-54  Claims of reporting in accordance   ˇ  SR: Scope of the report: Principles 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00790en##   
 with the GRI Standards     
  
      This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option  . 
  
102-55  GRI content index  ˇ  SR: GRI Index 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00870en## 
102-56  External assurance  ˇ  SR: SGS Certification 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00820en##                
200 Economic Topics         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  AR: Shareholders’ letter 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00270en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach   ˇ  AR: Shareholders’ letter 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00270en##   
 and its components     
  
      www  .swisscom  .ch/basicprinciples – Code of conduct 
  
      AR: Corporate strategy 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00110en## 
      AR: Financial outlook 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00280en## 
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach  ˇ  AR: Shareholders’ letter 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00270en##                
201 Economic Performance         
201-1  Direct economic value generated  ˇ  AR: Statement of added value 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00260en## 
  and distributed     
  
201-2  Financial implications and other risks   ˇ  AR: Sustainability strategy 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00120en##   
 and opportunities due to climate change     
  
      Siehe 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-4 und 306-5; 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00870en## 
      www  .cdp  .net 
  
201-3  Defined benefit plan obligations and  ˇ  AR: 4 .3 Post-employment benefits 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00110en##   
 other retirement plans     
  
      SR: comPlan pension fund 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00370en## 
      AR: Collective employment agreement (CEA) 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00160en## 
      AR: Employees in Switzerland (100% der Mitarbeitenden); 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00170en## 
      SR: The Employee Representation Committee’s commitment to safety 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00450en## 
201-4  Financial assistance received   Ø  From a Group standpoint there were no matters in 2020 requiring disclosure in accordance 
  
  from government    with IAS 20 and no government grants at all . 
                 
202 Market Presence          
202-1  Ratios of standard entry level wage by  ˇ  AR: Employee remuneration 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00190en##   
 gender compared to local minimum wage     
  
      SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
202-2  Proportion of senior management   ˇ  There is no location-based staff selection  . 
  
  hired from the local community     
            
         
203 Indirect Economic Impacts         
203-1  Infrastructure investments and  ˇ  AR: Capital expenditure 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00240en##   
 services supported     
  
      SR: Basic service provision 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00710en## 
      SR: Education policy 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00750en## 
203-2  Significant indirect economic impacts  ˇ  SR: Ready for Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00700en## 69Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index
      Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
204 Procurement Practices         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  approach     
  
204-1  Proportion of spending on local suppliers  ˇ  There is a location-based supplier selection for the location Switzerland . 
             
205 Anti-Corruption          
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: The Group’s precautionary principle 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00310en##   
 its boundaries     
  
      SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
  approach     
  
205-1  Operations assessed for risks related  ˇ  Risk-prone procedures are examined . 
  
  to corruption     
  
205-2  Communication and training about  ˇ  Annual anti-corruption training 
    
 anti-corruption policies and procedures     
  
      SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
205-3  Confirmed incidents of corruption and  ˇ  No corruption cases have been identified . 
  
  actions taken     
                     
206 Anti-Competitive Behaviour         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: The Group’s precautionary principle 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00310en##   
 its boundaries     
  
      SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
  approach     
  
206-1  Legal actions for anti-competitive   ˇ  AR: Legal environment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00100en##   
 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly      
    
 practices     
  
      AR: Federal Cartel Act (CartA) 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00140en## 
      AR: Contingent liabilities for regulatory and competition law proceedings 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBKR00100en##                   
300 Environmental Topics         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Ready for the environment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00530en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Ready for the environment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00530en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Ready for the environment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00530en## 
  approach     
                 
301 Materials          
301-1  Materials used by weight or volume  o  SR: Use of other resources 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00610en## 
      The report only includes selected materials  . 
  
301-2  Recycled input materials used  o  SR: Recycling 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00600en## 
      Only data on selected topics are listed . 
  
301-3  Recycled products and   o  SR: Circular economy 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00180en## 
  their packaging materials    Quantities are not reported . 
  
      SR: Paper 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00590en##                
302 Energy         
302-1  Energy consumption   ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency in operations 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00560en##   
 within the organization     
  
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
      Separate climate report Swisscom 2020 
  
      available online at the link: www  .swisscom  .ch/climatereport2020 
  
302-2  Energy consumption   ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency in operations 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00560en##   
 outside of the organization     
  
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
      Separate climate report Swisscom 2020 
  
      available online at the link: www  .swisscom  .ch/climatereport2020 
  
302-3  Energy intensity  ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency and climate protection 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00170en## 
      SR: Energy consumption and climate footprint 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00950en## 
302-4  Reduction of energy consumption  ˇ  SR: Energy consumption and climate footprint 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00950en## 
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
302-5  Reductions in energy requirements of  o  SR: CO2 savings due to ICT services  
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00680en## 
  products and services    There is no metric for the savings of the products sold in the reporting year  . 
  
      SR: Climate protection through customers and portfolio 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00570en## 
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 70Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index      Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
303 Water         
303-1 Interactions with water  ˇ  SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland  ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
 as a shared resource     
      SR: Water 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00650en## 
303-2  Management of water discharge-related  Ø  Not relevant, as water is only used for sanitary purpose  . 
  
  impacts     
  
303-3  Water withdrawal  Ø  Household water only  . 
                 
304 Biodiversity         
304-1  Operational sites owned, leased,   ˇ  SR: Biodiversity 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00660en## 
  managed in, or adjacent to, protected      
  
  areas and areas of high biodiversity      
  
  value outside protected areas     
  
304-2  Significant impacts of activities,   ˇ  SR: Biodiversity 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00660en## 
  products, and services on biodiversity     
  
304-3  Habitats protected or restored  ˇ  SR: Biodiversity 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00660en## 
304-4  IUCN Red List species and national  Ø  Not collected as not relevant  . 
  
  conservation list species with habitats      
  
  in areas affected by operations     
                 
305 Emissions          
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency and climate protection – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00550en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency and climate protection – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00550en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency and climate protection – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00550en## 
  approach     
  
305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency in operations 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00560en## 
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
      Separate climate report Swisscom 2020 available online at the link:  
  
      www  .swisscom  .ch/climatereport2020 
  
305-2  Energy indirect (Scope 2)  ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency in operations 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00560en##   
 GHG emissions     
  
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
      Separate climate report Swisscom 2020 available online at the link:  
  
      www  .swisscom  .ch/climatereport2020 
  
305-3  Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  ˇ  SR: Energy efficiency in operations 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00560en## 
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
      Separate climate report Swisscom 2020 available online at the link:  
  
      www  .swisscom  .ch/climatereport2020 
  
305-4  GHG emissions intensity  ˇ  SR: The most important indicators fort he achievement of Swisscom’s sustainability targets 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00280en## 
      Separate climate report Swisscom 2020 available online at the link:  
  
      www  .swisscom  .ch/climatereport2020 
  
305-5  Reduction of GHG emissions  ˇ  SR: Climate protection solutions for our customers 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00570en## 
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
      Separate climate report Swisscom 2020 available online at the link:  
  
      www  .swisscom  .ch/climatereport2020 
  
305-6  Emissions of ozone-depleting  ˇ  SR: Cooling systems and refrigerants 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00640en## 
  substances (ODS)     
  
305-7  Nitrogen oxides (NOX),   ˇ  SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
  sulphur oxides (SOX), and other      
  
  significant air emissions     
                 
306 Effluents and waste         
306-1  Water discharge by quality   ˇ  Water is only used for sanitary purposes  . 
  
  and destination     
  
306-2  Waste by type and disposal method  ˇ  SR: Recycling 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00600en## 
      SR: Waste 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00630en## 
      SR: Environmental key figures in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00690en## 
306-3  Significant spills  ˇ  No significant releases known  . 
  
306-4  Transport of hazardous waste  Ø  Not relevant  . Swisscom did not transport in 2020 waste classified under the Basle Convention  . 
  
306-5  Water bodies affected by water  Ø  Not relevant  . 
  
  discharges and/or runoff    Waste water is discharged into municipal sewage treatment plants  . 
  71Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index
      Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
307 Environmental compliance         
307-1  Non-compliance with environmental   ˇ   
    
 laws and regulations     
         No fines or penalties for non-compliance were imposed in 2020 . 
  
      SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en##                
308 Supplier Environmental Assessment          
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  approach     
  
308-1  New suppliers that were screened  ˇ  SR: Audits 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00510en## 
  using environmental criteria     
  
308-2  Negative environmental impacts in the  ˇ  SR: Audits 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00510en##   
 supply chain and actions taken     
  
      SR: Main risk factors in the supply chain 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00190en##                
400 Social         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Ready for people – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00340en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Ready for people – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00340en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Ready for people – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00340en## 
  approach     
                    
401 Employment          
401-1  New employee hires and employee   ˇ  SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en##   
 turnover     
  
      AR: Social plan 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00200en## 
401-2  Benefits provided to full-time employees   ˇ  AR: Employees 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00170en##   
 that are not provided to temporary or      
    
 part-time employees     
  
      SR: General terms and conditions of employment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00380en## 
       
  
401-3  Parental leave  ˇ  SR: General terms and conditions of employment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00380en## 
      SR: Combining work and home life 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00860en##                  
402 Labour/management relations          
402-1  Minimum notice periods regarding  ˇ  CEA § 3 .3 Negotiations should be engaged early enough with the contracting unions  . 
  
  operational changes     
                 
403 Occupational health and safety         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Occupational health and safety 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00110en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Occupational health and safety 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00110en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Occupational health and safety 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00110en## 
  approach     
  
403-1  Occupational health and   ˇ  AR: Collective employment agreement (CEA) 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00160en##   
 safety management system     
  
      AR: Employees (100% of staff) 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00170en## 
      SR: The Employee Representation Committee’s commitment to safety 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00450en## 
403-2  Hazard identification, risk assessment,  ˇ  SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
  and incident investigation     
  
403-3 Occupational health services ˇ  Swisscom does not operate in areas or countries at high risk of communicable diseases or where  
    communicable diseases are particularly prevalent  . In response to the Covid-19-pandemic,  
    various measures were initiated to protect employees  .  
  ˇ  SR: Dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic  ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00890en##
403-4  Health and safety issues covered  ˇ  SR: Occupational health and safety 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00110en## 
  by formal agreements with      
  
  trade unions     
  72Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index      Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
404 Training and education         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Employability – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00400en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Employability – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00400en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Employability – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00400en## 
  approach     
  
404-1  Average hours of training per year  ˇ  SR: Training and education 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00390en## 
  per employee     
  
404-2  Programs for upgrading employee skills  ˇ  SR: Training and education 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00390en## 
  and transition assistance programs     
  
404-3  Percentage of employees receiving  ˇ  SR: Evaluating performance and professional development 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00410en##   
 regular performance and     
    
 career development reviews     
  
      SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
      AR: Collective employment agreement (CEA) 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00160en##                
405 Diversity and equal opportunity         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Diversity and equal opportunities – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00430en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Diversity and equal opportunities – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00430en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Diversity and equal opportunities – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00430en## 
  approach     
  
405-1  Diversity of governance bodies   ˇ  AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00120en##   
 and employees     
  
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBCG00220en## 
      SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en## 
405-2  Ratio of basic salary and remuneration  ˇ  AR: 4 Board of Directors 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00190en##   
 of women to men     
  
      AR: 5 Group Executive Board 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00360en## 
      SR: Total workforce in Switzerland 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00460en##                
406 Non-discrimination          
406-1  Incidents of discrimination and  ˇ  SR: Cases of discrimination and measures taken 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00420en##   
 corrective actions taken     
  
      SR: Audit results – number of issues 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00520en## 
      No incidents of discrimination reported . 
                 
407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining         
407-1  Operations and suppliers in which   ˇ  Covered mutually thanks to agreed peace obligation pursuant to CEA  . 
  
  the right to freedom of association and      
  
  collective bargaining may be at risk     
                 
408 Child labour         
408-1  Operations and suppliers at significant   ˇ  SR: Main risk factors in the supply chain 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00190en## 
  risk for incidents of child labour     
                 
409 Forced or compulsory labour         
409-1  Operations and suppliers at   ˇ  SR: Main risk factors in the supply chain 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00190en## 
  significant risk for incidents      
  
  of forced or compulsory labour     
                 
412 Human rights assessment          
412-1  Operations that have been subject to  Ø  No new company locations in 2020 . 
  
  human rights reviews or impact      
  
  assessments     
  
412-2  Employee training on human rights   ˇ  SR: Corporate ethics 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00210en## 
  policies or procedures     
  
412-3  Significant investment agreements and  ˇ  The Corporate Responsibility Contract Appendix (CRV) is part of all contracts  . 
  
  contracts that include human rights      
  
  clauses or that underwent human      
  
  rights screening     
  73Sustainability Report 2020 | GRI Index
      Reference SR = Sustainability Report,   
Indicators    Status  AR = Annual Report   
      Key: Indicator according to GRI Standards (within scope of the report)   
      Ø =not relevant ˛ = not covered o= partially covered ˇ = totally covered                  
414 Supplier social assessment          
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Fair supply chains – Management approach 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00480en## 
  approach     
  
414-1  New suppliers that were screened using  ˇ  SR: Audits 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00510en## 
  social criteria     
  
414-2  Negative social impacts in the   ˇ  SR: Audits 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00510en##   
 supply chain and actions taken     
  
      SR: Main risk factors in the supply chain 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00190en##                
415 Public policy         
415-1  Political contributions  ˇ  SR: Responsibility towards the society 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00750en## 
      Swisscom is politically and denominationally neutral and does not financially support  
  
      any parties, opinion or decision makers  . 
                 
416 Customer health and safety         
416-1  Assessment of the health and safety   ˇ  SR: Mobile telephony and society 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00130en##   
 impacts of product and service categories     
  
      SR: Media protection for minors and promoting media skills 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00160en## 
416-2  Incidents of non-compliance   ˇ   
    
 concerning the health and safety      
    
 impacts of products and services     
         Relevant health standards for the mobile network are contained in the ICNIRP Guidelines 
  
 
     and, in particular, the ONIR . 
  
      SR: ONIR limits 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00730en## 
      Swisscom complied with the limit values in 2020 . 
  
      SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
      No violations of regulations related to health and safety impacts of products  
  
      and services identified . 
                 
417 Marketing and labelling          
417-1  Requirements for product and service  Ø  SR: Duty to provide information on products offered at points of sale 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00740en##   
 information and labelling     
  
      Not relevant for Switzerland, except with respect to Ordinance on the Disclosure of Prices  . 
  
417-2  Incidents of non-compliance   ˇ  SR: Compliance Management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en##   
 concerning product and service      
    
 information and labelling     
  
      Concerning labelling and user information, formal deficiencies were found for two 
  
      products, which led to a warning  . 
  
417-3  Incidents of non-compliance   ˇ  SR: Responsible marketing 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00330en##   
 concerning marketing communications     
  
      No violations in connection with marketing and communication detected . 
                 
418 Customer privacy         
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: Data protection 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00760en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Data protection 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00760en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Data protection 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00760en## 
  approach     
  
418-1  Substantiated complaints concerning   ˇ  SR: Data protection 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00760en##   
 breaches of customer privacy and      
    
 losses of customer data     
  
      Two incidents involved substantiated complaints from external parties regarding 
  
      breaches of client data protection  . One incident of data loss related to client data detected . 
                 
419 Socioeconomic compliance          
103-1  Explanation of the material topics and  ˇ  SR: The Group’s precautionary principle 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00310en## 
  its boundaries     
  
103-2  The management approach and its  ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
  components     
  
103-3  Evaluation of the management   ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en## 
  approach     
  
419-1  Non-compliance with laws and   ˇ  SR: Compliance management 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/NHB00320en##   
 regulations in the social      
    
 and economic area     
  
      AR: Legal environment 
 ##https:/ /reports  .swisscom  .ch/short/2020/en/GBLB00100en## 
       
  74Sustainability Report 2020 | GlossaryGlossary
Technical terms
4G/LTE (Long-Term Evolution): 4G/LTE is the fourth gen -
eration of mobile technology. At present, LTE enables 
mobile broadband data speeds of up to 150 Mbps. 
4G+/LTE Advanced: 4G+/LTE enables theoretical broad -
band data speeds of up to 700 Mbps via the mobile net -
work. To do so, it bundles 4G/LTE frequencies to achieve 
the required capacity.
5G: 5G is the latest generation in mobile network tech -
nology. 5G brings with it even more capacity, very short 
response times and higher bandwidths, and supports 
the digitisation of Swiss business and industry.
All IP: All IP means that all services such as television, the 
Internet and fixed-line phone run over the same IT net -
work. Swisscom switched all existing communication 
networks to Internet Protocol (IP) by the end of 2019. 
The IP services within Switzerland thus operate on 
Swisscom’s own network, thereby enhancing security and availability in comparison with other voice services 
on the World Wide Web.
Bandwidth: Bandwidth refers to the transmission capac -
ity of a medium, also known as the data transmission 
rate. The higher the bandwidth, the more information units (bits) can be transmitted per unit of time (second). 
It is defined in bps, kbps or Mbps.
Cloud: Cloud computing enables IT infrastructures such 
as computing capacity, data storage, ready-to-use soft -
ware and platforms to be accessed dynamically as 
needed via the internet. The data centres, along with the 
resources and databases, are distributed via the cloud. 
The term “cloud” refers to such hardware which is not precisely locatable.
FTTH (Fibre to the Home): FTTH refers to the end-to-end 
connection of homes and businesses using fibre-optic 
cables instead of traditional copper cables.
FTTS (Fibre to the Street) / FTTB (Fibre to the Building) / 
FTTC (Fibre to the Curb): FTTS, FTTB and FTTC in conjunc -
tion with vectoring refer to innovative, hybrid broadband connection technologies (optical fibre and copper). With these technologies, optical fibre is brought as near as pos -
sible to buildings and in the case of FTTB right to the build -
ing’s basement; the existing copper cables are used for the remaining stretch. The future technological evolution 
from VDSL2 to G.fast will significantly increase the band -
widths for FTTS and FTTB. Optical fibre: Optical fibre is a transport medium for 
optical data transmission – in contrast to copper cables, 
which transmit data through electrical signals.
ICT (Information and Communication Technology): The 
terms “information technology” and “communication 
technology” were first combined in the 1980s to denote the convergence of information technology (informa -
tion and data processing and the related hardware) and communication technology (technically assisted com -
munication).
IoT (Internet of Things): The connecting of things, 
devices and machines to enable recording of status and 
environmental data. These data provide the basis for 
optimising processes, such as early identification of fail -
ing machine components. IoT facilitates new business 
models based on these data or opens up new opportuni -
ties for interacting with customers.
Roaming: Roaming is when a mobile user makes calls, 
uses other mobile services or participates in data traffic 
outside his or her home network, i.e. usually abroad. This 
requires that the mobile device in question is compati -
ble with the roaming network. In Europe all GSM net -
works use the same frequency bands. Other countries such as the USA or countries in South America use a dif -
ferent frequency range. Most mobile telephones today 
are triband or quadband and support 900 MHz and 
1800 MHz networks (which are most commonly used in 
Europe) as well as 850 MHz and 1900 MHz networks.
Router: A router is a device for connecting or separating 
several computer networks. The router analyses incom -
ing data packets according to their destination address 
and either blocks them or forwards them accordingly 
(routing). Routers come in different types, ranging from large machines in a network to the small devices used by 
residential customers.
Ultra-fast broadband: Ultra-fast broadband denotes 
broadband speeds of more than 50 Mbps – on both the 
fixed-line and mobile networks.
WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network): A wireless local 
area network (WLAN) connects several computers wire -
lessly and links them to a central information system, 
printer or scanner.75Sustainability Report 2020 | GlossaryOther terms
Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM): OFCOM 
deals with issues related to telecommunications and 
broadcasting (radio and television), and performs official 
and regulatory tasks in these areas. It prepares the deci -
sions of the Swiss Federal Council, the Federal Depart -
ment of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Com -
munications (DETEC) and the Federal Communications Commission (ComCom).
ComCom (Federal Communications Commission): Com -
Com is the decision-making authority for telecommuni -
cations. Its primary responsibilities include issuing con -
cessions for use of the radio frequency spectrum as well 
as basic service licences. It also provides access (unbun -
dling, interconnection, leased lines, etc.), approves national numbering plans and regulates the conditions governing number portability and freedom of choice of 
service provider.
FTE (full-time equivalent): Throughout this report, FTE 
is  used to denote the number of full-time equivalent 
positions.
Sustainability terms
Anergy network:  Anergy networks are heating and/or 
cooling networks with which thermal energy is trans -
ported between its source (supplier) and a sink (recipi -
ent) at close to ambient temperature. Anergy networks are operated as bidirectional grids, i.e. heat is both 
drawn from the grid and fed into it by the individual 
buildings. Ideally, the two energy flows should balance each other out. Surpluses or shortfalls must be compen -
sated for by adding heat to the grid or withdrawing it from the grid.
Audit:  Term for a check carried out by external (or inter -
nal) experts regarding the fulfilment of requirements 
and guidelines.
CO
2 eq: CO 2 equivalents are a unit of measurement for 
standardising the impact of the various greenhouse 
gases on the climate (source: myclimate).
SIEA Code of Conduct: The Code of Conduct as drafted 
by the Swiss Interactive Entertainment Association SIEA 
to promote and ensure the active protection of minors in Switzerland with regard to age ratings/accessibility of 
interactive entertainment software.
N See www.siea.ch
CSR: Corporate social responsibility refers to corporate 
responsibility for people, society and the environment.
EcoVadis:  EcoVadis supports the enforcement of envi -
ronmental and social standards in global supply chains through uniform sustainability rankings of suppliers. As 
part of its risk management system, Swisscom bases its 
purchasing activities on the declarations of its suppliers, 
which are made with EcoVadis.
Electromagnetic fields:  Electromagnetic fields occur 
naturally or are generated technically. They are non-ion -
ising. This means that they do not have enough energy 
to change the building blocks of matter. Electromagnetic 
fields are divided into low frequency and high frequency according to the number of oscillations per second.
EnAW:  Energy Agency for Industry. Swisscom joined the 
Energy Agency in 2003 and has signed a new agreement 
on objectives for increasing its energy efficiency. The 
current agreement on objectives runs until 2020.
CEA:  Collective employment agreement
GeSI:  Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). The GeSI is 
an initiative of companies from the ICT sector, whose 
aim is to promote sustainability. Swisscom works within the framework of the initiative to promote fair and sus -
tainable supply chains in particular.
GRI:  The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an organisa -
tion that develops guidelines for preparing corporate 
sustainability reports in a participatory process.
GRI standards:  The GRI standards represent global best 
practices for public reporting on various economic, envi -
ronmental and social impacts. Sustainability reporting 
based on these standards provides information about 
an organisation’s positive or negative contributions to sustainable development (source: globalreporting.org).
ISO 14001:  An international environmental manage -
ment standard that sets globally recognised require -
ments for environmental management systems. 
JAC:  Joint Audit Cooperation. The elimination of any vul -
nerabilities identified is reviewed on a regular basis to 
ensure compliance with the environmental and social standards we expect. Within the framework of JAC, an 
international alliance of telecommunications companies 
plans and conducts CSR audits of suppliers. Swisscom has been a member of JAC since 2012.
Circular economy:  The circular economy is characterised 
by the fact that raw materials are used efficiently and for 
as long as possible. If we succeed in closing material and 
product cycles, raw materials can be used again and again (source: BAFU).
myclimate:
 The myclimate foundation supports Swisscom 
with the environmental assessment of its smartphone 
range, comparisons of sustainable ICT solutions and 
reviews of climate balances. It is also an educational part -
ner of the “Energy and Climate Pioneers” initiative.76Sustainability Report 2020 | GlossaryNEDC:  New European Driving Cycle. Measurement is car -
ried out on the test bench under laboratory conditions. 
The main differences between the two test procedures 
(NEDC and WLTC) are different test conditions and with regard to the adjustment of the test cycle. WLTC is more 
dynamic and features a higher average and maximum 
speed and length compared to NEDC.
NISV:  The Swiss Ordinance on Protection against 
Non-Ionising Radiation (NIRO) defines the maximum 
permissible electrical, magnetic and electromagnetic 
radiation from fixed installations in the frequency range 
from 0-300  GHz. A two-stage protection concept was applied. At all accessible places, the exposure limit value, 
which corresponds to the recommendations of the 
WHO, must be observed. In order to take account of the precautionary principle required by the Environmental 
Protection Act, values which are ten times stricter were 
set as a precautionary measure for places which are heavily used where people stay for long periods of time, 
based on technical feasibility and economic viability.
RE100:  The RE100 initiative brings together companies 
worldwide who want to obtain 100% of their electrical 
energy from renewable sources as soon as possible (by 2050 at the latest). Swisscom has already achieved this 
target.
Scope 1:  Direct GHG emissions resulting from own activi -
ties (e.g. from the combustion of fossil fuels for heating 
and mobility or from refrigerants). 
Scope 2:  Indirect GHG emissions resulting from pur -
chased energy. Scope 3:  All other GHG emissions resulting from 
upstream and downstream activities (e.g. in the supply 
chain). 
Sponsors: Members of the Group Executive Board as 
well as the Head of Group Communications & Responsi -
bility sponsor the main elements of the sustainability 
strategy and contribute accordingly.
Radiation:  Radiation is a form of energy that propagates 
as electromagnetic waves. A distinction is made between 
ionising and non-ionising radiation. Ionising radiation can 
change the building blocks of matter such as molecules or 
atoms, non-ionising radiation has too little energy for this. Therefore, non-ionising radiation cannot change atoms or 
molecules. Mobile networks use non-ionising radiation.
Electricity mix:  The composition of electricity by type of 
energy production (e.g. hydroelectric or wind power).Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs):  The 17 Sustain -
able Development Goals and their 169 sub-goals form 
the core of the 2030 Agenda. They take into account the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sus -tainable development in a balanced way and constitute the first time that poverty reduction and sustainable 
development have been brought together in a single 
agenda (source: FDFA).
Greenhouse gases:  Greenhouse gases, also referred to 
as “climate gases”. Gases such as CO
2, methane, sulphur 
hexafluoride, N2O and F-gases that cause the “green -
house effect” by reflecting the sun’s rays within the 
atmosphere.
UN Global Compact:  The United Nations Global Com -
pact is the world’s largest initiative for corporate sus -
tainability. Its members work around the globe to 
uphold principles on human rights, working conditions, 
environmental protection and anti-corruption.
WLTC:  The Worldwide Harmonised Light-Duty Vehicles 
Test Procedure is a way of testing the fuel consumption 
and emissions of light motor vehicles. Measurement is carried out on the test bench under laboratory condi -
tions. The main differences between the two test proce -
dures (NEDC and WLTC) are different test conditions and with regard to the adjustment of the test cycle. WLTC is 
more dynamic and features a higher average and maxi -
mum speed and length compared to NEDC.
Work Smart Initiative: The Work Smart association was 
created from the Home Office Day foundation. Swisscom is one of the sponsors of the newly founded association 
and, together with its partners, is supporting a nation -
wide programme aimed at raising awareness of flexible 
and mobile working.
WWF:  Swisscom has been working with the WWF since 
2006 with the aim of reducing its carbon footprint and 
promoting climate-friendly services. Together, we will 
demonstrate the potential of digitisation for a more sus -
tainable, energy-efficient and comfortable lifestyle, and 
make it work. Swisscom also supports the WWF Foot -
print Calculator and the WWF Advisor App as a partner. 