2021 Target 
Corporate Responsibility Report  
 
   
Custom illustrations by Juxtaposition Arts’ Graphic Design Lab , led by an apprentice and Lab Lead mentor. 
For over two decades, the North Minneapolis creative development organization has provided support to 
youth artists with the help of industry professionals to foster creativity in the next generation of artists.What’s Inside
03 The Big Picture
04 About This Report 
05 A Message From Our Chairman and CEO
06 Q&A With Our SVP of CR
07 Who We Are
08 Year in Review
09 Our Continuing Response to COVID-19
10 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: 
Going Further 
11 Our CR Legacy
12 Our New Sustainability Strategy—
Target Forward
13 Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond
15 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement
17 People
18 Overview 
19 Human Rights 
20 Team Members 
29 Supply Chain 
35 Guests 
40 Communities44 Planet
45 Overview 
46 Environmental Responsibility in the 
Supply Chain
48 Climate and Energy
52 Waste and Circular Economy
56 Chemicals
57 Materials
60 Water
62  Business
63 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility 
and ESG Issues 
64 Ethics
65 Public Policy & Civic Engagement
67  Indexes and Glossary
68 What We Achieved
72 GRI
87 SASB
92  SDG
95 TCFD
99 UNGPRF
105 Glossary02
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
  
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report03  
                     
                
         Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message F rom Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
The Big Picture
For decades, we have been 
helping all families discover the joy of everyday life. 
Between the global COVID-19 pandemic and the 
ongoing fight for racial equity and social justice, our company and our communities have been tested like never before. Across the U.S., the impacts of climate change were seen as wildfires burned throughout the West and storms hit Texas, Florida and their surrounding states. Throughout these challenges, our response has been to double down on all the things that make Target a place where we’re proud to work. We rapidly adjusted policies, processes and our operations to take care of our team members and guests, putting their safety first during the pandemic. We have also prioritized and invested more than $1 billion more in 2020 than 2019 in the health, safety and well-being of our team members. We accelerated our commitment to and investment in creating a truly inclusive workplace and worked to advance equity in our communities and diversify our supply chain. 
And we’re building on our rich heritage and company purpose by renewing what sustainability means at Target, including announcing a new strategy and goals that will carry our impact forward in the years to come.  
     
                 
                
        
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to CO VID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Index es and Glossary
About This Report
Scope 
This report, Target’s 2021 
Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report, was published in August 2021 and reflects activities and initiatives in our fiscal year 2020 (February 2, 2020–January 30, 2021), as well as certain subsequent events and initiatives that occurred after the end of fiscal year 2020, which we have endeavored to note as such. All quantitative company data, unless otherwise stated, reflect fiscal year 2020. Unless noted, goals and other data in the report reflect our U.S. operations and/or owned-brand portfolio, as relevant. 
Our last report, the 2020 Target Corporate 
Responsibility Report , was published in 
September 2020. Report Structure 
This report follows an environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) structure, leading with the People (social) section, because people are at the center of what makes Target what we are, followed by Planet (environmental) and Business (governance).
We are reporting against our most material topics, identified during our 2018–2019 
materiality assessment  and 2020 
stakeholder engagement . For purposes of this 
report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative’s 
definition of materiality , which is different than the 
definition used for filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Issues deemed material for purposes of this report may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. 
This report has been written for a broad range of stakeholders, including but not limited to our team members, guests, suppliers, investors and nonprofits. To improve ease of use and comparability with peers, we index our reporting against frameworks from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework (UNGPRF) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), where applicable. Icons at the beginning of each section clearly indicate what reporting framework is being responded to by the content that follows.  Forward-Looking Statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements, which are based on our current assumptions and expectations. These statements are typically accompanied by the words “expect,” “may,” “could,” “believe,” “would,” “might,” “anticipates” or similar words. The principal forward-looking statements in this report include (1) our goals, commitments and programs; (2) our business plans, initiatives and objectives; (3) our assumptions and expectations; (4) the scope and impact of our corporate responsibility risks and opportunities; and (5) standards and expectations of third parties. All such forward-looking statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Although we believe there is a reasonable basis for the forward-looking statements, our actual results could be materially different. The most important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are set forth in our description of risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our 
Form 10-K  for the fiscal year ended January 
30, 2021, which should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in this report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
We welcome your feedback on this report. For more information or to provide comments, please contact us at: 
CorporateResponsibility@Target.com .Throughout this report, you will see the following thr ee icons 
used to express how a topic relates to our ESG priorities:Key
People
Planet
Business042021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report 
                     
                 
        Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
A Message From Our Chairman and CEO
Target was born from the ambition to serve. 
And as I look back on the watershed year we all just experienced together, it’s clearer than ever that, for our team, growing and winning start with care.
2020 was a year in which our team wanted nothing more than to take care of those around us. As an essential business in America’s response to COVID-19, we put our business operations, strategy and capabilities to work doing just that. 
Taking care of our team, guests and communities is a natural result of the purpose that drives each of us at Target —
 to help all families discover the 
joy of everyday life. Guided by our values of inclusivity, connection and drive, this team steps up each and every day to make everyday life better for all.
Stepping Up Starts With Team
Today, millions of families are turning to Target like never before. As a result, we’re growing rapidly and delivering incredibly strong business results. We’ve built enduring trust with our guests throughout the pandemic, in large part because of the investments we’ve made for several years—in our stores, in technology, in same-day fulfillment services and supply chain innovation, and, most importantly, in our team. These investments were intended to make Target the easiest place to shop. As the pandemic unfolded, they also made Target the safest shopping experience for our team and guests.
Our team is the key factor in our continuing success. The aspiration to serve all families starts with the family of 350,000 team members who gather every day to serve our guests and communities. In 2020, we dedicated well over a billion additional dollars to our team’s safety and well-being, as you’ll see detailed in this report. And we’re going to keep investing in our team—through access to opportunity; to training, development and equitable career advancement; to a culture where everyone can care, grow and win together; and to a $15 starting wage that led our industry and is well above the national minimum. 
Addressing Racial Inequity
The significant commitments we’ve made to racial equity also started with our team. Our focused diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) strategy dates back a decade and a half. We publicly release ambitious DE&I goals on a regular basis, against which we’ve made good progress. And last year we created our Racial Equity Action and Change (REACH) Committee to further accelerate progress for Black team members, guests and communities. Initiatives created by REACH, like our pledge to increase representation of Black team members across our team by 20% in the next three years, are attempts to dismantle systemic inequities. Other initiatives, like our full-team anti-racism trainings and immersions, are intended to support empathy, acumen and effective action for everyone at Target. 
As you’ll see in the pages ahead, the actions we’ve taken to advance racial equity outside our company are also very substantial, and they’re designed to have a lasting positive impact well beyond our core business. They include our plan to spend $2 billion with Black-owned businesses by 2025, the creation of our Scholars Program in partnership with historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs), and cofounding the OneTen coalition to hire, train and advance a million Black Americans without college degrees, to name a few.An Equitable and Regenerative Future
After many months of global and social crisis, we’re more certain than ever that we can put Target’s unique business strengths, our size and scale, purpose and values to work for all families. 
And we’re not standing still. In fact, we’re boldly organizing to help address global challenges and drive better outcomes for all people and the planet. 
Early this summer, we introduced Target Forward, the newest chapter in our enterprise sustainability strategy. Target Forward builds on our decades of corporate responsibility and sustainable practices in a way that will influence every corner of our business and deepen our collaboration with community and business partners. 
Our ultimate goal is to co-create an equitable and regenerative future for all. And to do that we’ve organized our efforts around three key ambitions: designing and elevating sustainable brands; innovating to eliminate waste; and accelerating opportunity and equity. Through Target Forward we’ve articulated new goals, with transparent public measurements, and accelerated our progress on goals we’d already announced. For instance, we’re committing to moving faster toward net zero emissions, which we’ll now achieve by 2040. 
As we’ve seen for years, sustainability builds resiliency in our operating model and fuels growth and innovation. So this is work that’s important not just to our team and guests, our investors and communities, but to ensuring our business model remains durable for years to come.Confidence Comes From Our Team 
As I look to the future, I couldn’t be more confident in the contributions Target will continue to make. And I couldn’t be more grateful for our team. 
Each and every day, they come to work for all families. They care. They anticipate. They adjust in any environment to keep delivering for our guests. 
And in doing so they keep our business, our ambitions and our impact growing—moving our company and all of our stakeholders forward toward brighter days.
Sincerely,
Brian Cornell Chairman and CEO
05 06  
                     
                 
        
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
Q&A With Our SVP of Corporate Responsibility 
& President of the Target Foundation
What do you think differentiates Target and 
how do you believe that has helped Target perform through another challenging year? 
What makes me proud to work at Target is our deeply human approach to our business. That’s always been true of this company. And that’s what guided us in 2020 as we worked to keep our guests and team members safe during the pandemic, use the power of our brand to address the effects of systemic racism and build a sustainability plan that’s integrated into every area of our business.
You can see this in a number of ways: 
• The $1 billion we invested in the health, safety and well-being of our team last year—including accelerating our move to raise our minimum starting wage to $15 an hour, as well as adding new mental health and child-care benefits 
• The financial and pro bono support we provided for Black, Indigenous and people of color (BIPOC) communities in the wake of the murder of George Floyd
• And how we’ve continued to use Target’s historic strength in great design to elevate our efforts in areas like sustainability and inclusion—with stores, products and experiences that limit Target’s impact on our environment and ensure that all guests feel welcomed, represented and respected when they engage with our brand.
Target is a big company, but we’re incredibly agile and responsive, and we’re committed to using our size and scale to make a difference for our team members, our guests and our communities.What are the most important changes to sustainability at Target to come out of the last year?
At the highest level, I think one of the most important things we’ve done over the last year is continue to create a culture where our values guide our actions. That’s so important in corporate responsibility because when your strategy and tactics are consistent with what you are as a company, it’s much easier to embed that work into every area of your business.
For instance, we’ve made sustainability a key pillar in Target’s strategic roadmap. And our new sustainability strategy, Target Forward, reflects that enterprise-wide commitment. Focused on designing and elevating sustainable brands, innovating to eliminate waste, and accelerating opportunity and equity, Target Forward isn’t owned by a single team, it’s owned by every team at Target.
Another example of this is the REACH Committee. Target has a long-standing commitment to DE&I. But in creating REACH, with leaders drawn from across the company, we’ve been able to accelerate our efforts to dismantle the effects of systemic racism through initiatives focused on supporting our team, our business partners and our communities. 
What are you excited about as the new sustainability strategy launches?
I believe a company can only make transformative progress when it measures performance. Our new strategic framework has measurable goals that’ll inspire our teams across the enterprise and offer a clear foundation for their work. The Target Forward strategy will also showcase our bold ambitions for the future and offer greater transparency for our stakeholder groups. 
I’m also excited about the holistic way that the environmental, social and ethical pillars of sustainability are being integrated into our business. That connection to the business is vital to keeping our work relevant with team members, communities and stakeholders. And the success of our work is ultimately vital to Target’s long-term success.
What have been the key challenges of the last year?
I’ve been so grateful for the Target team. Their humility, their agility and their passion for their work has inspired me so many times over the last year. Our team has shown a commitment to listening, building trust and living our values of inclusivity, connection and drive. This has always been a part of what makes Target special, but in the face of historic challenges, our values have come through like never before. 
For all of us, I’ll say that we know the issues we’re working on are too big to tackle alone and that success won’t happen overnight. But being curious and open to new ideas makes us better. 
We’ve come so far over the last year. We’ve set bold goals, we’ve pushed ourselves and we’ve made incredible progress toward our sustainability ambitions. We should celebrate that—and be excited about what that means for our future, as we move Target Forward. Amanda Nusz
Senior Vice President of Corporate Responsibility 
& President of the Target Foundation
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 07
                     
                 
        
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction 
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
Who We AreWho We Are
SDG
Our Purpose
To help all families discover 
the joy of everyday life—that’s Target’s purpose, and there are countless ways we live it. 
Our Values
Our values of inclusivity, connection and 
drive are how we bring our purpose to life.Our Culture
Our culture is to care, grow and win together: 
Care:  We show up for each other, make people 
the priority and treat each other with respect. We believe in lifting each other up and valuing our relationships with one another and our guests above all else.
Grow:  We invest in our people, focus on their 
development and create opportunities to reach their fullest potential. We believe that continuous learning and improving is the best way to grow our business.
Win Together:  We do the right thing, win the 
right way and succeed as part of a team. We believe in the collective power of difference to accomplish more and strive to continuously make things better for each other and our guests.About Us
We are headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, with 20 office locations globally and more than 1,900 stores in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. We are one of the largest U.S. retailers, with over 350,000 team members helping us meet the needs of over 30 million guests a week in stores and online.
We are committed to providing inclusive and sustainable choices that support the needs of our guests, align with their values and uplift and protect the people, communities and ecosystems along our value chain. As we work to meet these commitments, we are guided by our Code of Ethics and a strategy that is an expression of our purpose and values of inclusivity, connection and drive.
No matter how our guests choose to shop with us—in-store or through our digital channels—we aim to make their experience easy and inspiring, at an only-at-Target value.Noteworthy Awards and Rankings
Fortune
No.14 Best Companies to Work For 2021
No.2 Best Big Companies to Work For 2021
No.17 World’s Most Admired Companies 2021
No.3 Best Large Workplaces for Women
No.10 Best Large Workplaces for Millennials
DiversityInc   (2021)
No.29 Top Companies for Diversity
No.7 Top Companies for Talent Acquisition 
for Women of Color
No.4 Top Companies for Board of Directors 
Great Place to Work
No.12 PEOPLE Companies that Care
JUST Capital
No.1 Industry 
No.15 Overall 
No.2 COVID-19 Corporate Respose
2021 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index
100% 2021 Disability:  IN Disability Equality Index
Working Mother 2021 Best Companies 
for Multicultural Women
100% on 2021 Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index1,900+ 
stores and 44 distribution centers in the U.S.
$93,561 
million 
total sales 
for 2020$245 
million 
in cash and 
in-kind donations in 202075% 
of Americans live within 10 miles of a Target store 
350,000+ 
team members50+ 
owned and exclusive brands    
 
                  
                 
        
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction 
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
Year in Review
SDG
Invested an additional $1 billion 
in the well-being, health and safety of team members, including: 
• Increased wages and bonus payouts
• Paid leave support
• Free access to health care through virtual doctor visits for all team members
• Free backup care for all U.S. team members
• Donation to the Target Team Member Giving Fund
Learn more $245 million in cash and in-kind donations given to communities as part of our 5% commitment, including: 
Target and Target Foundation together committed $10 million to support nonprofit partners focused on addressing the systemic and structural barriers facing Black communities 
We also committed an additional $10 million to expand assistance to our team members, as well as local, national and global organizations responding to the COVID-19 pandemic More than $7 million to 2,500 local + national nonprofits via Target Circle guest-direct ed giving 
Donated the equivalent of over 78 million meals in pounds of food to support families across the country
Learn more As a founding partner of the Consortium to Reinvent the Retail Bag, announced nine cutting-edge potential designs for the retail bag of the future, with the end goal of reducing plastic waste 
Learn more 
Launched the Disability & Mental Health Business Council to further foster an inclusive culture around disability, mental health and neurodiversity 
Learn more 
Launched Target’s Circular Design Guide—an internal, interactive training hub for all team members to learn about circular design and how it impacts their daily work 
Learn more As part of our REACH strategy, 
committed to spend more than $2 billion with Black-owned businesses 
by the end of 2025, including: 
• Increasing the number of products from 
Black-owned businesses
• Spending more with Black-owned companies
• Establishing new resources to engage with Black entrepreneurs to help them grow and scale their businesses in mass retail
Learn more Achieved our commitment to provide 10,000 hours of pro bono consulting services
1
1 Achieved as of June 2021. for Black- and 
people-of-color-owned small businesses in the Twin Cities
Learn more 
Spritz line of recyclable and reusable party supplies launched three new party collections, including bags and wraps, and compostable plates, cups and cutlery
Learn more Signed new wind and solar power purchase agreements that will address approximately 22% of our electricity use, furthering our commitment to power our operations with renewable energy 
Learn more 
Partnered with Arbor Day Foundation to support wildfire reforestation and planted 100,000 trees to restore lands affected by California’s Camp and Carr Fires
Learn more 082021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report 
                     
                 
        Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
Our Continuing Response to COVID-19
SDG
Team Members
The safety and well-being of our people is always 
a priority, and this was even more true in 2020 as we responded to COVID-19 by introducing new short-term and permanent benefits to help our team navigate the new normal to take care of themselves and their families. 
We responded quickly by rolling out health, well-being and safety programs, waiving our absenteeism policy and offering paid leave for COVID-19-related illness and for vulnerable team members. We also provided free access to health care through virtual doctor visits and free support care including backup care and mental health counselling for all U.S.-based team members. 
We provided personal protective equipment (PPE), thermometers and at-home health checks. Throughout 2020, we recognized the outstanding efforts of our hourly team members serving our guests and keeping our stores operating during a difficult time. This was done by accelerating our commitment to $15 as our minimum hourly wage, offering a temporary $2 pay differential and providing over $350 million in various bonuses, with our most recent $500 bonus to say “thank you” in January 2021. 
As vaccination programs get underway, we are focusing on removing barriers by providing free Lyft rides to and from appointments, if needed, and up to four hours of pay for our hourly team members when they get their vaccines. We also offer paid time off for team members who may have an adverse reaction after their vaccine. Guests
We continue to support our guests by keeping Target a safe and easy place to shop. We provide masks to guests who need them and have limited the number of guests inside at any one time to maintain safety and social distancing. We sanitize carts and baskets between use and make sure we stay stocked up on essentials and in-demand items. We have put plexiglass shields in all our checkout lanes. We also remodeled our stores to reduce physical touch points, including hands-free faucet facilities in restrooms and contactless pay points. This was supported by the installation of HEPA filters to help purify the air in stores. 
Communities
During a significant part of 2020, Target and the Target Foundation focused on providing flexible and responsive funding, with the aim of supporting community partners to quickly adapt to the changing landscape brought on by COVID-19. More than 
$10 million was invested  to 
support community safety and recovery efforts. Find the full list of recipients 
here. 
We enabled our Target Circle members to help direct Target’s giving by offering new options focused on COVID-19 relief efforts—such as the Center for Disaster Philanthropy—in addition to local community nonprofits. To help businesses in our home state of Minnesota and beyond reopen, we shared the 
SAFE Retail toolkit , a 
package of operational resources based on our team members’ own learnings and insights from Target’s pandemic response efforts. In addition, our supply chain and technology experts stepped up to help Minnesota government officials manage the high demand for PPE by working with them for weeks on inventory, processing, storage and efficient dispatch. Across the country, we also distributed 2 million KN95 masks to the hardest-hit communities.Supply Chain
In 2020, we built on our approach to have a people-first response to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in our supply chain. 
At Target, we recognize the important role we play in responsible sourcing and caring about the people behind our products. We are committed to honoring our supplier contracts and paying for orders already produced or in production, as we place great value on the relationships we have with our supplier partners, including the workers.
092021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report 
                     
                 
        Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A W ith Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Index es and Glossary
Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further
SDG
For 15 years, our DE&I strategy has guided 
our efforts around creating an inclusive guest experience and work environment, advancing workforce diversity and championing societal impact. Through a continued focus on goal setting and extensive inclusion acumen training, the outcomes of our work have shown up in exciting inclusive product assortments and powerful collaborations with leading DE&I groups. 
Our Approach
Our approach is grounded in listening to and learning from our valued stakeholders and internal teams so that we never stop growing and improving. And even though we have a dedicated Diversity, Equity & Inclusion team orchestrating our strategy, and Diversity Action Committees in each business unit to keep us accountable and driving accountability and commitment to a culture of inclusion and belonging, for Target, DE&I doesn’t belong to a single team or department. It’s everybody’s responsibility—and always has been. 
Our DE&I strategy focuses on four pillars:
Inclusive guest experience 
Inclusive work environment 
Workforce diversity 
Societal impact
Our pillars ensure that DE&I is embedded at every level and in every way we work as a company, and in how we impact the communities around us.Within Our REACH 
In 2020, our hometown was the epicenter of the racial justice protests that shook not just the U.S., but the world. Our community was a flashpoint for pain and a racial reckoning, and Target doesn’t just stand with families from diverse backgrounds—we are actively working to be a partner in driving change. Our stores are meant to be a place of safety and inclusivity, where all guests feel welcomed.
To do this, we are guided by our REACH Committee, composed of six senior leaders from across our company. 
REACH focuses its activities across four pillars:
Team
Guests
Communities
Public Policy & Civic Engagement
We’re committed to using Target’s size, scale and resources to create positive change and advance racial equity for our team members and guests across all areas of Target’s business and communities. For example, in April 2020, we announced our commitment to increase representation of Black team members across the company by 20% by 2023 by sharpening our focus on advancement, retention and hiring. Additionally, as part of our REACH strategy, we pledged to spend more than $2 billion with Black-owned businesses by the end of 2025. This will help us realize our ambition to create more equitable experiences while using our size, scale and resources for businesses beyond Target. We look forward to advancing equity, inclusion and belonging for all through the work that will be continued as part of our recently launched new commitment, 
Target Forward .
Video: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Goals 202110
11
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report  
                     
                 
        
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
    
  
   
    
  
  
  
     
      
 
   Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
Our CR Legacy
Our Greatest AchievementsKey
People
Planet
Business
1918
George D. Dayton 
creates The Dayton 
Foundation (now known as the Target Foundation)
1946
Establishes giving 5% of 
profit to communities
1997
Take Charge of 
Education launches
1999
Target House opens 
at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital2009
Reusable bag program 
launches—a 5-cent discount for every reusable bag a guest uses during a shopping trip
2010
$1 billion commitment to 
education announced
Provides front-of-store 
recycling stations for plastic bags, electronics and other items
2011
Commitment to sell only 
sustainable seafood by 2015 announced
2013
Alliance for Bangladesh 
Worker Safety launches, with Target as a founding member2014
Made to Matter 
Collection launches, comprising leading natural, organic and sustainable brands
2015
AVA & VIV launches, 
providing plus-size clothing that offers top styles for every body
Publishes the #TakePride 
manifesto in support of the LGBT community 
Joins forces with 
GoodWeave to support its mission to end child labor in the handwoven rug industry in India
Announces eight new 
sustainability commitments as part of the White House’s Climate Pledge2016
Announces 
new responsible sourcing and sustainable design goals around product, manufacturing and worker well-being, encompassing existing cotton, polyester and forest product material goals, chemicals, climate and water work 
 Adds Caroline’s 
Cart to stores, providing a shopping cart with an easy-to-access, large seat in front to help special needs guests and their families
First car seat 
trade-in event to collect hard-to-recycle items
2017
Commits to 
increasing the minimum hourly wage to $15 by the end of 2020
Introduces Cloud 
Island baby brand with textiles products certified to Standard 100 by OEKO-Tex, meaning they’re free of more than 300 potentially harmful substances2018
Begins printing 
Target’s Weekly Ad on paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as coming from responsibly managed forests
Introduces eight 
cosmetic brands created by a diverse group of women and designed to inclusively meet the unique needs of guests
Donates more than 
$3 million to local nonprofits to aid recovery efforts after events including Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, wildfires in California, Super Typhoon Mangkhut in Hong Kong and an earthquake in Indonesia 
Launches the Team 
Member Giving Fund built on donations from Target and team members to provide assistance to team members facing hardships immediately after natural disasters
Signs the Fashion 
Industry Charter for Climate Action and becomes the first U.S.-based brand partner of Fashion for Good (FFG)2019
Everspring household 
essentials brand launches to offer more than 70 items that include biobased or recycled materials or natural fiber
Good & Gather grocery 
brand launches to provide products made without artificial flavors and sweeteners, synthetic colors and high fructose corn syrup
Releases 
comprehensive climate goals approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
2020
Target and the Target 
Foundation together commit a total of $20 million, split equally between COVID-19 relief and assistance and advancing social justice                     
                 
         
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A W ith Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward 
Launched in June 2021
SDG
The Next Era
In June 2021, we unveiled Target Forward , our 
new sustainability strategy that puts our business 
to use to positively impact both people and the planet. 
We know sustainability is tied to business resiliency and growth, and that our size and scale can drive change that is good for all. Building on our legacy of corporate responsibility and sustainable practices, Target Forward marks a new era in sustainability for our company, as we aim to co-create an equitable and regenerative future with our guests, partners and communities.
Target Forward is anchored to our company’s purpose to help all families discover the joy of everyday life, and influences every corner of our business, deepens our collaboration with our partners and builds on our past efforts to ensure a better future for generations to come.
We’re focused on restoring and regrowing natural systems, and ensuring our team, communities and partners around the globe can thrive.
Our efforts in collaborating to bring equitable, sustainable solutions for our communities and the environment can already be seen throughout our business—from our inclusive and sustainable product assortments and the incr easing 
renewable energy footprint in our operations to our social justice commitments and philanthropic support of underserved communities at home and around the world. Target is committed to co-creating alongside partners, communities and purpose-driven organizations, and to continuous listening and improvement as we work to achieve our goals. Together, we can drive real, lasting change and create a brighter future for all.
Sharing our progress is an integral part of Target Forward. We’ll provide updates as we meet key milestones, and we’ll share in-depth reporting here, in our annual 
Corporate Responsibility Reports , so 
our stakeholders can track our progress.
Our Ambitions
The commitments Target is making with Target Forward work toward three critical ambitions:
Design and elevate 
sustainable brands
Target aims to elevate owned, national 
and emerging sustainable brands that are affordable, inclusive and inspirational
Target is committed to a sustainable and inclusive supply chain that is just and equitable for all workersInnovate to eliminate waste
Target plans to partner across the value chain to design solutions that eliminate waste while providing ease and convenience
Target commits to being a net zero enterprise by 2040Accelerate opportunity 
and equity
Target aims to create an equitable and 
inclusive workforce and workplace
Target will help enable the vitality and resilience of our team and the communities we serve12 
                     
                 
        
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
  
    
  
    
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
 Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossary
Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond
Design and elevate sustainable brands
Target aims to elevate owned, 
national and emerging sustainable brands that are affordable, inclusive and inspirational
By 2030, Target aims to be the market 
leader for creating and curating inclusive, sustainable brands and experiences  
Initial milestone: 
• By 2030, Target intends for the leading raw materials (e.g., 
forest products , cotton  
and more) that go into our owned-brand products to be 100% recycled, regenerative or sustainably sourced
By 2025, Target plans for 100% of our owned brands, in addition to our owned-brand limited-edition and brand partnerships, to adhere to Target’s already established sustainability standardsTarget is committed to a sustainable 
and inclusive supply chain that is just and equitable for all workers
By 2025, Target plans for 100% of suppliers 
to have policies and programs to advance gender equity 
Focus areas of these policies and programs include: 
• Equitable systems for hiring and advancement
• Financial security for their workers
• Effective anonymous channels for incident reporting
• Access to gender-responsive health information and services for their workers 
By 2025, we plan for 100% of owned-brand suppliers to regard Target’s purchasing practices as industry-leading
• We intend all strategic business partners to rate Target’s purchasing practices at 4 stars or above on the Better Buying Supplier Survey
• We plan for owned-brand products to be measured using industry-leading Impact Profit & Loss methodology
• We plan for all owned-brand suppliers to pay workers digitallyInnovate to eliminate waste
Target plans to partner across the 
value chain to design solutions that eliminate waste while providing ease and convenience
 By 2040, Target plans for 100% of our 
owned-brand products to be designed for a circular future 
Our teams will continue designing to eliminate waste, using materials that are regenerative, recycled or sour ced sustainably to create 
products that are more durable, easily repaired or recyclable  
Initial milest one: 
• By 2025, Target aims to offer two circular owned brands
By 2025, Target intends to reduce annual total virgin plastic in our owned-brand packaging by 20%  
Initial milestone: 
• By 2025, Target intends to have 100% of our owned-brand plastic packaging be recyclable, compostable or reusable
Target commits to being a net zero 
enterprise by 2040
By 2040, Target commits to net zero 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across our enterprise  
Initial milestones: 
• By 2023, 80% of Target’s suppliers by spend covering all purchased goods and services will set science-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 targets
• By 2025, Target commits to source 60% of our electricity from renewable sources for our operations• By 2025, Target commits to engage suppliers to prioritize renewable energy and collaborate on solutions that protect, sustain and restore nature
• By 2030, Target commits to source 100% of our electricity from renewable sources for our operations
• By 2030, Target commits to achieve 50% absolute reduction in operations emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from a 2017 base year
• By 2030, Target commits to achieve 30% absolute reduction in supply chain emissions (Scope 3) covering retail purchased goods and services from a 2017 base year)
By 2040, achieving net zero GHG emissions in our supply chain 
• By 2025, Target plans to engage suppliers to prioritize renewable energy and collaborate on solutions that protect, sustain and restore nature
• By 2030, Target aims to achieve 30% reduction in supply chain emissions (Scope 3)
• By 2040, Target aims to achieve net zero emissions in our supply chain (Scope 3)
By 2030, Target plans to achieve zero waste to landfill in U.S. operations  
Initial milestones: 
• By 2030, Target intends to divert 90% of waste from landfill through reuse, recycling, donation and reduction strategies
• We intend to reduce waste through innovative circular programs13                     
                 
        
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Ar e
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Index es and Glossary
Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond
Accelerate opportunity and equity
Target aims to create an equitable and 
inclusive workforce and workplace 
By 2030, Target aims to build a team that 
equitably reflects the communities we serve 
Initial milestones: 
• By 2023, Target aims to increase representation of Black team members across the company by 20% 
• By 2023, Target aims to increase the promotional rate of people of color and women while reducing the rate of turnover
• Target plans to maintain a balance of male and female team members at every level of our company
Create a workplace experience where every team member can thrive in when, where and how they work  
Initial milestone: 
• By 2025, we plan to invest in technology and modern processes to enable consistent, reliable schedules for all front-line team membersTarget will help enable the vitality 
and resilience of our team and the communities we serve
By 2030, engage and elevate community 
voices as we seek to build and implement community-driven solutions  
Initial milestone: 
• By 2025, Target and Target Foundation plan to evolve our philanthropic practices and place-based solutions to invite participation from communities
Invest in well-being solutions to address social determinants of health for team members and their families  
Initial milestone: 
• By 2023, Target aims to eliminate complexity and barriers to entry by offering easily accessible benefits and resources to all Target team members focused on learning and career advancement, physical and mental health, family support and financial well-being
• By 2025, Target plans to increase access to quality, affordable health care for all team members and families14                     
                 
    
 
       
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction
The Big Picture About This Report A Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Indexes and Glossar y
Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement
UNGPRF  
We seek to center our 
strategy, investments, internal and external engagement, and reporting on the ESG topics that are most material to our business and our stakeholders across our value chain. 
We engage with a diverse group of stakeholders 
around the world, including the people who manufacture the products we sell, the team members who welcome our guests, the communities we work in, the nonprofits that we work with and the investors who make our work possible. We use their valued perspectives to inform our approach to systemic change. 
Through these collaborations, we are working toward co-creating an equitable and regenerative future. We continued these collaborations despite COVID-19 making in-person engagement off limits, quickly adapting events and appointments to be virtual.
The tables across the next two pages provide an overview of our stakeholder engagement during fiscal year 2020. 
This is an illustrative list of topics discussed in 2020. To learn more about how and why we engage with our stakeholders, as well as our responses to the issues most important to them, visit 
our website . How We Engage Topics Raised Our Response
Civil Society Organizations
 • Interactions through community partnerships 
and volunteerism
• Participation in conferences and forums
• Collaborations to advance shared priorities
• Select topical engagement
• Strategic relationships and consultation on material issues
• Philanthropic investments
• Community dialogues• Climate and energy
• Community engagement
• DE&I
• Economic opportunity
• Environmental impacts
• Human rights and labor practices
• Materials and packaging
• Philanthropy
• Safety, preparedness and response
• Supply chain managementContinue our iterative learning process through 
engagement and collaborations to guide our strategy—including goal setting—on our most material environmental and social topics  
Focused financial, human and in-kind support in communities where Target operates to work to improve the livelihoods of people across the U.S., India and in our sourcing communities
Guests  • A Bullseye View website and newsletter
• Face-to-face interactions in our stores
• Focus groups
• Guest Services direct interactions
• In-store marketing
• Online polling
• Receipt-to-online guest satisfaction surveys
• Social media monitoring and engagement
• Target Circle loyalty program• Community engagement
• Diverse and inclusive marketing
• Materials and packaging
• Supply chain management
• Sustainable and inclusive productsElevating and expanding how we share our inclusivity and sustainability work in stores and through our digital channels  
Increasing visibility of and access to inclusive and sustainable products  
Offering our guests the opportunity to direct our giving funds locally
Government 
Officials & Influencers of Public Policy
 • Meetings with local team members and 
company leaders
• Letters and written or verbal testimony
• Trade associations and policy-based organizations
• Meetings with elected officials and other policy influencers• Climate and energy 
• Community engagement
• Data security and privacy
• Employment and labor
• Trademarks
• Product safety
• Sustainability
• Taxes
• Trade
• PaymentsEnterprise-wide intake and 
assessment of salient policy issues   
Advocate at all levels of government to help shape constructive policy solutions that impact our team members, business, guests, industry and communities15                     
                 
        
 
    
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction 
The Big Picture About This Repor
tA Message From Our Chairman and CEO Q&A With Our SVP of CR Who We Are
Year in Review Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going F ur
ther Our CR Legacy
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward Looking Ahead to 2030 and Beyond Materiality and Stakeholder EngagementPeople Planet Business Index es and Glossar y
Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement
How We Engage Topics Raised Our Response
Investors  • Annual meeting of shareholders
• Financial community meeting
• Quarterly earnings conference calls
• Regular meetings
• Topical calls as requested
• Participation in conferences and forums• DE&I
• Our continuing response to COVID-19 
• Corporate governance
• Environmental impacts
• Executive compensation
• Financial performance
• Human capital management
• Human rights and labor practices
• Supply chain management
• Community engagement
• Data security and privacy
• Philanthropy
• Civic activity
• ESG reporting standardsIncrease traceability and transparency of social 
and environmental strategy and associated investments, including expanding key data disclosures  
This report responds to: GRI, SASB, TCFD, UNGPRF and the UN SDGs 
Team Members  • Daily e-newsletter, team and all-company 
meetings, social media, speaker series
• Employee resource groups, diversity action councils and affinity networks
• Executive leadership emails and videos
• Focus groups and listening sessions
• Inclusion acumen training and toolkit resources
• Integrity Hotline
• Personal and professional development and trainings
• Volunteerism during the workday• Competitive wages and benefits
• Diverse and inclusive workforce
• Environmental and social impacts
• Learning and development
• Philanthropy
• Safety, disaster and preparedness
• Team member to team member support, including the Team Member Giving Fund
• Worker well-beingGive our team members equitable opportunities 
to grow professionally in their careers, take care of themselves, each other and their families, and make a positive impact on our guests and our local communities  
Expand the metrics and information we share externally, including wages, benefits and diversity, to enhance our transparency and accountability
Vendors  All vendors
• Annual meetings
• External partner website
• Trainings and workshops
• Vendor Code of Conduct 
• Standards of Vendor Engagement (SOVE)
Owned-brand vendors
• Annual assessment
• Annual owned-brand vendor meeting
• Capability building• Environmental impacts
• Human rights and labor practices
• Materials and packaging
• Net-positive manufacturing
• Supplier diversity
• Supply chain management
• Transparency and disclosureEnterprise-wide intake and assessment of salient policy issues  
Advocate at all levels of government to help shape constructive policy solutions that impact our team members, business, guests, industry and communities1617
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Social  
People
Putting People First
We are a people-centric business. 
Everything we do is designed to spark joy 
for our guests and fulfill their needs. Putting 
the needs of people and communities at 
the heart of how we work helps families 
find joy in everyday life and create a 
better tomorrow. 
From caring for and respecting the people 
behind the products we sell to supporting 
and listening to our team members and 
communities so we can continue to create 
positive impact—everything we do reflects 
our purpose and this drives every decision 
we make as a business.In This Section
18 Overview
 Human Rights 
19 Human Rights
 Team Members 
20 Employment 
23 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
26 Learning & Development 
28 Workplace Health & Safety
 Supply Chain  
29 Social Responsibility in 
the Supply Chain  
32 Conflict Minerals 
33 Supplier DiversityGuests  
35 Inclusive Products, Experiences 
and Marketing  
37 Product Quality and Safety 
38 Privacy & Cybersecurity
Communities  
40 Serving and Strengthening 
Communities 
  18
               
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People 
Overview Human Rights Team Members Supply Chain Guests CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Overview
People at the Heart
At Target, people matter. We continue to invest 
in supporting and elevating the people who work in our supply chains, our team members and the communities in which we operate. Our approach to better business is founded in our approach to people, and our new sustainability strategy will help us meet ambitious goals that will continue to help push us forward.
Our Commitment to Black-Owned Businesses
In April 2021, we launched our commitment to spend more than $2 billion with Black-owned businesses by the end of 2025. 
Find out more
.
Frameworks reported on:
GRI
SASBTCFDUNGPRF
Our work contributes to these SDGs:Data Highlights
Diversity at Target
Workforce Composition by Gender (Global)
Non-managersFemale 
58%
Male 42%Female 56%
Male 44%Managers
Workforce Composition by Race/Color in Our U.S. Workforce
W White
B Black/African American
L Hispanic/LatinoA Asian
NH Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander
AI American Indian/Alaska Native
M MultiracialW: 49%M: 3%
B: 15%L: 26%A: 5%NH: <1%AI: <1%
Non-managersW: 60%M: 2%
B: 12%L: 21%A: 4%NH: <1%AI: <1%
ManagersAmount of Spending 
With Diverse Suppliers (USD)
Tier 1 Suppliers
2019 $1,073 million
2020 $1,471 million
Tier 2 Suppliers
2019 $893.1 million
2020 $764 million
Minimum Hourly Wage (USD)
2019
$132020$15
Amount Donated Through Target 
and Target Foundation (USD)
2019 $225 million
2020 $245 million
Number of Team Members
2019
368,00020202
409,000
2 As of January 30, 2021, we employed approximately 409,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal team members. Because of the seasonal nature of the retail business, employment levels peak in the holiday season. We also engage independent contractors, most notably in our 
Shipt subsidiar
y. 19
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Human Rights 
SDG  UNGPRF  
As a people-centric business, 
promoting and respecting 
human rights is core to what 
we stand for. We recognize 
that our work directly 
impacts four key stakeholder 
groups: our guests, our team 
members, our supply chain 
and our communities. 
Our Approach 
We have aligned our approach to human rights 
with leading international standards, including 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , 
the International Labour Organization Core 
Conventions  and the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights .
In early 2019, we partnered with Article One, an 
expert business and human rights consultancy, 
to complete a human rights impact assessment 
(HRIA) that helped identify salient human 
rights issues in our operations and business 
relationships and guided the specific issues 
addressed in our Human Rights Statement. The 
HRIA covered our own operations, as well as our 
supply chain, and considered human rights risks 
to our team members, guests, workers in our 
supply chain and the communities we operate 
in. As part of this assessment, Article One 
conducted desk research and interviews with key 
internal and external stakeholders to identify our 
most salient human rights risks. Applying the UN 
Guiding Principles saliency methodology, Article One considered the likelihood and severity of a 
potential impact. We are continuing to review 
human rights impacts in key salient risk areas 
identified in the HRIA as part of our ongoing 
human rights due diligence efforts. We plan on 
updating the companywide HRIA in 2022.
For our team, we strive to provide safe, 
inclusive places to work, free from harassment 
and discrimination. For our guests, we offer 
welcoming shopping experiences and products 
that answer their needs, regardless of size, body 
type, ethnicity, race, national origin or abilities. 
Read more about our stand against anti-racism, 
anti-violence and anti-hate .
We work to ensure that products we sell are 
made with respect for the rights of the men 
and women who make them, using contracts, 
audits and other relevant means to check 
compliance with our values. We also go beyond 
the factory floor to positively impact workers 
and the communities where we do business. 
For example, we work with Water.org  to provide 
access to clean water and CARE on women’s 
empowerment programs. 
Respect for human rights is a core value, and we 
continuously work to avoid adverse human rights 
impacts from our business activities and seek to 
provide an effective remedy of any wrongs we 
learn about. We maintain oversight by conducting 
ongoing due diligence, engaging closely with our 
stakeholder groups and hosting Target’s Integrity 
Hotline , which is available to team members 
and supply chain workers with concerns about 
potential violations of our Standards of Vendor 
Engagement  (SOVE), policies or laws. We also 
believe in being good neighbors wherever we operate, accelerating economic development 
and vitality, and helping power the prosperity and 
well-being of our communities. 
Our Senior Vice President, Corporate 
Responsibility has executive oversight of our 
human rights commitments, but day-to-day 
implementation is led by multiple teams 
throughout Target that are supported by a 
cross-functional task force that reviews and 
addresses emerging issues as needed. 
You can find out more about our approach 
and our impacts in our online Human Rights 
Statement  and the chapters of this report 
focusing on our team , suppliers , guests 
and communities .
Read more about our oversight of these areas in 
our 2021 Proxy Statement .
Salient Human Rights Impact Areas 
Key Aspects
Our team members• Safe working environments
• Professional development
• DE&I
Our guests• Diverse and inclusive merchandise assortment and 
marketing promotions
Workers in our supply chain• No forced labor
• Respecting human rights for all workers in our supply 
chain—specifically at-risk groups such as women, young 
workers and foreign contract workers
• Safe and healthy working environments, including access 
to clean water
Our communities• Economic development
• Diverse workforce and equitable hiring and 
development practices20
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Team Members—Employment 
SDG  UNGPRF  
Target is one of the largest 
U.S. employers with over 350,000 talented team members across the country, working hard to bring joy to our guests in each and every interaction. 
We provide support to our team members across 
work and life, which enables us to be there for 
our team and guests when they need it the most. In 2020, a year unlike any other, our team stepped up for our guests, our communities and for one another, proving that effort and empathy drive more meaningful results.
Our actions as an employer start with hiring the 
best talent across all dimensions of difference and prioritizing team member care through ongoing support and development. Target is best when we live our culture—to care, grow and win together—and nurture team member well-being through competitive compensation and benefits. We recognize the importance of investing in our team as our most essential asset to fuel future growth and success of our business. 
Our Approach 
Our culture is to care, grow and win together: 
• Care: We show up for each other, makepeople the priority and treat each other withrespect. We believe in lifting each other up andvaluing our relationships with one another andour guests above all else.• Grow: We invest in our people, focus ontheir development and create opportunitiesto reach their fullest potential. We believe thatcontinuous learning and improving is the bestway to grow our business.
• Win together: We do the right thing, win theright way and succeed as part of a team. Webelieve in the collective power of difference toaccomplish more and strive to continuouslymake things better for each other andour guests.
Compensation
We believe all team members should be paid 
equitably regardless of gender, race or ethnicity. 
We train hiring managers and provide tools to 
help them raise awareness and reduce the risk 
of bias in decisions. We prohibit questions about 
prior salary in most hiring situations, regularly 
conduct pay audits and set our minimum hourly 
wage at $15. Building Robust and 
Diverse Talent Pipelines 
Target uses a variety of recruiting resources to ensure we source from diverse talent pools, including our relationship with the National Black MBA Association and Management Leadership for Tomorrow. We work strategically with HBCUs and maintain a Target HBCU alumni group for team members, development sessions to invest in current students and active campus recruiting for entry-level positions for specific divisions, such as our Technology Leadership Program (TLP) and store leadership (Executive Team Leader/ETL) positions. Find out more about our efforts to grow a diverse and inclusive workforce.More than five years ago we pledged to regularly r 
eview our compensation, hiring and promotion 
practices to ensure pay equity across our business in an effort to help close the national pay gap. Since then, our teams have put this pledge into practice. This included our latest third-party conducted audit of the U.S. team, confirming we pay our team members equitably when relevant factors such as position, tenure and location are considered. 
Scheduling
Our ability to offer a variety of schedules is a key factor in attracting team members. Hourly team members establish when they are available, and Target builds schedules accordingly. Team members are generally scheduled no more than five days per week unless they request extra hours. We post schedules at least 10 days in advance, and we commit to a minimum of four hours for every shift scheduled. 
 21
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossar y
Team Members—Employment
We don’t do on-call scheduling at our stores, 
but team members can trade and pick up shifts 
at their store location and are provided 10 hours 
between shifts. 
We offer flexibility to help accommodate team 
member commitments outside of work for 
family or child-care reasons, balancing a school 
schedule or an emergency such as caring for 
relatives. Where job duties allow, we offer job 
sharing or reduced or condensed work weeks to 
accommodate requests for more flexible working 
schedules. In 2020, due to COVID-19, we 
temporarily waived our absenteeism requirements 
and developed clear guidelines to support our 
minor team members in balancing work and 
distance learning. 
Benefits
We offer competitive benefits packages to our 
team members, whether they are part time, full 
time or in salaried positions. Our benefits support 
the overall well-being of team members and 
their families, from their financial security to their 
mental and physical health. Our curated range of 
programs include: 
Mental health: We offer team members and 
members of their households free, confidential, 
24/7 access to trained clinicians through Team 
Member Life Resources, available by phone or 
web, for up to five free sessions per issue per 
year. We also provide a substance use helpline 
through Optum. Well-being benefits include 
digital apps to help manage sleep and anxiety. 
And throughout the year, together with our Disability & Mental Health Business Council, 
we work to continue building understanding 
and awareness and facilitating educational 
experiences regarding mental health in order 
to create an empowering and accessible 
environment for team members.  
Physical health: We provide access to free 
24/7 virtual health care visits for all U.S.-based 
team members via the CirrusMD app. We also 
introduced Grokker, a free fitness and  
well-being platform for all team members. 
Team members get an additional 20% discount 
on fitness and wellness products at Target—such 
as fruits and vegetables, athletic apparel and 
tobacco-cessation products. For health care, a 
concierge service for team members enrolled in 
our UnitedHealthcare (UHC) plans helps team 
members understand treatment options, get 
connected to condition support programs or 
helps them decide on the best care path. Target 
also offers medical, dental and vision plans to all 
eligible team members and expanded eligibility to 
cover part-time team members in 2020.
Financial security: Starting in 2020, we offered 
DailyPay, a pay advance app that allows team 
members to request their earned but unpaid 
wages instantly or next day, while also providing 
budgeting tools and encouraging savings. We 
continue to offer education assistance/tuition 
reimbursement, credit union membership, 401(k) 
options (with a 5% match), a 10% discount 
on merchandise (in addition to 5% for using a 
RedCard) and the Team Member Giving Fund. 
Team Members By Numbers  
350,000+  
team membersResponding to COVID-19
Throughout the pandemic, our focus has 
been keeping team members and their 
families safe and healthy through targeted 
relief. Putting our team’s safety first was 
our priority. 
To date, our support of our team members 
during the pandemic has included:
• Waived absenteeism policy
• Paid leave for quarantine and confirmed 
illness for 14 days for those who are 
symptomatic, have a confirmed case 
of COVID-19 or are quarantined due 
to exposure
• Vulnerable leave, a 30-day paid leave for 
team members 65 or older, pregnant or 
those with underlying medical conditions 
flagged as high risk per the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
• Access to PPE, thermometers and home 
health checklist 
• 24/7 access to virtual health care via 
CirrusMD and free COVID-19 testing 
through the health care plans 
• Financial hardship support through the 
Team Member Giving Fund & 401(k) • Increased hourly wages temporarily by $2 
starting March 2020, which transitioned to a 
permanent $15 starting wage in July 2020 
• Bonuses for front-line team members 
and leaders 
• Free backup care and discounts on tutoring 
and education resources 
• Temporarily increased vacation 
accrual limits 
• Transportation to and from work when 
public transportation was unavailable
• Free Lyft rides and four hours’ paid time to 
get vaccinated and paid time off for adverse 
reactions (added in 2021)
Some of these changes will carry over into 
the post-pandemic world. For example, 
CirrusMD is now an ongoing benefit for team 
members and was expanded to medically 
enrolled dependents in April 2021. We have 
continued to leverage our partnership with 
Lyft, including during civil unrest and to help 
team members get to polling sites to vote. 
As of report publication, we have continued 
to offer most of the leave and other policy 
changes above and will continue to 
evaluate the programs we put in place in a 
post-COVID world.22
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Team Members—Employment
Family: Our paid family leave policy provides four 
weeks of paid, job-protected leave for eligible 
part-time, full-time and salaried team members. 
We reimburse team members up to $10,000 
for adoption or surrogacy fees. Our affordable 
backup care benefit includes an industry-leading 
20 days per dependent of in-center child care or 
in-home child or elder care, and our response 
to COVID-19 has included expanding eligibility 
to all U.S. team members, waiving copays and 
increasing the numbers of days available. 
Team Member Experience
We connect with team members through multiple 
channels to inform our efforts to improve their 
experiences. We rely on feedback from annual, 
weekly and ad-hoc surveys; focus groups; 
communications with our Integrity Hotline; and 
other elements of our open door policy in order 
to gain insights from our team members. We also 
gather insights through benchmarking, social 
media and other external sites allowing us to regularly assess where we have opportunities 
to address business and personal needs of 
our team.
We began utilizing the Great Place to Work 
survey  as another tool to measure team member 
experience in 2020 and 84% of team members 
scored Target as a great place to work. In 2021, 
we will dive deeper into the results to inform a 
holistic approach to closing gaps and continuing 
to focus on the human experience. Our teams 
leverage team member sentiment and listening 
insights to continuously improve and enhance the 
team member experience. In 2020, team member 
listening helped shape how we supported our 
team during the pandemic and racial and societal 
moments, and we continue to expand listening 
insights and how they will be used to influence 
future priorities in the team member experience. 
84%  
of team members surveyed 
describe Target as a “Great Place to Work.”Employment
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Number of team members (as of fiscal year end) 409,0003
3 As of January 30, 2021, we employed approximately 409,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal team members. Because of the 
seasonal nature of the retail business, employment levels peak in the holiday season. We also engage independent contractors, most 
notably in our Shipt subsidiary.368,000
Percentage of active workforce under collective bar gaining agreements 0% 0% SASB 
FB-FR-310a.2
Compensation
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Minimum hourly wage (USD) $15 $13
Average hourly wage of store and distribution center team members (not 
including overtime) (USD)$16.06 $14.48 SASB 
CG-MR-310a.1
Percentage of stores and distribution center team members earning locally 
applicable minimum wage4
4 Percentage represents the number of team members with a base wage rate equal to the local applicable minimum wage.5.6% 13.9% SASB 
CG-MR-310a.1
Benefits
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Number of team members eligible for a 401(k) 258,983 228,375 GRI 
401-2
Number of team members participating in our 401(k) plan 122,903 115,384 GRI 
401-2
Number of team members receiving full employer match in a 401(k) 103,000 88,234 GRI 
401-2
Average team member percentage contribution to 401(k)s (for those who 
contribute, not including the 5% company match)6.1% 5.9% GRI 
401-2
Number of team members receiving tuition reimbursement 1,783 1,823 GRI 
401-2
Number of people using Team Member Life Resources 111,583 108,986 GRI 
401-2
Number of team members enrolled in Target Credit Union 20,328 19,616 GRI 
401-2
Amount saved by team members using our wellness discount (USD) $11.5 million $10.6 million GRI 
401-2
Team Member Engagement
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Percentage of team members that say: SASB 
CG-EC-330a.1
Target is a great place to work 84% 89% 23
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion  
SDG  
Our size as an employer 
means that how we recruit, 
hire and advance our team 
members makes a difference 
beyond our stores. We 
believe DE&I make teams 
and Target better and we 
have had a targeted DE&I 
strategy since 2005. Today, 
DE&I is integrated into every 
part of our business. We 
continue to actively celebrate 
all our teams’ dimensions 
of difference, including but 
not limited to gender, race/
ethnicity, physical abilities, 
sexual orientation, education, 
language, and communication 
and learning styles. Our Approach
Our strategy is driven by a dedicated Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion team that leverages our 
dimensions of difference as one of our greatest 
strengths. Responsibility for DE&I is shared 
across our company. 
Our aim for team DE&I is well beyond regulatory 
requirements: building a workforce that reflects 
the diversity of our guests and communities, and 
providing a safe and inclusive work environment 
where all team members feel welcomed, 
supported and able to be their authentic selves. 
Representation
We actively recruit and advance women and 
people of color to join our various teams 
at Target. 
Target uses a variety of resources to ensure 
we recruit from diverse talent pools, including 
our relationship with the National Black MBA 
Association and Management Leadership for 
Tomorrow. We work strategically with historically 
Black colleges and universities  (HBCUs), maintain 
a Target HBCU alumni group for team members, 
offer development sessions to invest in current 
students and conduct active campus recruiting 
for entry-level positions for specific divisions, 
such as our Technology Leadership Program 
(TLP) and store leadership (Executive Team 
Leader/ETL) positions. We have also established 
relationships with credible organizations that 
further help us connect to diverse candidates, 
such as the African American Leadership Forum 
and the National Organization on Disability . We also host a series of immersive professional 
development experiences we call Target Lab, 
which are events aligned to annual heritage 
months, including Black, Asian, Hispanic, Pride, 
Military, Mental Health and Women. In addition to 
speakers, workshops and networking, attendees 
receive resume tips, brief career consultations 
and professional headshots, along with guidance 
around how to present their best selves. 
For current team members, our Engineering 
Manager Immersion Program (eMIP) provides 
on-the-job leadership training for groups typically 
underrepresented in the technology, data and 
engineering fields. In 2020, due to COVID-19, 
we quickly pivoted to offering these experiences 
virtually at no cost to attendees.
Our Target Elevate  initiative provides a platform 
dedicated to growing the number of women in 
technology. In February 2021, Target Elevate 
held a virtual conference that let attendees 
control how and when they experience 
sessions. The conference featured 18 speakers 
across breakfast sessions, self-paced learning 
opportunities and masterclasses with live Q&A. 
We also partner with external organizations 
like AnitaB.org and participate in its annual 
conference, Grace Hopper Celebration, to 
help women in technical fields grow, learn and 
develop their highest potential.
We are proud to report that since 2019, we 
increased representation for people of color in 
exempt roles by 15% and women of color in 
similar positions by 23%. As of the end of 2020, 
our workforce is close to or above 50% women 
at all levels and we increased our promotion  
of women to senior leadership levels by 17%.  The promotion of women of color to senior 
leadership levels has more than doubled. We 
also helped prepare our team members for 
advancement and increased the number of 
promotions for people of color from the exempt 
entry level to midlevel by 54%. 
There’s still more to do, but we believe the 
strategy we’re driving will lead to meaningful 
progress and change in the years to come.
 “Now more than ever, people expect 
institutions and companies to play a 
role in creating a more inclusive and 
equitable society for everyone, and 
the influence Target can have on the 
U.S. and our culture is significant. 
We are committed to creating equity, 
and ensuring our intentions have a 
meaningful impact for our teams, 
guests and communities.”
Kiera Fernandez  
Senior Vice President, Talent & Change 
and Chief Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Officer 24
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
Inclusive Experience
Everyone at Target is accountable for delivering 
an inclusive experience where team members 
feel heard, respected and included. For us, that 
means getting comfortable being uncomfortable 
and listening courageously. We support our 
team’s inclusion acumen—the practice of creating 
an inclusive environment—by encouraging 
personal curiosity and providing topical training 
and immersive experiences that build empathy. 
With the violence against Black, Asian and other 
people of color making 2020 a traumatic year for 
many people, we provided a series of listening 
moments to hear from our team and let them 
share their experiences with each other. Our 
established guardrails for authentic connections 
guided each conversation to ensure a welcoming 
and inclusive space for all involved. We are 
also investing $250,000 in organizations led by 
Asian Americans, working to empower the Asian 
American community, addressing gender-based 
violence and xenophobia, and advancing justice. 
Target also aims to increase the representation 
of Black team members across the company by 
20% by 2023. For more information on how we 
are making progress on achieving that goal, read 
our Workforce Diversity Report (2020) . 
Part of achieving this is about ensuring inclusive 
behavior is embedded in our leaders. We are 
investing heavily in developing inclusive behaviors 
at a leadership level, by providing multiple 
training opportunities. In July 2020, we provided 
training for all leaders of people—called This 
is the Time—as the first of a series of training/
experiential offerings focused on anti-racism that will continue in 2021 and 2022. We are also 
investing in a year-long training series for our HR 
business partners focused on the unique role 
they play in helping influence and advance racial 
equity across the company. 
Target has a comprehensive disability toolkit 
designed to assist HR partners and leaders to 
effectively ensure inclusion for team members 
with disabilities. In addition, we collaborate 
with the National Organization on Disability and 
take part in its Disability Employment Tracker to 
benchmark our practices and policies. In 2020, 
we updated our Disability Accommodation Policy 
to include deeper commitments to disability 
inclusion and provide examples of types of 
accommodations provided to team members. Each business unit has its own DE&I goals, 
aligned to our overall and public-facing goals, 
which are supported by our Diversity Action 
Committees throughout the organization. Our 
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)  amplify 
diverse voices, including through hosting diverse 
supplier events and providing input on products 
and marketing. In February 2021, building on a 
10-year foundation of continuous development 
of our inclusive culture around disability and 
mental health, our Ability Awareness Network 
expanded to become our newest ERG, the 
Disability & Mental Health Business Council, 
a dedicated cross-functional enterprise team 
focused on an inclusive work environment and 
inclusive products. Our REACH Aims: Team
As part of our REACH commitments, we 
are dedicated to the following steps for 
our team members:
• We’ll create a workplace where Black 
team members can build meaningful 
careers and experience success at 
every level
• We’ll increase Black representation 
and reduce turnover at every level
Read more about our REACH commitments .25
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Percentage of women in our global workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
401-1 
     
   
  
      
      Total workforce 58% 58%
Managers 56% 53%
Non-managers 58% 59%
Officers 41% 40%
Leadership team 50% 42%
Board of Directors 31% 31%
Percentage of people of color in our U.S. workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
405-1U.S. workforce 50% 49%
Managers 40% 39%
Non-managers 51% 51%
 Officers 31% 28%
Leadership team 25% 25%
Board of Directors 46% 46%
Percentage American Indian/Alaska Native in our U.S. workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
405-1U.S. workforce <1% <1%
Managers <1% <1%
Non-managers <1% <1%
Officers 0% 0%
Leadership team 0% 0%
Board of Directors 0% 0%
Percentage Asian in our U.S. workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
401-2U.S. workforce 5% 5%
Managers 4% 4%
Non-managers 5% 5%
Officers 10% 10%
Leadership team 8% 8%
Board of Directors 0% 0%Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
      
      
      
      Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Percentage Black/African American in our U.S. workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
401-2U.S. workforce 15% 15%
Managers 12% 12%
Non-managers 15% 16%
Officers 9% 5%
Leadership team 8% 8%
Board of Directors 23% 15%
Percentage Hispanic/Latino in our U.S. workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
405-1U.S. workforce 26% 25%
Managers 21% 20%
Non-managers 26% 25%
Officers 10% 11%
Leadership team 8% 8%
Board of Directors 23% 31%
Percentage Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander in our U.S. workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
405-1U.S. workforce <1% <1%
Managers <1% <1%
Non-managers <1% <1%
Officers 0% 0%
Leadership team 0% 0%
Board of Directors 0% 0%
Percentage multiracial in our U.S. workforce SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1  
GRI 
405-1U.S. workforce 3% 2%
Managers 2% 3%
Non-managers 3% 3%
Officers 2% 1%
Leadership team 0% 0%
Board of Directors 0% 0%26
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Team Members—Learning & Development 
SDG  
At Target, we are working 
to ensure all team members 
have the skills, capabilities 
and ongoing development to 
reach their fullest potential 
and deliver on Target’s 
sustainable growth strategy. 
By delivering meaningful 
career experiences, inclusive 
and accessible learning and 
development moments, and 
equitable talent practices, 
we can attract, retain and 
advance a diverse and 
talented retail team.
Our Approach
To create a continuous learning culture, we provide 
access to personalized, curated and intentional 
developmental experiences across the employment 
life cycle. Our learning network offers a mix of 
self-service, on-the-job, leader-led and peer-to-peer 
development experiences that are welcoming, 
inspiring, meaningful and inclusive. Through 
onboarding, functional training, mentorship, 
leadership programs, immersive experiences and 
tuition reimbursement, we have built a learning 
environment that empowers our teams to do their 
best work, and fuel our company purpose. Talent Mobility 
Progression and mobility make us an attractive 
employer and help us keep the best talent. 
We set goals and track metrics to assess the 
success of our talent, learning and development 
programs and use our team member listening 
and surveys to understand sentiment on training, 
development and career growth. Where possible, 
we also use business metrics to understand 
our return on investment. In addition, Target 
invests more than 7 million payroll hours annually 
into training our front-line team members. This 
includes programs that help our team build 
functional skills at all levels, specialized skills 
and leadership development.We tailor our career development resources for different 
stages of the career journey at Target: 
Available to all
• A consistent approach to assessing, 
reviewing and rewarding talent through 
performance and career development 
conversations throughout the year 
• Experience-based learning through 
opportunities such as stretch assignments, 
short-term assignments, pro bono 
opportunities, business councils, leadership 
labs and volunteer events 
• An internal careers site consisting of 
resources and activities intended to help 
team members navigate their careers 
at Target
• A mentoring program, consisting of a 
matching app (enabling team members to 
search for and connect with mentors) and 
a suite of mentoring resources helping both 
mentees and mentors make the most of 
their relationship
• On-demand, curated learning resources 
that are delivered to the team via Workday 
Learning and the Skillsoft learning catalog, 
which hosts 20,000-plus industry-leading 
resources, spanning everything from time 
management to coding and from inclusion 
to leadership Available to specific audiences
• An internal talent marketplace for short-term 
assignments where team members can 
apply their skills and learn new skills in areas 
of interest 
• An enterprise rotational program across 
headquarters, stores and distribution was 
piloted in 2019, with a full rollout planned 
for 2021 
• Tuition reimbursement benefits that can be 
applied to job-related courses at accredited 
tech schools, colleges and/or universities, 
as well as to costs associated with 
obtaining a GED
• Leadership and executive development 
programs and resources supporting leaders 
to continuously grow capabilities during all 
stages of their leadership journey27
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Team Members—Learning & Development
Leadership
We believe in the importance of investment in 
leader development due to their outsized role in 
the health of our business and culture.  We have 
established immersive development experiences 
for all midlevel and senior leaders, and we 
regularly leverage mentors, coaches, and input 
and insights from peers and teams to further their 
development and effectiveness as leaders. 
Given the unprecedented challenges and events 
of 2020, a large focus of our leadership training 
was on building resilience, empathy, inclusion 
and agility. We quickly developed online learning 
content, resources and tools to equip leaders 
to drive business growth while acknowledging 
and supporting their teams through unique and 
uncharted circumstances—with high utilization of 
228,000 site visits since its launch in April 2000.  
Going forward, we will continue to drive both 
the “always-on” core leadership programs and 
offerings for leaders, as well as the just-in-time 
content and resources as we did in 2020, to 
continue to equip leaders to lead in a dynamic 
and complex environment.Learning and Development
2020 2019 Framework
Percentage of team members receiving 
training during the fiscal year 
 
 
 
 GRI 
404-2  
GRI 
404-3Excluding onboarding & compliance 98% 65%
Including onboarding & compliance 99% 97%
Annual per formance reviews
Percentage of eligible team members receiving reviews5
5 All team members are eligible for performance reviews except those on leave of absence for more than 305 days, those hired in Q4 and interns.100% 100%
Number of team members receiving reviews 301,000 316,000
Our REACH Aims: Team
As part of our REACH commitments, 
we are dedicated to the following steps 
for our team members:
• We’ll focus on development, career 
progression and advancement of Black 
team members
• We’ll institute anti-racism training and 
education for all team members to build 
a culture of inclusion and equity
Read more about our REACH commitments .28
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Team Members—Workplace Health & Safety 
We look out for each other 
and do our part to maintain a 
safe and secure environment. 
As an essential retailer, 
Target remained committed 
to keeping our team safe 
right from the start of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Since 
2020, our team members 
have been essential frontline 
workers in the pandemic, 
ensuring our guests can safely 
get the food and supplies 
they need. The health risks 
and mental stresses our 
team members face at all 
times are top of mind as we 
set policies, practices and 
investment priorities. 
Our Approach
We want everyone to commit to being a 
safety advocate and to following laws, safety 
procedures and Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) standards. Our work 
is guided by our Safety Policy, which governs 
how we respond to enterprise compliance risks. 
Other policies that help support this space are 
the Team Member Illness Policy and the Disability 
Accommodation Policy.In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we 
doubled down on our commitment to make 
Target the safest place to shop and work. We 
bolstered long-standing risk processes by 
setting up Target’s Leadership Task Force. This 
six-member group (including our CEO) is a 
subset of our Executive Leadership team and 
acts as a central body for the way we handle 
crises, including scenario planning. Physical Safety
Target’s goal is to prevent occupational 
incidents, injuries and illnesses and to comply 
with safety and health standards. We have 
specific safety programs designed to eliminate 
or reduce hazards at our locations. This includes 
administering a comprehensive and continuous 
occupational injury—and illness—prevention 
program and training for team members.We expect team members to closely follow our 
health and safety programs and procedures. 
We require the use of PPE where applicable 
and immediate incident reporting, including near 
misses. We also encourage an environment 
where team members can talk to their leaders 
if they become aware of a safety hazard or 
unsafe behavior. 
Find out more about our COVID-19 response for 
physical and personal health .29
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain  
SASB  SDG  UNGPRF  
Everyone deserves to be 
treated with dignity and 
respect. Target’s global supply 
chain gives us the reach and 
influence to help protect and 
uphold the human rights of 
people we interact with. 
We source products from suppliers that 
leverage a global network of facilities in nearly 
50 countries. That gives us the opportunity to 
promote and protect human rights where we 
have influence and potential for impact, such as 
the manufacturing supply chain. About one-third 
of our sales come from our owned brands, 
spanning apparel and accessories, food and 
beverage, beauty and household essentials, 
home furnishings and décor, and hardlines.
Our Approach
All of Target’s vendor relationships are guided 
by the Vendor Code of Conduct , which includes 
our Standards of Vendor Engagement  (SOVE). 
These core documents define the scope of our 
suppliers’ ethical obligations with respect to 
their operations, including the following: hiring 
practices; forced labor; under-age labor; migrant 
labor; discrimination; working hours and time off; 
payment of wages; health and safety; grievances; 
and environmental management. We expect suppliers that produce Target’s 
owned and exclusive brands, as well as those 
that produce nationally branded products 
for which Target is the importer of record, to 
participate in Target’s Responsible Sourcing 
Program. This includes complying with our SOVE 
and all applicable national and local laws, as 
well as participating in our responsible sourcing 
oversight program.
Audits and Continuous Improvement
All facilities that manufacture or convert raw 
materials into Target owned-brand products, 
Target-exclusive products, Target-distributed 
products and/or nationally branded products 
for which Target is the importer of record, are 
in scope for Target’s Responsible Sourcing and 
Sustainability audit program.
The risk-based program  assesses facility 
conditions, worker treatment and compensation, 
hiring processes, environmental practices and 
compliance with applicable laws and Target’s 
SOVE. All disclosed manufacturing locations 
must conduct an audit that is approved as part 
of Target’s industry-aligned audit protocol on 
a regular basis. Target maintains the right to 
conduct unannounced audits of any disclosed 
locations. Our Global Factory List , including 
Tier 1 factories and Tier 2 apparel wet-processing 
factories in our supply chain, is updated quarterly. 
We believe the greatest accelerators of change 
are collaboration and alignment. We recognize 
that supply chain audit programs have multiplied, 
increasing the work of suppliers to comply with 
different clients. We are working to put more 
responsibility and accountability in the hands of suppliers leveraging existing audit systems 
and accepting different submission types. This 
means less administrative work for suppliers so 
they may spend more time on capability building 
and remediation. For these reasons, Target 
has adopted the Social & Labor Convergence 
Program (SLCP), Better Work, Sedex Members 
Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), amfori BSCI, 
the ICTI Ethical Toy Program, Responsible 
Business Alliance (RBA) and Higg facility tools 
to drive industry convergence, help drive 
supply chain performance and drive continuous 
improvement. Target’s Responsible Sourcing 
and Sustainability team reviews every audit and 
assigns a rating based on the findings presented. 
We communicate audit results to our suppliers 
and factories and monitor the development and, 
where relevant, execution of a detailed corrective 
and preventative action plan (or CAPA). 
We prioritize remediation and continuous 
improvement efforts but noncompliant audits 
may result in the cancellation of purchase orders 
and the termination of the business relationship. 
Target will only allow a vendor to use a previously 
noncompliant factory once the deactivation 
period has expired and the factory has 
demonstrated compliance with Target’s SOVE 
and applicable laws. 
Our Responsible Sourcing Advisory Program 
is another example of how we support our 
key suppliers on a pathway to continuous 
improvement. Established in partnership with 
Better Work, the program focuses on providing 
soft skills training that helps workers and 
management solve problems collaboratively using data tracking and social dialogue mechanisms, 
including worker management committees 
and grievance systems. When everyone works 
together, factory management and workers are 
empowered to develop solutions that benefit 
everyone and workers become more engaged in 
their environment.
Grievances
Target depends on business partners to 
proactively share any ethical concerns or 
potential misconduct so that we can promptly 
investigate and address concerns. Additionally, 
our Responsible Sourcing and Sustainability 
team partnered with our Ethics team to conduct 
regional (ethics) trainings with business partners 
in North Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia 
to promote the Target Integrity Hotline as a 
channel for workers to report any issues related 
to Target’s SOVE. We also expect suppliers 
to maintain effective grievance mechanisms 
for workers, aligned with the criteria outlined 
in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. Ethics reporting posters were 
released in 2021 to distribute to all factory and 
supplier locations to ensure that all workers have 
access to the hotline reporting option—including 
information on how to access and engage with 
Target’s Integrity Hotline. Target continues to 
explore opportunities to increase accessibility to 
reporting options, and improve the effectiveness 
of our responses to reported concerns.
In accordance with our commitment to 
confidentiality, we do not share or publish 
specific grievances or specific issues raised. 30
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain
We support our suppliers in collecting data on 
grievance types, resolution and mechanism 
channels to enable a systems approach 
to improvement that can yield enhanced 
effectiveness and higher worker engagement. 
For example, Target’s Responsible Sourcing 
Advisory Program provides training and data 
tools focused on grievance mechanisms so that 
suppliers can establish and execute effective 
systems and monitor their progress. We are 
also a founding member of Nirapon, which 
is an organization devoted to overseeing the 
ongoing safety monitoring, training and helpline 
efforts of the Bangladesh apparel factories from 
which Nirapon members source. For grievance 
reporting, Nirapon uses Amader Kotha, an 
independent third-party mechanism for workers 
in Bangladesh apparel factories from which 
Nirapon members source.
Worker Well-Being in Supply Chain
We aim to elevate workplace safety for supply 
chain workers and support greater overall 
well-being. To do this, we engage with strategic 
third-party partners with expertise in areas of 
worker well-being to address the issues that 
matter most to supply chain workers. This effort 
has included providing vision screening and 
eyeglasses in collaboration with VisionSpring , 
creating access to clean and safe water and 
sanitation in partnership with Water.org , and 
work with eight other close partners. By the end 
of fiscal year 2020, these projects impacted the 
lives of more than 3 million people.COVID-19 has had a unique impact on supply 
chain workers around the globe. We supported 
our suppliers as they restructured worker  
well-being programs to address the immediate 
needs of workers and the communities where 
they do business. For example:
• VisionSpring worked to educate supply 
chain workers and community members on 
proper mask wearing and hygiene practices 
to reduce COVID-19 infections. By the end 
of February 2021, VisionSpring distributed 
over 32,000 masks and installed over 50 
handwashing stations in the communities 
surrounding factories.
• CARE’s Dignified Work  supports the 
empowerment and well-being of female factory 
workers in Bangladesh, Indonesia and Vietnam, 
where COVID-19 risks have been high. During 
COVID-19, CARE pivoted to deliver emergency 
response activities to benefit more than 25,000 
people in these areas, with support that 
included cash assistance and cash-for-work 
opportunities, distribution of hygiene kits and 
PPE, roving medical centers providing essential 
medical services and establishing safe spaces 
for women to access information and support 
services during the pandemic.
• OneSky—which improves outcomes for 
the children left behind in rural villages in 
China while their parents migrate to seek 
employment—joined the local government 
pandemic crisis response to keep the villages 
safe and healthy. Critical PPE and supplies 
were delivered to families along with simple and visual informational handouts about 
how to minimize risk of exposure. Field staff 
used WeChat to help parents engage the 
children during lockdown, through a library 
of educational materials on topics such as 
everyday materials for arts and crafts, and how 
to talk to children about the pandemic.
• Water.org  continued to enable access to 
water and sanitation during COVID-19 and 
has mobilized over $69 million in capital that 
is directly helping families in India, Bangladesh 
and Indonesia.
What’s Next
Building on our 2020 goal focused on impacting 
the lives of workers throughout our supply chain, 
we are excited to focus on gender equity and 
digital wages as part of our 2025 ambitions. 
By 2025, we plan for 100% of suppliers to have 
policies and programs to advance gender equity 
in supply chains and owned-brand suppliers to 
pay workers digitally. To learn more see Looking 
Ahead to 2030 and Beyond .
Forced Labor
Our SOVE condemn and prohibit the use of 
forced, trafficked or incarcerated labor by our 
suppliers, which is an expectation that extends 
to how and from whom they procures their raw 
materials and product components. In addition, 
we pay particular attention to, and perform 
additional due diligence around, indicators 
of forced labor in relation to commodities 
representing higher risk, such as cotton 
and seafood. We are committed to working with our supply 
chain partners and industry experts to help 
prevent, identify and swiftly eradicate forced labor 
in our global manufacturing supply chains. We 
have established key partnerships with experts 
such as Verité , the Centre for Child Rights and 
Business  (CRIB) and Impactt .
Additionally, we are working with partners like the 
International Justice Mission  at the community 
level to empower job seekers so that they can 
better protect themselves from potential abuse. 
Two examples of that work are the safe migration 
program and grassroots prevention project 
in India .
• As part of our commitment to sourcing 
fresh and frozen seafood and canned tuna 
sustainably, we continue to enhance labor 
standards in seafood supply chains. This 
year, we updated our seafood commitment 
to include new worker protections, and have 
collaborated with Verité to conduct in-depth 
foreign contract worker assessments at all 
Tier 1 seafood-processing factories that employ 
foreign contract workers. 
• Target is a proud member of the Leadership 
Group for Responsible Recruitment —an 
initiative of the Institute for Human Rights 
and Business —where we utilize our 
collective influence, voice and size to push 
for improved recruitment systems globally. 
We are committed to the Employer Pays 
Principle and have helped to return significant 
sums to workers around the world through 
reimbursement of recruitment expenses. We 
are also working toward ensuring that workers 
pay no fees to secure jobs from the start.31
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Underage Labor 
Target is also a member of the CRIB Working 
Group, which is advancing industry efforts 
to eliminate underage labor . In instances 
where underage workers are identified, Target 
works with CRIB to assess and address the 
non-compliance as well as provide long-term support to the affected individuals, so that 
they do not return to supply chain work 
while underage. 
In addition, Target works with GoodWeave  to 
combat underage labor in the handwoven goods 
industry in India. GoodWeave-certified rugs are woven by adult artisans and help support the 
education of thousands of at-risk children that 
might otherwise need to work. 
Health and Safety
Target continues to enhance the safety 
of workers in the supply chains through 
engagement with both our Nirapon initiative and the Life and Building Safety (LABS) Initiative. 
A collaboration between global apparel and 
footwear brands and retailers, LABS is tasked 
with creating and implementing a shared 
standard to prevent structural, electrical and 
fire safety issues in India and Vietnam. In 2020, 
Target continued its roll out of LABS in Vietnam.
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Number of registered manufacturing facilities 3,965 3,696
 
    
  
     GRI 
102-9  
SASB 
CG-HP-000.BChina 2,188 2,165
Southeast Asia 398 322
The Americas 1,084 970
India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 178 159
Other 117 80
Number of countries in which we have registered manufacturing facilities 49 49 GRI 
102-9
Number of audits and percentage that were unannounced 498*
* This number is defined as the number of EQ audits with an unannounced status and all legacy audits in FY2020.  25%2,082
100%GRI 
412-1  
GRI 
414-2
Number of countries in which we conducted audits 29 26 GRI 
412-1
Percentage of supplier facilities that were audited to a labor code 
of conduct6
6 Travel and factory restrictions, as well as office closures related to COVID-19, decreased the ability for on-site audits to be conducted in certain areas.SASB 
CG-AA-430b.1 
(1) & (2)Tier 1 39%
Tier 2 23%
Percentage of total audits conducted by a third-party auditor 89% SASB 
CG-AA-430b.1 (3)
Percentage of audits with acceptable ** 
** “Acceptable” is defined as the % of “Outstanding” and “Acceptable” audit results. This not broken down by social and environmental categories; this is an overall rating that is inclusive of everything that makes up our SOVE.  results by country/region GRI 
414-2China 83% 47%
Southeast Asia 81% 44%
The Americas 78% 67%
India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 86% 47%
Other 69% 63%Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Percentage of zero tolerance audit results >1% n/a GRI 
401-2  
SASB 
CG-AA-430b.2
Average number of health and safety issues per audit
     
     
     
 
 GRI 
414-2China 1.3 3.8
Southeast Asia 1.6 4.0
The Americas 2.2 2.3
India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 1.7 4.7
Other 1.6 3.6
Average number of wage issues per audit GRI 
414-2China 0.9 1.2
Southeast Asia 0.3 0.6
The Americas 0.2 0.1
India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 0.1 0.4
Other 0.2 0.3
Average number of working hours and time-off issues per audit GRI 
414-2China 0.4 1.0
Southeast Asia 0.4 0.8
The Americas 0.2 0.3
India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 0.3 0.5
Other 0.2 0.1
Percentage of new suppliers screened using social criteria 100% 100% GRI 
414-1
Number of lives enhanced in the factories and surrounding communities 
where Target’s goods are produced3,427,774 2,201,610 Target goal 
(2020: 3 million)32
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Supply Chain—Conflict Minerals 
UNGPRF
Some products that we sell 
use materials that may be 
sourced in conflict zones, 
specifically the Democratic 
Republic of Congo (DRC) and 
regions in nearby nations. 
Columbite-tantalite (coltan), 
cassiterite, gold, wolframite 
and the derivatives tantalum, 
tin and tungsten (collectively 
known as 3TG) pose a risk 
that their sale has been 
used to fund conflicts in the 
aforementioned areas or that 
forced or underage labor was 
used to procure them. 
These materials may show up in a large variety of 
categories. In 2020, the product categories we 
surveyed were: 
• Apparel and Home Textiles 
• Electronics, Lighting, Kitchenware, 
and Small Appliances
• Home Improvement and Automotive
• Footwear and Luggage
• Accessories, Jewelry and Watches
• Furniture, Home Décor, Bath and 
Seasonal Merchandise
• Lawn and Garden 
• Health and Beauty Products
• Toys, Sporting Goods and Pet Supplies
• Paper, Office, Stationery and ScrapbookingOur conflict minerals compliance program is part 
of our overall efforts to reduce the risk of human 
rights abuse in our supply chain.
Our Approach
As outlined in our Conflict Minerals Policy , Target 
will not knowingly purchase or sell any owned- 
or exclusive-brand product that contains 3TG 
that finances armed conflict in the DRC or an 
adjoining country. We expect our vendors to 
adopt a 3TG sourcing policy that is consistent 
with ours and Organisation for Economic  
Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidance 
and to report on the standard form developed by 
the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). 
Target maintains the right to audit suppliers 
to ensure they are engaging in responsible 
3TG sourcing.
In 2020, Target surveyed 569 vendors of owned- 
and exclusive-brand products in categories that 
were identified as possibly containing 3TG and 
received responses from 541 (approximately 
95%). Each of the 77 unique smelters and 
refiners identified by surveyed vendors that 
provided product-level information was listed 
as Conformant by the RMI. 
Target could only determine the smelters and 
refiners that pr ocessed a por tion of the 3T G 
contained in potentially in-scope products. 
As a result, while none of the necessary 3TG 
contained in the in-scope products was 
determined to directly or indirectly finance or 
benefit armed groups in the DRC and adjoining 
countries, we have not determined that any 
of our products may be characterized as 
“DRC conflict free.”
 
33
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity 
SDG
We’ve been building 
strong partnerships with 
diverse suppliers and 
underrepresented businesses 
for decades. Together, as 
we seek to give our guests 
the products and brands 
they want and deserve, 
we’re also supporting 
economic development 
and strengthening the 
communities we work in. 
Whether its goods or services, Target’s scale as 
a purchaser has a large economic impact. We 
leverage our scale to provide greater opportunity 
to diverse and underrepresented businesses—
and enhance our guests’ shopping experiences 
with a more diverse and relevant assortment . 
We also know that Target’s impact must go 
beyond the dollars we spend, with support for 
direct coaching on marketing, management, 
sourcing and more to help newer and smaller 
businesses serve markets at Target’s scale. Our Approach 
Every year we work hard to find, attract and 
retain more diverse-owned suppliers. We are 
proud to work with an ever-growing roster of 
suppliers that are at least 51% owned, controlled 
and operated by women; BIPOC ; LGBTQ+; 
veterans; or persons with disabilities.
We support diverse vendors through investment, 
access, expertise, mentoring and more. An 
example of how we channel this support 
is through the Target Takeoff  accelerator, a 
five-week program to support startups. In 2018, 
the Black woman-owned beauty brand Sienna 
Naturals participated in the accelerator and 
during 2020, the brand launched in Target . In 
2020, the Black woman-owned wellness brand 
Golde participated in Target Takeoff and launched 
in stores  just a few months later, as did Young 
King Hair Care—a product range dedicated 
to hair care for Black boys . During 2020, our 
accelerator and incubator programs supported 
over 50 companies.
 “We have a rich history of working with 
diverse businesses, but there’s more 
we can do to spark change across 
the retail industry, support the Black 
community and ensure Black guests 
feel welcomed and represented 
when they shop at Target.”
Christina Hennington  
Executive Vice President and Chief Growth OfficerAccelerators
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Number of companies supported by Target Accelerators during the FY
 
   N/A
Target Takeoff 25 17
Target Incubator 8 8
Target Technology Accelerator 10 9
Target Accelerator Program India 10 10
Number of products on shelves in Target stores from graduates of Target 
Accelerators (SKUs)123 59 N/A
Our REACH Aims for 
Black Businesses
As part of our REACH commitments, 
we are dedicated to the following steps in 
our supply—and value—chains:
• We’ll help advance Black-owned and 
Black-founded businesses by providing 
access to our resources and expertise
•  
 
 We’ll source and design significantly 
more products from Black creators, 
designers, vendors, agencies, 
contractors and suppliers
• We’ll find new ways for Target 
to accelerate the prosperity of 
Black communities
• We’ll work on an approach to store 
development and remodels that creates 
solutions with community partners
Read more about our REACH commitments .Supplier Diversity 
Changing Neighborhoods
For over 20 years, Target has been working 
with the minority and woman-owned 
construction firm Curtom-Dunsmuir , based 
in Southern California. As a partner, it has 
helped develop our construction program 
that is more inclusive across the country. 
The company is currently working with us on 
the development of a new store in 
Inglewood, a predominantly Hispanic/Latino 
and Black neighborhood. This store is part 
of a new mixed-use building, near a new 
transit hub designed to create a more 
walkable, transit-oriented development that 
increases access to necessary and 
affordable goods for the community. With 
the support of our REACH Committee, 
we’re using this development to explore new 
ways to connect with communities better.34
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity
We build relationships with diverse suppliers 
through connections to multiple national business 
groups, including the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council  (NMSDC), Women’s 
Business Enterprise National Council  (WBENC), 
National LGBT Chamber of Commerce  (NGLCC) 
and others.
We also host on-site and virtual summits to 
introduce Target merchants and others to 
potential new partners. For example, in October 
2020 we held a virtual LatinXpo to showcase 
Hispanic/Latino-owned businesses and in 
February 2021, we partnered with our Business 
Councils to put on the Black-Owned Business 
fair virtually.
We are proud to announce our role as a 
founding partner and premier sponsor for the 
Women Owned in Retail program in partnership 
with WBENC. As part of the program, we 
created a “Retail 101” session for almost 500 
women-owned businesses to give insight to how 
companies with consumer products can navigate 
a large retailer like Target. 
In 2019, Target Properties developed an 
internal mentor program aimed at teaching 
BIPOC-owned businesses how to work with 
Target and become active Target suppliers, with 
our first cohort of mentees starting in 2020. 
We searched the country for potential suppliers 
to support our heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning (HVAC) business. Currently there are 
seven Black-owned HVAC businesses that are 
learning how Target does business, to prepare 
them to participate in active projects. Through 
2021 and beyond, we are seeking more mentor 
cohorts to cover more product categories. Supplier diversity in numbers
25 total companies have 
been supported through 
our Takeoff accelerator
88% of these companies 
had diverse ownership
7 of these companies are current 
Target suppliers (or could be)
Our Commitment to 
Black-Owned Businesses 
In April 2021, we launched our commitment 
to spend more than $2 billion with 
Black-owned businesses by the end 
of 2025.
As part of the commitment, we plan to:
• Increase the number of products from 
more than 500 Black-owned businesses 
across our stores and online
• Spend more with Black-owned 
companies, including marketing agencies, 
construction companies, facilities 
maintenance providers and others
• Establish new resources, including 
the Forward Founders program, 
a program designed to engage with 
early-stage historically under-resourced 
entrepreneurs to provide education 
on scaling for mass retail. Forward 
Founders was built on the success of 
our Target Accelerators  portfolio and  
co-created with Black entrepreneurs 
from the Target Accelerators 
Entrepreneurship Advisory Council .Growing Our Supplier Chain 
We’re exploring more ways to foster inclusion along our supply chain and within our 
communities to better serve our guests. In 2021, Target teamed up with HBCUs for the 
inaugural HBCU Design Challenge. The challenge invited HBCU students to submit designs for 
potential inclusion in Target’s Black History Month collection . 
Three winning designs were selected, and in addition to having their designs featured as part of 
this year’s collection, the winners also had the opportunity to partner with the Target team to 
learn about all aspects of production—from textile selection to placing the new products in 
stores. Read on to hear more about our winners and their thoughts on the experience. And if 
you’re an HBCU student, check out this year’s new challenges, including a new HBCU 
Technology Challenge  and HBCU Future Leaders in Retail Challenge . 
Diverse and Local Suppliers
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Number of diverse suppliers
 
 
 
 
 
 N/A
Total 702 442
New 297 81
Amount of spending with diverse suppliers N/A 
Tier 1 (USD) $1,471 million $1,043 million
Tier 2 (USD) $764 million $1,899 million
Change in Tier 1 spending with diverse suppliers year-over-year 41% -26% N/A 
Percentage of diverse supplier bid inclusion 52% 46% N/A 
Percentage of the procurement budget spent on suppliers 
local to Minnesota and three counties in Western Wisconsin 
(Polk, St. Croix and Pierce)4% 5% N/A 35
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossar y
Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing  
SDG
We are at our best when 
all guests see themselves 
reflected in our offerings and 
feel welcomed, included and 
joyful when they shop with us. 
Our product offerings reflect 
the needs and wants of our 
individual guests and are a 
constant opportunity for us  
to show our authenticity. 
It is important that every dimension of our guests 
is reflected across our entire business. Our 
inclusive products are driven by our belief that 
our guests should see their needs reflected in 
our offerings, regardless of their race, culture, 
physical abilities or sensitivities, shape or size. 
Our scale means we can lead the design and 
retail industry in inclusion and create waves 
of change.
Our Approach
Our inclusive design approach, Design for 
All, helps us meet our commitment to reflect 
our guests and their needs across our entire 
business in products and brands—including 
Pillowfort, Auden, All in Motion and more—that 
inspire them.As well as the products we design, we also 
provide curated products and brands selected to 
elevate the shopping experience of all our guests, 
which they can access through our stores and 
digital shopping channels, supported by inclusive 
marketing in stores and media.
In the coming years, this will be supplemented 
by our commitment to invest $2 billion with 
Black-owned businesses by the end of 2025, 
which will include increasing the number of 
products from Black-owned businesses for our 
guests to choose from and experience.
Read more on our environmental design and 
increasingly circular approach . 
Products and Design
We continue to help guests shop in line with 
their values and needs, for example, with our 
offerings of adaptive clothing. In addition, we 
continue to explore new opportunities in this 
area with the aim of producing more clothing 
designed for more people. For example, our 
All in Motion activewear and sporting goods 
line was developed with a focus on inclusivity, 
sustainability and quality and is another example 
of a brand that includes extended sizing. 
In 2019, we established our Inclusive 
Merchandising Council to verify that the products 
sold by Target are inclusive and representative 
of our guests and team. We furthered this 
work in 2020 by launching the Inclusive Design 
Council, which is tasked with educating and 
guiding relevant owned-brand teams in making 
our products even more inclusive from the 
design stage. Experience
Beyond the products we design ourselves, we 
also sell thousands of thoughtfully curated it ems 
to give typically underserved guests the shopping 
experience they deserve. Our Multicultural 
Merchandising team works to reflect the diversity 
of our guests in the assortment we offer, and our 
guests have responded—with over half a billion 
dollars in annual sales and 8.3% year-over-year 
growth in beauty and cosmetics, food and dolls 
designed for diverse audiences.
In August 2020, we added a new role: Director 
of Inclusive Products. This role owns the strategy 
for advancing social sustainability within our 
owned brands. It works with internal teams 
as well as brands, trade groups, certification 
bodies, diversity organizations and medical and 
academic institutions to map social strategies to 
business priorities and influence collective action. 
It also includes developing educational solutions 
that will elevate cultural competency.
Enhancing the Target Experience for Guests With Disabilities
In 2020, we began expanding how we serve guests with disabilities. This led to the launch of our 
Disability & Mental Health Business Council in 2021. Target also participated in the Disability:  IN, 
Disability Equality Index  survey for the first time in 2020 and scored 80 out of 100. Target is a 
strategic partner of the National Federation of the Blind  as we have been invited by them to be 
a Strategic Non-Visual Accessibility Partner (SNAP). Our Digital Accessibility team includes team 
members that represent both visible and invisible disabilities, providing a diverse perspective that 
includes the lived experience of those that we are building better experiences for.36
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Index es and Glossary
Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing
Access to affordable, high-quality foods is a 
challenge for too many people, all the more so 
with the economic disruption of 2020. Since its 
launch in 2019, our value-priced Good & Gather 
brand has been committed to formulations 
without artificial flavors, synthetic colors, artificial 
sweeteners or high fructose corn syrup.
Target also has a global team of accessibility 
consultants who ensure all guest-facing digital 
experiences are fully accessible to all guests, 
including those who use assistive technology. 
In 2020, as the conversation around social 
justice and racial equity grew, we noticed more 
guests were searching for Black-owned and 
Black-founded brands. While we have supplied 
these brands for years, we decided to make it 
easier for guests to find and support them by 
adding a new icon in the “details” section of our 
products pages. In 2021, we supplemented 
these efforts by launching the women-owned 
icon and an Asian-owned icon. 
We also continue to take steps to provide 
immersive experiences for team members that 
focus on eliminating bias. During 2020, we 
trained 270,000 hourly store team members 
on Creating an Inclusive Guest Experience and 
in 2021, we launched the Racism Untaught 
training workshops. Racism Untaught offers 
a toolkit using a design research process to 
assist in identifying racialized design and helps 
participants critically assess anti-racist design 
approaches. The training covers over 700 
owned-brands team members.Marketing
Our Inclusive Marketing Council was established 
in 2019 and is a cross-functional group that 
offers a diverse point of view and serves as a 
crucial source of guidance to help teams gain 
diverse cultural perspective, advocating for 
cultural literacy and acumen to ensure that all 
guests of all abilities feel heard, accepted and 
celebrated. For example, when it comes to our 
advertising, our swimwear campaigns celebrate 
women of all sizes, body types, abilities and skin 
tones, free of airbrushing. 
Our REACH Aims: 
Guests 
As part of our REACH commitments, we 
are dedicated to the following steps for 
our guests and communities:
• We’ll create environments where 
Black guests feel overtly welcome 
and see themselves represented 
across our products, marketing and 
shopping experiences
• We’ll source and design significantly 
more products from Black creators, 
designers, vendors, agencies, 
contractors and suppliers
Read more about our REACH commitments .
37
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Index es and Glossary
Product Quality & Safety 
SDG
We prioritize product and 
food safety and we care 
deeply about the quality and 
compliance of the brands 
we stock. So that our guests 
can enjoy their choices 
without concern, our vendors 
must ensure products meet 
regulatory, safety and quality 
standards for all Target 
owned-brand goods, exclusive 
goods and for all national 
brand products where Target 
is the importer of record. 
Our Approach
Product safety is primarily overseen by two 
teams: the Product Safety and Quality Assurance 
(PSQA) team manages non-food quality and 
safety, while the Food and Essentials Safety and 
Quality Assurance (FESQA) team oversees food 
and essentials.
General Merchandise
Target’s PSQA team protects our guests by 
requiring that our owned-brand products 
meet mandatory safety standards, and we 
frequently require owned-brand vendors to 
exceed regulatory requirements. We expect our 
vendors of owned- and national-brand products 
to comply with good manufacturing and quality 
processes. Our product safety and quality 
program is incorporated at every stage of the 
product life cycle of our owned-brand products. These products must pass all testing before they 
are approved for shipment. 
Food
Target’s FESQA team protects our guests by 
delivering high-quality and compliant food and 
essentials products. All factories that produce 
owned-brand food are accountable to regulatory 
requirements and Target food safety and quality 
standards, such as: 
• Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification 
(required since 2009) 
• Preventative Food Safety Plan 
• Environmental Monitoring Program for 
Pathogen Control 
• Allergen Management Program 
• Product traceability Product Quality & Safety
  
 
 
 Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Number of vendor factories (countries) 
producing owned-brand foodsN/A
Number of GFSI-certified food factories 925 (27) 821 (23)
Number of factories (countries) producing 
owned-brand non-food products1,601 (37) 1,990 (35) N/A 
Number of factory evaluations Target conducted N/A 
Food 1,505 1,201
Non-food 758 1,649
Number of product test reports for Target-brand products conducted by 
independent third-party labs29,750 32,633 N/A 
Number of product inspections of Target-brand products conducted by 
Target team members and independent third parties40,093 43,899 N/A 
We monitor the safety and quality of our 
food products through holistic food safety 
and quality management—from auditing 
vendor factories and fields to inspecting our 
distribution centers and stores. We align with 
local regulatory requirements for food manager 
certification in stores. We train on hazard analysis 
and critical control points in our distribution 
centers as well as across our headquarters 
team. We also provide vendor and new team 
member onboarding. 
Beyond regulatory compliance and safety we 
also have a dedicated Quality, Standards and 
Development team focusing on our owned-brand 
food products. The team establishes quality 
standards, and works in partnership with product 
development, FESQA and our vendors on quality 
management programs to ensure quality and 
consistency of owned brands. Receipts
In response to growing concern around the 
negative health effects of handling bisphenol A 
(BPA) and bisphenol S (BPS) chemicals found 
in standard thermal receipt paper, Target has 
transitioned to phenol-free receipt paper for all 
standard and mobile-device checkout lanes in 
our stores. This is a significant step in proactively 
ensuring the ongoing safety and health of our 
team members and guests. 
Recalls
If a product is recalled, we prevent further sales 
by issuing a lock on the product, notify guests 
who purchased a recalled item on Target.com 
or used a REDcard in stor es, and provide recall 
information on Target.com , Target’s Facebook 
application and in-store iPads at Guest Services 
or Help Centers. When an issue is identified with 
national brands, we tailor our response according 
to the product and the issue found.38
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Privacy & Cybersecurity 
SASB  SDG
Trust is at the foundation 
of our relationship with our 
guests. They trust that we sell 
them quality products at a 
good price. And they trust  
us to treat the personal data 
they share with us with care 
and respect. 
Target regularly receives and stores information 
about our guests, team members, vendors 
and other third parties. We collect information 
for a variety of purposes, including processing 
transactions, helping resolve guest issues, 
identifying fraud and improving our services. 
The information we collect also improves guest 
experience by delivering more personalized 
interactions and advertising on platforms like 
Target.com , our mobile app and social media, as 
well as TV and video platforms. 
We also use information we collect for reporting 
and analysis. We examine metrics such as how 
guests are shopping on our website and on 
our mobile applications, the performance of 
our marketing efforts and guests’ responses 
to our campaigns. Target seeks to achieve the 
balance between giving our guests the control 
they seek over their personal data and using data 
responsibly to create as little friction as possible, 
recognizing some data sharing is needed to 
deliver a product or facilitate a transaction.We have a comprehensive approach to 
upholding privacy and cybersecurity, as well as 
other enterprise risks. You can read more about 
the risks facing our business in the “Risk Factors” 
section of our Form 10-K . In 2020, privacy and 
cybersecurity risks were amplified by the shift 
to working from home for many of our team 
members and a shift toward online shopping 
among our guests. 
Our Approach
Securing the information we receive and store 
about our guests, team members, vendors 
and other third parties is important to us. We 
have systems in place to safely receive and 
store that information and to detect, contain 
and respond to data security incidents. While 
everyone at Target plays a part in information 
security, cybersecurity and data privacy, 
oversight responsibility is shared by the Board, 
its committees and management. Our Chief 
Information Security Officer provides regular 
risk updates and program reviews to the Board 
and its committees throughout the year. Read 
more about our oversight of these areas in our 
2021 Proxy Statement . 
Privacy
Everyone at Target who works with personal 
information has a responsibility to understand 
and honor our privacy obligations. They must 
read and comply with our internal Privacy 
Compliance Policy and actively work with our 
Privacy Compliance team to design processes 
and procedures in accordance with those 
requirements. Team members must complete 
mandatory annual training to understand the requirements necessary to properly collect, use 
or share personal information. 
Third parties are not governed by our Privacy 
Policy but they are required to comply with any 
applicable laws, regulations and requirements 
provided in our legal agreements.
Our dedicated Privacy Compliance team 
is responsible for identifying and managing 
privacy risks and elevating them to our Chief 
Compliance Officer (CCO) and Chief Legal & 
Risk Officer. The team works with our business 
to design privacy controls into our operations. 
We invest in our team members and support 
continual learning and professional certification, 
including the Certified Information Privacy 
Professional designation. 
We conduct external benchmarking from retail 
and other industries to understand best practices 
and industry trends in the privacy space. We 
are also active participants and contributors 
to the Retail Industry Leaders Association’s 
Privacy Leaders Council  and the National Retail 
Federation’s Privacy Working Group .
Our Privacy Policy covers all current and former 
guest personal information, except for Target 
debit  and credit  cards, which are governed by 
separate policies. Our policy, which details how 
we collect, use and share guests’ personal 
information, as well as guests’ options to limit our 
use and storage of their information, is available 
on our website . In addition, we recognize the 
particular importance of protecting privacy where 
children are involved. We do not knowingly 
collect personal information online from children 
under the age of 13. 39
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Privacy & Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity
Our Cybersecurity team works 24/7 and uses 
a combination of industry-leading tools and 
in-house innovative technologies to ensure 
Target and our guests are protected against 
cybercriminals and fraudsters. We operate a 
proactive threat intelligence program to identify 
and assess risk and run a Cyber Fusion Center 
around the clock to investigate and respond to 
cyber threats.
Target has a Cyber Threat Intelligence team to 
keep pace with evolving threats and industry 
trends, as well as a Vendor Security team that 
continuously monitors for and assesses risk 
with our suppliers. Our people are what set 
us apart—which is why we invest heavily in 
building and developing cybersecurity talent and 
engineering expertise in-house rather than relying 
on third-party providers. Our team has been 
awarded 17 patents to date, with more pending, 
and we actively contribute to open source. 
As part of our Cybersecurity team’s investment 
in development and growth, we offer in-house 
training and educational courses through our 
Cyber Plus Institute (CPI). CPI is a security 
training curriculum leveraging internal subject 
matter expertise along with curated resources. 
The goal is to provide immersive, structured 
and on-demand experiences through dedicated learning paths. Target also has partnerships 
with organizations including the Executive 
Women’s Forum, Women in CyberSecurity, 
and the International Consortium of Minority 
Cybersecurity Professionals to strengthen 
mentorship and support networks for our team 
members as well as expand and diversify the 
future talent pipeline. 
We consider cybersecurity a team sport and 
have been recognized for our commitment 
to information sharing and collaboration with 
organizations across all industries to fight 
cybercrime and advance capabilities. Target 
leaders serve on the boards of the Retail & 
Hospitality Information Sharing and Analysis 
Center , the Financial Services Information Sharing 
Analysis Center and the Payment Card Industry 
Security Standards Council Board of Advisors. 
All Target team members are responsible for 
complying with our privacy and information 
security standards and complete mandatory 
annual training to understand the behaviors 
and technical requirements necessary to 
keep our company and guests’ information 
secure. We also offer ongoing practice and 
education for team members to recognize 
and report suspicious activity. In addition, 
we maintain insurance coverage to limit our 
exposure to certain events, including network 
security matters.
40
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Index es and Glossary
Serving and Strengthening Communities  
SDG
The communities where 
we live and work sustain 
businesses, employees  
and families. We recognize  
our success is intrinsically 
linked to their well-being  
and prosperity. 
There is no doubt that 2020 was a challenging 
and difficult year. We all struggled with the 
health and economic impacts of a global 
pandemic, and were shaken by the killings 
of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud 
Arbery and many more. It was also a year of 
destructive wildfires, hurricanes, floods and 
other weather events driven by climate change. 
And, as so often happens, the weight of these 
disasters fell disproportionately on already 
disadvantaged communities. 
We see our stores as part of the community—
and so much more. We hire from our 
communities and invest in their economic 
development. We provide goods and access 
to essentials and we volunteer and donate to 
organizations working on the most important 
community issues. We continue to aim to be the 
place where anyone from the neighborhood can 
come in and get what they need in a clean, safe 
and always welcoming environment. As a retailer 
with stores in diverse neighborhoods across the 
country, Target is uniquely positioned to engage 
with communities and support their overall vitality 
and resilience.Our Approach 
In our commitment to equity, we start by listening 
to and learning from our community stakeholders 
on everything from how we contribute 
philanthropically to how we engage and 
volunteer. We then take a strategic approach, 
implementing solutions that leverage our unique 
assets, capabilities and resources.
For over 70 years, we have given 5% of our 
profits to communities. In 2020, that amount 
equated to $245 million in cash and in-kind 
donations. Our team members regularly donate 
over 1 million volunteer hours per year in total, 
although we paused many of these efforts in 
2020 due to safety concerns. 
The challenges we seek to address are as 
diverse as the communities we serve. Our 
work spans the spectrum from hyper-local to 
global, with donations ranging from hundreds of 
dollars to millions. Our investments are a blend 
of support for organizations serving community 
needs, programs and partners that are seeking 
to reshape systems and responsive support 
providing relief in times of crisis and need. 
We align the assets and capabilities of our 
business to serve communities through a variety 
of tactics that leverage our size and scale as 
one of the country’s largest retailers: 
• Community engagement
• Corporate philanthropy
• Volunteerism and team member giving
• Target FoundationCommunity Engagement 
As a brick-and-mortar retailer, Target is both 
a national and community retailer and a part 
of more than 1,900 communities. Day in, day 
out, we seek to be a contributing member to 
thriving local economies in towns, cities and 
states across the country. We provide economic 
opportunity through good jobs  and contracts for 
goods and services . We listen to our community 
members to better understand their needs, and 
we work to offer products and experiences  that 
are relevant and accessible to our diverse guests. 
During lockdowns, Target was designated 
as an essential service as a source for food 
and essentials. As the scale of the pandemic 
grew, our team engaged with our local 
partners to quickly respond to the impacts on 
communities: from financial and food insecurity 
to the destabilization of nonprofit groups when 
their services were needed most, and the 
disproportionate impacts upon people of color. 
Our team identified on-the-ground partners 
operating in pandemic hot spots from New York 
City to California to Arizona and directed flexible, 
general operating grants to pandemic relief 
funds that were efficiently meeting the needs of 
vulnerable populations (including seniors and the 
homeless), supporting essential services (including 
schools and first responders) and providing critical 
items (such as PPE and cleaning supplies). As the 
pandemic progressed, we stayed closely engaged 
with our community-based partners to understand 
how conditions were evolving on the ground and 
where additional support would be needed.Target Circle
We provide guests in our Target Circle 
loyalty program with votes for every 
purchase, which they can use to direct 
our funding to food banks, pet shelters, 
youth programs and other organizations 
and causes in their own communities. 
Guests have already cast over 58 million 
votes, and directed Target’s donations of 
$7 million in the first year of the program. 
Over 600 nonprofits from across the 
country are now featured each quarter.
Corporate Philanthropy
Our corporate giving leverages a range of 
financial and in-kind resources across support for 
disaster and hunger relief, store community grant 
programs and local efforts to expand access to 
economic opportunity and resilience. 
When a natural disaster strikes, we’re on the 
scene quickly, providing supplies, volunteers and 
distribution networks through relief organizations. 
We invested $2 million throughout 2020 in 
support of natural disasters. 
Our local team members often know the needs 
of their communities best, so they are trained 
and equipped with the tools to direct donations 
to local schools and nonprofits. Our store and 
distribution center leaders fund local initiatives, 
nonprofits and organizations that are addressing 
critical needs in their neighborhoods through 
our Community Engagement Funds and 
GiftCard donations.41
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Serving and Strengthening Communities
Volunteerism & Team Member Giving
For the previous six years, Target volunteers 
contributed more than 1 million hours of service 
through thousands of organizations in the 
communities where they live and work to support 
causes they’re passionate about. 
COVID-19 posed a unique challenge to in-person 
volunteering and as such, we did not reach our 
1 million hours goal in 2020. However, we were 
still able to contribute nearly 500,000 hours of 
volunteer service as team members embraced 
differentiated volunteer experiences that met 
real-time needs, such as serving as election 
judges, participating in our pop-up food and 
essential giveaway events in response to civil 
unrest, and a variety of virtual opportunities.
We also empower team members to extend a 
helping hand to each other. The Target Team 
Member Giving Fund was created to help 
colleagues who are facing financial hardship after a natural disaster or unforeseen personal 
events. The fund relies primarily on contributions 
from Target, with support from individual 
donations. Team members across the U.S. and 
India can apply for up to a $2,000 grant to help 
in times of hardship. During 2020, $1.5 million 
was contributed by team members, and nearly 
$4.5 million in direct support was granted to over 
3,600 team members.
Pro Bono Volunteerism
To empower team members to use their skills 
and talents to address unmet needs in the 
broader community, in 2020, we committed to 
providing 10,000 hours of pro bono consulting 
services for BIPOC-owned small businesses 
in the Twin Cities. Over and above this, our 
headquarters-based Legal team also lends 
its expertise to organizations such as Wills 
for Heroes and the Immigrant Law Center 
of Minnesota. 
Target Foundation 
At the Target Foundation, we envision a world 
where all families and communities have the 
resources they need to determine and realize 
their own joy in life. We believe we have a 
responsibility to remove structural barriers, 
address historical disinvestment and help create 
access for those who have been left out. 
The Target Foundation plays a distinct role 
in Target’s philanthropy. The Foundation’s 
capabilities allow it to work toward long-term 
solutions across an ecosystem of complex and 
interconnected economic issues, grounded in the 
voices of BIPOC and Global South communities 
and organizations led by these voices. The Foundation is committed to enabling shared 
prosperity and opportunity by upholding equity 
and inclusion for all communities. Guided by our 
deep commitment to community, we invest in 
leaders, organizations, coalitions and networks 
that expand economic opportunity equitably, 
enabling communities to determine their 
own futures. 
In 2020, the Foundation leaned into responsive 
philanthropy to help enable grantees to adapt 
to the challenges presented by COVID-19. 
This included helping grantees redirect grant 
funds from specific capacity-building projects 
to general operating needs, addressing their 
needs for virtual program support and extending 
their grant timeline by months at a time. Target 
added numerous grantees over 2020, with the 
particular focus of providing emergency funds to 
lower-income families.
Our Target Foundation work supports three focus areas:
Focus Area Engagement Highlights 
Hometown: Advancing racial equity and shared prosperity in 
the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul West Broadway Business and Area Coalition  
In 2020, we provided a grant to the West Broadway Business and 
Area Coalition  (WBC). Grant funding will support WBC to work in 
partnership with the Black Women’s Wealth Alliance (BWWA) in 
its Resist & Thrive 2035 efforts—aiming to support Black women 
entrepreneurs and small business owners annually in creating 
and maintaining profitable, sustainable businesses along business 
corridors over the next 15 years. The grant will enable the launch 
of the first cohort of Black women entrepreneurs. 
National: Equitably advancing financial security and economic 
opportunity for working people and their families in a rapidly 
changing economy In 2020, we provided a two-year grant to the First Nations 
Development Institute . The funds will be used to advance research 
on the Native American wealth gap and to build the fundraising and 
communications capacity of Native-led nonprofits/tribal programs 
focused on Native community and economic development.
Global: Improving economic opportunities for families 
in emerging economies to sustain themselves and their 
communities for the long termWe have provided a three-year grant to the Industree Foundation  in 
India to help build sustainable livelihoods for underemployed women 
in the creative manufacturing sector. Industree aims to ensure these 
women can have higher and regular incomes, decent and equitable 
working conditions, and the ability to cope with life crises. Our grant 
directly supports the development of a new production community, 
digital and other training materials, and support tools.42
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Serving and Strengthening Communities
Our Communities in Focus: 
Engaging With and Listening to Black Communities 
In the wake of George Floyd’s murder, the 
Corporate Responsibility and Guest Insights 
teams engaged in and with Black communities 
across the country to listen, learn and identify 
what change they felt was needed and their 
opinion on what Target’s role should be. We 
launched this initiative in partnership with store 
team members of color in markets across the 
country, including Atlanta; Chicago; Los Angeles; 
Oakland, California; and Washington, D.C.
So far, we have:
• Focused our work in predominantly Black 
communities acutely impacted by the traumas 
of 2020
• Listened to over 500 individuals in one-on-one 
meetings, surveys and small groups
• Built trust with stakeholders critical to our 
business success in these markets, including 
guests, team members, government officials, 
small business and community organizations 
working to undo systemic racism and its 
impacts on Black Americans
• Identified the needs of these communities, from 
meeting basic needs to supporting the vitality of 
small businesses to supporting the pipeline of 
Black team members
• Made investments, programs and partnerships 
based on our community engagement and 
understanding of what the community thinks 
Target’s role at the local level should be 
The Corporate Responsibility team will continue 
devoting resources, both human and financial, 
to support ongoing efforts and engagement 
in ways that have implications throughout our 
local communities. For example, field teams have a key role to 
play, like in Los Angeles, when they organized 
a joint partnership between elected officials, 
community-based organizations, our store 
teams and Black-owned small businesses to 
distribute hundreds of cases of PPE and sanitizer 
so that businesses could safely operate. The 
field teams are continuing their engagement to 
execute partnerships, events and to be the face 
of Target in the community. Read more about our 
approach to civic engagement .
In our last report, we announced our $10 million 
investment  through Target and the Target 
Foundation to support community recovery and 
rebuilding efforts, as well as the social justice efforts 
of our partners such as the National Urban League 
and the African American Leadership Forum .
Our REACH Aims: 
Communities  
As part of our REACH commitments, we 
are dedicated to the following steps for 
our communities and civic engagement:
• We’ll find new ways for Target 
to accelerate the prosperity of 
Black communities
• We’ll prioritize philanthropic 
investments and design volunteerism 
to address racial inequities faced by 
Black communities
• In our work with policymakers, Target 
will address key issues that will help 
end systemic racism, including safety 
and police reform, education and 
economic opportunities
Read more about our REACH commitments .
43
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People 
Overview     Human Rights     Team Members     Supply Chain     Guests     CommunitiesPlanet Business Indexes and Glossary
Volunteerism and Philanthropy
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
 Metric 2020 2019 Scope Framework
Number of hours volunteered 496,260 1,064,215 Target team members 
(not necessarily during paid 
working hours)Target goal 
(annual: 1 million)
Amount donated through Target and Target 
Foundation (USD) $245 million $225 million Target + Target Foundation
Cash $70 million $68 million Target + Target Foundation
In kind $175 million $157 million Target
Amount donated through Target and Target Foundation (USD) to:
Organizations that support underrepresented communities in the U.S. $124 million $105 million Target + Target Foundation
Local community programs and organizations $231 million $199 million Target + Target F oundation
Disaster preparedness and response $14 million $1.3 million Target + Target F oundation
Amount of food donated7
7 In 2020, we updated our meals calculation to mirror industry best practice, which we did by removing non-food donations and pet 
food from the meals calculation. The figures in the metrics reflect these changes.By weight (pounds) 94.5 million 93.9 million Target
By number of meals 78.7 million 78.2 million Target
Guest-directed giving through Target Circle
Number of guests engaged 4.8 million 2.3 million Target
Number of gr ants distributed 2,527 972 Target
Number of grants distributed (USD) $7 million $2.4 million Target
Number of new soccer play spaces built since 2018 100 65 Target Target goal 
(2020:100)
Team member giving
Percentage of t eam members participating in the Team Member 
Giving Campaign8
8 Overall engagement with the Team Member Giving Campaign, including cash donations.90% 94% Target team members
Amount donated to organizations by team members through our annual  
giving campaign (USD)$9.6 million $10.4 million Target team membersServing and Strengthening Communities2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report             
           44 Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials  WaterBusiness Indexes and Glossary
Environment  
Planet
Smarter Actions for Healthier 
People and Planet
The planet we source from is the home we 
all share. From it we get the raw materials to make the owned-brand products our guests need and the energy and water we depend on to power our operations. These are resources we all use and they are the same resources future generations will need. That’s why we embed sustainability into how we design our products and processes, always exploring new ways to optimize resource use and innovate to eliminate waste.In This Section
45 Overview 
46 Environmental Responsibility in the 
Supply Chain 
48 Climate and Energy 
52 Waste and Circular Economy 
55 Chemicals 
57 Materials  
60 Water 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Overview
Caring for Our Planet
From renewable energy projects and embedding 
circular design principles to global partnerships and deep supplier engagement, we’re carrying positive impact into the homes and lives of our guests. As an organization with 
people  at 
our center and driven to be a better business , 
sustainability for us is as much about our social influence as our environmental impact. 
Frameworks reported on:
GRI
SASB
TCFD
UNGPRF
Our work contributes to these SDGs:Data Highlights
Total Renewable Energy Consumption
FY20 
Total: 38%RECs: 21%
Grid 
Electricity: 17%Total Number of Sites With Electric 
Vehicle Charging Stations
 2019 74
2020 117Number of People We Trained on 
Circular Design Since 2018
Team members
2,4222020
2019
1,632
Vendors
2020
1,153
2019
1,153Total Number of Electric Vehicle 
Charging Spaces
 2019 527
2020 1,034Total Number of Electric Vehicle 
Charging Spaces
 2019 16
2020 19
Percentage of Supplier Factories That Have Completed the Higg FEM 
Assessment (or equivalent environmental data assessment) 
Tier 1 Apparel factories
 2019 76%
2020 85%Tier 2 Fabric mills, packaging factories 
and trim factories
 2019 48%
2020 56%Corporate Emissions Rate for 
EPA-Applicable Refrigeration Systems (greater than 50 lbs) 
2019 
15.4%
2020 13.3%4546
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Wast e and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
 Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain 
SASB  SDG
We are working across 
our supply chain to create a cleaner, more efficient environment. Transparency and collaboration are the keys to this work.
At Target, we know that some areas of our 
supply chain may have outsized impacts, such as how we source certain materials and how we manufacture some products. We also know that our owned-brand manufacturing supply chain impacts the environment through energy and water consumption, emissions and wastewater, chemicals use and waste disposal. 
Our Approach
We are committed to mitigating our impacts by collaborating with suppliers and constantly looking for opportunities to improve our standards. 
We expect suppliers that produce Target’s owned and exclusive brands, as well as those that produce nationally branded products for which Target is the importer of record, to participate in Target’s Responsible Sourcing Program. This includes complying with our SOVE and all applicable national and local laws, as well as participating in our responsible sourcing oversight program. Policies
We outline our standards for suppliers’ environmental practices in our SOVE. To learn more about our social responsibility in the supply chain, click 
here. Suppliers must maintain 
legally required environmental permits and environmental management and monitoring systems that accurately track their impacts. Our standards also cover water stewardship, waste reduction and disposal, energy management and emissions to air. We have zero tolerance for suppliers with undersized, bypassed or inoperable wastewater treatment systems; suppliers that engage in illegal waste dumping; or suppliers operating without valid current permits. 
We are also raising expectations of our suppliers regarding wastewater. We have set a goal that all owned-brand apparel textile facilities will comply with the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Progressive level wastewater standard by 2025, and we will start reporting on their progress in 2022. 
Investing in Improvements 
Beyond our basic requirements, we also work with our most material suppliers (in terms of impacts) to improve energy and water management, including wastewater management. Two collaborations in particular have been very successful in fostering sustainable water and energy use in our textile and apparel supply chain: the 
Apparel Impact Institute (AII)’s Clean 
by Design (CbD) program  and the International 
Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Vietnam Improvement Program (VIP) and Cambodia Improvement Program (CIP). 
Since 2017, we have engaged a total of 135 apparel and home textile facilities through CbD, VIP and CIP. Of these, 54 facilities have completed the programs and achieved savings of 16.7%, which is equivalent to over 7.18 million cubic meters of water savings per year, and a reduction of 14.1% or nearly 400 million kWh of energy per year. Two cut and sew apparel factories located in North Vietnam are in the process of installing solar sites to further reduce their carbon footprint this year. 
In 2020, we continued to expand our programming with AII by joining the Carbon Leadership Program in Pakistan; this program aims to establish long-term partnerships with our supplier facilities to have them set carbon targets and drive action.47
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Monitoring Performance & Transparency
Target was the first major retailer to publish 
a list of Tier 1 factories and the first U.S. retailer to publish a list of our Tier 2 apparel wet-processing factories. We are currently assessing our owned-brand textile suppliers against the ZDHC wastewater standard. We have mapped all apparel owned-brand wet-processing suppliers (Tier 1 and Tier 2) on their wastewater performance in regards to ZDHC and will continue the work in 2021. 
As part of our efforts to improve transparency and visibility in our supply chain, we also continue to engage and collaborate with external stakeholders and vendor partners. We support and are represented on the board of the 
Open 
Apparel Registry  (OAR)—an open-source tool 
that creates unique IDs for apparel and footwear factories to facilitate collaboration and data sharing. We upload our list of Tier 1 apparel and accessories factories and Tier 2 apparel factories that produce owned-brand products to the OAR platform quarterly. 
We also share our supplier factory list with the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) Green Supply Chain Map. IPE’s map provides real-time performance data and historical trend information related to air-pollution emissions and wastewater discharge for thousands of major Chinese manufacturing factories. Audits and Verifications
Target’s Responsible Sourcing audit program monitors factories that produce Target’s owned and exclusive brands, as well as factories that produce nationally branded products for which Target is the importer of record. Environmental management indicators include possession of the appropriate permits, proper waste management methods, safe chemical usage and adequate wastewater treatment practices. Read more about our work with 
supply chain audit programs . 
To do business with Target, all Tier 1 and Tier 2 factories producing Target owned-brand products, and national brands where Target is the importer of record, must complete an annual Higg Facility Environmental Module (FEM) self-assessment. Target also uses the Higg FEM verification process to hold Tier 2 apparel textile suppliers accountable, to ensure compliance and to promote excellent environmental performance within our supply chain. Results are subject to third-party verification and mapped against our applicable environmental sustainability standard. We also accept completed Higg FEM verification from factories on our matrix that may have been nominated by another brand or retailer.
If any issues are found during an audit, we calibrate our response depending on the issue. There are zero-tolerance violations where we could deactivate the factory and there are immediate-resolution issues where we work with factories to ensure they show proper proof of compliance within a specific period of time. Find out more about our 
Responsible Sourcing and 
Sustainability Program . Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Percentage of supplier factories that have completed the Higg FEM 
assessment (or equivalent environmental data assessment)SASB 
CG-AA-430a.2
 
 
 
    Tier 1 apparel factories 85% 78%
Tier 2 fabric mills, retail packaging factories and trim factories 56% 48%
Average number of environmental issues per audit GRI 
308-2
China 0.6 1.5
Southeast Asia 0.8 1.7
The Americas 1.2 1.0
India, Bangladesh, P akistan, Egypt and T urkey 0.7 2.0
Other 0.9 1.6
Percentage of new suppliers scr eened using environmental criteria 100% 100% GRI 
308-1
Change in water withdrawal in textile dyeing and finishing factories located 
in priority watersheds17%9
9 The scope is all owned-business te xtile dyeing and finishing facilities located in priority watersheds, which are China, India, Vietnam and Cambodia, as we are aligning this with our work with AII and IFC. Due to the constraints of business relationship and resources, not all 
facilities are included in the program in those countries of production. We measure the water efficiency percentage by looking at each round of the performance improvement program. It is challenging to report the percentage of total facilities in scope for the water policy 
because our Tier 2 supplier matrix changes regularly.Target goal 
(2022: -15% )2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report           
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Climate and Energy 
SDG  TCFD
As a trusted brand with a 
central role in communities across the country, it’s our responsibility to lead the fight against climate change. Through our bold strategy, we’re adopting renewable energy, driving energy efficiency and implementing other sustainable practices. We’re also looking to catalyze change across our value chain, inspiring our suppliers to rapidly decarbonize and help us all realize a brighter future.From the California wildfires to a record high of 
30 tropical storms, 2020 brought devastating extreme weather that will only intensify as the climate warms further. Similarly, the COVID-19 pandemic laid bare our vulnerability to systemic risk, and how everything from our daily lives to the global economy can be upended by systemwide shocks.
While the effects of a changing climate are felt by all the people and communities acr oss our global 
operations, it is the most marginalized groups 
that will bear the greatest burden. A warming planet could drive greater headwinds in our fight against inequality and inequity in society.
Science tells us that we must act quickly and decisively to avoid the worst impacts of climate change.
Our Approach
All of our actions to address climate change support our top-level commitment to be a net zero enterprise by 2040. The science behind climate change necessitates aggressive emissions reductions and removals over the next two decades, and we will do our part. 
Our emissions reduction journey began in earnest in 2019 with our goal—approved by the SBTi—to reduce our retail purchased goods and services emissions by 30% by 2030 from a 2017 baseline. After three years of making progress toward that goal, and with the urgency of climate change more apparent than ever before, we have decided to increase our ambition further to achieve net zero emissions.Emissions
Scope Definition Our Impact
1 Direct emissions Target operates a variety of commercial properties, including stores, headquarters offices, 
distribution centers, data centers and off-site warehouses. These facilities consume electricity, natural gas, propane, mobile and stationary fuels, steam, chilled water and refrigerants. These emissions account for approximately 4% of our emissions footprint.
2 Indirect emissions
3 Indirect emissions (value chain)Our value chain covers manufacturing, product distribution, business travel, guests using our products and other indirect sources. Around 96% of our GHG emissions originate in our value chain and indirect sources. Goods and services that we purchase to keep our business operating account for approximately 46% of our Scope 3 emissions, and the remaining 54% come from use of sold products, transportation and other activities.
Our approach to meeting this goal spans our 
entire operations and supply chain, and includes regenerative agriculture programs, renewable energy investments, innovations in circularity and material efficiency, and many other initiatives. We are engaging our supply chain partners at every stage of this journey. By 2025, Target commits to engage suppliers to prioritize renewable energy and collaborate on solutions that protect, sustain and restore nature.
We have been working for multiple years to support our Scope 3 calculation, track progress against our goals and to implement initiatives to make sizable reductions against our goal.
Governance
The Corporate Responsibility, Properties and Responsible Sourcing and Sustainability teams coordinate Target’s climate change strategy, identify key initiative areas, assess risks and opportunities and implement the company’s response. See 
How We Govern Corporate 
Responsibility and ESG Issues .
Risk and Resilience
In addition to aggressively driving climate mitigation efforts, we must also fortify our business by mitigating risk and building resilience.In 2019, we performed a scenario analysis in line with TCFD recommendations. The physical and financial risks posed to our business by climate change are factored into our enterprise management systems and our annual 
CDP 
Climate Report . We assess these risks against 
their short- (five year), medium- (10 year) and long-term (20 year) impacts. 
Like our direct operations, the factories along our supply chain are vulnerable to the effects 
of extreme and unpredictable weather. This could not only damage their infrastructure and equipment, it could also increase the costs of their own supplies and services and disrupt our operations.
Public Policy
Target advocates for urgent action to be made by the U.S. government on the fight to combat climate change, including direct engagement with policymakers to urge action on climate change as a threat to our business. Read more about our 
advocacy approach to climate-related issues . 
We also track energy and carbon regulation and related proposals at the U.S. federal and state levels to identify opportunities to expand our energy commitments and those of our suppliers. 48 
 
 49
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Climate and Energy
SDG
Direct Operations
To reduce the footprint of our direct operations, 
we’re primarily focusing on improving our overall energy efficiency and transitioning to renewable energy.
Our internal Sustainable Building Council facilitates coordination of sustainability strategies and includes representatives from across properties businesses. This group helps develop priorities, milestones and roadmaps to meet our long-term goals. 
Renewable Energy 
We are also working on sourcing 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2030 for our operations, with an interim goal of 60% by 2025. We continue to invest in contracts for off-site renewable energy and rooftop solar projects on our facilities, even after having reached our 2020 goal of having rooftop solar at 500 facilities in November 2019. As of the end of 2020, we have installed solar at 542 sites across our chain. In 2020, the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) recognized Target as the top U.S. Corporate Onsite Installer for the fourth consecutive year. 
Our off-site projects invest in the use of 
renewables in communities  where we operate. 
In 2020, we signed several renewable power purchase and utility agreements. These further our commitment to power our operations with renewable energy and include: 
• Golden Buckle Solar Project in Texas (160 MW)
• Haystack Wind project in Nebraska (90 MW)
• Sparta solar project in Texas (42 MW)
• Salt River Project Central Line Solar in Arizona
• Duke Energy Clean Energy Connection Program in Florida
This year, several of Target’s contracted renewable energy projects also began producing clean energy for commercial operation, including our shares of Georgia Power’s Commercial & Industrial Renewable Energy Development Initiative, Puget Sound Energy’s Green Direct Skookumchuck Wind Facility energy project and the Leeward Renewable Energy Lone Tree Wind Project in Illinois. All of these projects now contribute toward Target’s clean energy portfolio.
Energy Consumption
 
 Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Total energy consumption (GJ) 19,454,429 20,040,246 SASB 
CG-MR-130a.1. (1)
Energy intensity ratio (U.S. electricity) (kWh/SF) 12.80 13.42 GRI 
302-3
Percentage of total energy that is renewable and for which we retire 
RECs (%)10
10 Renewable electricity includes renewable energy credits (RECs) from Target’s on-site and off-site projects, as well as electricity that 
we receive from renewable energy generation serving the electric grids where Target factories are located. Data sources include: Target’s 2020 fiscal year electricity consumption data, Target’s 2020 RECs and the CRS Utility Grid Accounting methodology for renewable mix, published in the latest EEI Utility Electricity Mix Database.14%11
11 The Center for Resource Solutions (CRS) Utility Grid Accounting methodology for renewable mix, adopted by CDP, the Climate Registry and RE100, is a more granular method, applying a regional and utility-specific method as published in the latest Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Utility Electricity Mix Database versus the national data used previously. This results in a utility grid renewable mix decline from 18% to 14% from FY2019 to FY2020.7% SASB 
CG-MR-130a.1. (3)
Total electricity consumption (GJ) 13,995,525 14,566,142 GRI 
302-1
Percentage of total energy consumed that is grid electricity 57% 65% SASB 
CG-MR-130a.1. (2)
Percentage of global electricity consumption that is renewable12
12 The scope of this data is U.S. domestic operations only, but international offices account for less than 1% of our overall electricity consumption.38% 27% Target goal 
(2025: 60%;  
2030: 100%) Cover ed by T arget RECs 21% 10%
Grid-renewable portion 17% 17%
Total number of stores and distribution centers with rooftop solar 542 516 Target goal 
(2020: 500)
Total number of EV charging spaces 1,034 527 Target goal 
(2020: 600)
Total number of sites with EV charging stations 117 74 Target goal 
(2020: 100)
Total number of states with EV charging stations 19 16 Target goal 
(2020: 20)50
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Climate and Energy
Refrigeration and Efficiency
To date, Target has certified 59 stores to the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s 
GreenChill standards  and installed around 
15,000 hydrofluorocarbon (HFC)-free units in our 
stores, accounting for approximately 57% of our operations’ refrigerants in stand-alone cases. Target is moving toward HFC-free refrigeration systems whenever technically feasible.
We are also building a portfolio of highly energy-efficient stores by continually adopting new technologies and operating procedures. Target has earned ENERGY STAR certification for over 1,500 facilities and was recognized as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year in 2021, for the sixth consecutive year. 
Electric Vehicle Charging
While it does not affect our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, another way our properties are 
helping communities fight climate change is through our electric vehicle (EV) charging program. We know many of our guests want to make the switch to EVs, but worry about the convenience of finding places to charge. Target set a goal to install 600 charging spaces at 100 sites by 2020, which we achieved in part through our collaborations with 
Tesla , Electrify America 
and ChargePoint .TCFD
Supply Chain
Through our science-based target, we committed to support our top 80% of suppliers by spend to set Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction targets in line with the science set out by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) by 2023. By the end of 2020, 23% of our suppliers by spend had set targets. With our supplier engagement program on climate, we continue to partner with suppliers through the journey of calculating their carbon footprint, setting science-based emission reduction targets, tracking progress and driving action together. 
By the close of 2019, our merchandise suppliers reported net reductions in their Scope 1 and 2 emissions that were equivalent to 3% of the baseline established in 2017. Half of the reductions were reported from third-party, verified datasets; the other half were validated internally by Target. Target participates in industry programs that focus on energy efficiency to reduce emissions within our suppliers’ factories. In addition, we recognize a benefit from greening electric grids in countries where our suppliers operate. Our suppliers are in the process of completing their 2020 data submissions by the end of the year. 
The historic challenges and unique retail needs driven by the dynamics of 2020 had an undeniable impact on the growth of our business as we met increased consumer demand. In turn, we also saw an increased impact of our emissions. Increased sales—$15 billion in 2020, greater than our growth in the prior 11 years—contributed to the overall 16.5% rise in our Scope 3 emissions. These increases do not deter us from our net zero commitment, nor from our work to continue creating strategies to avoid, reduce and remove emissions from our value chain. Our supply chain partners are joining us on that journey to expedite the work already in place to lower our collective impact, including maintaining responsible sourcing, efficiency, increasing renewable energy use and monitoring raw materials programs. Our net zero goal is ambitious, and we recognize the challenge ahead in reducing emissions while still growing our business. 
We continue to take a multi-faceted approach to our absolute emissions reduction, focused on the highest carbon impacts to have climate considerations embedded into business practices, including in product design and development and integration of climate performance into supplier scorecards.
Building on our existing supply chain initiatives, we are working to accelerate circular systems and achieve net zero emissions in our supply chains by 2040. Our 2025 ambitions for this work include: 
• We aim to have 50% of apparel, footwear, home and hardlines suppliers by spend achieve zero manufacturing waste to landfill 
• We aim to have at least 50% of the energy used in strategic and joint business partner owned operations come from renewables 
• We intend to leverage soil health practices to improve at least 1 million acres of land 
To learn more, see Responsible Sourcing & 
Sustainability 2025 Goals . 
Key Supply Chain Interventions by % Emission Contribution
Category % Emission Contribution How We’re Acting
Raw materials 35% naturally derived raw materials Regenerative agriculture 
Along with other major companies, Target is engaged in a five-year, 
$8.5 million project to support Nebraska farmers in advancing soil health techniques.
 
Responsible sourcing  
With multiple partners and stakeholders, Target is working to meet responsible sourcing commitments for 
palm oil , cotton , forest-
based products , coffee  and seafood .23% manufactured raw materials
Product manufacturing 23% Sustainable water and energy use  
We are collaborating with the AII’s CbD program and the IFC Vietnam VIP and CIP. 
Read more .
Transport 9% Sustainable logistics 
We seek opportunities to work with third-party logistics providers to improve the efficiency with which they move our products.
Packaging 10% Packaging commitments  
In 2020, we announced ambitious 2025 commitments to eliminate problematic plastics in packaging. 
Read more . 51
   
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report          
          Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials WaterBusiness Indexes and Glossary
Climate and Energy
Scope 1 and 2 Emissions
 
    
        
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions ( mtCO 2e)
Location based 2,192,085 2,433,234
Market based 1,883,429 2,298,450
Change in Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 2017 baseline (market based)  -26.7% -10.5% Target goal
(2030: -30% )
GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and 2, market based) ( mtCO 2e/SF) 0.00620 0.00763 GRI 
305-4
Gross quantity of direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ( mtCO 2e) 699,877 752,552 GRI 
305-1
Natural gas 251,325 238,899
Propane 1,776 1,758
Stationary diesel 1,664 1,955
Mobile diesel 22,554 41,470
Refrigerants 422,558 468,470
Quantity of Scope 1 biogenic CO2 emissions ( mtCO 2e) 0 0 GRI 
305-1
Corporate emissions rate for EPA-applicable refrigeration systems 
(greater than 50 lbs)13.3% 15% GreenChill 
Partnership
Pounds of ODS R-22 refrigerant removed and replaced with lower global warming potential (GWP) alternatives 19,712 27,243 GreenChill 
Partnership
Gross quantity of indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ( mtCO 2e) GRI 
305-2
Scope 2 total (location based) 1,492,208 1,680,682 
Scope 2 total (market based)  1,183,552 1,545,898
Electric (market) 1,179,557 1,541,283
Electric (location) 1,488,213 1,676,067
Steam 2,605 2,852
Chilled wat er  1,390  1,762Scope 3 Emissions *
* Our Scope 3 emissions were re-baselined and back cast in line with GHG Protocol as datasets and methodologies were improved. Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Percentage of suppliers, by spend, having set science-based reduction 
targets for Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions 23% 17% Target goal 
(2023: 80%)
Change in Scope 3 emissions from 2017 baseline 16.5%13
13 We expect to experience continued sales fluctuations, as we saw an increase in 2020 that is likely to have a material impact on our overall progress toward our goal. We will continue to drive the reductions needed to progress toward our absolute reduction target. 0.3%
Change in retail purchased goods and services from 2017 baseline 9.0%14
14 Changes in sales from 2017 t o 2020 drove a 9.0% increase in emissions. Supplier-reported emissions, which are part of our net emissions calculations, were not yet reported for 2020 at the time of publication and are not reflected in this figure. -7.1%15
15 Changes in sales from 2017 to 2019 drove a 4.1% reduction in emissions, accounting for over half of the total 7.1% reduction. Target goal 
(2030: -30% )
Quantity of gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions by GHG 
Protocol category ( mtCO 2e)64,789,000 55,789,000 GRI 
305-3
1 – Purchased goods and services 29,177,000 25,721,000
2 – Capital goods 708,000 789,000
3 – Fuel- and energy-related activities 397,000 453,000
4 – Upstream transportation and distribution 2,080,000 1,701,000
5 – Waste generated in operations 269,000 271,000
6 – Business travel 4,000 22,000
7 – Employee commuting 430,000 401,000
9 – Downstream transportation and distribution 5,284,000 5,671,000
11 – Use of sold products 23,140,000 17,990,000
12 – End-of-life treatment of sold products 3,300,000 2,768,000
Quantity of emissions from commercial air business travel ( mtCO 2e) 1,62316
16  Our business travel emissions estimate includes passenger miles on commercial airlines. We used emissions factors from the U.S. EPA Climate Leaders Business Module. Global warming potentials are from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second 
Assessment Report. We did not apply a radiative forcing adjustment to the verified airline travel emissions. 17,511 GRI 
305-3
Quantity of biogenic Scope 3 CO2 emissions ( mtCO 2e) 0 0 GRI 
305-3           
            52
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Waste and Circular Economy 
SASB  SDG
A sustainable future requires 
eliminating waste and keeping resources and products in use for as long as possible. Circular design is critical to realizing this—not just for the products Target makes and sells, but for our supply chain, our properties and all our ways of working. 
Our work to reduce our climate footprint aligns 
with our desire to help the transition to a zero-carbon economy in the future. We believe that to have sustainable impact, that economy must be a circular one that designs out waste, uses fewer materials and materials with lower environmental impact—including alternatives to plastics—and makes reuse and recycling easier. We’re reducing waste to help cut emissions, because it’s the smart way to work and because it is something that our guests and team members care about as much as we do.
As we progress in our journey toward zero waste, we will address the complete value chain by working upstream with our suppliers, improving our own operational waste and reducing the pain points such as packaging identified by our guests. Our Approach
We see circular design as a critical part of how we will deliver upon our Target Forward and associated 2030 goals. Enterprise-wide circular design principles are the backbone of our newly developed retail product packaging strategy that aspires to having a healthy, inclusive and waste-free future. The principles and training resources were co-created with industry experts and our internal teams and are relevant for all of our team members—whether or not they have “designer” in their job title. 
Circularity is incorporated throughout our business and brings our diverse teams together to ensure we positively impact both people and planet. Read more about how we are working with 
more diverse suppliers  and developing more 
diverse products . 
Products
Promoting Circular Design and a Zero Waste Culture
In 2020, we also launched Target’s Circular Design Guide, a web-based training hub for team members to learn about circular design and how it impacts their daily work. The interactive resource includes videos, tools and case studies, which we also incorporate into onboarding. 
We have completed beta testing for our Circular Design Calculator that enables team members to calculate key factors when choosing materials and have expanded use of the tool to up to 500 team members.Examples of new products that show how this training is being integrated into our work include:
Universal Thread 
Our Universal Thread denim team is working to enable a future where these jeans can be recaptured in a closed loop, by using better materials such as Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)-certified cotton, recycled cotton and recycled polyester. By considering wash finishes that reduce water, Universal Thread has also contributed to over 30% of Target’s total wash water reductions. Our designers also utilize 3D technologies for garment fittings to reduce the number of samples needed. Our team is also always thinking about the human impact of garments and through our partnership with Fair Trade USA has had our factories certified and has impacted 41,557 lives this year to date. Finally, to ensure inclusivity was at the core of the brand the team designed 
an adaptive jean  that 
features elements like no back pockets, a stretch waistband and side zippers at the hem for any adaptive needs.
Spritz
Spritz paper products are already made with materials that are 100% certified by the FSC. The team has now designed and is offering compostable tableware, 95% recycled FSC-certified paper gift bags that are also designed for recyclability and it has redesigned packaging to be recyclable. It has also designed and engineered its décor products, plastic serveware and gift bags to ensure multiple uses. The team is ultimately seeking to create products that are reusable, that are made from regenerative materials (or non-oil-based materials) and that can be recycled so they stay within a closed loop. Cat & Jack
Sequins are a favorite for our guests and their children. Our Cat & Jack team saw an opportunity to not only delight our guests with more shir ts with sequins but do it sustainably. 
The team worked with their sequin suppliers to source recycled sequins, which are now used in all flip sequin t-shirts.
Find out more about our work on enabling 
sustainable design choices  in our choice 
of chemicals. 
Exploring Alternatives for Plastic Packaging
We know consumers are concerned about plastic packaging impacts. We want to use data to inform our decisions, drive positive systems changes through pre-competitive collaboration across the supply chain and understand the holistic impact of plastic packaging changes.
Since the 2020 launch of the Consortium to Reinvent the Retail Bag, where Target is a founding partner, the initiative is now made up of 13 partners from across retail sectors, including the other founding partners of CVS Health and Walmart. Led by Closed Loop Partners, the Consortium launched an innovation challenge, in partnership with IDEO, and announced nine winners in early 2021.
In addition, as we also continue to increase digital sales, we are investing in changes to our transit packaging and materials choices. For example, in March 2020, we replaced bubble wrap with “hexcel,” a 100% recyclable product, for all product orders shipped from stores. 53
          
            
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Waste and Circular Economy
In 2020, we announced ambitious 2025 
commitments to reduce annual total virgin plastic in owned-brand packaging, make owned-brand packaging with 20% post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic content and design 100% of owned-brand packaging to be recyclable, compostable or reusable. We aspire to enable the circular economy for plastic by exploring alternative materials, delivery systems and reuse models and pilot new innovation in the owned and national brands we carry. 
In June 2021, we announced a new goal to reduce the total volume of virgin plastic packaging by 20% in our owned-brand Food, Beauty and Essentials businesses, measured against our total plastic packaging baseline volume in these categories in 2020 (70,413 metric tonnes). As members of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and a signatory of the New Plastics Economy and the U.S. Plastics Pact, we join other groups across the plastics value chain in the shared vision to eliminate unnecessary plastic waste through reduction and innovation.
Recycling Returned, Unsold and End-of Life Products
Target has long understood the importance of a robust reverse-supply-and-salvage program. Currently, 67% of the reverse-stream material that comes back to Target is in apparel and home. We endeavor to make recycling simpler and more convenient for our guests with select take-back programs. We have offered front-of-store recycling of plastic bags and some electronics since 2010 and have held child car seat recycling events since 2016. Our service providers manage 100% of our electronics waste onshore—no materials are exported. Batteries are handled internally and by our hazardous waste vendor, which recycles them and provides tracking data.
In 2020, we also began piloting a textile-to-textile recycling project with 
Circ. We are taking our 
end-of-season, overstock and end-of-life textiles and, with Circ, converting them into new raw materials. As our test project, we are turning the recycled raw material into approximately 5,000 of our Target-branded T-shirts that we provide annually to team members for volunteer events.
Managing Waste
Diverting Waste Disposal
When we can’t eliminate waste, we try to divert it from landfill. In 2020, 60.2% of construction waste was diverted and we diverted 80.1% of our operational waste from landfill. Our Properties team has been recycling eligible roof membrane from reroofing projects since 2007. In 2020, this amounted to approximately 13,000 tons of material.We recycled over 13,000 tons of metal from fixtures in 2019. 
We continue to use the How2Recycle label on our owned-brand packaging to make recycling options more clear for guests. We have applied the label to our owned-brand Food and Beverage and Essentials and Beauty packaging, and we are working toward applying it more broadly, where relevant. For food that cannot be donated, we have implemented—and continue to implement—organics or composting programs where possible, currently at 545 facilities. 
Sets, Events and In-Store Marketing 
We have also applied sustainability principles to guest-facing events and internal team meetings. Since each project is different, a new sustainability plan is designed for each event. When planning, we require our agencies and vendors to adhere to sustainability guidelines and assign sustainability resources and experts on-site to support them. 
In 2020, we began printing our digital display signs in-store. This gives us the flexibility to print the exact number of signs we need when we need them, reducing waste and eliminating the need for shipping. We have continued our work to reduce our use of landfill-only foam core by replacing it with recycled and recyclable corrugate signing.Eliminating Food Waste 
We employ multiple tactics to reduce food waste. We’re carefully looking at our replenishment strategy so that we don’t hold more food than we think we will sell, and we stock what is relevant to a particular store and the guests it serves. This work relies on improving our inventory accuracy through forecasting, ordering tools, merchandising solutions and offering guests discounts on food close to expiration. 
We continue to use a standardized date-label initiative across our owned-brand products to help provide clearer guidance to our guests and help reduce food waste in their home.
This past year we tested and began rolling out a new store ordering capability for short shelf life items in produce that provides more consolidated information and forecasts for stores team members to use when replenishing products that currently have high waste rates. 
When we still end up with more food than we can sell, we use store tools and technology to promote donating food, through our trusted partner Feeding America. In 2020, we donated 94.5 million pounds of food, which is equivalent to 78.7 million meals.
17 
17 In 2020, we updated our meals calculation to mirror industry best practice, which we did by removing non-food donations and pet food from the meals calculation. The figures in the metrics reflect these changes.54
       
            
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Waste and Circular Economy
Materials & Waste Management
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Circular Economy
Cumulative number of people we trained on circular design since 2018
Team members 2,422 1,632
Vendors 1,153 1,153
Cumulative amount invested in textile recycling technologies since 
2018 (USD) $1,002,810 $937,810 Target goal 
(2020: $1 million)
Recycled polyester used (tons) 38,700 34,800 GRI 
301-2
Apparel & Accessories 23,100 20,300
Home & Hardline 15,600 14,500
Annual amount of waste recycled from car seat recycling program 
(million pounds)3.3 7.0 GRI 
301-3
Percentage of owned-brand products in Food & Beverage and Essentials & 
Beauty with the How2Recycle label where space allows96.0% 96.5% Target goal 
(2020: 100%)
Responsible Disposal of Waste
Percentage of operational waste diverted from landfill 80.1% 77.5%
Number of Target locations with organics recycling 537 343
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste (tons) 1,008,746 966,378 GRI 
306-2
Weight of hazardous operational waste (tons) 1,534 1,204 GRI 
306-2
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste disposed of by reuse (tons) 167,430 175,879 GRI 
306-2
Plastic hangers 10,387 4,996
Donations 53,720 52,442
Salvage 104,499 118,441        
  
  Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste disposed of by 
recycling (tons)641,762 550,762 GRI 
306-2
Cardboard 573,633 514,564
Plastic bags and shrink wr ap 11,538 10,282
Plastic, glass and aluminum cans and bottles 4,673 4,480
Electronics 9,706 2,859
Metal 13,552 14,921
Paper 2,794 3,121
Used cooking oil 165 168
Other 17,884 18,012
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste disposed of by composting (tons) 7,133 5,345 GRI 
306-2
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste disposed of by recovery, 
including energy recovery (tons) 0.4 1 GRI 
306-2
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste disposed of by incineration (mass burn) (tons) 273 151 GRI 
306-2
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste disposed of by landfill (tons) 199,590 216,546 GRI 
306-2
Weight of non-hazardous operational waste disposed of by other means (tons) 167,430 33 GRI 
306-2
Material release and container recycling (i.e., helium) 0 0
Wastewater treatment 42 33
Weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of by recycling (tons) 14 12 GRI 
306-2
Weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of by recovery, including energy recovery (tons) 3 3 GRI 
306-2
Weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of by incineration 
(mass burn) (tons)1,513 1,191 GRI 
306-2
Weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of by landfill (tons) 0 0 GRI 
306-2
Weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of by other means (tons) 3 12 GRI 
306-2
Material release and container recycling (i.e., helium) 0 0
Wastewater treatment 3 12
Number and volume of r ecorded spills None None 306-355
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
   
           
      Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals    Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Chemicals 
SASB  
Our guests care about what 
goes in, on and around their bodies, and so do we. They trust us to deliver products that are better for them, their families, their communities and our shared planet. 
Chemicals are the building blocks of our products. 
They create the function of and put the fun into products, from clothes to cleaning supplies. Most are helpful, but some can cause harm to people and environments. We have a unique opportunity to use our size and scale to impact the value chain, whether in the manufacturing of our owned-brand products or in local store and distribution communities or beyond.
We prioritize eliminating chemicals with the biggest potential health and environmental impact, factoring in their prevalence within our products and operations. We also prioritize products that guests tell us are most important to them. These are everyday items that our guests use for themselves, their families and their homes, and it is essential that we make it easy for them to understand and trust the way we address chemicals. 
Our Approach 
Since establishing our comprehensive Chemicals Policy framework across all our product categories and operations in 2017, we have remained committed to advancing transparency, progressive chemical management and green chemistry innovation across our value chain. This strategy encompasses brands we own and others we sell, as well as products used in our operations (such as cleaning supplies), though how we pursue these objectives differs by area of our business and product type. 
Formulated Essentials
Since releasing our Chemicals Policy and setting the associated 
chemical management and 
transparency goals  in 2017, we have made 
steady progress. When we set these goals, we knew it would be a challenge to the industry. Though we weren’t able to achieve the goals by the end of 2020 because not all of our partners were willing to disclose or reformulate products, all of our in-scope owned-brand products either currently meet the goals or have plans for rolling changes to do so. We are still pleased with our progress over the past few years, and rather than extending the deadlines, we are applying learnings from the implementation of these goals to evolve our approach for these product categories. 
We learned that incentives for change can help us make great strides alongside our supply chain partners—and we’ll endeavor to keep programs like Target Clean based on a list of chemical compounds we seek to remove from our assortment.
We also know that there is a much broader set of chemicals of concern than what we’re currently tracking—and we’ll begin learning how to calculate our aggregate usage of chemicals and set targets for reduction via the Chemical Footprint Project, of which we’re already a signatory and survey participant.
56
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Chemicals
SASB  
Textiles
In the case of textiles, we have primarily focused 
on our owned-brand supply chain, where we have greater influence over what goes into the product as well as the process. Our Restricted Substances List (RSL) applies to owned-brand clothing and non-clothing textiles and since January 2020 all in-scope products must meet our RSL. To assess compliance, we incorporate RSL validation into our owned-brand Multistage Testing Program, taking a risk-based testing approach. If a product is not compliant, we will not sell it. Our Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL), which we adopted from ZDHC, also applies to owned-brand textiles. We have implemented our MRSL with all our apparel wet-processing suppliers, all of which meet or have a plan to meet our MRSL requirements. We work with ZDHC on updates to its MRSL. 
Read 
more about ZDHC . 
We have also set goals to remove two categories of chemicals from owned-brands 
and national-brand exclusive textile products we sell by 2022: added flame retardants that are potential carcinogens or pose harm to guests, workers or communities and perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs, expanded scope to include perflourinated alkyl substances), which are typically found in stain- and water-resistant coatings. We continued to make progress on these efforts in 2020. Direct Operations
Responsible chemical management is embedded across our business, including in the way we manage our facilities. We address chemicals using our policy as guidance, such as: 
• Tracking vendor use of neonics through our Neonicotinoid Management Plan 
• Updating training on salt application in winter at stores impacted by snow and ice
• Transitioning to phenol-free receipt paper for all standard and mobile-device checkout lanes in our stores 
• Responsibly managing inventory and usage throughout the supply chain, using data and on-site visits to verify appropriate purchasing, calibration of equipment and team member understanding for the responsible application of chemicals used to clean our facilities
Moving the Industry
We are investing in innovative new green chemistry ideas and sharing our chemical lists and guidance publicly. We believe that taking steps to transform our industry will play an important role in advancing safety for supply chain workers, and we have exceeded our goal to invest $5 million in green chemistry innovation by 2022, with $5,499,159 spent by the end of 2020.
We also participate in multiple industrywide collaborations. For example, we are members of the Green Chemistry & Commerce Council (GC3) and participate in the Retailer Leadership Council (RLC). In 2020, the RLC continued development of a 
roadmap  to encourage better transparency 
in supply chains around the chemicals used in consumer products and to guide participating companies in how to meet best practices by 2022.Chemicals
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Amount invested in green chemistry innovation since 2017 (USD) $5,499,159 $3,741,522 Target goal 
(2022: $5 million)
Percentage of SKUs in owned- and national-brand beauty, baby care, 
personal care and household cleaning formulated products to which we 
have access to screen ingredients80% 76%
Percentage of SKUs in owned- and national-brand beauty, baby 
care, personal care and household cleaning formulated products with 
transparency for all ingredients, including generics such as fragrance43% 35% Target goal 
(2020: 100%)
Percentage of SKUs in owned- and national-brand beauty, baby care, 
personal care and household cleaning product categories formulated 
without phthalates, propylparaben, butylparaben, formaldehyde, 
formaldehyde donors or nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEs)54% 47% Target goal 
(2020: 100%)
57
          
            
 
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials  Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Materials 
SASB  SDG  TCFD  
Earth’s natural resources 
provide us with essential raw materials for our products. To help our suppliers source responsibly while minimizing harm to the planet and supporting communities, we have developed policies and programs for key materials. 
The key raw materials in the products we source 
can have significant impacts: on people across our supply chain and in communities nearby, including indigenous populations, and on biodiversity, both from direct agricultural practices and shifts in land use. 
Deforestation is often associated with the production of commodities like palm oil, soy, cattle and rubber. Forests host irreplaceable ecosystems that mitigate climate change, foster habitat biodiversity and offer livelihoods for communities. 
Apart from their environmental impacts, cotton, palm oil, coffee and seafood have all been tied to forced labor. We manage 
human rights impacts 
in our supply chain  through policies, partnerships 
and various types of due diligence. Our Approach 
We seek to protect our shared environment and the people who cultivate our supplies primarily through responsibly sourcing materials for our owned-brand products. 
Our sourcing teams, suppliers and designers are aligned with our values and empowered to drive progress on our commitments. Our guests’ needs play a part in helping us choose which products we focus our sustainability and sourcing efforts on and whether we leverage our impact through our owned brands or national brands. 
We have published commitments for forest 
products , cotton , animal welfare , palm oil  and 
seafood . Reporting on our progress toward 
these commitments keeps us accountable and transparent. We are also a proud member of multiple external partnerships that are focused on driving innovation and transparency around how key resources are grown, sourced and produced. 
58
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Materials
Certifications
While we recognize that third-party standards are 
not without their faults, we view them in many cases as a good pathway to gain confidence in the practices used and foster change as part of a larger ecosystem of companies and consumers. 
Our suppliers utilize certifications from the Forest 
Stewardship Council  (FSC), Marine Stewardship 
Council  (MSC), Aquaculture Stewardship 
Council  (ASC), Best Aquaculture Practices 
(BAP), the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil 
(RSPO), Fair Trade USA  and others to guide our 
sourcing decisions for our owned br ands. W e 
communicat e sustainability-r elated information 
of interest to our guests and put clear icons on products to highlight their certification. 
In our forestry supply chains, we use chain-of-cust ody certifications wherever possible 
to ensure we source from well-managed forests, preferring FSC standards. However, chain-of-custody wood supplies are not always available. Recently we collaborated with Preferred by Nature, an organization with expertise in forest product supply chain auditing and risk mitigation, to analyze an uncertified supply of wood. This pilot is helping us craft a process to minimize risk when a certification is not available.
Partnerships
We also rely heavily on working groups and nongovernmental organization (NGO) partners to inform our sourcing policies and push for systemic improvements to agricultural systems. These include: 
Internal Standards and Goals
Several of our internal material standards are still being phased into implementation. We continue to implement our Responsible Sourcing Policy for Forest Products, through collaboration with suppliers and other stakeholders. As a first step in our transition to responsibly sourced forest fibers, we are focusing on three areas: paper-based materials, furniture and décor, and rayon used in apparel. We are also shifting to more sustainable packaging materials for our owned brands. We have been offering direct support through developing training videos and documentation for factories looking to be certified. This work earned us a Leadership Award from FSC in 2020.Materials
Partner Program
U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef (USRSB) Participating with the industry in making beef production more sustainable
Practical Farmers of Iowa, The Nature 
Conservancy and Sustainable Food LabCollaborating to protect and promote biodiversity and soil health 
Field to Market: The Alliance for 
Sustainable AgricultureSupporting continuous improvement in U.S. commodity agriculture as an 
associate member
BCI Farmers Helping train farmers to use water efficiently and reduce their use of the most harmful 
chemicals, as well as committing to respecting worker rights and well-being 
Cotton LEADS Purchasing LEADS-certified products, which address environmental impacts 
on land and soil, biodiversity and carbon footprint, as well as accountability 
throughout the supply chain 
FishWise Working to monitor and continually improve the sustainability of our farmed and 
wild-caught seafood assortment
Sustainable Packaging Coalition and the 
American Forest FoundationHelping develop the Forests in Focus platform to identify risks in forest product 
supply chains and engage with forest owners
GreenBlue and the Sustainable 
Packaging CoalitionDeveloping a guide to verify responsible sourcing
Earthworm Foundation Partnering to achieve traceability to the mill level in our palm oil supply chain
Arvind Funding a cotton program with our apparel supplier that aims to convert 500 cotton 
farmers in India to adopt organic and regenerative farming practices over the next 
five years
World Wildlife Fund Funding a project to analyze the costs associated with rubber farming and 
converting land to more efficient rubber production
We have committed to using RSPO physically certified (Mass Balance, Segregated or Identity Preserved) palm oil, palm kernels and derivatives in relevant owned-brand product categories and aim, by the end of 2022, to achieve traceability to the mill level.
Building on our existing food animal welfare commitments, we launched expanded animal welfare standards this year that cover raw materials used in our general merchandise categories. All of these commitment and goals are grounded in our belief that every animal deserves humane treatment throughout its life. We also continued to make progress toward our time-bound goals on cage-free eggs and transitioning to suppliers that do not use sow gestation crates. Our Implementation team meets regularly with our pork suppliers to discuss developments and collaborate on overcoming challenges. One recent example included connecting one of our suppliers with crate-free producers to help expand its capacity. Looking ahead to 2022, our suppliers are transitioning their equipment to provide the crate-free pork we need. 
Our goals and commitments also help focus our responsible sourcing work. Our goals for key commodities include: 
• Source 100% sustainable cotton (i.e., BCI and U.S. LEADS certified) for our owned- and exclusive-brand products by 2022
• Source all owned-brand paper-based retail packaging from sustainably managed forests by 2022
• Roll out implementation of our forest products policy among our relevant owned brands: Up&Up, Pillowfort and Cat & Jack by 2020; Threshold and Smith & Hawken by 2022
• Transition to only cage-free shell eggs, pending available supply, by 2025
• Engage suppliers that do not use sow gestation crates by 2022
• Certify all palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives in Target’s owned-brand food, household cleaning, personal care, baby care, beauty, cosmetics and candle products by RSPO or an equivalent standard with a Mass Balance, Segregated or Identity Preserved supply chain certification by the end of 2022. Target also aims to increase the portion of Segregated and Identity Preserved palm oil used in its products over time
• Trace our palm oil supply chain to the mill level by the end of 2022
Find out about our efforts to support regenerative agriculture in 
Climate and Energy . 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report59
 
  
 
 
  
            
            
Materials
 Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Materials
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Wood/Pulp
Percentage of owned-brand paper-based packaging sourced from 
sustainably managed forests63% 51% SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2
Percentage of SKUs that conform to Target’s forest products policy in Target goal  
2018: 100%  
2020: 100%  
2020: 100%Spritz 99% 99%
Up&Up, Pillowfort and Cat & Jack 64% 38%
Threshold and Smith & Hawken 24% 0%
Percentage of rayon meeting CanopyStyle commitment 100% n/a Target goal 
(2020: 100%)
Palm Oil
Amount of palm oil sourced (metric tonnes) 8,497 4,526 SASB 
CG-HP-430a.1
Percentage of sourced palm oil certified through RSPO supply chains SASB 
CG-HP-430a.1  
SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2Identity Preserved 1% 0%
Segregated 7% 1%
Mass Balance 82% 45%
Book & Claim 10% 54%
Percentage of palm volume traced to the 
Importer 81% 79%
Mill n/a n/a 
 Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Cotton
Cotton from sustainable cotton standards (metric tonnes) SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2  
Target goal 
(2022: 100%)BCI 109,131 79,776
U.S. Cotton LEADS 3,805 3,600
Animal Welfare
Percentage of shell eggs sold from cage-free sources (by revenue) 50% 51% SASB 
FB-FR-430a.2  
Target goal 
(2025: 100%)
Coffee
Percentage of SKUs of Good & Gather coffee in bags or pods certified by 
Fair Trade USA100% 27% SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2  
Target goal 
(2022: 100%)
Seafood
Percentage by weight of seafood meeting our Sustainable Seafood Policy SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2
Fresh and frozen 100% 100%
Shelf-stable tuna  n/a n/a
Sushi n/a n/a2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report60
          
            Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water  Business Indexes and Glossary
 Water 
SASB  SDG  UNGPRF  
Clean, drinkable water and 
sanitation are human rights and essential to maintaining human and environmental health—yet clean freshwater sources are disappearing at an alarming rate. We recognize the tension between protecting freshwater supplies and needing it to operate our business. 
Water is essential to our agricultural materials 
for food and textile products, manufacturing 
(particularly of apparel and textiles)  and 
operations of our stores, distribution centers 
and offices . 
Access to clean water is also a fundamental need for communities all along our value chain. Beyond our and our suppliers’ consumption of water, our value chain also impacts water resources through agricultural and wastewater discharge and runoff, runoff from our properties and use of the products we sell, e.g., microfiber shedding.
Our Approach
We focus on safeguarding freshwater quality, quantity and access, tailoring our approach to best manage our impact in high-priority regions, products and processes along our entire value chain. In 2020, we used the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool to understand our water risk for both domestic and international facilities. In domestic locations, we’ll use this updated data to prioritize efforts in highest-risk watersheds. In our international supply chain, this water risk information is incorporated into a hotspot mapping exercise by facilities’ Higg data that helps us prioritize which locations to focus on for programs like AII and IFC based on their 
environment footprint . We rely on key 
partnerships—in which Target often has a high level of involvement and engagement—to better direct our efforts and reduce our impact. Our strategic focus areas include 
food and fiber 
(such as cotton)  in our raw material supply 
chain; textile and apparel factories  in priority 
watersheds in our manufacturing supply chain; and demand reduction and stormwater flows in our direct operations. 
Supply Chain
Details on water-related work in our supply chain are covered already elsewhere in this report: 
• Our partnership with BCI saved an estimated 
12.9 billion gallons of water in 2020 
• Our regenerative agriculture  work will 
reduce agricultural runoff, in addition to its climate benefits
• Our work with ZDHC sets higher standards 
for factory wastewater discharge and reduces the presence of 
harmful chemicals in the 
manufacturing process for owned-brand textiles
• Ongoing programs with AII and IFC are improving water efficiency in apparel processing
• We support communities’ access to water and 
sanitation  through Water.orgMaking Water Equitable
Water is a human right and a resource that every single one of us needs. We r ealize that 
access to it has been impacted by systemic human rights violations and we take a holistic approach to water management to address these. California has a highly engineered water system, meaning it was built by people and therefore was the result of decisions made by people in power. 
Target is a member of the California Water Action Collaborative (CWAC), a platform for leading environmental NGOs, corporations, agricultural producers and others to come together and pursue collective action projects to improve California’s water security for people, business, agriculture and nature. In 2020, CWAC began work to embed an equity approach to projects’ identification and prioritization. This is intended to meet the mission of water resilience for all Californians; racial equity must be embedded and explicitly a part of our work moving forward.
This work will include diversifying CWAC membership and educating current membership about the inequities built into California’s water system. As a member of CWAC, we will also help identify and help support projects that prioritize economically or historically disinvested communities with compromised access to safe and affordable drinking water, those disproportionately burdened by water and those who may not have the investment capabilities to upgrade water fixtures to be more efficient. 
Find out more about the work we’re doing to 
make our communities more inclusive . 
Direct Operations 
Target has continued to operate and maintain best practices in managing stormwater and the quality of water leaving our sites. We’ve created a comprehensive stormwater management system for each of our stores. In 2020, Target launched a refreshed 
smart salting training program  for 
our stores, distribution centers and headquarters facilities that experience snow events, based on techniques developed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. We’ve also partnered closely with watershed groups in Minnesota to retrofit existing stores with green stormwater infrastructure to capture and 
treat runoff before it leaves our sites, and we have received a grant award from Philadelphia’s Green City, Clean Waters. We plan to update the system at the Bridesburg neighborhood store to help the city meet its water quality objectives.2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report                 
      
 
 
 61 Introduction People Planet 
Overview Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain Climate and Energy 
Waste and Circular Economy Chemicals Materials Water Business Indexes and Glossary
Water
In addition to our water quality work, we have 
also invested in water efficiency. We have a goal to reduce absolute water withdrawals at our stores, distribution centers and headquarters facilities by 15% by 2025 from our 2010 baseline of roughly 3.4 billion gallons. We are excited to announce that we reached our goal early and have reduced our water use in our operations by 17.7%. We work with local municipalities and water providers to improve our efficiency in our operations through water data review, reporting and utility efficiency audits. And we’re investing in smart irrigation technologies as well as efficient restroom fixture upgrades in 2021, which will help further reduce our water demand as well as create safer restrooms with hands-free toilets and faucets.
Products
Target is an associate member of The Microfibre Consortium, which facilitates the development of practical solutions for the textile industry to minimize fiber fragmentation and release to the environment from textile manufacturing and product life cycle. We have also supported OceanWise for microplastics research by funding a cohort through the Outdoor Industry Association (OIA). 
Target has used waterless dyeing in some owned-brand fabrics since 2013, and we continue to design garment-washed apparel for water savings. Due to changes in tracking systems, we cannot report data for 2020 and 2021,
18
18 2020 data was gathered using a different method than previous years due to the transition of systems. but we are on track to achieve our goal of designing 100% of garment-washed owned-brand apparel utilizing water-saving design principles by 2025. 
Beyond the Fence Line
We also have an ongoing commitment to 
continuously promote sustainable water management in California. The state is one of the most water-stressed areas in the world—and it is where much of the fresh produce we source comes from and where our largest store footprint is located. We have continued our leadership within the CWAC and Ceres’ Connect the Drops campaign. In 2020, we pursued collective action projects with Pacific Institute, Bonneville Environmental Foundation and the Arbor Day Foundation, based on our membership in CWAC. Water use
Metric 2020 2019 Framework
Manufacturing
Percentage of SKUs of garment-washed owned-brand apparel utilizing 
water-saving design principles (%)74% 49% Target goal 
(2025: 100%) 
SASB 
CG-AA-430a.1Denim 95% 61%
Non-denim 53% 42%
Direct Operations
Water withdrawal GRI 
303-3
Reduce absolute water use in stores, distribution centers 
and headquarters-17.7% -14.5% Target goal 
(2025: -15% )
Total water withdrawn (ML) 10,571 10,986 SASB 
CG-HP-140a.1 
Percentage from municipal water utilities (%) >99% >99% SASB 
CG-HP-140a.1 
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues Ethics Public Policy & Civic Engagement Indexes and Glossary 
Governance 
Business
Built on Ethics 
Operating ethically is a core value for Target 
and we are guided by robust governance processes and policies. Our suite of policies directs our approach to everything, from how we advocate for our business and manage our operations to how we communicate with guests and engage with our communities. In all that we do, we strive to embody our values of inclusivity, connection and drive. 
Frameworks reported on: 
GRI 
TCFD 
UNGPRF 
Our work contributes to these SDGs: In This Section 
63 How We Govern Corporate 
Responsibility and ESG Issues 
64 Ethics 
65 Public Policy & Civic Engagement62
        
        63
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues Ethics Public Policy & Civic Engagement Indexes and Glossary 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues 
TCFD 
Management and Board Oversight 
Corporate responsibility is part of the strategic 
core of our business and is embedded across functions to make sure we consider sustainability and responsibility at every level. 
At the management level, our ESG-related activities are led and coordinated by our Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility, who has regular interactions with our Board of Directors and its Governance Committee. The Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility is responsible for: 
• Conducting regular materiality assessments to determine the topics of most significance to our stakeholders 
• Collaborating with other members of management to instill ESG-related priorities into our business operations, including product design and development, sourcing and supply chain operations and our new store development 
• Developing ESG-related goals and managing our ESG data, measurement and reporting Given the breadth of ESG issues for a company of Target’s size and scale, oversight of those issues occurs within our existing organizational framework for the Board and its committees. In general: 
Governing ESG 
Responsible Party Oversight Area for ESG Issues 
Board Oversees our strategic approach to sustainable long-term value creation consistent with  
our declared purpose of helping all families discover the joy of everyday life, approves major strategic initiatives in support of long-term goals and addresses critical issues as they arise,  such as Target’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to address inequities and  social justice reform 
Governance Committee Addresses ESG topics on a consolidated basis by allocating responsibilities for ESG topics among the Board and its committees as part of its reviews of our charter documents and overseeing our overall approach to corporate responsibility, including our materiality assessment process, the establishment of long-term ambitions and goals for ESG matters and reviewing our annual ESG or Corporate Responsibility Report 
Human Resources & Compensation Committee Oversees matters that impact our team, including training and development, team member health and wellness, DE&I and pay equity matters 
Risk & Compliance Committee Oversees our principal operating, business and compliance and ethics risks, including environmental matters, responsible and ethical sourcing, cybersecurity and workplace conduct 
You can find more information about our Board of Directors in our Proxy Statement .64
        2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues Ethics Public Policy & Civic Engagement Indexes and Glossary 
Ethics 
As a purpose-driven company, 
we know how important it is to draw on our shared values to bring our purpose to life. Every good decision upholds our values, strengthens our brand and maintains our connection and trust with people and communities we serve. 
Our Approach 
Our Code of Ethics  establishes expectations 
to consistently guide ethical decision-making 
by our team members, while our Vendor Code 
of Conduct  communicates our expectations of 
ethical behavior by our business partners. 
Target team members are required to follow 
applicable laws and Target’s Code of Ethics and policies, which address areas such as DE&I, privacy and data security and conducting business fairly. Team members are required to hold themselves and each other accountable to the Code of Ethics and report any actual or suspected violations. Target acts promptly and appropriately to all substantiated reports. 
Our Board members have a separate Code of Ethics, contained within our 
Corporate 
Governance Guidelines , tailored to their unique 
role. New members also participate in an orientation program that includes corporate responsibility priorities. Ethics & Compliance Training 
Target provides team members guidance on ethics and the compliance responsibilities relevant to their roles. Delivered at new hire onboarding and annually, our mandatory ethics and compliance trainings are one of the ways we reinforce expectations for every team member. 
Beyond core ethics, our approximately 170 compliance trainings cover a wide range of key obligations and behaviors, including anti-bribery, government interactions, anti-competitive behavior, environment, food safety and privacy. We also train on employment compliance topics, including wage and hour, discrimination and harassment, and health and safety. Training is tailored to Target’s specific operations and team functions. For instance, team members who interact with government officials receive additional training to reinforce our anti-bribery policies and practices. 
We train on ethics yearly because training keeps us sharp, committed and effective in our actions, and regularly reinforcing ethics shows what we value and what we expect from each other as a team. 
Anti-hate, Anti-violence and Anti-Racism 
Since mid-2020, there has been an alarming increase in hate-based violence happening across communities—against women, against people who are Jewish, Muslim and Christian, people with disabilities, people in the BIPOC and LGBTQIA communities and so many others who have either been singled out as different or randomly attacked. We firmly believe that hate, racism and violence have no place for anyone who aspires to serve all families. As a part of our efforts, we have introduced in-depth anti-racism experiences, immersions and training for all team members, starting with company officers. 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Target is committed to conducting business ethically. We neither rely upon nor tolerate unethical or illegal business practices. Our Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery Policy provide anti-corruption guidance that we require all team members to understand and follow. We strive to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery laws. 
We similarly expect vendors, suppliers, contractors, subcontractors and their agents to comply with bribery laws. 
Anti-Competitive Behavior 
Acting ethically is core to our approach and we believe that by complying with competition and antitrust laws, we promote free and fair competition between companies. 
Our Antitrust Policy requires our team members to comply with competition and antitrust laws and prohibits team members from making agreements 
with competitors that restrain competition.65
        2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues Ethics Public Policy & Civic Engagement Indexes and Glossary 
Public Policy & Civic Engagement 
SDG  
We believe it is important 
that everyone’s voice be heard and we have long encouraged active participation in public policy and civic affairs. That focus was increasingly important in 2020, as communities across the nation grappled with a global pandemic and calls for racial justice during a national election year. We believe cooperation is key to bringing people together and helping us all work toward our collective interests. As one of the largest employers in the U.S., 
operating in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, we believe it is important to lend our voice and experience to the public policy issues that affect our business and the community. 
That’s why it is—and has always been—important to us to work with government officials to shape equitable, effective public policies for our business and industry, our team members, our guests and our communities.  
Some of the top issues in the last year included: 
• The COVID-19 pandemic and related public policy issues 
• Tax 
• Employment policy 
• Trademark reform 
• Trade 
We adhere to applicable laws that govern our interactions with public officials and to our own company policies and disclosure practices. We work with elected officials of both political parties to help shape constructive public policy solutions that benefit our business, team, guests and the communities we serve. Our Approach 
Responding to the Pandemic 
As an essential retailer, we have been operating in all 50 states since the pandemic started. As more businesses began to reopen, we recognized how difficult it could be for them and the considerable adjustments they would need to make to their business all at once. We also recognize that communities and businesses are reliant on each other to create jobs and make communities the unique places that we’ve all come to know. 
From that perspective, we developed the SAFE Retail toolkit. The SAFE Retail toolkit is a resource available to any business that may be thinking about how to operate differently for some time into the future. It includes the processes and tools that we adopted to continue our operations while prioritizing public health and employee and community safety, packaged into a 60-page resource. It’s not only an overview of the changes Target made, but also offers general resources for other businesses to immediately use. 
We shared the SAFE Retail toolkit with governors’ offices, business organizations and local- and county-level officials across the country. We spoke at webinars to share these learnings directly with small businesses and made it available online for anyone to access at it at any time. Our REACH Aims: Public Policy & Civic Engagement 
As part of our REACH commitments, Target will work with policymakers to address key issues such as safety and police reform, advancing education and economic opportunities for Black Americans and supporting nonpartisan efforts to encourage fair, accessible and safe voting. 
We recognize that we’re coming into this work without having all the answers. While our approach will focus on Black team members, guests and communities, we will be open-minded and collaborate with multiple community voices. 
Read more about our REACH commitments .        66
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues Ethics Public Policy & Civic Engagement Indexes and Glossary 
Public Policy & Civic Engagement 
Promoting Civic Engagement 
Civic participation is the backbone of a healthy 
democracy. Our goal is to inspire a culture of engagement at Target and provide meaningful opportunities for civic participation. To help do that, we recruit team members to shape and participate in our Citizens@Target network, which promotes nonpartisan, informed civic participation efforts that strengthen society and support our team and business. The Citizens@Target network hosts information sessions, including an event series on civil discourse and encouraging conversations across political divides. 
We have long offered paid time off to vote and introduced paid time off to work as an election judge for all team members. We also offered employees free rides to and from polls through Lyft where permitted by law and provided information, tools and resources so our team members and guests across the country could successfully participate in elections. 
We partnered with several national organizations to encourage voting, including the Civic Alliance, National Voter Registration Day, Vote Early Day, the League of Women Voters Education Fund and Time to Vote. Our Political Advocacy 
As a retailer and employer of over 350,000 team members, we play a constructive role in informing policymakers about many legislative issues. We advocate at all levels of government, sometimes through trade associations and policy-based organizations, to ensure that the impact legislative and regulatory issues have on our business, industry, communities and team members is understood. 
We work with elected officials of both political parties to help shape constructive public policy solutions that benefit our business, team, guests and the communities we serve. One way we do this is through contributions from our TargetCitizens Political Action Committee (PAC). TargetCitizens PAC is funded through voluntary contributions by eligible team members and contributes in a bipartisan manner to federal candidates and organizations. 
PAC contributions are based on policy and business priorities. Given the diversity of interests, viewpoints and the broad membership represented by these candidates and organizations, the positions they take do not always reflect Target’s purpose and beliefs.Target Corporate Political Contributions
Target Corporate Political Contributions
Jan. 1 – December 31, 2020
The following is a list of contributions of general corporate funds in the amount of $5,000 or 
more to support or oppose the election of candidates for office or ballot initiatives.
Organization Contribution
California Legislative Black Caucus $15,000
Florida Retail Federation PAC $13,000 
California Women's Caucus (Women in CA Leadership) $10,000 
California Moderate Dem Caucus (CA for Jobs and a Strong Economy) $10,000 
California Chamber of Commerce PAC $7,200
California Retail Assn Good Government Council $7,200 
New Jersey Retail PAC (IMPAC)  $5,000
New York Retailers for Effective Government  $5,000
California Republican Caucus  $5,000
New York Senate Republican Caucus  $5,000
New York Assembly Democratic Caucus  $5,000 
New York Senate Democratic Caucus  $5,000 
New York Assembly Republican Caucus  $5,000 
Community Leaders of America 
 $5,000 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Target is also a member of national organizations. Our team members attend conferences and 
other events hosted by these organizations to learn about elected officials’ policy priorities and initiatives and to share a retail perspective. Target expressly requires that our funds are used only to support educational and association management activities and not for campaign contributions. Because these organizations also engage in political efforts, we disclose our memberships as political contributions. 
Organization Contribution
National Governors Association $60,000 
Democratic Governors Association $50,000 
Republican Governors Association $50,000 
Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee $12,000
Republican Legislative Campaign Committee $12,000  
 
 
 
 
Published June 2021                67
            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Indexes  
 & Glossary
Reporting Frameworks 
Target reports against multiple global 
sustainability-focused indexes to give investors and other key stakeholders a transparent account of our performance and progress. These standards provide criteria for us to report against across a range of ESG topics and, taken together, provide a detailed, holistic view of our approach and achievements. In addition, this year we have sunsetted several goals and developed new commitments and have provided an overview of our journey so far. In This Section 
68 What We Achieved 
72  GRI 
87  SASB 
92   SDG 
95  TCFD 
99  UNGPRF 
105  Glossary68
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
What We Achieved 
We have worked hard to grow Target’s sustainability efforts and impact, and we’re proud of how far we’ve come. Now Target Forward will build on this work 
with new goals  to accelerate our ambitions and drive for additional change that is good for all. 
People (Social) 
Section Goal Goal Update * 
*   All quantitative company data, unless otherwise stated, reflect fiscal year 2020.Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain Enhance the lives of 3 million people in the factories and surrounding communities where Target’s 
goods are produced by 2020 Achieved 
3,427,774 as of December 31st 2020 
Team Members  — Employment Pay all team members a minimum hourly wage of at least $15 by the end of 2020 Achieved as of July 2020 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Increase representation of people of color to at or above the qualified applicant pool Increased representation for people of color in exempt roles by 15% 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Increase representation of women of color Increased women of color in exempt positions by 23% 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Increase gender equity in representation As of the end of 2020, our workforce is close to or above 50% women at all levels 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Reduce the rate of turnover for people of color and narrow the gap to white turnover We have more work to do to reduce turnover of team members of color but we are encouraged that we 
are driving toward positive progress 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Increase promotional rate of people of color from entry level to midlevel to at or above internal 
talent pool representation Increased the number of promotions for people of color from the exempt entry level to midlevel by 54% 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Increase promotional rate of female team members from midlevel to senior leadership to at or 
above internal talent pool representation Increased our promotion of women to senior leadership levels by 17% 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Maintain favorability among people of color on diversity and inclusion-related engagement survey 
questions and narrow the gap to white responses Due to COVID-19, we were unable to conduct the engagement survey in 2021 
Team Members —  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Achieve favorability among people of color on inclusive leadership-related engagement survey 
questions and narrow the gap to white responses Due to COVID-19, we were unable to conduct the engagement survey in 2021 
Serving and Strengthening Communities Volunteer 1 million hours annually Due to COVID-19 and restrictions on in-person volunteerism we were unable to achieve this goal. 
However, we were still able to contribute nearly 500,000 hours of volunteer service 
Serving and Strengthening Communities Build 100 new soccer play spaces by 2020 Achieved 
100 69
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
What We Achieved 
Planet (Environment) 
Section Goal Goal Update * 
*   All quantitative company data, unless otherwise stated, reflect fiscal year 2020. Climate and Energy Reduce our absolute Scope 3 retail purchased goods and services GHG emissions by 30% below 
2017 baseline levels by 2030 9%19 
19 Changes in sales from 2017 to 2020 drove a 9.0% increase in emissions. Supplier-reported emissions, which are part of our net emissions calculations, were not yet reported for 2020 at the time of publication and are not reflected in this figure. Climate and Energy Ensure that 80% of our retail and non-retail suppliers by spend will set science-based reduction 
targets on their Scope 1 and 2 emissions20
20 Find out more about GHG emissions Scopes here.  by 2023 23% 
Climate and Energy Reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 30% below 2017 baseline levels by 2030 26.7% reduction (Scope 1 and 2) 
Climate and Energy Source 100% renewable electricity21
21  Renewable electricity includes renewable energy credits (RECs) from Tar get’s on-site and off-site projects, as well as electricity that we receive from renewable energy generation serving the electric grids where Target factories are located. Data sources include: Target’s 2020 
fiscal year electricity consumption data, Target’s 2020 RECs and the CRS Utility Grid Accounting methodology for renewable mix, published in the latest EEI Utility Electricity Mix Database.  for our global operations by 2030 and 60% by 2025 38%22 
22 Target is now 38% powered by renewable electricity with: 
• 21% coming from Target Projects 
• 17% coming from the utility grid 
 We’ve reduced GHG emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 26.7% from 2017.Climate and Energy Add rooftop solar to 500 of our stores and distribution centers by 2020 Achieved 
542 sites with rooftop solar at year end 
Climate and Energy Expand our electric vehicle (EV) program to more than 600 parking spaces with charging stations 
at more than 100 sites across more than 20 states by 2020 Achieved 
1,034 spaces at 117 sites in 19 states 
Waste and Circular Economy Reduce food waste within our own operations by 50% by 2025 In progress 
Waste and Circular Economy Percentage of owned-brand products in Food & Beverage and Essentials & Beauty with the 
How2Recycle label where space allows Achieved 
96% compliance in Food & Beverage and Essentials & Beauty 
Waste and Circular Economy Support the Recycling Partnership’s mission to improve how more than 25% of the U.S. population 
recycles by 2020 Achieved 
37% 
Waste and Circular Economy Invest $1 million in textile-recycling technologies by 2020 Achieved 
$1,002,810 as of May 2020 
Waste and Circular Economy Create more demand for recycled packaging by creating three new end markets for recycled 
materials by 2020 Achieved 
3 new end markets created 
Chemicals Improve textile products by removing added flame retardants that are potential carcinogens or 
pose harm to guests, workers or communities by 2022 In progress 
Chemicals Improve textile products by removing added perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) from products 
by 2022 In progress 
 
  
 Planet (Environment) What We Achieved
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI    SASB    SDG    TCFD    UNGPRF    Glossary    
Section Goal Goal Update* 
*   All quantitative company data, unless otherwise stated, reflect fiscal year 2020. 70
Chemicals By the end of 2020, implement a Restrict
ed Substances List (RSL) for textiles used in all owned-
brand products Achieved 
Chemicals By the end of 2020, implement a Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL) for textiles 
used in all owned-brand products We have implemented our MRSL with all our apparel wet-processing suppliers, all of which meet or have a plan to meet our MRSL requirements 
Chemicals Achieve transparency for all ingredients, including generics such as fragrance, in beauty, baby care, personal care and household cleaning formulated products by 2020 43% of SKUs 
Chemicals Improve beauty, baby care, personal care and household cleaning product categories by formulating without phthalates, propylparaben, butylparaben, formaldehyde, formaldehyde donors or nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEs) by 2020 54% of SKUs improved 
Chemicals Invest up to $5 million in green chemistry innovation by 2022 Achieved 
$5,499,159 
Water Improve water efficiency in textile dyeing and finishing factories located in priority watersheds by 
15% by 2022 Achieved 
17% 
Water By 2025, all owned-brand apparel textile factories will comply with the Zero Discharge of 
Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) progressive-level wastewater standards In progress 
Water Reduce absolute water withdrawal in stores, distribution centers and headquarter locations by 15% below 2010 baseline by 2025 Achieved 
17.7% reduction 
Water Design 100% of garment-washed owned-brand apparel utilizing water-saving design principles 
by 2025 In progress 
95% of denim SKUs 53% of non-denim SKUs 
Materials: Coffee By 2022, 100% of Target’s Good & Gather coffee in both bags and pods will be certified 
sustainable according to the Fair Trade USA standard or an equivalent Achieved 
100% certified 
Materials: Cotton Source 100% sustainable cotton for our owned and exclusive-brand products by 2022 In progress Over 83,000 metric tonnes of Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) and U.S. LEADS cotton used 
Materials: Forest Products Source all owned-brand paper-based retail packaging from sustainably managed forests by 2022 63% by weight 
Materials: Forest Products Roll out implementation of our forest products policy among our relevant owned brands: Up&Up, 
Pillowfort and Cat & Jack by 2020; Threshold and Smith & Hawken by 2022 Percentage of SKUs that conform to Target’s forest products policy: 
99%—Spritz 64%—Up&Up, Pillowfort, Cat & Jack 24%—Threshold and Smith & Hawken Planet (Environment)                             
 What We Achieved
 71
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Section Goal Goal Update* 
*  All quantitative company data, unless otherwise stated, reflect fiscal year 2020.Materials: Forest Products Pursue viscose-apparel garment supply chains that are free of ancient and endangered forests, 
endangered species and controversial sources by 2020 Achieved 
100% 
Materials: Animal Welfare Transition to only cage-free shell eggs, pending available supply, by 2025 In progress 50% of sales 
Materials: Animal Welfare Eliminate the use of sow gestation crates by 2022 In progress 
Materials: Palm Oil All palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives in Target’s owned-brand food, household cleaning, 
personal care, baby care, beauty, cosmetics and candle products will be certified by Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or an equivalent standard with a Mass Balance, Segregated or Identity Preserved supply chain certification by the end of 2022. Target also aims to increase the portion of Segregated and Identity Preserved palm oil used in its products over time. In progress 
7% of volume certified Segregated 82% of volume certified Mass Balance 11% covered by credits 
Materials: Palm Oil Target aims to trace its palm oil supply chain to the mill level by the end of 2022 In progress 72
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standards Content Index 
We continue to report against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the most widely used framework for reporting on environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues. The report has been prepared with references to 2016 and 2018 GRI Standards. 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
General Disclosures 
Organizational Profile 
GRI 102: 
General Disclosures 2016 Name of the organization 102-1 Target Corporation 
2020 10-K: Cover page 
Activities, brands, products and services 102-2 2020 10-K: Business 
Target does not intentionally sell items that are banned in certain markets. 
Location of headquarters 102-3 2020 10-K: Properties 
Location of operations 102-4 2020 10-K: Properties 
Responsible Sourcing : See Global Factory List 
Ownership and legal form 102-5 2020 10-K: Business , Item 5 
Markets served 102-6 2020 10-K: Business , Properties 
Scale of the organization 102-7 2020 10-K: Business 
2020 10-K: Properties 
2020 10-K: Organization 
2020 10-K: Selected Financial Data 
Information on employees and other workers 102-8 Team Members pp. 20–28 
2020 10-K: Business 
Supply chain 102-9 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
2020 10-K: Business 
Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-10 There have been no significant changes to the organization or its supply chain. 
Precautionary Principle or approach 102-11 Target does not have an official policy as it pertains to the Precautionary Principle. 
External initiatives 102-12 Target incorporates a number of external standards into our work. These may be found referenced throughout the ESG report and on our 
website, including in our goals and within our policies. 
Meet some of Target’s partners . 
Membership of associations 102-13 Target partners with numerous organizations to bring our corporate responsibility vision to life through our business operations, within our 
industry and across communities. Our trade association and policy-based organization support  can be found on our corporate website. 
Strategy 
GRI 102: 
General Disclosures 2016 Statement from senior decision-maker 102-14 A Message From Our Chairman and CEO p. 05 
Key impacts, risks and opportunities 102-15 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
2020 10-K: Item 1A. Risk Factors pp. 5–11                            73
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Ethics and Integrity 
GRI 102: 
General Disclosures 2016 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 102-16 Ethics p. 64 
Our Purpose & History Code of Ethics 
Corporate Governance Guidelines (includes Director Code of Ethics)  pp. 9–10 
Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Vendor Code of Conduct 
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 102-17 Ethics p. 64 Code of Ethics 
Corporate Governance Guidelines (includes Director Code of Ethics)  pp. 9–10 
Target Integrity Hotline 
Governance 
GRI 102: 
General Disclosures 2016 Governance structure 102-18 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 Board of Directors 
Board Committees 
Corporate Governance Guidelines (includes Director Code of E
thics)  pp. 9–10 
2021 Proxy Statement: Corporate governance highlights pp.10–11 2021 Proxy Statement: Our directors p. 11 
2021 Proxy Statement: Board leadership structure p. 12 
2021 Proxy Statement: Committees pp. 13–15    
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18   
Delegating authority 102-19 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 P roxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Governance Committee Chart er 
Ex
ecutive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and 
social topics 102-20 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Pro xy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
Consulting stak eholders on economic, envir
onmental and 
social topics 102-21 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 2021 Proxy S tatement: Communications with dir ectors and shar eholder outr each p.  20 
Materiality & stak
eholder engagement webpage 
Composition of the highest governance body and 
its committees 102-22 2021 Proxy Statement: Our directors p. 11 
2021 Proxy Statement: Board leadership structure p. 12 
2021 Proxy Statement: Committees pp. 13–15 
2021 Proxy Statement: Item one Election of directors pp. 21-29 Board of Directors 
Board Committees 
Chair of the highest governance body 102-23 2021 Proxy Statement: Board leadership structure p.12 2020 10-K: Executive Officers 
Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 102-24 2021 Proxy Statement: Election of directors pp. 21–29 
Conflicts of int
erest 102-25 2021 Proxy Statement: Director independence p.19 2021 Proxy Statement: Policy on transactions with related persons pp. 19–20 2021 Pr o
xy Statement: Business ethics and conduct p. 20 
Code of Ethics 
Corporate Governance Guidelines (includes Director Code of Ethics)  pp. 9–10                            74 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
GovernanceGRI 102: 
General Disclosures 2016 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values 
and strategy 102-26 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Governance Committee Charter 
Collective knowledge of highest governance body 102-27 2021 Proxy Statement: Item one Election of Directors: 2021 nominees for director pp. 23–29 
Board of Directors 
Evaluating the highest governance body's performance 102-28 2021 Proxy Statement: Item one Election of directors: Board evaluations and refreshment p. 22 
Corporate Governance Guidelines (includes Director Code of Ethics): Board Recruitment, Evaluations and Refr eshment pp. 6–8 
Identifying and managing economic, environmental and 
social impacts 102-29 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
2021 Proxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
Effectiveness of risk management processes 102-30 2021 Proxy Statement: Committees p. 13–15 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Pr oxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
2021 Proxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
Review of economic, environmental and social topics 102-31 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Pr oxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Governance Committee Charter 
Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-32 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p.  18 
Privacy & Cybersecurity p. 38 
Human Rights p. 19 
Climate and Energy p. 48 
Communicating critical concerns 102-33 2021 Proxy Statement: Our directors p. 11 
2021 Proxy Statement: Board leadership structur e p. 12 
2021 Proxy Statement: Committees pp. 13–15 
Corporate Governance Guidelines (includes Director Code of Ethics) 
Code of Ethics 
Remuneration policies 102-35 2021 Proxy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pp. 34–49 
Process for determining remuneration 102-36 2021 Pr oxy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pp. 34–49 
Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102-37 2021 Pro xy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis: Shareholder support for our 2020 advisory vote on executive compensation 
and shar eholder outreach program p. 37 
2021 Proxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
2021 Proxy Statement: Item three Advisory approval of executive compensation (Say on Pay) p. 64 
Annual total compensation ratio 102-38 2021 Proxy Statement: Compensation tables: Pay ratio disclosure p.5975
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Stakeholder Engagement 
GRI 102: 
General Disclosures 2016 List of stakeholder groups 102-40 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
Collective bargaining agreements 102-41 None of our active workforce is covered under collective bargaining agreements. 
Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-42 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
2021 Proxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-43 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
2021 P roxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
Key topics and concerns raised 102-44 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
2021 Proxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
Reporting Practice 
GRI 102: 
General Disclosures 2016 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-45 2020 10-K: Exhibit (21) List of Significant Subsidiaries 
Unless specifically noted, the scope of this report does not include subsidiary, Shipt, or former subsidiar y, Dermstore. 
Defining report content and topic Boundaries 102-46 About This Report p. 04 
Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
List of material topics 102-47 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
Restat ements of information 102-48 Target has no restatements of information to report for 2020. 
Changes of reporting 102-49 There have been no changes to our material topics since our previous report. 
Reporting period 102-50 About This Report p. 04 
Date of most recent report 102-51 About This Report p. 04 
Reporting cycle 102-52 About This Report p. 04 
Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-53 CorporateResponsibility@Target.com 
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standar ds 102-54 The report is in reference to the GRI Standards. 
GRI Content Index 102-55 GRI Standards Content Index pp. 72–86 
External assurance 102-56 Some of our climate and energy data is independently verified to a limited level of assurance. We did not seek external assurance for the 
remainder of this report. 
Economic Performance 
GRI 201 
Economic Performance 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Stat ement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
2020 10-K: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations pp. 17–29 ;  
Risk Factors pp. 5–11 
Direct economic value generated and distributed 201-1 2020 10-K: Selected Financial Data ; Consolidated Statements of Oper ations 
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change 201-2 Climate webpage 
CDP Climate Response 
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201-3 2020 10-K: Defined Contribution Plans and Pension Plans pp. 56–57 
Financial assistance received from government 201-4 Target receives government assistance in the form of statutory and project-specific incentives, which may include tax credits.                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Indirect Economic Impacts 
GRI 203: 
Indirect Economic 
Impacts 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–43 
Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity pp. 33–34 
Infrastructure investments and services supported 203-1 Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–43 
Significant indirect economic impacts 203-2 Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–43 
Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity pp. 33–34 
Procurement Practices 
GRI 204: 
Procurement Practices 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
Proportion of spending on local suppliers 204-1 5.0% of our procurement came from Minnesota and three counties in Western Wisconsin (Polk, St. Croix and Pierce counties). 
Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity pp. 33–34 
Anti-Corruption 
GRI 205: 
Anti-Corruption 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Stat ement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Ethics p. 64 
Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205-1 Code of Ethics p. 23 and throughout 
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and procedures 205-2 Ethics p. 64 
Materials 
GRI 301: 
Materials 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy S tatement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Materials pp. 57–59 
Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54 
Recycled input materials used 301-2 Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 301-3 Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54762021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Energy 
GRI 302: Energy 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Climate and Energy pp. 48–49 
Energy consumption within the organization 302-1 Domestic Energy Consumption (GJ)*
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.: 
2020 2019 
Total Energy Consumption* 19,454,429 20,040,246 
Energy data reported in different units was converted into gigajoules (GJ) using http://www.onlineconversion.com/energy.htm. Percentage of 
r 
enewable on electricity grid is 18.6% and sourced from the U.S Energy Information Administration (EIA) Annual Energy Outlook (published 
January 2020). 
2020 Direct Energy Use 
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ 
Natural Gas* 47,317,336 Therms 0.1055 4,991,979 
Propane* 309,240 Gallons 0.1056 32,652 
Stationary Diesel* 124,998 Gallons 0.1458 18,225 
Mobile Diesel* 2,215,170 Gallons 0.1454 322,156 
Direct Energy Use Total* 5,365,011 
2019 Direct Energy Use 
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ 
Natural Gas*  44,977,905 Therms 0.1055  4,745,169 
Propane*  305,370 Gallons 0.0963  29,407 
Stationary Diesel*  190,370 Gallons 0.138 26,271 
Mobile Diesel*  4,063,907 Gallons 0.138  560,819 
Direct Energy Use Total*  5,361,666 77                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
EnergyGRI 302: 
Energy 2016 Energy consumption within the organization (continued)2020 Indirect Energy Use 
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ 
Grid Electricity *
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2,556,860 MWh 3.600 9,204,695 
Cooling (Chilled Water) * 14,586 MWh 3.600 52,509 
Steam * 39,226 MMBtu 1.055 41,383 
Nonrenewable Total * 9,298,588 
Renewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ 
On-site Solar (RECs) * 124,349 MWh 3.600 447,658 
Off-site Renewable (RECs) * 686,449 MWh 3.600 2,471,218 
Grid Electricity * 519,987 MWh 3.600 1,871,954 
Renewable Total * 4,790,830 
Indirect Energy Use Total * 14,089,417 
Solar is for total 2020 production where RECs have been held or retained. 
Off-site Renewable is for Wind & Green Tariff(s) 2020 production where RECs have been retained. 
2019 Indirect Energy Use 
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ 
Grid Electricity *  2,957,128 MWh 3.600  10,645,662 
Cooling (Chilled Water) *  15,496 MWh 3.600  55,784 
Steam *  53,700 MMBtu 1.055  56,654 
Nonrenewable Total *  10,758,099 
Renewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ 
On-site Solar (RECs) * 114,514 MWh 3.600  412,250 
Off-site Renewable (RECs) * 298,801 MWh 3.600  1,075,684 
Grid Electricity * 675,707 MWh 3.600  2,432,547 
Renewable Total * 3,920,481 
Indirect Energy Use Total * 14,678,580 
On-site Solar and Off-site Renewable is for where RECs have been retained. 
Our international electricity consumption is not included in the tables above, but accounts for less than 1% of total electricity 
consumption annually. 
Renewable grid electricity calculated based on the CRS Utility Grid Accounting methodology for renewable mix (adopted by CDP, the Climate Registr y and RE100), which provides a more granular method, applying a regional and utility-specific method as published in the 
latest EEI Utility Electricity Mix Database. Data for FY2019 was calculated based on the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s Annual Energy Outlook data on renewable energy generation in the U.S. 
Climate and Energy p. 50 782021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Energy
GRI 302: 
Energy 2016 Energy intensity 302-32020 2019 
Energy intensity ratio (kWh/SF) *
* Data have been independently verified, or calculat ed using independently verified data.12.80 13.42 
The energy intensity ratio above is calculated using electricity consumption in the U.S., divided by the square footage of our U.S. properties. 
Climate and Energy p. 50 
Reductions in energy consumption 302-42020 Energy Efficiency and Conservation Projects (U.S.) 
Improvement First-Year Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor GJ 
Parking Lot LED (549 stores) 25,746 3.600 92,686 
Backroom/Downlight LED (521 stores) 38,129 3.600 137,265 
Eco-Blades (281 stores) 1,802 3.600 6,486 
Total Energy Consumption Reduction 65,677 236,436 
Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives: 236,436 GJ. 
Types of energy included in the reductions: electric, heating, cooling. 
Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as baseline year or baseline: Annual Value (2020 Fiscal Year). 
Engineering calculations based on MWh reductions converted into GJ. 
2019 Energy Efficiency and Conservation Projects (U.S.) 
Improvement First-Year Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor GJ 
Sales Floor LED (54 stores) 12,148 3.600 43,733 
Parking Lot LED (333 stores) 20,849 3.600 75,056 
Backroom LED (208 stores) 13,810 3.600 49,716 
Downlight LED (286 st ores) 3,027 3.600 10,897 
Total Energy Consumption Reduction 49,834 179,402 
Climate and Energy p. 50 
Water & Effluents 
GRI 303: 
Water & Effluents 2018 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Water pp. 60–61 
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 46 
Water webpage 
Interactions with water as a shared resource 303-1 Water pp. 60–61 
Management of water discharge-related impacts 303-2 Water pp. 60–61 
Water withdrawal 303-3 Water pp. 60–61 
Water discharge 303-4 Our withdrawn water is discharged to municipal systems for treatment. At this time, Target does not track the amount of water discharged. 
Water consumption 303-5 At this time, Target does not track the amount of water discharged, and thus cannot quantify the water consumed in our direct operations. 
However, most of our wat er withdrawn from municipal systems is discharged back to the system with the exception of some water used for 
food/beverage production in our café, bakeries, and Starbucks and irrigation. 79
                                                        2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Biodiversity 
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Climate and Energy pp. 48, 50 
Significant impacts of activities, products, and services 
on biodiversity 304-2 Climate and Energy pp. 48, 50 
Defor estation webpage 
Emissions 
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Climat
e and Energy pp. 48, 50 
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-1Domestic GHG Emissions: Scope 1—Direct Emissions (mtCO 2e) 
2020 2019 
Natural Gas*
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.251,325 238,899 
Propane* 1,776 1,758 
Stationary Diesel* 1,664 1,955 
Mobile Diesel* 22,554 41,470 
Refrigerants* 422,558 468,470 
Total Emissions (Scope 1)* 699,877 752,552 
Gases included in the calculation: CO 2, CH 4,N2O and HFCs. 
Biogenic CO 2 emissions: 0 mtCO 2e. 
Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) r
ate used: AR4 Emission Factors; 2020-TCR-Default-EF-
March-2020; 2021-EPA-CCL Emissions-Factors-GHG-Invent
ories-April-2021. 
Chosen consolidation approach for emissions: Operational Control Standards, methodologies and assumptions used: AR4 Emission 
Factors; 2020-TCR-Default-EF-Mar
ch-2020; 2021-EPA-CCL Emissions-Factors-GHG-Inventories-April-2021. 
Climate and Energy p. 51 
Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-2Domestic GHG Emissions: Scope 2—Indirect Emissions (mtCO 2e) 
2020 2019 
Electric (Market)* 1,179,557 1,541,283 
Electric (Location)* 1,488,213 1,676,067 
Steam* 2,605 2,852 
Chilled Water* 1,390 1,762 
Total (Market—Scope 2)* 1,183,552 1,545,898 
Total (Location—Scope 2)* 1,492,208 1,680,682 
Total Emissions (Market—Scope 1 and 2)* 1,883,429 2,298,450 
Total Emissions (Location—Scope 1 and 2)* 2,192,085 2,433,234 
Gases included in the calculation: CO 2, CH 4,N2O and HFCs . 
Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) r
ate used: AR4 Emission Factors; 2020-TCR-Default-EF-
March-2020; 2021-EPA-CCL Emissions-Factors-GHG-Invent
ories-April-2021. 
Chosen consolidation approach for emissions: Operational Control. 
Our international electricity consumption is not included in the tables above, but accounts for less than 1% of total electricity 
consumption annually. 
Climate and Energy p. 51 802021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
EmissionsGRI 305: 
Emissions 2016 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-3GHG Emissions: Scope 3—Indirect Emissions by GHG Protocol Category (mtCO 2e) 
2020 2019 
1 – Purchased goods and services 29,177,000 25,721,000 
2 – Capital goods 708,000 789,000 
3 – Fuel- and energy-related emissions 397,000 453,000 
4 – Upstream transportation and distribution 2,080,000 1,701,000 
5 – Waste generated in operations 269,000 271,000 
6 – Business travel 4,000 22,000 
7 – Employee commuting 430,000 401,000 
8 – Upstream leased assets Not relevant Not relevant 
9 – Downstream transportation and distribution 5,284,000 5,671,000 
10 – Processing of sold products Not relevant Not relevant 
11 – Use of sold products 23,140,000 17,990,000 
12 – End-of-life treatment of sold products 3,300,000 2,768,000 
13 – Downstream leased assets Not relevant Not relevant 
14 – Franchises Not relevant Not relevant 
15 – Investments Not relevant Not relevant 
Total 64,789,000 55,787,000 
Our business travel emissions estimate includes passenger miles on commercial airlines. We used emissions factors from the U.S. EPA 
Climate L
eaders Business Module Updated April-2021. GWPs are from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth 
Assessment Report (AR4). We did not apply a radiative forcing adjustment to the airline travel emissions. 
Data only include corporate employee air travel. Gases included in the calculation: CO2, CH 4 and N 2O. 
Category 6 above includes travel by both commercial airlines and cars. Of that figure, commercial air travel has been calculated based on 
independently assured data: 
Independently V
erified Components of Scope 3 Indirect Emissions (mtCO 2e) 
2020 2019 
Commercial air travel*
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.1,623 17,511 
Climate and Energy p. 51 
Our business travel emissions estimate includes passenger miles on commercial airlines. We used emissions factors from the U.S. EPA 
Climate L
eaders Business Module Updated April-2021. GWPs are from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth 
Assessment Report (AR4). We did not apply a radiative forcing adjustment to the airline travel emissions. 81
                            82
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved                             GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
EmissionsGRI 305: 
Emissions 2016 GHG emissions intensity 305-42020 2019 
GHG Emissions Intensity Ratio (mtCO 2e/SF)*
* Data have been independently verified, or calculat
ed using independently verified data.0.00620 0.00763 
T
ype of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1) and market-based indirect (Scope 2) divided by the square footage of 
our U.S. properties. Gases included in the calculation: CO
2, CH 4, N2O and HFCs. 
Climate and Energy p. 51 
Reduction of GHG emissions 305-52020 GHG Emissions Reduction Projects (U.S.) 
Improvement First-Year Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor mtCO 2e 
Parking Lot LED (549 stores) 25,746 0.3834 9,870 
Backroom/Downlight (521 stores) 38,129 0.3834 14,617 
Eco-Blades (281 stores) 1,802 0.3834 691 
Total Reduction 65,677 25,178 
Gases included in the calculation: CO 2, CH 4, N2O and HFCs. 
Chosen base year or baseline: Annual Value (2020 Fiscal Year). 
Engineering calculations based on MWh reductions converted into mtCO 2e. The reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1) 
and indirect (Scope 2) emissions. 
2019 GHG Emissions Reduction Projects (U.S.) 
Improvement First-Year Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor mtCO 2e 
Sales Floor LED (54 stores) 12,148 0.4243 5,154 
Parking Lot LED (333 stores) 20,849 0.4243 8,846 
Backroom LED (208 stores) 13,810 0.4243 5,859 
Downlight LED (286 stores) 3,027 0.4243 1,284 
Total Reduction  49,834 21,143 
Climate and Energy p. 51 
Effluents & Waste 
GRI 306: 
Effluents & Waste 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54 
Waste by type and disposal method 306-2 Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54 
Significant spills 306-3 Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54                             2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Supplier Environmental Assessment 
GRI 308: 
Supplier Environmental 
Assessment 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 308-1 Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 
and actions taken 308-2 Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
Chemicals pp. 55–56 Materials pp. 57–59 
Employment 
GRI 401: 
Employment 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Team Members—Employment pp. 20–22 
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not pr
ovided 
to temporary or part-time employees 401-2 Team Members—Employment pp. 20–22 Benefits 
Parental leave 401-3 Team Members—Employment p. 22 
Occupational Health and Safety 
GRI 403 
Occupational Health & 
Safety 2018 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Team Members—Workplace Health & Safety p. 28 
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and  
incident investigation 403-2 T
eam Members—Workplace Health & Safety p. 28 
Worker training on occupational health and safety 403-5 Team Members—Workplace Health & Safety p. 28 Ethics p. 64 
Promotion of worker health 403-6 Team Members—Employment p. 21 Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion p. 24 Team Members—Workplace Health & Safety p. 28 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-7 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Training & Education 
GRI 404: 
Training and Education 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Team Members—Learning & Development pp. 26–27 
Average hours of tr
aining per year per employee 404-1 Team Members—Learning & Development p. 22 
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition-
assistance programs 404-2 Team Members—Employment p. 20 
Team Members—Learning & Development pp. 26–27 
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews 404-3 Team Members—Learning & Development p. 27832021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
                            What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Diversity & Equal Opportunity 
GRI 405: 
Diversity & Equal 
Opportunity 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion pp. 23–25 
Diversity of governance bodies and employees 405-1 Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion p. 25 
Non-discrimination 
GRI 406: 
Non-discrimination 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Human Rights p. 19 
Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion pp. 23–25 
Child Labor 
GRI 408: 
Child Labor 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
child labor 408-1 Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 31 
Forced or Compulsory Labor 
GRI 409: 
Forced or Compulsory 
Labor 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 30–31 
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 30 
Human Rights Assessment 
GRI 412: 
Human Rights 
Assessment 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Human Rights p. 19 
Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessments 412-1 Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–30 
Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 412-2 Target’s global sourcing offices are subject to the same standards and policies as our domestic offices. Human rights considerations are 
made when exploring new countries for office locations. 
Ethics p. 64 
Human Rights Statement 
Significant investment agreements and contracts that include 
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 412-3 Our merchandise vendors are contractually required to comply with our standards of vendor engagement. 
Standar ds of Vendor Engagement 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–308485
                            
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Local Communities 
GRI 413: 
Local communities 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–43 
Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments and development programs 413-1 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–43 
Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communities 413-2 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–43 
Chemicals p. 56 
Supplier Social Assessment 
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy S tatement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 414-1 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 31 
Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 414-2 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Responsible Sourcing 
Social Compliance Audit Process 
Public Policy 
GRI 415: 
Public Policy 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy S tatement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Public Policy & Civic Engagement pp. 65–66 
Political contributions 415-1 Public Policy & Civic Engagement pp. 65–66 
Civic Activity 
Customer Health & Safety 
GRI 416: 
Customer Health & 
Safety 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy S tatement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Product Quality & Safety p. 37 
Incidents of noncompliance concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and services 416-2 Target has multiple processes to address pr oduct compliance and safety. In addition, Target has processes in place to meet its reporting 
obligations under federal and state laws.2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved                             GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number Target Response 
Marketing & Labeling 
GRI 417: 
Marketing & Labeling 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing p. 35 
Customer Privacy 
GRI 418: 
Customer Privacy 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Stat ement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Privacy & Cybersecurity pp. 38–39 
Privacy Policy 
2021 Proxy Statement: Information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy p. 17 
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer data 418-1 Target has an Incident Response Program to address potential security and privacy incidents. The program includes processes to meet 
Target’s notification, or other repor ting, obligations under federal and state laws. 
Privacy & Cybersecurity pp. 38–39 
2020 10-K: Risk Factors86Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
SASB Index 
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent standards-setting organization that promotes disclosure of material sustainability 
information to meet investor needs. The table below references select indicators from the SASB standards for the Multiline and Specialty Retailers & Distributors; Food Retailers & Distributors; Apparel, Accessories & Footwear; Household & Personal Products; and E-commerce industries. Given our unique business model—and in line with our ongoing commitment to transparency—we have chosen to go beyond the Multiline Retail SASB Standards. 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Category Code Target 2020 Data Reference 
SASB Multiline and Specialty Retailers & Distributors Standard 
Energy Management in Retail 
& Distribution (1) Total energy consumed, 
(2) Percentage grid electricity, 
(3) Percentage renewable Quantitative CG-MR-130a.1 (1) 19,454,429 GJ * 
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.(2) 57%* 
(3) 38%* Climate and Energy p. 50 
Data Security Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks Discussion & Analysis CG-MR-230a.1 Privacy & Cybersecurity pp. 38–39 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Information security, 
cybersecurity, and data privacy p. 17 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 18 
Labor Practices (1) Average hourly wage of store & DC employees 
(excluding overtime), 
(2) Percentage of in-store & DC employees earning 
minimum wage by region Quantitative CG-MR-310a.1 (1) $15 per hour (average wage of all hourly team 
members as of FY20 year end; excludes overtime and benefits; includes full- and part-time team members) 
(2) 5.6% Team Members—Employment pp. 20–22 
Workforce Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (1) Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 
representation for management, 
(2) Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 
representation for all other employees Quantitative CG-MR-330a.1 (1) Management: 56% female in global workforce. 40% 
racially diverse in U.S. workforce (21% Hispanic/Latino, 12% Black/African American, 4% Asian, 2% Multiracial, <1% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, <1% American Indian/Alaska Native) 
(2) Non-management: 58% female in global workforce. 
51% racially diverse in U.S. workforce (26% Hispanic/  
Latino, 15% Black/African American, 5% Asian, 3% Multiracial, <1% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, <1% American Indian/Alaska Native) Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion pp. 23–25 
Workforce Diversity Report 
Product Sourcing, Packaging & Marketing Discussion of processes to assess and manage risks and/  
or hazards associated with chemicals in products Discussion & Analysis CG-MR-410a.2 Chemicals p. 56 
Chemicals webpage 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 18 
Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging Discussion & Analysis CG-MR-410a.3 Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54 
Materials pp. 57–59 
Activity Metrics Number of (1) retail locations and (2) distribution centers Quantitative CG-MR-000.A (1) 1,897 stores 
(2) 44 distribution centers 2020 10-K: Item 2. Properties 
Total area of (1) retail space and (2) distribution centers Quantitative CG-MR-000.B (1) 241,648 million sq. ft. (22,450 million m2) of 
retail space 
(2) 54.3 million sq. ft. (5.1 million m2) 2020 10-K: Item 2. Properties 87
2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
                            Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Category Code Target 2020 Data Reference 
SASB Food Retailers & Distributors Standard 
Air Emissions 
from Refrigeration Gross global Scope 1 emissions from refrigerants Quantitative FB-FR-110b.1 422,558 mtCO 2e GRI 305-1 p. 80 
Average refrigerant emissions rate Quantitative FB-FR-110b.3 13.3% corporate emissions rate for EPA-applicable refrigeration systems > 50 lbs Climate and Energy p. 51 
Food Waste Management Amount of food waste generated, percentage diverted from the waste stream Quantitative FB-FR-150a.1 Target donated 94.5 million pounds of food (42,864 metric tonnes), the equivalent of 78.7 million meals. We composted/sent to anaerobic digestion 7,133 tons (6,471 metric tonnes) of food waste. Waste and Circular Economy p. 53 
Product Health & Nutrition Discussion of the process to identify and manage products and ingredients related to nutritional and health concerns among consumers Discussion & Analysis FB-FR-260a.2 Product Quality & Safety p. 37  
Good & Gather FAQs (brand & ingredient standards)  
Target wellness icons  
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63  
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19  
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 18 
Labor Practices Percentage of active workforce covered under collective bargaining agreements Quantitative FB-FR-310a.2 None of our active workforce is covered under collective bargaining agreements. GRI 102-41 p. 74 
Management of Environmental & Social Impacts in the Supply Chain Percentage of revenue from (1) eggs that originated from a cage-free environment and (2) pork produced without the use of gestation crates Quantitative FB-FR-430a.2 (1) 50% of revenue from shell eggs came from hens that 
were cage-free. 
(2) We continue working to eliminate gestation crates 
from our pork supply chain. Materials p. 59 
Discussion of strategy to manage environmental and social risks within the supply chain, including animal welfare Discussion & Analysis FB-FR-430a.3 Materials pp. 57–59  
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–30  
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47
 
Responsible sourcing webpage  
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63  
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 1888
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
                            Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Category Code Target 2020 Data Reference 
SASB Apparel, Accessories & Footwear Standard 
Management of Chemicals 
in P
roducts Discussion of processes to maintain compliance with r
estricted substances regulations Discussion & Analysis CG-AA-250a.1 Chemicals p. 56 
Chemicals webpage 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p.
 18 
Environmental Impacts in the Supply Chain Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) supplier facilities beyond T
ier 1 in compliance with wastewater 
discharge permits and/or contractual agreement Quantitative CG-AA-430a.1 Target’s SOVE requires all factories producing Target-brand products to meet local permit requirements. Target is helping owned-brand textile suppliers
—
typically in Tier 2—to go beyond permit requirements to meet Target’s Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) commitments, par ticularly regarding 
wastewater parameters. We have implemented ZDHC WW Guidelines with all our owned-brand apparel wet-processing suppliers in 2020, all of which meet or have a plan to meet these requirements.  Water p. 61 
Environmental Responsibility in the 
Supply Chain p. 47 
Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) supplier facilities beyond T
ier 1 that have completed the 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Facility Environmental Module (Higg FEM) assessment or an equivalent environmental data assessment Quantitative CG-AA-430a.2 (1) 85% of Tier 1 apparel factories 
(2) 56% of Tier 2 fabric mills, packaging factories and 
trim fact
ories Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 47 
Labor Conditions in the Supply Chain Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) supplier facilities beyond T
ier 1 that have been audited to a labor 
code of conduct, (3) percentage of total audits conducted by a third-party auditor Quantitative CG-AA-430b.1 Target conducted 498 unannounced audits. Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 31 
Priority non-conformance rate and associated corrective action r at
e for suppliers’ labor code of conduct audits Quantitative CG-AA-430b.2 Of the <1% of our audits that yielded a noncompliant r
esult, 100% of them were due to severe violations. 
Target will only allow a vendor to use a previously noncompliant fact
ory once the deactivation period has 
expired and provided the vendor can then satisfactorily demonstrate compliance with Target’s SOVE and applicable laws. The formal reinstatement process involves a review of the corrective actions undertaken and a reaudit to validate the issues have been satisfactorily remediated. Social Compliance Audit Process 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 31 
Description of the greatest (1) labor and (2) environmental, health, and safety risks in the supply chain Discussion & Analysis CG-AA-430b.3
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Environmental Responsibility in the 
Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
Responsible sourcing webpage 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p.
 18 
2020 10-K: Risk Factors pp. 5–1189
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Category Code Target 2020 Data Reference 
SASB Apparel, Accessories & Footwear Standard 
Raw Materials Sourcing Description of envir onmental and social risks associated 
with sourcing priority raw materials Discussion & Analysis CG-AA-440a.1 Materials pp. 57–59 
Environmental Responsibility in the 
Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 18 
2020 10-K: Risk Factors pp. 5–11 
Percentage of raw materials third-party certified to an environmental and/or social sustainability standard, by standard Quantitative CG-AA-440a.2 Palm oil: 100% of owned brand, specific categories only, is RSPO certified: 7% Segregated, 82% Mass Balance, 10% Book and Claim 
Coffee: 100% of Archer Farms and Good & Gather coffee SKUs (bags and pods) certified by Fair Trade USA 
Cotton: 109,131 metric tonnes BCI and 3,805 metric tonnes U.S. LEADS in owned-brand products 
Wood & pulp: 63% of owned-brand paper-based packaging (by weight) sourced from mostly 
FSC-certified—and some PEFC- and SFI-certified—forests Materials pp. 57–59 
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
Sustainability certifications 
Activity Metric Number of (1) Tier 1 suppliers and (2) suppliers beyond Tier 1 Quantitative CG-AA-000.A Global Factory List 
SASB E-Commerce Standard 
Data Privacy & Advertising Standards Description of policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy Discussion & Analysis CG-EC-220a.2 Privacy Policy 
Privacy & Cybersecurity pp. 38–39 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 18 
Activity Metric Entity-defined measure of user activity Quantitative CG-EC-000.A 17.9% of sales digitally originated. 2020 10-K: Analysis of Results of Operations 
Employee Recruitment, Inclusion, and Performance Employee engagement as a percentage Quantitative CG-EC-330a.1 84% of Team Members that say ‘Target is a great place to work.’ Team Members—Employment p.2290
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Category Code Target 2020 Data Reference 
SASB Household & Personal Products Standard 
Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, 
percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress Quantitative CG-HP-140a.1 (1) Withdrew 10,571 ML of water (>99% from municipal 
water utilities), of which 37.6% (3,979 ML) was from 
areas with World Resources Institute (WRI) baseline 
water-stress characterizations of high or extremely high. Water p. 61 
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Discussion & Analysis CG-HP-140a.2 Water pp. 60–61 
Water webpage 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 18 
Product Environmental, Health, and Safety Performance Discussion of process to identify and manage emerging materials and chemicals of concern Discussion & Analysis CG-HP-250a.3 Chemicals pp. 55–56 
Chemical webpage 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and 
governance issues p. 18 
Packaging Lifecycle Management (1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from 
recycled and/or renewable materials, and (3) percentage 
that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable Quantitative CG-HP-410a.1 63% of owned-brand paper-based retail packaging was sourced from sustainably managed forests. 
Our plastic bags contain a minimum of 40% recycled content. Materials p. 59 
Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–54 
Environmental & Social Impacts of Palm Oil Supply Chain Amount of palm oil sourced, percentage certified through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains as (a) Identity Preserved, (b) Segregated, (c) Mass Balance, or (d) Book & Claim Quantitative CG-HP-430a.1 8,497 metric tonnes of palm oil was consumed in Target’s owned-brand food, household cleaning, personal care, baby care, beauty, cosmetics and candle products, of which 100% was RSPO certified (1% Identity Preserved, 7% Segregated, 82% Mass Balance, 10% Book and Claim). We are currently able to trace 81% to the importer. Materials p. 58–59 
Activity Metric Number of manufacturing facilities Quantitative CG-HP-000.B There are 3,965 registered manufacturing facilities in 49 countries across all categories of owned brands and where Target is importer of record. 
There are 925 facilities in 27 countries producing Target-brand foods. There are 1,601 factories in 37 countries producing Target-brand non-food products. Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 31 
Global Factory List91
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
SDG Index 
We recognize the importance of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call on 
governments, business and civil society organizations to take action to address the urgent problems facing our world today. We value the important role these goals play in equitable, inclusive, sustainable development. We’re proud to share how we’re contributing to each SDG. We invite our stakeholders and partners to join us in our efforts to contribute toward the implementation of this blueprint for a more sustainable future for all. 
Sustainable Development Goals Information on How We’re Contributing 
1 No Poverty 
• End poverty in all its forms everywhere Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 41–43 
2 Zero Hunger 
• End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Serving and Strengthening Communities p. 40 
3 Good Health and Well-Being 
• Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Year in Review p. 08 
Our Continuing Response to COVID-19 p. 09 
Human Rights p. 19 
Team Members—Employment pp. 20–23 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Serving and Strengthening Communities p. 40 
Materials p. 57 
4 Quality Education 
• Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Team Members—Employment pp. 20–22 
Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion pp. 23–25 
Team Members—Learning and Development pp. 26–27 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity pp. 33–34 
Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing pp. 35–36 
Privacy & Cybersecurity pp. 38–39 
Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–43 
Public Policy & Civic Engagement pp. 65–66 
5 Gender Equality 
• Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Who We Are p. 07 
Overview p. 18 
Team Members—Employment pp. 20–22 
Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion pp. 23–25 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing p. 35 
6 Clean Water and Sanitation 
• Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 
Climate and Energy p. 50 
Waste the Circular Economy pp. 52–54 
Water pp. 60–61 
7 Affordable and Clean Energy 
• Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Climate and Energy pp. 49–5192
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Sustainable Development Goals Information on How We’re Contributing 
8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 
• Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work 
for all Human Rights p. 19 
Team Members —Employment pp. 20, 22 Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity p. 33 Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40–42 Public Policy & Civic Engagement p. 65 
9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 
• Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing p. 35  
Climate and Energy pp. 49–50 Waste and Circular Economy pp. 52–53 Chemicals pp. 55–56 Materials p. 57 Water p. 60 
10 Reduced Inequalities 
• Reduce inequality within and among countries Who We Are p. 07 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity p. 33 Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing p. 35 
11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 
• Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 30–31 Product Quality & Safety p. 37 Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40
, 42 
12 Responsible Consumption and Production 
• Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Product Quality & Safety p. 37 Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 Climate and Energy p. 49 Waste and Circular Economy p. 53 Materials pp. 57–59 Water p. 60 
13 Climate Action 
• Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Climate and Energy pp. 49–51 
14 Life Below Water 
• Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Water pp. 60–61 
15 Life on Land 
• Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat 
desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Materials pp. 57–5993
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved GRI SASB SDG TCFD UNGPRF Glossary 
Sustainable Development Goals Information on How We’re Contributing 
16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 
• Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build 
effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Journey: Going Further p. 10 
Our New Sustainability Strategy—Target Forward p. 12 Human Rights p. 19 Team Members—Employment p. 20 Team Members—Diversity, Equity & Inclusion pp. 23–25 Team Members—Learning & Development p. 27 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 30 Inclusive Products, Experiences and Marketing pp. 35–36 
Serving and Strengthening Communities pp. 40 , 42 
Ethics p. 64 Public Policy & Civic Engagement p. 65 
17 Partnerships for the Goals 
• Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–30 Supply Chain—Supplier Diversity p. 33 Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 46–47 Climate and Energy p. 48 Materials pp. 57–59 Water p. 6094
                            2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     95
TCFD Index 
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) provides a framework of recommended disclosures for corporate reporting on climate-related 
risks and opportunities, categorized by Governance, Strategy, Risk Management and Metrics and Targets. Based on our TCFD scenario analyses conducted in 2019, this index references Target’s reporting against the voluntary guidelines of the TCFD. We plan to update our analysis in late 2021. 
Topic Disclosure Focus Area Disclosure Target Response 
Governance Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-
related risks and opportunities. a) Describe the board’s 
oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities. How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Target’s Board of Directors was also involved in the new Target Forward sustainability strategy, which includes our updated 
commitment to being a net zero enterprise by 2040. 
b) Describe management’s 
role in assessing and 
managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities. How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Climate and Energy p. 48 
The Corporate Responsibility, Properties and Responsible Sourcing and Sustainability teams coordinate Target’s climate change 
strategy, identify key initiative areas, assess risks and opportunities and implement the company’s response. 
Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planning. a) Describe the 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities the 
organization has identified 
over the short, medium, and 
long term. CDP Climate Response 2020 
Physical Risks (Acute):  
• Target operates in many communities impacted by extreme weather events. In 2020, Target experienced impact from extreme 
weather events such as tornadoes, floods, a derecho, hurricanes like Delta, Laura and Sally and wildfires across the West Coast. 
Outfitting our facilities with shutters and air scrubbers along with repairing damaged stores and other facilities has direct costs 
to Target. Acute physical risks played a large role in the scenario analysis, as Target is already prone to climate-related acute 
weather events. As described above, Target has already experienced financial damage from weather-related events. 
Physical Risks (Chronic):  
• Rising temperatures require longer run times on heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment in impacted stores. 
Longer HVAC run times incur additional energy costs to Target. Chronic physical risks played a large role in the scenario analysis, 
as it is very likely that chronic risks associated with climate change will impact Target. These physical risks could imply decreased 
revenue due to disruption in supply chain and operations, increased operating costs and infrastructure damage at Target’s 
facilities, increases in raw material, food and produce costs and delays in distribution. 
Transition Risks: 
Market Risk: 
• We aim to leverage our size, scale and reach to positively impact the communities in which we serve and operate. Going 
beyond what we can achieve in our own operations and with our suppliers, we collaborate with NGOs, governments, industry 
organizations and other businesses to innovate solutions to the most pressing issues we face today. Examining market risks 
was a large part of the scenario analysis. We analyzed how the market would play out in different climate scenarios, e.g., the 
cost of energy (oil, natural gas, electricity) as well as how the overall economy would react to climate change in the long term. An 
example is increasing oil prices could lead to increased material costs from suppliers. As the price of oil increases, material costs 
for products that use petrochemicals as feedstocks, such as plastics, detergents, solvents, nylon and polyester, will also increase 
as suppliers pass along their increase in costs. Nylon and polyester are prevalent in Target’s apparel lines, and textiles accounted 
for 16% of Target sales in 2020.2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
 Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     96
Topic Disclosure Focus Area Disclosure Target Response 
Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning. a) Describe the 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. (Continued) Reputation Risks:  
Since the company’s formation in 1962, Target has invested in the communities we operate in and serve. Target’s Corporate 
Responsibility team evaluates how our climate mitigation goals, policy and resiliency efforts impact our standing with local communities where we operate, with our nongovernmental organization (NGO) stakeholders and partners and with third-party industry analysts. Target’s existing climate policy and goals are designed to set a leadership example within the retail industry and are accompanied by internal execution strategies and management plans to hold our team accountable to meeting the goals and maintaining our credible reputation in this space. Target commits to publicly reporting annually on our goal progress. Reputational risks were considered in the scenario analysis from both a consumer standpoint and investor standpoint. Target identified both reputational risks and opportunities associated with climate change, and consumer shifting preference to sustainable brands. As part of the new Target Forward sustainability strategy, Target has committed to being a net zero enterprise by 2040. 
Policy Risks:  
• Included in the scenario analysis was an examination of legal-related risks. However, it was found at this time that although Target is subject to regulatory and policy-related risks, Target does not have strictly legal-related climate risks 
• Use of lower-emission sources of energy 
• Move to more efficient buildings 
• Development and/or expansion of low emission goods and services 
• Employee recruitment and retention 
• Increased financial backing from investors 
• Products and services 
CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 14–18 
b) Describe the impact 
of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. Climate and Energy p. 48 
CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 3–18 
c) Describe the resilience of 
the organization’s strategy, 
taking into consideration 
different climate-related scenarios, including a 2
°C or 
lower scenario. ∂Climate and Energy p. 48 
CDP Climate Response 20202021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     97
Topic Disclosure Focus Area Disclosure Target Response 
Risk management Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and 
manages climate-related risks. a) Describe the 
organization’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Climate and Energy p. 49 
CDP Climate Response 2020 
In 2020, we developed an Enterprise Sustainability Strategy with an ambition to be an equitable and regenerative company. All of our actions to address climate change support our top-level commitment to be a net zero enterprise by 2040. The scope of this goal includes our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. By 2040, we will achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our enterprise. This strategy will be implemented summer 2021. The science behind climate change necessitates aggressive emissions reductions and removals over the next two decades, and we will do our part. 
In 2019, we also developed and received approval of our Scope 3 goal that, coupled with our Scope 1 and 2 goal, has fulfilled our 
commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). This initiative provides guidance for and champions science-based target setting as a powerful way of boosting companies’ competitive advantage in the transition to the zero-carbon economy. 
In December 2019, Supply Chain Dive awarded Target the 2019 Sustainability Plan of the Year, in recognition of our leadership 
in setting carbon-reduction goals for the entire supply chain. 
b) Describe the 
organization’s processes 
for managing climate-related risks. 
CDP Climate Response 2020 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
c) Describe how processes 
for identifying, assessing, 
and managing climate-
related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. Climate and Energy p. 48 
CDP Climate Response 2020 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. a) Disclose the metrics 
used by the organization 
to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. Climate and Energy pp. 48, 50 
CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 42–43 
b) Disclose Scope 1, 
Scope 2, and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. Climate and Energy p. 51 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (Unit of measurement: mtCO 2e) 
2020 2019 
Scope 1 699,877 752,552 
Scope 2 (location) 1,492,208 1,680,682 
Scope 2 (market) 1,183,552 1,545,898 
Scope 3 64,789,000 55,789,000 
c) Describe the targets 
used by the organization 
to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 20–25 
Approved by the SBTi. 
Revenues/savings from 
investments in zero-carbon alternatives (e.g., R&D, equipment, products, or services) local currency. CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 26–302021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     98
Topic Disclosure Focus Area Disclosure Target Response 
Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. Expenditures (OpEx) for low-carbon/water alternatives (e.g., R&D, equipment, products, or services) local currency. CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 26–30 
Total water withdrawn and total water consumed (cubic meters) SASB CN0101-06. 
 W
ater p. 61 
Percent of water withdrawn and consumed in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress (percentage) SASB: CN0101-06. 
 n/a 
Metrics and tar
gets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities. Amount of assets
 
committed in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress
 
Number of assets, value, percentage of total assets (SASB: IF0101-06) n/a 
Non-mechanical (Scope 1):
 
Emissions from biological 
processes MT of CO 2e 
(CDP: FBT 1.3c) Climate and Energy p. 51 
Land use change (Scope 1): 
Changes of carbon stocks as a result of land use and land use changes (e.g., from the conversion of native habitats into farmlands) MT 
of CO
2e 
(CDP: FBT 1.3c) Materials pp. 57–59 
Funding a project to analyze the costs associated with rubber farming and converting land to more efficient rubber production 
with WWF. 
Mechanical (Scope 1): Emissions from equipment or machinery operated on farms/plants MT of CO
2e 
(SASB: CN0101-01, CDP: FBT 1.3b R)  Climat
e and Energy p. 51 
Purchased energy (Scope 2): Emissions from purchased heat, st eam, and electricity 
consumed on the farm / 
plant MT of 
CO2e (CDP: 
FBT 1.3b) CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 39–40 
Investment (CapEx) in low-
carbon/water alternatives (e.g., capital equipment or assets) local currency 
(GRI: G4-OG2  
CDP: EU4.3)  CDP Climate Response 2020 pp. 15, 26–30 
Our investments in both energy efficiency and renewable energy have positive paybacks and are a direct financial benefit. Over 
the last seven years, we have invested over $300 million in energy efficiency projects, many of which have a payback of fewer than three years.
 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report
 Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     99
UNGPRF 
The UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework  is a comprehensive guide for companies to report on human rights issues in line with their responsibility to 
respect human rights. This responsibility is outlined in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights , the global standard in this field. 
Policy Commitment Information on How We’re Contributing 
Part A: Governance of respect for human rights 
A1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights? Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
AA1.1 How has the public commitment been developed? Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
A1.2 Whose human rights does the public commitment address? Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
We recognize that we can impact the human rights of our team members, guests and workers in the supply chain, as well as people in the communities in which we operate. 
In line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Core Conventions, we are committed to respecting human rights throughout our operations. 
In alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we respect human rights and seek to avoid adverse human rights impacts resulting from our business activities. We are continuously working to do better, but if there are adverse impacts, our approach is to provide access to effective remedy. 
At Target, we help all families discover the joy of everyday life. In adhering to our purpose and as part of our ongoing commitment to human rights, we conducted a mapping exercise to identify salient human rights issues across our business.2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     100
Policy Commitment Information on How We’re Contributing 
P
art A: Governance of respect for human rightsA1.3 How is the public commitment disseminat ed? Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Our team members We value the more than 350,000 team members who work together to serve our guests, and we develop practices and policies to help them thrive in the workplace, such 
as our Code of Ethics. We invest in our team by giving them opportunities to grow professionally, take care of themselves, each other and their families, and to make a difference for our guests and our communities. We embrace diversity and strive to give everyone access to the same opportunities. We do this through inclusive guest experiences, inclusive work environments, workforce diversity and societal impact, in addition to our Equal Employment Opportunity and Harassment-Free Workplace Policy. We’re committed to providing a safe environment for both team members and guests, with dedicated safety programs to reduce or eliminate workplace hazards, including our Injury and Illness Protection Program. We believe that engaging directly is the best way to meet our team members’ needs, as we respect the rights of workers to make an informed decision as to whether or not to associate with any group, consistent with all applicable laws. 
Our guests We are committed to offering guests products, services and experiences that meet their diverse needs—regardless of size, body type, race or abilities. To meet this 
commitment, we have dedicated inclusivity training for all of our product designers, merchandising teams and marketing teams, in addition to processes for reviewing assortment decisions. 
Our supply chain We are committed to respecting the human rights of workers within Target’s supply chain, especially at-risk groups, including women, young workers and foreign contract 
workers. We expect all our suppliers to respect human rights, comply with Target’s SOVE and all applicable laws pertaining to human rights. Target’s Responsible Sourcing Program monitors worker safety and labor compliance in facilities that produce Target owned-brand or exclusive products, as well as those that produce nationally branded products for which Target is the importer of record. We will do our part to validate that clean, drinkable water and sanitation are accessible for the workers in Target’s supply chain. Target is a member of the ZDHC organization, and adopted its wastewater guidelines to help reduce unwanted chemicals in the manufacturing process for Target’s products and to help prevent our suppliers from discharging wastewater into surrounding communities. We take a risk-based approach to supply chain management, and we continually assess and address the risks that emerge and evolve over time. 
Our communities We believe in being good neighbors wherever we operate, focusing on creating opportunities for our teams, in addition to accelerating economic development and vitality, 
and helping power the prosperity and well-being of our communities. We are focused on nurturing a diverse workforce in the communities where we do business with equitable access to hiring, development and advancement. 
One of our greatest opportunities to foster communities is through our philanthropic efforts, as we give 5% of our profits back to the communities we call home, as we have 
since 1946. 
Embedding respect 
A2 How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the 
implementation of its human rights commitment? 
Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
We will conduct ongoing due diligence, as well as engage with our stakeholders to better understand our salient human rights issues. We will develop and implement training 
on this policy for relevant Target team members and suppliers, and will report on our progress in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report. Additionally, Target’s Integrity Hotline is available to team members and suppliers with concerns about potential violations of our Code of Ethics. 
A2.1 How is day-to-day responsibility for human rights performance organized within the company, and why? Human Rights Statement Webpage 
At Target, we believe that all team members have a shared responsibility for respecting human rights. Our Vice President of Corporate Responsibility has executive oversight, but day-to-day implementation of our human rights commitments is led by numerous teams. They are supported by a cross-functional task force that reviews and addresses emerging human rights issues on an as-needed basis. 
A2.2 What kinds of human rights issues are discussed by senior management and by the Board, and why? 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 
2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     101
Policy Commitment Information on How We’re Contributing 
Embedding respectA2.3 How are employees and contract workers made aware of the ways in which respect 
for human rights should inform their decisions and actions? Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Vendor Code of Conduct  
Target Corporation is committed to complying with laws and conducting business ethically. Each Target team member, regardless of role or entity, has a duty to follow the 
law, the Code of Ethics and Target’s policies. Team members are obligated to report any actual or suspected violations and always make ethical business decisions that align with Target’s values and behaviors. 
The Code of Ethics provides expectations for team member conduct and guides ethical decision-making. While it is not possible to specifically cover all laws and policies, 
the Code establishes expectations to consistently guide ethical decision-making. 
A2.4 How does the company make clear in its business relationships the importance it places on respect for human rights? Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Vendor Code of Conduct 
A2.5 What lessons has the company learned during the reporting period about achieving 
respect for human rights, and what has changed as a result? Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 
Part B: Defining the focus of reporting 
Statement of salient issues 
B1 Statement of salient issues: State the salient human rights issues associated with the 
company’s activities and business relationships during the reporting period. Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Explanation of salient issues 
B2 Determination of salient issues: Describe how the salient human rights issues were 
determined, including any input from stakeholders. Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
In early 2019, we partnered with Article One, an expert business and human rights consultancy, to complete a human rights impact assessment (HRIA) that helped identify 
salient human rights issues in our operations and business relationships and guided the specific issues addressed in our Human Rights Statement. The HRIA covered our own operations, as well as our supply chain, and considered human rights risks to our team members, guests, workers in our supply chain and the communities we operate in. As part of this assessment, Article One conducted desk research and interviews with key internal and external stakeholders to identify our most salient human rights risks. Applying the UN Guiding Principles saliency methodology, Article One considered the likelihood and severity of a potential impact. We are continuing to review human rights impacts in key salient risk areas identified in the HRIA as part of our ongoing human rights due diligence efforts. We plan on updating the companywide HRIA in 2022. 
Geographical focus (if any) 
B3 Choice of focal geographies: If reporting on the salient human rights issues focuses 
on particular geographies, explain how that choice was made. We reported on our enterprise-wide assessment of the salient human rights issues, which is inclusive of all geographies. 
Additional severe impacts (if any) 
B4 Additional severe impacts: Identify any severe impacts on human rights that occurred 
or were still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall outside of the salient human rights issues, and explain how they have been addressed. There are no notable severe impacts on human rights that occurred or were still being addressed during the reporting period. 2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     102
Policy Commitment Information on How We’re Contributing 
Part C: Management of salient human rights issues 
Specific policies 
C1 Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights 
issues and, if so, what are they? Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Vendor Code of Conduct 
C1.1 How does the company make clear the relevance and significance of such policies to those who need to implement them? Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Stakeholder engagement 
C2 What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each 
salient human rights issue? Human Rights p. 19 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Target’s Integrity Hotline 
Materiality and stakeholder engagement pp. 15–16 Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
2021 Proxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 20 
We maintain oversight by conducting ongoing due diligence, engaging closely with our stakeholder groups and hosting Target’s Integrity Hotline, which is available to team 
members and supply chain workers with concerns about potential violations of our SOVE, policies or laws. We also believe in being good neighbors wherever we operate, accelerating economic development and vitality, and helping power the prosperity and well-being of our communities. 
C2.1 How does the company identify which stakeholders to engage with in relation to each salient issue, and when and how to do so? 
Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
C2.2 During the reporting period, which stakeholders has the company engaged with 
regarding each salient issue, and why? Human Rights p. 19 
Materiality and stakeholder engagement pp. 15–16 Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
We recognize that our work directly impacts four key stakeholder groups: our guests, our team members, our supply chain and our communities. 
C2.3 During the reporting period, how have the views of stakeholders influenced the 
company’s understanding of each salient issue and/or its approach to addressing it? 
 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Materiality & stakeholder engagement webpage 
Assessing impacts 
C3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human 
rights issue over time? Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
We continue to review human rights impacts in key salient risk areas identified in the HRIA as part of our ongoing human rights due diligence efforts. We plan on updating 
the companywide HRIA in 2022.2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     103
Policy Commitment Information on How We’re Contributing 
Assessing impacts C3.1 During the r eporting period, were there any notable trends or patterns in impacts 
related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
C3.2 During the reporting period, did any severe impacts occur that were related to a 
salient issue and, if so, what were they? Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Integrating finding and taking action 
C4 How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue 
into its decision-making processes and actions? Human Rights p. 19 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
C4.1 How are those parts of the company whose decisions and actions can affect the 
management of salient issues, involved in finding and implementing solutions? 
Human Rights p. 19 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
C4.2 When tensions arise between the prevention or mitigation of impacts related to a 
salient issue and other business objectives, how are these tensions addressed? 
Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
C4.3 During the reporting period, what action has the company taken to prevent or mitigate 
potential impacts related to each salient issue? Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Tracking performance 
C5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue 
are effective in practice? Human Rights p. 19 
Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Target’s Integrity Hotline2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     104
Policy Commitment Information on How We’re Contributing 
T
racking performance C5.1 What specific e xamples from the reporting period illustrate whether each salient issue 
is being managed effectively? Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement pp. 15–16 
Human Rights p. 19 Team Members—Employment pp. 20–22 Supply Chain—Conflict Materials p. 32 Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain pp. 29–31 Water p. 60 Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Remediation 
C6 How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions 
or decisions in relation to a salient human rights issue? 
Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Target’s Integrity Hotline 
California Forced Labor Disclosure 
C6.1 Through what means can the company receive complaints or concerns related to 
each salient issue? Target’s Integrity Hotline 
Target’s Integrity Hotline is available to team members and suppliers with concerns about potential violations of our Code of Ethics. 
C6.2 How does the company know if people feel able and empowered to raise complaints or concerns? Human Rights p. 19 
Team Members—Employment pp. 20–22 Target’s Integrity Hotline 
C6.3 How does the company process complaints and assess the effectiveness 
of outcomes? Human Rights p. 19 
How We Govern Corporate Responsibility and ESG Issues p. 63 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight pp. 16–19 2021 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight: Environmental, social, and governance issues p. 18 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Target’s Integrity Hotline 
C6.4 During the reporting period, what were the trends and patterns in complaints or 
concerns and their outcomes regarding each salient issue, and what lessons has the company learned? 
Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Target’s Integrity Hotline 
C6.5 During the reporting period, did the company provide or enable remedy for any actual 
impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what are typical or significant examples? Human Rights p. 19 
Human Rights Statement Webpage 
Labor & Human Rights Policies Webpage 
Code of Ethics 
Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement 
Target’s Integrity Hotline2021 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction People Planet Business Indexes and Glossary 
What We Achieved     GRI     SASB     SDG     TCFD     UNGPRF     Glossary     105
Glossary 
Term Definition 
Team Members We refer to our full-time, part-time and seasonal employees as “team members.” Team members do not include contractors, employees of our subsidiaries or the employees of vendors, suppliers or manufacturers with which we 
do business. 
Supply Chain All vendors, suppliers, manufacturers, contractors, subcontractors and their agents involved in the production of Target’s owned- and exclusive-brand products or national-brand products for which Target is the importer of record. 
Value Chain All business activities that create value for Target’s products or services. The value chain includes the supply chain, Target activities outside the supply chain (e.g., product development and marketing) and the end consumer and communities for which the company is helping create value. 
Operations Our operations cover our team members, our stores and other physical locations, and our communities. 
Guests We refer to our shoppers (customers) as “guests.” We want to bring our guests not only what they need but also what they want. Our buyers carefully curate collections and experiences for our guests. Our strategy is rooted in offering the national brands our guests know and love, plus the only-at-Target items they can’t get anywhere else. 
Brands at Target National Brands Brands we sell, but do not own 
Owned Brands  Brands we own, source and sell 
Exclusive Brands Brands we do not own, but are the only retailer licensed to sell 
Approximately one-third of 2020 sales were related to our owned and exclusive brands. Find out more 
here. 
Materiality We regularly evaluate and align our strategy and reporting against the most material corporate responsibility topics for our business and stakeholders. For the purposes of this report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards’ definition of materiality , meaning that we cover topics that: 
• Reflect Target’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts 
• Substantively influence the assessment and decisions of stakeholders 
This materiality definition is different from the definition used for filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Topics deemed material for purposes of this report may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. 
Neonics Certain neurotoxic insecticides shown by studies to be harmful to bees and other pollinators. 
Noncompliant Due to Repeat or Excessive Issues A factory fails three consecutive audits, an excessive number of violations are discovered or the auditor is denied access twice. 
Noncompliant Due to Severe Violations Severe violations include underaged labor, forced labor, corporal punishment, attempted bribery, sandblasting, unauthorized subcontracting, egregious wastewater treatment and/or absence of appropriate licensing/permitting. 
Circular Product Design Designing products in a way that designs out waste and keeps products and materials in use for as long as possible. 
Sustainable Brands Brand or manufacturer with industry-leading products or services that have context-specific environmental and/or socially beneficial features, backed by credible standards or impact metrics.
 