2020 Target Corporate 
Responsibility ReportThe Big Picture 
At the start of 2020, Target’s years-long 
investments were delivering growth and a durable business model. The proof has been how we have adapted to one of the most challenging years in recent times. Together, as the world has battled the COVID-19 pandemic and taken up the fight 
for social justice, Target has been primed to rapidly 
support and sustainably serve our guests, team members and communities. From delivering a trusted and efficient online experience to important investments in company and community inclusivity and equity, we’re using our strong foundation to live our purpose and bring joy.What’s Inside
02 The Big Picture
03 About This Report 
04 CEO Lett er
05 Q&A With Our VP of CR
07 Who We Ar e
08 Year in Review
09 Our Response to CO VID-19
11 Social Justice and 
Racial  Equity
13 Our CR Str ategy
14 Materiality and 
Stakeholder  Engagement
16 Our Value Chain
17 Supply Chain
19 How We Sour ce Products
20 Materials
22 Responsible Pr oducts
23 Human Rights in 
Manufacturing
24 Eliminating For ced and 
Underaged Labor
25 Worker Well-Being in the 
Supply Chain
26 Economic Opportunity
27 Climate and Energy
29 Water
30 Chemicals32 Operations
34 Team
35 Talent Recruitment 
and Retention
36 Compensation and Benefits
38 Diversity and Inclusion
40 Learning and Development
41 Workplace Health and Safety
42 Communities
45 Properties—Climate and Energy
47 Properties—Water
48 Properties—Waste
49 Properties—Chemicals
50 Products and Guests
52 Making Decisions Today for a 
Circular Tomorrow
53 Design for Circularity
55 Design for All
57 Design for Environmental Impact
59 Design for Guest Ease
60 Design Messaging Guests 
Can Trust
61 ESG Appendix
62 About This Appendix
63 Environment
74 Social
92 Governance
95 Indexes and Glossary
95 SASB
99 GRI
117 SDG
120 Glossary
Illustrations by Michael Mullan, 
Vermont-based artist and illustrator2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 02 ESG Appendix 02 The Big PictureAbout This Report 
Scope 
Target’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility (CR) 
Report was published in September 2020 and reflects activities and initiatives for our fiscal year 2019 (February 3, 2019–February 1, 2020), as well as certain subsequent events and initiatives that occurred after the end of fiscal year 2019 and prior to publication—including the COVID-19 pandemic and the murder of George Floyd and subsequent movement for social justice and racial equity across the U.S. All quantitative company data, unless otherwise stated, reflect fiscal year 2019. Unless noted, the goals and other data in the report reflect our U.S. operations. 
Our last report, the 2019 Target Corporate 
Responsibility Report, was published in September 2019. 
Report Structure 
The structure of this report follows our corporate value chain: Supply Chain, Operations and Products and Guests. We are reporting against our most material issues, identified during our 2018–2019 materiality and stakeholder engagement process. For the purposes of this report, we use the GRI Standards’ definition of materiality, which is different than the definition used for filings with the SEC. Issues deemed material for the purposes of this report may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. This report has been written for a broad range of stakeholders, including but not limited to our team members, guests, suppliers, investors and nonprofits. We have also produced an ESG Appendix where investors and raters and rankers—as well as other interested parties—can find comprehensive data updates on our performance against our goals and material issues, as well as our responses to GRI, SASB and TCFD, and alignment to the UN SDGs, where applicable. The Appendix also contains information on certain material topics not included in the report, such as ethics, data privacy and information security.
Forward-Looking Statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements, which are based on our current assumptions and expectations. These statements are typically accompanied by the words “expect,” “may,” “could,” “believe,” “would,” “might,” “anticipates” or similar words. The principal forward-looking statements in this report include our sustainability goals, commitments and programs; our business plans, initiatives and objectives; our assumptions and expectations; the scope and impact of corporate responsibility risks and opportunities; and standards and expectations of third parties. All such forward-looking statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Although we believe there is a reasonable basis for the forward-looking statements, our actual results could be materially different. The most important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are set forth in our description of risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
February  1, 2020, and in Part II, Item 1A, Risk 
Factors of our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 2, 2020, which should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in this report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
We welcome your feedback on this report. For more 
information or to provide comments, please contact us at: CorporateResponsibility@Target.com.Key
Throughout this report, we disclose our progress against goals, which we illustrate with the icons below. The icons reflect relative progress toward completing the goal. 
   We’re just getting started. 
  We’re making progress.
  We’ve achieved our goal.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 03 ESG Appendix 03 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainA Message From Our Chairman and CEO
Coming into 2020, we were ready for a good 
year. Many of our strategic initiatives were reaching scale right on schedule. Guided by the power of our purpose and values, our team was adapting well to new ways of operating and better serving our guests. The significant investments we’d made over the years were now paying off with steadily better business results. In short, we had achieved our goal of creating a durable business model, meant to perform well in any economic environment.
None of us knew at the start of the year how 
crucial those advantages would be. But as I look at how the year has unfolded, it’s clear that the strength of our business—and the talent and character of our team—has allowed us to adapt 
to the things we never could’ve planned for.
The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the outrage and heartbreak of racial inequities weigh heavily on all of us, personally and professionally. But as a team, we’ve come together and committed to meeting this pain with purpose. 
Our guests and communities need us now more 
than ever before. In rallying to meet their needs, I think Target has become a stronger, more meaningful and fundamentally better company.
As COVID-19 hit the United States this spring, 
we faced a lot of challenges simply to run our business, and we did more than just keep our doors open. 
We overhauled how we operate to make Target 
easier and safer to shop, as guests turned to us for food and essentials, as well as for supplies to create home offices and home classrooms.We invested in our team by increasing pay and expanding well-being benefits so team members would have everything they need to care for themselves and their families.
And we quickly invested $10 million toward 
pandemic response efforts, with an emphasis on supporting organizations that reach vulnerable populations and underserved communities. 
Then, at the end of May, the murder of George 
Floyd by a police officer just a few miles from our downtown Minneapolis headquarters forced us 
to take a hard look at what Target stands for. 
We’ve been on a 15-year journey to build and refine Target’s diversity and inclusion strategy. While this work had helped us make substantial progress in a number of areas, many team members and guests made it clear to me that we needed to use the full power of the Target brand to support a broad-based movement against systemic racism in all of its forms.
We began by committing to rebuild our stores 
damaged in the protests and listening to our communities to help ensure these stores don’t just reopen, but are a force for lasting good in the neighborhoods they serve. 
We also invested $10 million to help communities 
rebuild from this summer’s protests and support groups fighting for social justice and racial equity. 
And, in August, we launched the Racial Equity 
Action and Change (REACH) Committee. This group of Target leaders is tasked with guiding us as we work to help Black team members grow and advance in their careers at Target, welcome Black guests into our stores, combat racial inequities in our communities, and advocate for civic engagement and public policy that addresses systemic racism, safety and police reform, economic and educational opportunity, and access to fair and safe voting.
Our country faces unprecedented challenges 
that have fundamentally changed what it means 
to be a “good corporate citizen.” There are no 
easy answers or quick solutions. Our value 
is defined by more than just the earnings we 
report  to Wall Street or the money we donate 
to philanthropic causes. 
Ultimately, we will be judged by the actions we take for our guests, our team and our community—every day. 
The Target team embraces this—because we 
know we can make a difference. With partners in our communities, we can meet this moment and help build a stronger, more prosperous and more equitable future for all.
Sincerely,
Chairman and CEO
Brian Cornell
Chairman and CEO2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 04 ESG Appendix 04 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainQ&A With Our Vice President of Corporate Responsibility  
& President of the Target Foundation
In 2020, life as we know it changed, from 
a global pandemic to worldwide calls for racial equity and social justice. It’s also been your first year in this role, leading Target’s sustainability strategy and philanthropic efforts. What an extremely challenging time to start leading a new team. Can you talk about that experience?
It’s definitely been an intense start, but in these challenging times, I’ve been so gratified to witness the compassion, the drive and the commitment from our Target team members to the important causes of our time, particularly finding meaningful solutions to the systemic racism experienced by Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC) communities.
We live in a time where issues are interconnected: 
systemic inequality, climate change and now the COVID-19 pandemic. Specifically, the pandemic hit regions and people in different ways, and Target responded rapidly to be there for them all. But it also became clear over time that COVID-19 was having a disproportionate effect on Black people and other people of color. The same is true of another issue Target cares deeply about—climate change. We cannot ignore that so many of the issues that already matter to Target—both social and environmental—have ties to systemic inequality and bias. I’m passionate about finding holistic approaches to ending systemic racism, reducing the environmental impact of our enterprise and the advancement of a culture that places people and the planet at the heart of what we do. To us, being sustainable encompasses the calls for racial equity and social justice in our hometown —the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul— and across the country. Target has spent the past few years transforming how we grow, and how we embed and measure diversity and inclusion across our company. This is not new work for 
our team. We’ve enhanced inclusion acumen 
training, added a series of new goals designed 
to drive meaningful progress faster and continued 
to build up our portfolio of diverse suppliers to create economic opportunity for all. The voices and actions of our team members give me hope that Target will play an important role in healing and helping support awareness and action 
around  racial equity and social justice. We have 
a long way to go but I know that we are up to the 
challenge of listening, learning and co-creating with our community to build a better world. We want to help all families, and I mean all families, discover the joy of everyday life.
Thinking about the past year and the 
beginning of 2020, what were the biggest achievements?
There is so much to be proud of as I think about 
our work throughout 2019 and the first half of 2020. 
First, in late March, we announced Target and 
the Target Foundation’s most comprehensive single relief commitment to assist our team members and organizations as they deal with the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. This included grants to numerous partners deploying emergency resources like food, financial support and child care, and others taking care of the most vulnerable. And we continue to focus on collaborative partnerships to maximize our impact for the most adversely affected and underrepresented communities, while also providing economic opportunities to help build the long-term resiliency of our team and communities to withstand and thrive in the future.
Second, in terms of social justice, Target and 
the Target Foundation are making financial investments in support of long-standing partners like National Urban League, the African American Leadership Forum and others. We’re contributing 10,000 hours of pro bono consulting services for BIPOC-owned small businesses, and continuing to give rapid relief to communities—providing essentials like baby formula, diapers and medicine to those most in need. Further, through our Target Circle loyalty program, we offer guests the option to direct Target funds to local nonprofits, including organizations supporting social justice. This is just the beginning of a multi-phase, long-term, team-centered approach to racial equity.
As for our ongoing sustainability efforts, we’ve 
met and exceeded a number of key goals, while driving innovations. For example, we now have solar rooftops at over 500 stores and distribution centers, which puts us on track to achieve our 100% renewable electricity goals by 2030. 
We are also partnering with our suppliers to help 
them implement emissions-reduction projects in their operations, which will help reduce our Scope 3 emissions and fulfill our climate goals and commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative. 
Amanda Nusz
Vice President of Corporate Responsibility 
& President  of the Target Foundation2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 05 ESG Appendix 05 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainIn waste, we have achieved our 2020 goal ahead 
of schedule and diverted 78% of the waste from our stores from landfill, including construction waste from store builds and remodels. And we’re playing our part in Beyond the Bag, a project looking for alternatives to single-use plastic shopping bags.
In 2020, we took another important step in our 
enterprise human rights journey by publishing our new Human Rights Statement, created to align with ILO Core Conventions and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The statement reflects the work we have done over the years to engage with and support our key stakeholder groups, including guests, team members, our supply chain and our communities. As we are all seeing now with unfolding events, this foundation in human rights is so important and more needed than ever before as the driving force behind all of our work. 
Why do you think it matters for 
Target  to be a more sustainable 
and responsible business?
We are one of the largest retailers in the U.S. 
That gives us the kind of size and scale where we can impact people all over the world. We want that impact to be positive—to be something that drives a healthier environment and a more equitable world. 
We design and embed sustainability into all facets 
of our business to best serve our internal and external stakeholders. We know our supply chain and products are connected to natural resources, and that our business model is linked to materials, so we have ambitious responsible sourcing goals, among many others. The materials we choose and how we use them are all part of how we’re embedding circular design principles across Target, which is an incredibly important area of our work. 
We’re on a journey to reimagine not just how our 
products and services are designed, but what their impact is while they’re being used by our guests, and how we can provide our guests with end-of-use solutions so that they can feel good about what they’re buying. As well as being sustainably designed and made, our products must be inclusive and affordable and reflect our guests’ expectations.
But I want us to continue to think about our CR 
strategy from a deeply human perspective, and to ensure we’re connecting with all our stakeholders. Keeping tuned in to their concerns helps our business address the right issues today and tomorrow in a timely, effective and targeted way. That’s where our purpose drives us. Ultimately our purpose is to bring joy to all families, and that doesn’t just apply to our guests—that means our team members, our communities and the workers across our global supply chain. We can have a meaningful impact on the lives of everyone we interact with, and it is up to us to ensure that we do. I am excited to build upon our legacy as a responsible and community-minded business 
and write a new chapter on how we bring 
“joy to all families.”
As you think of the work that’s ahead, what gives you the most hope, what motivates you?
Intentions matter, but outcomes matter more. 
In the coming months and years, I want to see us working across our business to continue examining our practices and operating model to ensure they live up to our expectations for diversity and inclusion. We all have a role in actively addressing inequities through our supply chain, hiring strategies and the people we serve. We’ll help to strengthen the systems and organizations that drive shared prosperity, investing in partners that help reshape economic and social structures in our communities. 
Ahead of us lies a long journey of listening and 
learning, working in partnership and standing side by side in solidarity with our Black team members. We will commit to solutions to systemic racism, determined by diverse and unified Target team members, to build ladders for success that are available to everyone. I’m also really excited about the time we’ve been spending developing our new, company-wide sustainability strategy focused on the intersection of people, planet and business. In the process of developing this next chapter of sustainability, we engaged with over 75 internal subject matter experts, consulted with external industry experts, and learned from consumers to refine where we focus our efforts. We will continue to build on our strong foundation of sustainable operations and we have identified areas where Target can lead, including products and brands, waste-free solutions and experiences, and our team, communities and workers. We look forward to sharing more soon. 2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 06 ESG Appendix 06 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainWho We Are
To help all families discover 
the joy of everyday life—that’s 
Target’s purpose and there are 
countless ways we live it. 
As one of the largest U.S. retailers, we use our 
scale and scope to design, source and sell quality products that delight our guests. We are committed to providing inclusive and sustainable choices that support the needs of our guests, align with their values and uplift and protect the people, communities and ecosystems all along our value chain. As we work to meet these commitments, we are guided by a strategy that is an expression of our purpose and values of inclusivity, optimism, connection, inspiration and drive, as well as ethics and delivering a great experience for our guests.
No matter how our guests choose to shop with 
us—whether in-store, through our digital channels or both—we aim to make their experience easy and inspiring, at an only-at-Target value. We have stores in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, with team members who reflect our communities and are passionate about bringing joy to our guests, day in and day out. We work together as a team and stand together with our communities, in good times and hard times, striving to always be a source of convenience, continuity and joy. More than 
360,000 
team  members worldwide$225 million 
in cash and in-kind 
donations  in 2019Nearly 1,900 
stores
30 million+ 
guests a week42 
distribution 
centers  in 
the U.S.$77,130 million 
total 2019 sales
Headquarters 
in Minneapolis, Minnesota with 20 office locations globally and a global capabilities center in Bangalore, India50+ 
owned  and 
exclusive brandsNoteworthy Awards 
and Rankings 2020
DiversityInc 
Top 50 Companies 
for Dive rsity
No. 13 Overall No. 10
  Top Companies for 
Board  of Directors
No. 10   Top Companies 
for Philanthropy
Target was named one of the Best Places to Work for People with Disabilities by Disability:IN, the leading nonprofit resource for 
business disability  inclusion.
Fast CompanyThe World’s Most Innovativ
e Companies
No. 2 in Beauty
Fortune 
The World’s Most 
Admire d Companies
No. 22
Best Workplaces for Millennials
No. 10 Large Company
Great Place to Work
Target is 2020 Great Place t o 
Work  Certified ™
Retail & Hospitality Information Sharing & Analysis Center (ISAC)
Target won Cybersecurity Team 
of the Year  for three years in a 
row from the Retail & Hospitality 
Information Sharing & Analysis 
Center  (RH-ISAC)2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 07 ESG Appendix 07 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainYear in Review
Our Greatest Achievements
Supply Chain
Achieved our goal to 
enhance 3 million lives in the factories and surrounding communities where Target’s goods are produced
Helped farmers save 
12 billion gallons of water in partnership with the Better 
Cotton  Initiati ve (BCI)
Announced our plans to work with the Consortium to Reinvent the Retail Bag—with Closed Loop Partners’ 
Center for the Circular Economy and others—to find and test innovative alternatives to single-use bagsOperations
Achieved our goal to increase starting wage to $15 in July 2020—
six months early
Expanded job-protected family leave to four weeks and extended eligibility to part-time team members, while also making high-impact investments in our front-line team, including premium pay, vulnerable leaves and backup daycare, and addressing other opportunities to support all our team members’ well-being during the COVID crisis
Achieved—and exceeded—
our goal to add solar installations to 500 store rooftopsProducts and Guests
Launched the Good & Gather brand to give busy guests a new way to eat well
Designed our new All in 
Motion brand to utilize recycled materials—including 8,000 metric tonnes of polyester
Since 2018, trained over 
2,700 team members 
and vendor partners  on 
embedding circular  design 
into our product,  packaging 
and store-design processesCommunities
Repositioned the Target Foundation toward long-term systems change specifically focused on advancing equitable economic opportunities in our hometown, nationally and across the globe
Leveraged our team’s 
talent to contribute more than 1 million volunteer hours to tackle social and environmental issues in our communities
Supported families across 
the country by donating the equivalent of more than 87 million meals in pounds of food2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 08 ESG Appendix 08 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainOur Response to COVID-19
As families across the country 
—and around the world—
began to feel the impact 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Target moved swiftly to meet 
extraordinary challenges.
Our priority has always been the safety of our 
team and our guests. In addition to offering contactless order pickup and home delivery, we took a number of steps in support of our team and guests, with increased safety measures and operational changes, and we’ll continue to do all we can to help navigate these uncertain times.
Hygiene & masks: All our team members are 
required to wear a mask/face covering. We give our front-line team members high-quality disposable face masks and gloves to wear at work and encourage them to continue healthy hygiene habits like frequent hand-washing. We also provide masks for Shipt Shoppers, vendors and contract service providers while they work 
in our stores.
Cleaning & disinfecting: In our stores and distribution centers, we undertake a stringent, two-pronged approach to cleaning and disinfecting high-touch areas to help reduce 
the risk of spreading illnesses.Social distancing & guest metering: To ensure 
social distancing is maintained, we actively monitor and meter guest traffic in our stores, and use floor decals to encourage everyone to remain six feet apart. We’re also staggering rest breaks and meal periods, and limiting the number of team members unloading trucks. Beginning in August 2020, we also require all guests to wear masks while shopping in stores. For guests without a mask, team members will provide disposable masks free of charge.
Health checklist & thermometers: To make it 
easier for teams to monitor their health at home, we’ve made a health checklist available, as well as offering a free thermometer upon request. Our priority is taking care of our team members and supporting them as they serve the millions of guests who count on Target to deliver the food, medicine and essentials they need.
Plexiglass partitions: Plexiglass partitions have 
been installed at all registers, providing a safer environment for guest interactions.
Dedicated shopping hours & quantity limits: 
Our dedicated shopping hours for vulnerable guests and team members—and purchase quantity limits on high-demand items—ensure everyone has access to the essential items they need right now.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 09 ESG Appendix 09 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainFEETTeam member benefits: The safety and 
well-being of our people is always our priority. 
In the uncertainty of the pandemic, we’ve seen 
our team members go above and beyond to 
continue providing incredible service to guests and their communities. We recognize their commitment and match it with our own: to invest in their health and support them when their health is compromised.
We will invest nearly $1 billion more this year in the 
well-being, health and safety of team members than we did in 2019, including increased wages, paid leaves, bonus payouts and relief fund contributions. The measures included a temporary $2-an-hour wage increase for all front-line team members, plus free, safe and reliable backup care for their families. We also paid out a one-time bonus to our front-line hourly team members for their efforts throughout the coronavirus pandemic. In addition, Target’s Team Member LifeResources (TMLR) is available 24/7 to all team members, dependents and any member of the household to help with a variety of issues. Additionally, to support our team through this unprecedented time, Target is offering all U.S.-based team members free access to additional online resources, like Daylight and Sleepio, that support their mental, emotional and physical health. As circumstances during the pandemic evolve, so will the ways we back our teams. We will continue to evaluate and add to our offerings to ensure we are supporting them in the ways they need most.Community support: As talk of “the new normal” 
grows, we’re seeing that the pandemic’s impacts will last for some time. Target and the Target Foundation announced a $10 million donation for team members and communities that need extra resources now and in the coming months. This relief effort will address critical needs—locally, nationally and globally.
• $1 million is for our Target Team Member Giving Fund, helping team members manage financial hardships and other impacts. Target is also matching up to an additional $1 million in contributions from fellow team members.
• $5 million is to assist state and local community foundations supporting nonprofit organizations.
• $3 million is supporting national nonprofits such as Feeding America.
• $1 million is directed toward UNICEF and other global organizations.
• In our supply chain communities, we partnered with CARE in Indonesia and Bangladesh to provide cash for work and cash voucher assistance to members of their women’s Empowerment, Knowledge and Transformative Action (EKATA) groups. This initiative aims to mitigate the immediate socioeconomic impacts of the pandemic.
We have also made it easy for our Target Circle 
members to help direct Target’s giving by offering new options focused on COVID-19 relief efforts—such as the Center for Disaster Philanthropy—
in addition to local community nonprofits.In our home state of Minnesota, the Target team stepped up to provide care and resources in neighborhoods where our team and guests live and work. Among these initiatives was the SAFE Retail toolkit, a package of helpful operational resources to help businesses reopen. Team members created the materials using learnings and insights from Target’s own pandemic-response efforts.
In addition, our supply chain and technology 
experts helped Minnesota officials manage the high demand for personal protective equipment (PPE) by working with them for weeks on inventory, processing, storage and efficient dispatch.
We are humbled by the commitment and effort 
of every Target team member and are proud that Forbes and JUST Capital ranked Target No. 2 on their Corporate Responders list for our commitment to keep every guest and Target team member safe.
Related Link
 Read the latest updates on Target’s 
coronavirus information hub2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 10 ESG Appendix 10 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainTaking Action to Advance Social Justice & Racial Equity
From the beginning, we 
have operated with love and 
opportunity for all. Diversity 
and inclusion are at the core of our culture, and for 
the last 15  years, we’ve 
worked to build a diverse workforce as we strive to 
give everyone access to the 
same opportunities and build teams that represent our 
guests. And we’ve been on a 
journey to embed equity and advance justice within our 
company and communities—
through developing a diverse, supportive workplace built 
on inclusivity to supporting 
suppliers and entrepreneurs that represent our guests 
and communities. 
In 2020, a tragedy in our hometown amplified 
just how imperative this work is. On May 25, 
2020, George Floyd—a Black man—was 
killed  by police in Minneapolis, Minnesota. His 
death sparked global calls for social justice and 
racial equity.
In Minneapolis, we are a community in pain, 
but that pain is not unique to the Twin Cities—it extends across America. The murder of George Floyd has unleashed the pent-up pain of years, as have the killings of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna 
Taylor and others. We say their names and hold a too-long list of others in our hearts. As a Target team, we’ve huddled, we’ve consoled, we’ve witnessed horrific scenes similar to what continues to play out, and we’ve wept that not enough is changing. And as a team we’ve vowed to face pain with purpose.We stand against racism and stand with Black families, communities and our team members. But we understand that we need more than words to move forward. We need action.
As we face an inflection point in Minneapolis and 
across the country, we’re listening to our team, guests and communities. And we’re committing our size, scale and resources to help heal, foster and create solutions in the service of social justice and racial equity—both inside and outside our company.We’ve formed a REACH Committee that will listen to—and work with—our Black team members, guests, community leaders and industry partners to help guide Target in taking bold, intentional and transparent actions toward being a company that helps drive social justice. To create the most impact across our business, REACH is aligned around four key areas of focus: Team, Guests, Communities and Civic Engagement & Public Policy. The committee will set specific, measurable goals to define success across this work and regularly report on our progress.
In addition, with the Target Foundation, we 
announced a $ 10 million investment in community 
recovery and rebuilding efforts, as well as social justice efforts, to support long-standing partners such as the National Urban League and the African American Leadership Forum in addition to new partners. And we’ll provide in-kind donations and contributions to local nonprofits and national partnerships to create long-term change, while also developing new partnerships in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area and across the country.
We have long promoted diverse suppliers as part 
of our strategy to create economic opportunity and embed diversity and inclusion across our businesses. Now, we will provide 10,000 hours of pro bono consulting services for BIPOC-owned small businesses in the Twin Cities, helping with rebuilding efforts.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 11 ESG Appendix 11 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainThrough working with local nonprofit 
organizations, the Target Foundation will amplify investments in BIPOC-owned businesses and entrepreneurs, along with efforts to promote equity in the areas of housing, asset-building and workforce development.
We also want to go beyond economic and 
business support and to empower reflection and solidarity. From now on, we will be recognizing Juneteenth—the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States—as an official annual company holiday.
We will also prioritize the rebuilding and reopening 
of our store located at 2500 E. Lake Street in Minneapolis—preserving approximately 200 local jobs—with the goal of opening in late 2020. The project’s general contractor is Nawal Noor , who 
is the founder and owner of Noor Companies. She is also the first East African developer and general contractor in Minnesota. This aligns with our long-standing work with ConstructReach, a collaboration that grew from a need we identified to grow workforce development and a diverse supplier base within the construction industry. We provide funds and expertise at the program’s board level, driving a focus to grow diversity in construction, and these funds will support 
long-standing partners. 
While we continue to invest in efforts to dismantle systemic racism outside of our own four walls at Target, we also recognize how crucial it is for us to consistently address it within them. Over the past few years, we have been providing inclusion acumen training across the business to combat bias and make our workplace welcoming and 
supportive for all team members. We also have a 
new set of commitments designed to strengthen how we grow and track diversity and inclusion across our team and business.
These behind-the-scenes efforts translate into 
what we hope is a more inclusive shopping experience for our Black guests that goes beyond our annual celebration of Black History Month. Actively engaging and listening to our BIPOC suppliers and team members means that more guests can find quality, affordable products that truly fit their needs and a shopping experience that sparks joy. It means Target is standing behind our ethos of democratizing great design for all.
In the weeks and months ahead, our teams are 
committed to listening and learning from our communities and nonprofit partners to better understand how Target can support their longer-term needs. The necessary work that lies ahead for our country means that “business as usual” and “life as usual” will continue to be impossible. 
It requires all of us to dig deeper to understand 
how we can contribute—individually and collectively. Together, we can end racial injustice.
Related Links
 Read more about our ongoing work to advance 
social justice here
See Also
 CR Report: Diversity and Inclusion
 CR Report: Design for All
 CR Report: Economic Opportunity2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 12 ESG Appendix 12 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainOur CR Strategy
Being a good corporate citizen 
is part of our DNA. In 1918, 
George D. Dayton created 
the Dayton Foundation with a $1 million endowment and a 
purpose to aid in promoting 
the welfare of mankind anywhere in the world. By 
1946, the Dayton Company, 
Target’s predecessor, established the practice of 
giving 5% of pre-tax profits 
back to the community. Fast forward to today, and Target 
stands not only on a rich 
legacy, but also a strong foundation of sustainable 
programs that support our 
company’s purpose: to help all families discover the joy 
of everyday life.What’s Ahead
As 2020 has shown us, change is underway, 
shaped by the enormous challenges of COVID-19, climate change, racial inequities and more. Change brings opportunities to leverage our size, scale and strengths for good. We do not have all the answers and cannot achieve our goals alone. But we are committed to working together in a collaborative way to achieve continuous improvement and to be transparent about what we learn. We are eager to continue on this path and are inspired to join our guests and other important stakeholders on this journey.
Throughout 2020, we have engaged with 
stakeholders across the breadth of our value chain, listening and learning, with the support of key external partners such as Forum for the 
Future, BSR, BBMG and Sustainable Brands. We’ve made deep connections with the people that matter most to us, asking them for their support in identifying where Target as a business can make transformative shifts—strengthening our resilience while ensuring our positive impact on people and planet.The result is a uniquely Target vision of sustainability, fueling a new strategic direction, shaped by what matters now and in the future. This strategy will build on our heritage of democratizing design and wellness; we want everybody to benefit from sustainability. For example, we aim to: provide sustainable and inclusive products that are affordable and accessible; design innovative, sustainable solutions to address waste; and leverage our assets to create economic opportunity and more equitable communities. 
We cannot wait to share the new path our 
sustainability journey will take.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 13 ESG Appendix 13 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainMateriality and Stakeholder Engagement
Our materiality process drives 
how we engage internally and 
externally, invest our resources 
and adapt our strategy on environmental, social, 
economic and governance 
topics across our value chain. 
In recent years we have witnessed dramatic 
changes around the world, to which we continually adapt our work to meet new challenges and drive meaningful progress on 
our social and environmental priorities.
We believe that solutions are only possible through collaboration, and that systemic change is built on deep, ongoing engagement with the people our work impacts. From the people who manufacture the products we sell and the team members who welcome our guests, to the communities we work in, we engage with a diverse group of stakeholders around the world and use their valued perspectives to inform our approach to systemic change. Through these partnerships, we are building a sustainable, equitable future—together.Civil Society Organizations
How We Engage
• Community dialogues
•  Interactions through community partnerships 
and volunteerism
• Participation in conferences and forums
• Partnerships to advance shared priorities 
• Philanthropic investments
• Select topical engagement
• Strategic partnerships and consultation on 
material issuesTopics
• Animal welfare 
• Climate and energy
• Community engagement
• Diversity and inclusion
• Environmental impacts
• Equitable economic opportunity
• Human rights and labor practices
• Materials and packaging
• Philanthropy
• Safety, preparedness and response
• Social justice and racial equity
• Supply chain managementOur Response
Continue our iterative learning process through engagement and partnership to guide our 
strategy—including goal-setting—on our most 
material environmental and social topics
Focus financial, human and in-kind support in 
communities to work to improve the livelihoods 
of people across the United States, India and in our sourcing communities
Guests
How We Engage
• A Bullseye View website and newsletter
• Face-to-face interactions in our stores
• Focus groups
• Guest Services direct interactions
• In-store marketing
• Online polling
• Receipt-to-online guest satisfaction surveys
• Social media monitoring and engagement
• Target Circle loyalty programTopics
• Community engagement
• Diverse and inclusive marketing and merchandise
• Health and safety 
• Materials and packaging
• Social justice and racial equity
• Supply chain management
• Sustainable and inclusive productsOur Response
Elevate and expand how we share our inclusivity and sustainability work in stores and through our 
digital channels
Increase visibility of and access to inclusive and 
sustainable products
Offer our guests the opportunity to direct our 
giving funds locally
Government Officials & Influencers of Both Parties
How We Engage
•  Letters and written or verbal testimony
• Meetings with local team members and 
company leaders
• Trade associations and policy-based organizationsTopics
• Community engagement
• Data security and privacy
• Employment and labor
• Health and safety
• Health care
• Product safety
• Sustainability
• Taxes
• TradeOur Response
Enterprise-wide intake and assessment of salient policy issues
Advocate at all levels of government—including 
with policymakers and legislators—to help shape constructive policy solutions that impact 
our team members, business, guests, industry 
and communities2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 14 ESG Appendix 14 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainInvestors
How We Engage
• Annual meeting of shareholders
• Financial community meeting
• Participation in conferences and forums
• Quarterly earnings conference calls
• Regular calls and in-person meetings
• Topical calls as requestedTopics
• Business continuity planning
• Corporate governance
• Environmental impacts
• Executive compensation
• Human capital management
• Human rights and labor practices
• Materials and packaging
• Supply chain managementOur Response
Increase transparency of social and 
environmental strategy and associated 
investments, including expanding key 
data disclosures
Team Members
How We Engage
• Annual survey and weekly pulse questions
• Bias training and inclusion acumen resources
• Daily team member email
• Employee resource groups, diversity action committees and affinity networks
• Executive leadership emails and videos
• Focus groups and listening sessions
• Integrity Hotline
• Personal and professional development and trainings
• Volunteerism during the work dayTopics
• Competitive wages and benefits
• Diverse and inclusive workforce
• Environmental and social impacts
• Learning, development and growth
• Philanthropy
• Safety and disaster preparedness
• Team Member Giving Fund
• Worker safety, health and wellnessOur Response
Give our team members equitable opportunities to grow professionally in their careers, take care 
of themselves, each other and their families, and 
make a positive impact on our guests and our local communities
Vendors
How We Engage
All vendors
• Annual meetings
• External partner website
• Trainings and workshops
• Vendor Code of Conduct
Owned-brand vendors
• Annual assessment
• Annual owned-brand vendor meeting
• Capability building
• Standards of Vendor Engagement (SOVE)Topics
• Environmental impacts
• Human rights and labor practices
• Materials and packaging
• Net-positive manufacturing
• Supplier diversity
• Supply chain management
• Transparency and disclosureOur Response
Driving shared value through shared values with engagement, capacity building, investments and 
incentives for sustainable supply chain practices 
toward diverse and net-positive manufacturingKey Partners
1863 Ventures
African American Leadership Forum
American Apparel & Footwear AssociationAmerican Indian College Fund
Apparel Impact InstituteBetter Cotton Initiative
Better Work
BSR
CARE International
Catalyst
Center for Economic Inclusion
Ceres
Chemical Footprint ProjectChief Executives for Corporate Purpose
Closed Loop Partners’ Center for the 
Circular  Economy
Co-Impact
Consumer Goods Forum
Ellen MacArthur Foundation
Executive Leadership Council
Fair Labor Association
Fashion for Good
Feeding America
Financial Health Network
Global Fashion Agenda
GoodWeave
Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility
Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs
Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics
National Museum of African American 
History  and Culture
National Organization on DisabilityNational Retail Federation
National Urban League
Nest
Nirapon
Operation Gratitude
Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance
Retail Industry Leaders Association
Social & Labor Convergence Program
St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital
Sustainable Apparel Coalition
Textile Exchange
Toy Industry Association
Verité
Water.org
World Resources Institute
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals  Programme2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 15 ESG Appendix 15 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainSupply chainOur Value ChainOur value chain is how we bring our 
business to life and put our values into our 
products and services—from making to 
selling. This value chain includes a supply chain spanning 49 countries, operations 
across all 50 states, and products and 
services for over 30 million guests.
Supply Chain
Behind our owned and exclusive brands are responsibly sourced 
materials and people whose rights are protected and whose 
aspirations are nurtured.
MaterialsResponsible 
manufacturingOperations
What makes Target different are the team members who make our 
guests’ shopping experience special and the welcoming stores that 
reflect the communities they serve.
Team and employment
Properties Communities
Products and Guests
No matter who they are, we’re proud that Target is a place  where 
our guests will find products and brands that fit their needs, 
lifestyles  and values.
Our assortment includes quality, inclusive and sustainable products and services that guests feel secure using
Helping guests make sustainable choices
Reverse supply chain
Guest recycling
End of life
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Glossary2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Operations Products and Guests 16 ESG Appendix 16 The Big Picture 
About This Report    CEO Letter    Q&A With Our VP of CR    Who We Are    Year in Review    Our Response to COVID-19    
Social Justice and Racial Equity    Our CR Strategy    Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement    Our Value ChainSupply 
Chain2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 17 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 17 Supply Chain In This Section
19 How We Sour ce Products:  
The Value of Values
20 Materials:  
Responsible  Sourcing 
& Sustainability
22 Responsible Pr oducts:  
Raising  the Bar for a Better 
Supply  Chain
23 Human Rights in 
Manufacturing: 
Safeguarding  People in Our 
Supply  Chain
24 Eliminating For ced and 
Underaged Labor: 
Combating  Unacceptable 
Practices  Globally
25 Worker Well-Being  in the 
Supply Chain: 
Supporting  Safer  Workspaces and 
Enhancing Worker Livelihoods
26 Economic Opportunity:  
Growing  Prosperity for All Through 
Supplier Diversity
27 Climate and Ener gy: 
Building  an Efficient & Resilient 
Supply Chain
29 Water:  
Accounting  for Every Drop
30 Chemicals:  
Making  Cleaner  Choices  Across 
Our BusinessSourcing With Purpose
Our purpose? To help all families discover 
the joy of everyday life. For us, much of that joy is in the values behind our quality products that make life better for guests.
We work to promote and protect the 
rights of the people across our supply chain, from the materials we source to the manufacturers we contract for our owned and exclusive brands. We use our influence over these brands (which account for about a third of our overall sales) to raise the bar across our industry. This includes working with diverse suppliers, enabling greater economic opportunity and supporting social equity for communities where we operate. The ways we’re reducing the environmental impact of our owned-brand products are built into our processes, where we’re embedding circular design principles from the drawing board that will carry positive impact into the homes of our guests. At Target, we don’t just sell goods and provide services—we offer choices that are building the future we—and our guests—want to see; building a supply chain that supports our values so that our products reflect them, too.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 18 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 18 Supply ChainHow We Source Products
The Value of Values
From the very first stages of 
product design, we’re thinking 
about how to responsibly 
find and select the materials we need. 
We choose our suppliers and materials with care, 
and we are continually looking for opportunities to make our products more sustainable. From working with local partners and seeking internationally recognized certifications to investing in innovation and leveraging industry collaborations, we prioritize sustainability and transparency, helping our guests make choices they can trust.
Sourcing responsibly is a journey, with new best 
practices being developed every day. We’re excited by the challenge and always ready to learn—and lead.
Understanding Brands at Target
• National brands: brands we sell, but 
do not own
• Owned brands: brands we own, 
source  and sell
• Exclusive brands: brands we do not own, but are the only retailer licensed to sell
 Find out more here2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 19 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 19
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsMaterials
Responsible Sourcing & Sustainability
Target strives to source 
materials that are better for 
people and the planet.
Our Approach
Whether we are seeking to use more recycled 
polyester or more sustainable cotton, forest products and ingredients, our sourcing teams, suppliers and designers are aligned with our values and empowered to drive progress on our commitments. Our guests’ needs play a part in helping us choose which products we focus our sustainability and sourcing efforts on and whether we leverage our impact through our owned brands or national brands.
This is supported by providing circular design 
training for teams across the enterprise to reinforce how material choice impacts a product’s total footprint. 
We have published commitments for cotton, 
animal welfare, forest products, palm oil and seafood. Reporting on our progress toward these commitments keeps us accountable and transparent. We are also a proud member of multiple external partnerships that are focused on driving innovation and transparency around how key resources are grown, sourced and produced.Goals
Coffee
By 2022, 100% of Target’s Archer Farms and 
Good & Gather coffee in both bags and pods will be certified sustainable according to the Fair Trade USA standard or an equivalent
28.6% of stock-keeping units (SKUs) 
In Progress
Cotton
Source 100% sustainable cotton for our owned- and exclusive-brand products by 2022
Over 83,000 metric tonnes of BCI and U.S. 
LEADS cotton In ProgressForest Products
Source all owned-brand paper-based retail 
packaging from sustainably managed forests by 2022
51% by weight 
In Progress
Roll out implementation of our forest products 
policy among our relevant owned brands: Up&Up, 
Pillowfort and Cat & Jack by 2020; Threshold and Smith & Hawken by 2022
Percentage of SKUs that conform to Target’s 
forest products policy:
99% – Spritz
38% – Up&Up, Pillowfort, Cat & Jack0% – Threshold, Smith & HawkenIn Progress
Pursue viscose-apparel garment supply chains 
that are free of ancient and endangered forests, endangered species and controversial sources by 2020
In Progress
Animal Welfare
Transition to only cage-free shell eggs, pending 
available supply, by 2025
51% of sales 
In Progress
Eliminate the use of sow gestation crates by 2022
In ProgressPalm Oil
All palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives in 
Target’s owned-brand food, household cleaning, personal care, baby care, beauty, cosmetics and candle products will be certified by Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or an equivalent standard with a Mass Balance, Segregated or Identity Preserved supply chain certification by the end of 2022. Target also aims to increase the portion of Segregated and Identity Preserved palm oil used in its products over time. 
1% of volume certified Segregated
45% of volume certified Mass Balance
54% covered by credits
In Progress
Target aims to trace its palm oil supply chain to 
the mill level by the end of 2022
New Goal2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 20 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 20
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsWhere We Are Now
We’re proud to report great progress against 
several of our goals. 
In palm oil, we achieved 79% traceability to the 
importer level in 2019. We are now partnering with Proforest and importers to achieve traceability to the mill level by the end of 2022. In addition, 54% of our palm oil volume is covered by RSPO credits. Through purchasing independent smallholder credits, 47% of our credits supported the production of certified sustainable palm oil produced by independent smallholders. We also have 45% of our palm oil volume Mass Balance certified.
We have increased the amount of responsible 
CanopyStyle rayon used in our products. Two large suppliers—representing 8.8% of our 
overall apparel spend and 29.4% of Cat  & Jack 
specifically—committed to meeting the CanopyStyle requirements. In addition, Up&Up has added Forest Stewardship Council-certified pencils to its portfolio. This is in response to our ongoing commitments to source all of the wood, paper, paper-based packaging and wood-based fiber used in Target’s owned-brand products from forests that are well managed and certified—and whenever possible, to use post-consumer recycled materials.
We have also made significant progress in 
sourcing sustainable paper retail packaging, rising from 14% in 2017 to 51% this year, largely through direct negotiations and agreements with packaging suppliers.In coffee, we are working toward our goal to have our Archer Farms brand certified to meet Fair Trade USA or equivalent standards and to 
begin to move it to our Good & Gather portfolio by late 2020. This is part of our work to meet our Sustainable Coffee Challenge commitments.
And, as of mid-2020, 16 of our owned and 
exclusive brands had products that used recycled polyester, sourced from approximately 17 suppliers, including Repreve. This is how we’re addressing 
our ongoing commitment to replace conventional polyester with polyester made from recycled plastic in owned- and exclusive-brand apparel, accessories and home products. In addition, from its inception, our new brand All in Motion  
was developed with the intent of using recycled polyester, accounting for over 8,000 metric tonnes 
of our recycled polyester  consumption.
What’s Next
As an Associate Member of Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, Target is engaged in supporting solutions for sustainability and continuous improvement in U.S. commodity agriculture. In 2019, we co-funded a project—the Cotton Incorporated, U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol, Target, and Agrible Texas Panhandle Cotton Sustainability Project—to support cotton producers in West Texas, which works to create a platform that enables participating growers and value chain members to gain and share valuable insights about the sustainability impacts of their decisions. To build on this work, in 2020 we launched a five-year partnership with The Nature Conservancy, McDonald’s and Cargill to co-fund a project focused on soil health. The aim is to support regenerative agriculture and reduce our supply chain’s carbon footprint in Nebraska. We’re excited about what we hope to achieve as a result of these collaborative efforts.
To support our forest products commitments, 
we are currently working with the Sustainable Packaging Coalition and the American Forest Foundation on developing a responsible sourcing platform called Forests in Focus. Launching this fall, the platform will help to identify risks in forest product supply chains and will also provide an opportunity for the supply chain to engage with forest owners.
Target is also taking part in another project with 
the American Forest Foundation focused on identifying small landowners in the Carolinas and bringing them into forest-certification systems. 
It will grow the availability of responsibly sourced 
forest products by addressing the largest gap in uncertified materials—small landowners.
As part of our commitment to sourcing 100% 
of our fresh and frozen seafood sustainably, we are working on enhancing labor standards in the seafood supply chain. We are finalizing an update to our seafood commitment that includes new worker protections, and have partnered with Verité to conduct in-depth foreign contract worker assessments at all Tier 1 seafood-processing factories that employ foreign contract workers.
We are also broadening the scope of our 
responsible material sourcing programs beyond our major inputs. For example, we funded a project to analyze the costs associated with rubber farming and converting land to more efficient rubber production while connecting the supply of rubber wood to our supply chain.
Learn More
 Explore our approach to creating sustainable 
products and steps we’re taking to offer guests better choices.
 Read about our approach t o social compliance 
and labor protections in our supply chains.
 To help guests make informed choices, we 
seek certification for some products and display sustainability certifications on our products and online.
Related Links
 Code of Ethics
 Conflict Minerals Policy
 Conflict Minerals Report
 Annual Report/10-K
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Material and Resour ce Use2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 21 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 21
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsResponsible Products
Raising the Bar for a Better Supply  Chain
We constantly look for 
opportunities to improve our 
standards and processes, 
and use our work with regulators (where relevant), 
manufacturers, industry 
organizations and other retailers globally to lead the 
way for our industry.
Our Approach
We believe in sourcing from responsible 
manufacturers. To us that means putting people and their rights at the center of a supply chain that creates quality products with a smaller environmental footprint.
Target has long been committed to protecting 
the human rights of workers in our supply chain, from our participation as a founding member of Nirapon in Bangladesh to our more recently formalized Human Rights Statement. It commits Target to using our scale to create a positive impact for human rights, not just in our operations and for our own team members but along our supply chain too.
We expect suppliers that produce Target’s owned and exclusive brands, as well as those that produce nationally branded products for which Target is the importer of record, to participate in Target’s Responsible Sourcing Program. This includes complying with Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement and all applicable national and local laws, as well as participating in our responsible sourcing audit process.
We train our suppliers on Target policies that help 
support compliance, including health and safety requirements, environmental management and responsible hiring practices. We also engage our supply chain on initiatives that will help them use resources more efficiently and reduce the environmental impact of their operations.
And from enhancing human rights to improving 
facility safety and environmental performance, we’re working to ensure that Target’s presence in global supply chains is a force for good that enhances the lives of the people behind our products.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Environmental Responsibility in 
the Supply Chain2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 22 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 22
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsHuman Rights in Manufacturing
Safeguarding People in Our Supply  Chain
From our supply chain to our 
stores, we believe everyone 
deserves to be treated with 
dignity and respect. We’re using our scale to protect 
individual human rights across 
our business.
Our Approach
Target’s large global supply chain gives us the 
reach and influence to help protect and uphold the human rights of people across our value chain. We care about human rights everywhere, but focus most of our efforts on where we can have the strongest impact—our team members and our owned-brand supply chain.
In 2020, we took another important step in our 
enterprise human rights journey by publishing our new Human Rights Statement, drafted to align with ILO Core Conventions and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The statement reflects the work we have done over the years to engage with and support our key stakeholder groups, including guests, team members, our supply chain and our communities. It also features links to Target’s Integrity Hotline so anyone can anonymously report concerns or violations.
We also have an ongoing commitment to monitor 
for indicators of forced labor throughout our supply chain, taking swift action to address indicators, if discovered. We continually work to enhance worker well-being, often through high-impact partnerships that seek to address issues that are locally relevant.Where We Are Now
We verify compliance with our policies through factory vetting, on-site assessments, corrective action plan development, capability building and training. When egregious human rights violations are found, we work with third-party experts to develop, execute and oversee remediation programs. Find out more about our audit processes here.
Target’s Responsible Sourcing Advisory Program (RSAP) supports key suppliers in evolving their approach toward continuous improvement. RSAP—established in partnership with Better Work—provides soft skills training that helps workers and management solve problems collaboratively. When everyone works together, collaboration turns ideas into actions. To date, RSAP has engaged 
40 factories in 5 countries, training 410 supervisors 
and reaching over 37,000 workers, resulting in a 
3% increase in worker satisfaction with working 
conditions and a 2% increase in worker engagement. 
“ At Target we recognize that the 
actions that we take can make a 
big impact. We believe that to drive sustainable, systemic improvements in any sector, collaboration is necessary to enable the tipping point to drive lasting change. This includes supporting the development and adoption of industry tools such as the Social & Labor Convergence Program as part of an ecosystem that is rooted in improving worker lives and driving continuous improvement.”
Bill Foudy
President Owned Brand Sourcing and DevelopmentWhat’s Next
We believe that the greatest accelerators of 
industry change are collaboration and alignment. We will continue to use Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Facility Environmental Module (FEM) and the Social & Labor Convergence Program tool as well as collaborating with Better Work to measure supply chain performance and drive continuous improvement across our global manufacturing footprint.Learn More
 To support localized responses to COVID-19 
in our supply chain communities, we partnered with CARE as they pivoted programming in Indonesia and Bangladesh to provide cash for work and cash voucher assistance to members of their Empowerment, Knowledge and Transformative Action (EKATA) groups. This initiative aims to mitigate the immediate socioeconomic impacts of the pandemic.
 Additionally, CARE is providing gender-based-
violence awareness services and delivering appropriate PPE to community members.
Related Links
 Code of Ethics
 SOVE (Standards of Vendor Engagement)
 Vendor Code of Conduct 
 Conflict Minerals Report
 Labor & Human Rights Policies 
 Global Factory List
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Human Rights 
Target wants to help protect the human rights of supply chain workers, their families and communities. Access to clean, safe water is a human right and through our ongoing partnership with Water.org we have 
helped mobilize over $69 million in capital that is directly helping families in India, Bangladesh and Indonesia affordably access clean, drinkable water and sanitation in their homes. This work is improving the lives of over 1 million people.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 23 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 23
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsEliminating Forced and Underaged Labor
Combating Unacceptable Practices  Globally
Forced and underaged labor 
have no place at Target. 
Together with our vendors, 
NGO partners and industry experts, we’re dedicated 
to preventing, identifying 
and swiftly remediating these abuses—if found—
in our global manufacturing 
supply chains.
Our Approach
Despite our long-standing Responsible Sourcing 
Program, we understand that forced and underaged labor continues to exist in the global economy. That’s why we take a multi-pronged approach to prevent, detect and remediate forced and underaged labor—if found—within 
our supply chains.
Our prevention activities include ongoing global risk assessments to keep a pulse on forced labor hot spots around the world. Our analysis considers data from a variety of sources, such as the U.S. Department of Labor’s List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor and the U.S. Department of State’s Trafficking in Persons Report.Additionally, we are working with partners like the International Justice Mission at the community 
level to empower job seekers so that they can better protect themselves from potential abuse. Two examples of that work are the Safe Migration Program and Grassroots Prevention Campaign in India.
Where We Are Now
Target is a proud member of the Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment—an initiative of the Institute for Human Rights and Business—where we utilize our collective influence, voice and size to push for improved recruitment systems globally. In 2017, we committed to the Employer Pays Principle and since then we have been working diligently with our suppliers to embed responsible recruitment policies and practices within their operations. This work has helped to return significant sums to workers around the world through reimbursement of recruitment expenses. More importantly, we are working toward ensuring that workers pay no fees to secure jobs from the start. 
Eliminating forced and underaged labor demands 
sophisticated identification techniques as well as collaborative remediation. We are proud to have contributed to the work resulting in the Ethical Recruitment in the Garment Industry case study published by Impactt. We will continue to advance collective remediation efforts with our industry peers.Target is also a member of the Center for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) Working Group, which is advancing industry efforts to eliminate underaged labor. In instances when underaged workers are identified, Target works with CCR CSR to assess and address the non-compliance as well as provide long-term support to the affected individuals, so that they do not return to supply chain work while underage. Find out more about CCR CSR’s process here.
In response to our deep commitment to upholding 
human rights and ever-evolving policies, addressing guest concerns and preventing discrimination, we made an update in 2020 to prohibit the use of all forms of incarcerated labor in our supply chain. In the past, we allowed vendors to use legal work release programs in the U.S., with participants voluntarily working and getting paid market-competitive wages. These programs were rarely used by our vendors, and 
we are proud to have strengthened the policy.What’s Next
Looking ahead, we plan to deepen our investment 
into preventative efforts within factories, at the community level and with other key stakeholders along the workers’ journey, including labor agents. We’ve already partnered with Verité to scale their CUMULUS platform, which conducts labor agent mapping to enable labor agent capacity-building initiatives.
We will also be looking to advance our 
engagement in countries that traditionally “send” labor, as well as exploring opportunities to test out technology solutions to reach workers further back in the supply chain.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Supply Chain
 ESG Appendix: Material and Resour ce Use2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 24 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 24
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsWorker Well-Being in the Supply Chain
Supporting Safer Workspaces and Enhancing Worker Livelihoods
We care about the people 
behind our products and we 
know that workers along the 
supply chain face unique challenges. We work closely 
with strategic partners to help 
keep them safe and enhance their lives.
Our Approach
We aim to elevate workplace safety for supply 
chain workers and support greater overall well-being for them. To do this, we engage with strategic partners that have the knowledge and reach to address the issues that matter most to supply chain workers.
Target continues to enhance the safety of workers 
in the supply chains through engagement with two key initiatives: Nirapon and the Life and Building Safety Initiative (LABS). Nirapon is a locally managed organization devoted to overseeing the ongoing safety monitoring, training and helpline efforts of the Bangladesh apparel factories from which Nirapon members source. LABS, a collaboration between global apparel and footwear brands and retailers, is tasked with creating and implementing a shared standard to prevent structural, electrical and fire safety issues. In 2019, LABS successfully rolled out in India and Vietnam.Goal
Enhance the lives of 3 million people in the 
factories and surrounding communities where Target’s goods are produced by 2020
3.2 million lives enhanced as of May 2020
Achieved 
Where We Are Now
In May 2020, Target achieved our goal to enhance the lives of 3 million people in the factories and surrounding communities where Target’s goods are produced. Even though we reached our goal early, Target will continue to engage with key partners and prioritize efforts to enhance the 
well-being of supply chain workers.
Target also invested $4.5 million in a three-year commitment to CARE’s Dignified Work Initiative . 
The project supports women’s empowerment and well-being in Bangladesh, Indonesia and Vietnam. Female factory workers form Empowerment, Knowledge, and Transformative Action (EKATA)  
groups that provide training, facilitate access to social services and act as an information resource for other workers. Groups also identify and highlight barriers to their rights and campaign for change. To date, Target’s impact has reached over 1 million people through the CARE partnership. Target is proud to have supported CARE’s efforts to influence revisions to the Vietnam Labor Code, creating alignment between labor law provisions on sexual harassment prevention and the ILO Convention on Eliminating Violence and 
Harassment in the World of Work. These labor code revisions were approved by the National Assembly in November 2019.What’s Next
In late 2019, Target launched a partnership with OneSky for all children. OneSky works in China, where a changing economic landscape has caused an estimated 9 million young children to be left behind in rural villages while their parents work in distant cities. Missing consistent interactions with their parents means a significant percentage of left-behind children suffer from depression, anxiety, malnutrition and/or stunted growth. Throughout 2020, OneSky is rolling out resources and training to support migrant parents and their children and, through its Village Model, is empowering and training caregivers and civil society to promote more positive outcomes for children in need.Learn More
 LABS is a collaboration between global apparel and footwear brands and retailers, and is creating and implementing a shared standard to prevent structural, electrical and fire safety issues. In 2019, LABS successfully rolled out in 
India and  Vietnam.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Environmental Responsibility in 
the Supply ChainThe Power of SightThrough our partnership with VisionSpring, we provide eye care screenings and eyeglasses to workers in our manufacturing supply chain so they can earn, learn and be safe. In 2019, we expanded Target’s partnership with VisionSpring to our Bangladesh supply chain. To date, Target’s support has helped VisionSpring assist over 156,000 people through its services.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 25 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 25
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsEconomic Opportunity
Growing Prosperity for All Through Supplier Diversity
We’re building supply chains 
that unleash economic 
opportunity and prosperity 
for all and reflect the guests we serve.
Our Approach
For decades, we’ve invested in building 
strong relationships with diverse suppliers and underrepresented businesses. Together, as we create a broader, more inclusive assortment at Target, we’re also supporting economic development and strengthening the communities we serve. While we continue to make meaningful progress, we’re committed to partnering with even more diverse suppliers to bring our guests the most relevant products—and continue to use Target’s scale and influence to help drive meaningful change across the retail industry. We continue to invest in businesses that are:
• Women-owned
• BIPOC-owned
• LGBTQ+-owned
• Veteran-owned
• Disability-owned
To help us develop diverse supplier relationships, we partner with multiple national groups and more to further our initiatives, including the National Minority Supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce, the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the US Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce and the National Veteran-Owned Business Association. These valued collaborations are key to fostering community and economic development while also enhancing our ability to deliver shareholder value.And each partner, in their own way, helps us 
champion inclusion within our assortment and far 
beyond. That includes the products we carry to 
services like construction, facilities maintenance 
and more that keep our stores, distribution 
centers, headquarters locations and other sites 
running smoothly.
Where We Are Now
In 2019, we launched a new on-site Supplier Diversity Summit where we looked to provide incentives for diverse businesses to become certified, and offered opportunities to give them tools that are not available to non-certified businesses. The summit brought in 10 companies from around the country to participate in an in-depth learning experience. Target’s Diversity & Inclusion team also partnered with our Marketing department to nominate different brands for consideration for future campaigns.What’s Next
Our Supplier Diversity team is working on a partnership program with the WBENC for Women Owned in Retail to help connect women-owned businesses with major corporations to facilitate business opportunities. In addition, we continue to serve on numerous boards and committees for nonprofits that support racial equity work.
We will also formalize an internal mentor program, 
focused on Target properties, that will bring together BIPOC-owned businesses with our business areas to help to teach those businesses how to work with Target. The goal is to convert those businesses to active Target suppliers. We will bring our first group through in 2020.Learn More
 Despite the onset of COVID-19, Target 
supported the Entrepreneur Virtual Summit to help keep Black-owned businesses connected to available capital, insights and resources.
 Through strong partnerships with diverse 
suppliers and underrepresented businesses, we are creating broader, more inclusive assortments at Target.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Supplier DiversitySupporting Entrepreneurs With the Target Accelerators Program
Talent exists everywhere and at Target, we’ve made it our business to nurture it. One way we do it is through our entrepreneurial Accelerators programs  
that provide stipends, mentoring and experiences for those looking to launch and grow businesses. By harnessing our role to accelerate economic development, we generate entrepreneurial opportunities for diverse suppliers. We believe the next generation of innovators, change-makers and leaders see the world differently and recognize alternative solutions that can grow business and strengthen society.
To give a boost to the next generation of 
entrepreneurs, we launched our Target Incubator, aimed at helping those with “better for people” or “better for the planet” ideas. Eight companies were selected to participate in the 2020 program at our Minneapolis headquarters for an eight-week course to learn all about the world of retail. Due to COVID-19, Target shifted our program to 11 weeks of virtual programming. Throughout the program, participants networked with like-minded entrepreneurs and developed skills in negotiations, branding, pitching and more. They also had access to Target’s resources and mentors to help them as they continue to grow their business, and showcased their final pitches at the Capstone event.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 26 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 26
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsClimate and Energy
Building an Efficient & Resilient Supply Chain
1  This 2019 reduction does not account for supplier -reported reductions 
through CDP Supply Chain and Higg FEM as data was not available at time 
of publication. We plan to report this progress at the beginning of 2021.
2 Find out more about GHG emissions Scopes  here.With our most ambitious 
goals to date, we’re working 
across our operations and 
supply chain to create a cleaner global environment 
for our Target guests and 
team  members.
Our Approach
Climate change is a complex issue that impacts 
us all, but there are solutions—if we are bold and act fast. At Target we’re doing our part by implementing measures to improve energy efficiency across our operations and supply chain and reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
In early 2019, we took our next leap forward with 
new goals designed to build on our previous ambitions. This time we are addressing emissions across our entire value chain. 
Most of our GHG emissions (94%) come from our 
value chain activities (i.e. Scope 3 emissions). Of those, 53% come from our purchased goods and services, and the remaining 47% come from the use of sold products, transportation and other activities. To curb Scope 3 emissions, we help our suppliers to reduce the impacts resulting from raw material use, manufacturing and transportation of our products. We work with industry partners like Apparel Impact Institute to create better tools and more efficient processes.
In December 2019, Supply Chain Dive awarded Target the 2019 Sustainability Plan of the Year , in 
recognition of our leadership in setting carbon-reduction goals for the entire supply chain.
Goals
Reduce our absolute Scope 3 Retail Purchased 
Goods and Services GHG emissions by 30% below 2017 baseline levels by 2030 
2.1% reduction
 1 
In Progress 
Ensure that 80% of our retail and non-retail 
suppliers by spend will set science-based 
reduction targets on their Scope 1 and 2 emissions
 2 by 2023
17%In Progress 
1  Th is 2019 reduction does not account for supplier-reported reductions through CDP Supply Chain and Higg FEM as data was not available at time of publication. We plan to report this progress at the beginning of 2021
2	 Find	out	mor e	a bout	GH G	emissi ons	Sc opes here.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 27 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 27
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsWhere We Are Now
Since we rolled out our Climate Supplier 
Engagement program in 2017, a total of 17% of our suppliers have set their own climate goals in line with science. A further 6% have committed to setting a goal in the next two years. We will continue to leverage both the CDP Supply Chain Climate Survey and the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Index FEM to track supplier goals and emissions in our supply chain.
We work closely with our owned-brand 
manufacturing facilities to implement projects to reduce climate impacts and improve energy efficiency. In collaboration with the International Finance Corporation’s Vietnam Improvement Program between 2018 and 2019, we worked with 25 factories that accounted for total energy savings of 63,800 MWh per year, a 24% improvement against the baseline. Among them, four cut and sew apparel factories located in North Vietnam will install solar panels to further reduce their carbon footprint. Similarly, we have also worked with Apparel Impact Institute’s Clean by Design program to achieve 12% savings against the baseline, with total energy savings of 273,600 MWh per year, and reductions in GHG emissions by more than 111,000 metric tonnes of CO
2e (mtCO 2e) by 30 textile suppliers in China 
and Taiwan between 2018 and 2019. As part of our partnership, we expanded our work to India and are engaging a total of 27 textile mills globally on energy- and water-efficiency initiatives.In addition, to better understand our Scope 3 impacts and develop our goals, we have worked with Anthesis on a full Scope 3 GHG inventory 
and hotspot analysis of our most relevant product categories. In 2019, we saw a 2.1% reduction in our Scope 3 Retail Purchased Goods and Services emissions, compared to our 2017 baseline, and a 1.5% reduction in overall Scope 3 emissions. This 2019 reduction does not account for reductions reported by suppliers through CDP Supply Chain and Higg FEM because the figures were not available at time of publication. We plan to report this progress after the end of our 2020 fiscal year.
What’s Next
We are sharpening our focus on supplier engagement and working with stakeholders at different points of our value chain to achieve our goals. We are excited to partner with our suppliers and help enable 80% of our retail and non-retail suppliers by spend to set science-based reduction targets on their Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2023.
We’re applying learnings from our own efforts 
procuring renewable energy for our operations 
to help our suppliers along this journey. To help further reduce our supply chain emissions, we focus on how to drive sustainable agriculture. Along with several other companies, we are partnering with Practical Farmers of Iowa and Sustainable Food Lab on a project focused on Small Grains in the Corn Belt and on how using small grains and cover crops can help farmers decrease their use of pesticides and advance regenerative agricultural practices.
Furthering our work with Anthesis, we are 
examining the drivers behind the agricultural section of our footprint and developing strategies and initiatives to reduce on-farm and field emissions, from cottons to grains and other key crops. In addition, we will evaluate other categories, including furniture, toys and homeware, to identify efficiencies in specific product categories. 
Related Links
 Climate Policy
 Supply-Chain Sustainability
 Sustainable Operations
 2020 CDP Climate Change Response
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Climate and Ener gy2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 28 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 28
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsWater
Accounting for Every Drop
As a company that sources 
products from manufacturing 
factories, we are sensitive 
to our potential impact on local water supplies where 
we source, and work toward 
achieving maximum efficiency.
Our Approach
We invest in global and domestic watersheds 
where we know we have the greatest impact and which are the most water stressed according to our latest water risk assessments.
We also support material-specific programs like 
the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), which provides tools, training and tracking to help our cotton growers protect the environment and care for the health and well-being of farming communities. This includes measures to ensure water is used efficiently. BCI uses global averages of its field level results, measuring Better Cotton against conventional cotton, to provide annual metrics to brands and retailers based on their uptake of BCI cotton. Using those numbers, and in partnership with BCI, in 2019 an estimated 12 billion gallons of water were saved thanks to our sourcing of Better Cotton. 
We are collaborating with suppliers on farm-
level initiatives to improve soil health and reduce agricultural runoff in the Mississippi River basin. We are also supporting the future development of small grains and cover crops grown in rotation with corn and soybeans.We also periodically conduct water risk assessments. Our last assessment took place 
in 2017, and we have one planned for 2020. 
Goals
Improve water efficiency in textile dyeing and 
finishing factories located in priority watersheds by 15% by 2022
In Progress
By 2025, all owned-brand apparel textile 
factories will comply with the Zero Discharge of 
Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) progressive-level wastewater standards
In Progress
Design 100% of garment-washed owned-brand 
apparel utilizing water-saving design principles 
by 2025
61% of denim SKUs
42% of non-denim SKUs
In Progress
Where We Are Now
Target is a partner in the Vietnam Improvement 
Program, which is helping implement environmental advancements for factories in Vietnam. We are also part of the Apparel Impact Institute’s Clean By Design program, which focuses on enhancing process efficiency to improve the environment. In the 2018–2019 
program, a total of 30 fabric mills in China and Taiwan participated, achieving an average of 20% water savings annually, which is equivalent to over 3.5 million cubic meters of water. In 2019, we expanded our work to India. At the end of 2019, 68 textile wet-processing factories and 37 Tier 1 assembly facilities in priority watersheds we work with were covered by these two programs.
One of our most significant uses of water is 
through agriculture supply chains and we work with key partners to help us understand and track our use and to direct our efforts where we can improve. The WWF’s AgWater Challenge and Ceres’ Connect the Drops are two initiatives that help us achieve our ambitions by supporting improved sourcing solutions, and by working with peers to connect legislators and corporations to address pressing issues in water-stressed regions.What’s Next
We began implementing our Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) commitments with strategic apparel suppliers in October 2019 and are looking to scale up to broader apparel during 2020. The goal is to have suppliers meet these requirements—or have a roadmap to meeting them—by the end of 2020. We will also continue to explore and participate in additional initiatives that will help us meet our water goals.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Wat er 
 CR Report: Properties—Water2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 29 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 29
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsChemicals
Making Cleaner Choices Across Our  Business
Our guests care about what 
goes in, on and around their 
bodies, and so do we. They 
trust us to deliver products that are better for them, their 
families, their communities and 
our shared planet. 
Our Approach
We introduced our first set of goals in 2017, 
aiming them at addressing unwanted chemicals with the biggest potential health impact, and factoring in their prevalence within our products. The goals also prioritize products guests tell us are most important to them—like the ones that 
go in, on and around their bodies. 
For this work, we not only have aspirational goals for reducing chemicals that we don’t yet have suitable substitutes for, but we also know that some chemicals can and should be removed entirely. For our essentials businesses (beauty, personal care, baby care, household cleaning formulated items), we use an Unwanted Chemicals List (UCL) to send clear market signals that we seek reduction of unwanted chemicals from products, but not at the risk of regrettable substitutions. For the formulated products UCL, we use a third party to check for the presence of these unwanted chemicals within product ingredients. Where they are present, we seek to work alongside product manufacturers to find suitable formulation changes. Because our product mix in these categories has many national brands, this work applies to all products, not just our owned-brand assortment.
In the case of textiles businesses, we have primarily 
focused on our owned-brand supply chain, where we have greater influence over what goes into the product as well as the process. Chemicals identified for removal are included in our textiles Restricted Substances List (RSL). In the case of our textiles RSL, testing is required to show compliance, and if a product is not compliant, we will not sell it. For textile products, we also restrict chemicals used at factory level by using a Manufacturing Restricted Substance List (MRSL). 
We joined and became a member of ZDHC in 2018 and adopted their MRSL for our textile products.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 30 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 30
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsAs we’ve applied our strategy to products sold 
in our assortment and used in our operations, we also use our scale and chemicals strategy to help accelerate change and transparency across the industry, so that it’s easy for consumers to make informed choices. That includes investing in innovative new green chemistry ideas and sharing our chemical lists and guidance publicly. We believe that taking steps to transform our industry will play an important role in advancing safety for supply chain workers, too.
Goals
Improve textile products by removing added flame 
retardants that are potential carcinogens or pose harm to guests, workers or communities by 2022
In Progress
Improve textile products by removing added 
perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) from products 
by 2022
In Progress
By the end of 2020, implement an RSL for textiles 
used in all owned-brand products 
Achieved
By the end of 2020, implement an MRSL for 
textiles used in all owned-brand productsIn ProgressAchieve transparency for all ingredients, including 
generics such as fragrance, in beauty, baby care, personal care and household cleaning formulated products by 2020
35% of SKUs
In Progress
Improve beauty, baby care, personal care and 
household cleaning product categories by formulating without phthalates, propylparaben, butylparaben, formaldehyde, formaldehyde donors or nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEs) by 2020
47% of SKUs
In Progress
Invest up to $5 million in green chemistry 
innovation by 2022
$3.7 million invested as of 2019
In Progress
Where We Are Now
We have implemented an MRSL with our strategic apparel suppliers and will scale up to broader apparel and accessories suppliers in scope by the end of 2020. The goal is to have our suppliers meet our MRSL requirements—or have a plan for doing so—by the end of 2020.PFCs are typically found in textiles in stain- and water-resistant coatings. In 2019 we made significant progress toward this goal. For owned-brand textiles, we were able to remove PFCs from our apparel products. As we make progress on removing PFCs from additional categories, we are expanding the scope of chemistry that we are evaluating to a broader class of chemistry that PFCs are a part of: perflurorinated alkyl substances (PFAS).
We participate in multiple industry-wide 
collaborations. For example, we are part of the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council (GC3) Retailer Leadership Council, and in 2019 helped develop a statement outlining chemical functions and priority product categories where innovation in safer alternatives is needed. The Council also created a road map to encourage better transparency in supply chains around the chemicals used in consumer products. 
Target also receives an annual Mind the Store 
scorecard to help consumers understand how Target’s chemical use compares to our peers and make informed choices for their families. In the latest rankings, Target was second out of 
43 retailers, scoring an A.
What’s Next
We continue to invest in innovation for greener chemistry through awarding single- and multi-year grants. Read more about how we’re supporting scientists and enabling better alternatives for our industry and beyond here. We hope to see the results of these investments grow over the next few years.See Also
 ESG Appendix: Chemicals 
 CR Report: Properties—ChemicalsTarget teamed up with brands including Burton Snowboards, Columbia, MEC, REI, Patagonia and Outdoor Industry Association’s Sustainability Working Group to create a comprehensive and industry-aligned Chemicals Management Guide. The guide is a powerful training resource that makes it easier for brands to guide, train and drive chemical-management improvement with their manufacturing partners. In 2019, the guide was recognized with an award from the Outdoor Industry Association.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Operations Products and Guests 31 ESG Appendix Supply Chain 31
How We Source Products    Materials    Responsible Products    Human Rights in Manufacturing    Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor    
Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain    Economic Opportunity    Climate and Energy    Water    ChemicalsOperations2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 32 ESG Appendix Operations 32 OperationsIn This Section
34 Team:  
The Target  Team 
Member  Experience
35 Talent Recruitment 
and Retention:  
Building  the Best Team
36 Compensation and Benefits:  
Rewarding the People Who 
Make  Target
38 Diversity and Inclusion:  
Celebrating the Power of Difference
40 Learning and Development:  
Supporting Growth and Aspirations
41 Workplace Health and Safety:  
Protecting People
42 Communities:  
Accelerating  Opportunity
45 Properties—Climate 
and Energy: 
Bright  Ideas  for Better Buildings
47 Properties—Water:  
Managing  Our Use
48 Properties—Waste:  
Understanding—and Eliminating—
Store Waste
49 Properties—Chemicals:  
Evolving  Chemical Use Across 
Our BusinessCreating Joy With Every  Connection
We want everything about Target to spark joy. That means investing in every aspect of our operations to ensure the way we work aligns with our values and the values of our guests.
Our operations cover our team members, 
our communities and our properties. 
We are committed to driving diversity 
and inclusion in our workforce, providing training and development opportunities 
and enhancing the health and well -being 
of our team members. We actively work to enhance the economic health, racial equity and social justice of our communities. And we are dedicated to reducing the environmental impact of our stores, from the energy they use to the waste they generate.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 33 ESG Appendix Operations 33 Operations Team
The Target Team Member  Experience
We invest in our team by 
giving them opportunities 
to grow professionally, take 
care of themselves, their families and each other, 
and make a difference in 
their communities.
Our Approach
At Target, our team is our most important asset. 
Everything we aspire to do and be as a company builds on the central role our team members play in our strategy, their dedication to our purpose and the connection they create with our guests and communities. And that’s why we’re continually investing in them.
The most important investments we make are in 
our team. We’re committed to every one of our 360,000 team members worldwide and fostering an engaged, diverse, inclusive, purpose-driven culture to ensure they have equal opportunities to build meaningful careers and experience success at all levels. We provide competitive compensation and benefits that enhance team members’ financial security, supportive benefits for all kinds of families and significant resources for better well-being and mental health. We enable our team members to grow to their fullest personal and professional potential by focusing our efforts on three pillars:
• Career: We support team members with opportunities to learn as well as earn. We empower team members to do great work. 
And we support them on their journey, finding 
new growth opportunities and challenges, wherever that may lead• Care: At Target, we care about our team and invest in keeping them safe. We also believe that “taking care” means investing in the whole self, both at and outside of work. We are dedicated to enhancing the well-being of our team and their families
• Community: We’re committed to acting as one team, not just within our Target family, but also across every community that we serve. We do it to encourage the best in each other, and because we believe that everyone has something to contribute
These pillars guide the choices we make in our offerings, policies and practices, and how we market them internally and externally. We also bring them to life through our people-centered purpose to create inclusive working and shopping experiences that reflect the diversity of our team members and guests.
Since the 1970s, we have assessed team 
perceptions annually through surveys like the Best Team Survey, a large-scale census of team health and culture. This survey has been used to measure key drivers of engagement and empowers change through feedback sessions and action planning. Full-time and part-time team members and interns participate in the sessions. Pulse surveys are used to check progress and to assess locations that need extra support.
TeamVoice is a survey we conduct via a weekly 
email sent to a random sample of team members across our stores, distribution centers and headquarters. The flexibility of the survey allows us to pinpoint specific topics we want rapid feedback on. For example, TeamVoice was recently used to reach all team members that have typically worked in a headquarters site to learn about their experience working remotely during the 
pandemic, and to get their opinions on returning 
to the office when appropriate.
The surveys are one of our greatest listening 
tools, and we believe listening keeps us agile and 
responsive to how we can better serve the teams 
that serve our guests. We are actively working on 
enhancements that would increase the reach and 
frequency to our total population of team members.
What’s Next
At a time when every retailer is facing increased uncertainty and unforeseen challenges, we have chosen to continue investing in our business, and particularly in our team. Day after day, our team members show up for the families who turn to Target for essentials. As they keep up that courageous work, Target continues to invest in their health, financial and mental well-being. And we will continue to evolve our benefits to ensure we’re meeting their needs now, into the future and across all life stages.
In addition, in 2020 we began establishing a new 
internal dashboard to monitor various aspects of our employment performance. It will track employment brand perception via several external sites, internal and external reviews related to our Career, Care, Community internal employment brand pillars, and other talent-acquisition metrics. In 2020, we will focus on establishing a baseline to ensure our attention is in the right places.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Team Members
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 34 ESG Appendix Operations 34
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsTalent Recruitment and Retention
Building the Best Team
Our team brings our purpose 
to life for our guests, curating 
great shopping experiences 
and nurturing our deep connection to communities. 
Their energy and resilience 
keep us at the forefront of meeting the changing needs of 
our guests and business year 
after year. As the marketplace becomes more competitive, 
recruiting and investing in 
the right people is what sets Target apart.
Our Approach
We offer a compelling work environment with 
meaningful experiences and abundant growth and career development opportunities. We’ve developed a culture of learning and invest more than seven million payroll hours into training our team members each year. This includes extensive programs that help our team build skills at all levels, including specialized skill development, leadership opportunities, coaching and mentoring.
Our investment in building the best team runs 
deep and is an important role that all leaders of people play, with support from an array of HR partners, programs and resources. Leaders across the company are expected to plan and build robust and diverse talent pipelines—balancing the recruitment of external hires with internal promotions and new experiences. 
Target uses a variety of recruiting resources to 
ensure we source from diverse talent pools, including our relationship with the National Black 
MBA Association and Management Leadership for Tomorrow. Our focused strategy on historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) includes a Target HBCU alumni group for team members, development sessions to invest in current students and active campus recruiting for entry-level positions for specific businesses like our Technology Leadership Program (TLP), as well as Store Leadership (Executive Team Leader/ETL) positions.
Where We Are Now
We conduct a formal performance review annually that focuses on what outcomes each team member achieved relative to their goals, and how they achieved those outcomes.
In 2019, all eligible team members received a 
formal performance review from their team leader.
 1
To inspire and build the diverse workforce of the future, we created Target Lab, an immersive professional development experience that provides meaningful interactions, speakers, workshops, activities, product showcases and networking—all while highlighting Target as a great place to work. Attendees receive resume tips, brief career consultations and professional head shots along with guidance around how to 
1 Al l team members are eligible for performance reviews except: 
 • 
 Those on leave  
of absence for more than 305 days 
 • 
 Those hired in the fourth quarter of 
the year under review  
 • In terns
1 All team members are eligible for performance reviews except: 
 •  Those on leave of absence for more than 305 days 
 •  Those hired in the four th quarter of the year under review 
 • Internspresent their best selves. These were previously in-person events, but in 2020, due to COVID-19, we quickly pivoted to offering these experiences virtually at no cost to attendees.
What’s Next
We are continually investing in our team members’ experiences by listening with empathy and putting their needs at the center so that when decisions 
are made they are in the best interest of our team and our business. This includes focusing on programs, benefits and ongoing investments in training opportunities for team members at every level of the company.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Team Members2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 35 ESG Appendix Operations 35
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsCompensation and Benefits
Rewarding the People Who Make  Target
We care for every single team 
member and are dedicated to 
enhancing the well-being of 
our team and their families.
Our Approach
We regularly evaluate our compensation and 
benefits offerings for our team members. During this extraordinary moment we’re all navigating together, investments in our team have been among the most important we’ve made over the last few years. We believe “taking care” means investing in the whole self, both at and outside of work. The health and safety of our team members is our top priority. We’re committed to providing team members with the resources they need to take care of themselves and their families. As an employer, we know we play a critical role in enhancing their well-being through the benefits we provide. 
Our benefits support the overall well-being of 
team members, from their financial security to their mental and physical health, and support for their families. A curated range of programs inspire and help team members to manage and enhance their health and well-being. This includes 24/7 access to trained clinicians through Team Member LifeResources, fitness and wellness product discounts—such as fruits and vegetables, activewear and tobacco-cessation products. These help team members save approximately $10 million annually on supporting their and their families’ health. Our credit unions, education assistance and 401(k) options also help our team members build long-term financial stability.
Goals
Pay all team members a minimum hourly wage of 
at least $15 by the end of 2020
Achieved as of July 2020
Where We Are Now
To further invest in our team, we committed to an 
industry-leading $15 minimum hourly wage, which 
we achieved in July 2020. This is supplemented by flexible scheduling that balances team members’ availability with our business needs.We also believe in paying team members equitably, and our latest pay audit of U.S. team members confirms that we are living up to our value. Accounting for factors such as position, tenure and location, Target pays team members equitably, regardless of gender, race or ethnicity. We work toward continued equity by providing bias training and tools to the team members responsible for hiring and compensation, and we also do not ask potential hires about their 
prior salaries.Target is also offering access to free 24/7 
virtual  health care visits for all U.S.-based 
team members through the end of the year—
regardless  of whether they’re on a Target health 
insurance plan. The benefit provides text-first virtual health care visits for team members to securely text, share images or video chat with a doctor via the CirrusMD app for many types of health concerns or questions. 
This was also the first time we introduced 
bonuses for 20,000 hourly store team leads.
As a response to the impact of the coronavirus 
outbreak, Target Credit Union offered financial relief including:
• Income Disruption Loans interest free up to 90 days
• Transferred Auto Loans receive $200 cash rebate and no payment for 90 days
• No-fee cash advance on credit cards + skip a payment
• Deferred payments on auto, personal and other loans for 90 days
Read more about how we’re supporting our team members throughout this time on the Our Response to COVID-19 page2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 36 ESG Appendix Operations 36
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsWell-being benefits include Sleepio, a digital 
program scientifically proven to improve sleep that gives team members tips and support after a brief sleep assessment. Daylight is a personalized mobile app aimed at guiding users through proven strategies to reduce worry and anxiety. As a result of the coronavirus outbreak, eligibility for Daylight and Sleepio was made available to all Target team members in 2020.
For health care, we have added a concierge 
service for team members enrolled in our UnitedHealthcare (UHC) plans. There, dedicated advocates help team members understand treatment options or get connected to condition support programs such as cancer, maternity or infertility support, answer questions and help them decide whether to visit a doctor, urgent care clinic or convenience care clinic.
Mental health resources provided by Target 
include five free sessions with a licensed mental health professional through Team Member LifeResources for team members and members of their households. We also work with Optum to provide a substance use helpline, regardless of coverage.
Our family benefits are focused on supporting our 
team members’ life priorities and even help team members grow their families. In 2019, we doubled how much we’ll reimburse team members paying fees for adoption or surrogacy, offering up to $10,000 in financial relief to help families navigate these long, complex and expensive processes with peace of mind.
In June 2019, we expanded job-protected family leave (including parental leave) to four weeks and offered this benefit to part-time team members too. We’re also proud to report that 92% of team members returned after parental leave.
We also extended our affordable backup care 
benefit from headquarters teams to eligible team members at all stores and distribution centers. The program includes an industry-leading allowance of 20 days of in-center child care or 
in-home child and elder care for each dependent, 
to help manage life’s unexpected moments.
What’s Next
In the wake of the challenges presented in 2020, we will continue to focus on the mental health and physical well-being of our teams through resources like Bullseye Health Spot, along with new ways to support all our team members through CirrusMD .
• The Target Credit Union’s Life.Money.You. website gives team members access to products and services to improve member financial well-being and savings 
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Employment2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 37 ESG Appendix Operations 37
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsDiversity and Inclusion
Celebrating the Power of Difference
At Target, our team rallies 
around a single purpose: 
to help all families discover 
the joy of everyday life. It’s a people-centered purpose that 
directly connects to how our 
company champions a more inclusive society through our 
own work environment.
Our Approach
We ground our approach in listening and 
partnering with valued stakeholders and internal teams so that we can continually learn and improve. We share responsibility for diversity and inclusion across the organization, including a dedicated Diversity & Inclusion team that orchestrates our strategy, and Diversity Action Committees in each business unit to keep us accountable and actively help us work toward parity. In addition, we have Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) that support inclusion acumen efforts.We bring our diversity commitment to life through a four-part strategy we have developed that focuses on creating an inclusive guest experience and an inclusive work environment, advancing workforce diversity and championing societal 
impact. For  example, we:
• Offer inclusive product assortments such as our Cat & Jack adaptive apparel
• Define inclusion acumen as being personally curious, having immersive experiences, and topical training
• Continue goal setting to advance workforce diversity
• Maintain collaborations such as The Alliance for Board Diversity to increase our societal impact
Where We Are Now
Helping employees immerse themselves in Target and connect to their talents and thrive is a key driver of how we invest in our team members. Developing teams where employees feel heard, respected and included is a core value and is also fundamental to creating an inclusive guest experience. So we invest heavily in developing inclusive behaviors at a leadership level. We provide a myriad of training options, many with e-learning components to enable leaders and team members to develop at a pace that works with their schedule. These modules include significant conscious- and unconscious-bias training to help us reach our diversity and inclusion goals and drive real change. 
These investments in dialogue and training also serve our guests and communities. We want our guests and team members to feel safe, welcomed, valued and respected every time they walk through our doors. During 2019, we trained 270,000 hourly store team members on Creating an Inclusive Guest Experience. 
To measure our performance, we are 
disaggregating our data to identify patterns that 
can be hidden in aggregate data. By focusing on 
subpopulations, we can direct resources where they’re most needed.
Target was a founding member of the Retail Industry 
Leaders Association (RILA) Diversity & Inclusion Leaders Council, and through that work helped to establish a clear framework for companies to assess their diversity and inclusion maturity on an index that RILA now utilizes for members.What’s Next
While we are pleased with the progress we have made to date on our 2019–2021 goals, there is still important work to do. As we look to the future, we have developed a new set of commitments for our business. Over the next three years, we will continue to listen to our team, start to share our disaggregated data internally and externally as an accelerant to our commitments, broaden our external partnerships and further integrate diversity, equity and inclusion across all parts of our business. As a first step forward, we’re planning to increase representation of Black team members across the company by 20% by 2023 by sharpening our focus on advancement, retention and hiring.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 38 ESG Appendix Operations 38
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—Chemicals“I’m proud of what Target is bringing 
to the table in efforts to stand with 
Black families and embed racial equity—I’m proud of this team. The influence we can have on the broader U.S. culture shouldn’t be underestimated, and the role we can play for each other can’t be overstated. We remain unified in our commitments to support a more inclusive and equitable world for all.”
Kiera Fernandez
Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer
Our 2019–2021 Team Goals
Increase representation of people of color to at or 
above the qualified applicant pool
+5.4% in people of color in salaried positions 2
In Progress
Increase representation of women of color 
+7.3% in women of color in salaried positions2
In Progress
 
 2	 Data	re presents	pe rcentage	ch ange	sin ce	th e	be ginning	of	20 19.
Increase gender equity in representation+4.1% in women at senior levels
2
In Progress
2 Dat a represents percentage change since the beginning of 2019.
2 Dat a represents percentage change since the beginning of 2019.
Reduce the rate of turnover for people of color 
and narrow the gap to white turnover
-3.5% in turnover of people of color2
In Progress
2 Dat a represents percentage change since the beginning of 2019.
Increase promotional rate of people of color from 
entry level to midlevel to at or above internal talent pool representation
About one in three promotions to midlevel 
positions was earned by a person of colorIn Progress
Increase promotional rate of female team 
members from midlevel to senior leadership to at or above internal talent pool representation
Almost half of promotions to senior leadership 
were earned by womenIn ProgressMaintain favorability among people of color on diversity and inclusion-related engagement survey questions and narrow the gap to white responses
Maintained high favorability, with very 
small  gaps
In Progress
Achieve favorability among people of color on 
inclusive leadership-related engagement survey 
questions and narrow the gap to white responses
Maintained high favorability, with very 
small  gaps
In Progress
2 Data represents percentage change since the beginning of 2019.Learn More
 Find out how Target’ s work around 
inclusive employment is changing lives like 
Jonaah  Violet’s .
 Learn about our 2019 Black History Month 
Campaign Black Beyond Measure,  which 
featured our team members alongside Black 
entrepreneurs and suppliers. You can also read more about it in our Products and Guests section
 While Pride Month looked different in 2020 for 
a lot of reasons, we knew our guests and team members were still looking for ways to honor the month, and Target helped them #TakePride together.
 We support providing opportunities for U.S. 
military veterans and—as a member of the Veteran Jobs Mission—Target has joined other companies pledging to collectively hire 1 million U.S. military veterans by 2020.
 Learn how we’re creating a workplace where 
Black team members can build meaningful careers and have success at every level. 
Related Links 
 Find out more about our workforce diversity in 
our Workforce Diversity Report.
 Find out more about our work to diversify 
our business in supplier diversity, marketing 
and products.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Diversity and Inclusion
 CR Report: Economic Opportunity 
 CR Report: Design Messaging Guests 
Can Trust
 CR Report: Design for All2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 39 ESG Appendix Operations 39
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsLearning and Development
Supporting Growth and Aspirations
We believe that leadership 
and learning are inclusive and 
ongoing endeavors—everyone 
participates and you’re never done—and that when team 
members connect experiences 
to aspirations, it helps fuel our purpose and potential.
Our Approach
Our team is our most important asset. Target 
invests in our teams’ careers at multiple stages and levels. We are committed to building a learning culture that supports moments that matter, builds critical skills and develops great leaders. Through immersive experiences, onboarding, functional training, coaching and mentorship, peer learning, leadership programs and tuition reimbursement, we have crafted a learning environment that empowers our teams to do their best work and serve our guests.
Where We Are Now
Target invests in leadership across our business—whether team members are leading themselves or a large segment of our team or business. Our purpose, values and guest-first mindset are core to who we are and are brought to life in our learning moments.We know how important it is to our team members to grow their skills, which we unlock 
with on-demand learning content and tuition-
reimbursement programs.
We also believe most growth comes through on-
the-job experiences. Alongside meaningful work, we continue to focus on increasing talent mobility through enterprise rotational programs and an internal talent marketplace. This allows team members to learn and contribute across different areas of the business. In line with this approach, in 2019, Target launched Workday Learning as our new learning platform to further digitize and scale learning for all team members. 
We also invested $125 million in training our front-line team members to support a guest-focused shopping experience. And 270,000 hourly store team members received “Creating an Inclusive Guest Experience” training.
We continue to invest heavily in leadership 
development and have created immersive development experiences for all midlevel and senior leaders to grow in the areas of change agility, cross-functional collaboration, inclusion, coaching and team member development.
What’s Next
Throughout 2020 and 2021, Target is rolling out access to an enterprise-wide learning license called Skillsoft, which hosts 20,000-plus industry-leading resources. The content spans everything from time management to coding, and from inclusion to leadership.
Target will also continue to invest in immersive, peer-to-peer learning experiences, implementing more virtual leadership development offerings expanding rotational programs and scaling ways for teams to learn from each other.
To accelerate our diversity and inclusion efforts, 
Target will advance our focus on inclusion through training and providing on-demand resources focused on creating an inclusive environment.
Learn More 
 Our team of 4,000-plus engineers commits 
50 days each year  to building skills and 
exploring new ideas and tools to see how they 
might help us create better experiences for our guests and improve Target’s operations.
See Also:
 ESG Appendix: Learning and DevelopmentIn 2020, we quickly developed adaptive leadership learning moments, resources and tools to support and strengthen leaders’ capabilities to lead themselves and their teams during unprecedented challenges. The portfolio of development resources—including crisis coaching and energy management—focuses on differentiated skills such as resilience, inclusion, empathy, communication, and prioritization. While this content was in response to the COVID-19 crisis, the topics will remain relevant, as our business and world are ever evolving. Since the launch in late April, we’ve seen more than 125,000 site visits from team members across the enterprise.  2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 40 ESG Appendix Operations 40
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsWorkplace Health and Safety
Protecting People
At Target, we look out for each 
other. We all play our part to 
protect the safety of team 
members, guests, vendors, visitors and contractors.
Our Approach
The way we approach health encompasses 
both physical safety and personal health. We want to maintain a safe and secure work environment for everyone that comes into our stores, distribution centers and offices. That means everyone at Target commits to being a safety advocate and to following laws, safety procedures and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards.
Upholding health and safety partly relies on maintaining consistent operating routines in our workplaces—something that has been more challenging during the pandemic. We are continually assessing and applying these routines with guidance from the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. 
Target’s goal is to prevent occupational incidents, 
injuries and illnesses and to comply with safety and health standards. We have specific safety programs designed to eliminate or reduce hazards at our locations. This includes administering a comprehensive and continuous occupational injury- and illness-prevention program and training for team members.We expect team members to closely follow our health and safety programs and procedures. We require the use of PPE where applicable and the immediate reporting of incidents, injuries and near misses. We also encourage an environment where team members can talk to their leaders if they become aware of a safety hazard or unsafe behavior.
Best practices have been rapidly evolving since 
the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, but no matter the situation, we will continue our long-standing commitment to prioritizing the health and safety of our people.
Where We Are Now
Well-BeingFor years, Target has stood for well-being for our team members. We’re as present for our team members as we are for our guests. We offer quality and affordable coverage, and our dedicated call center connects people with the resources they need.
In March 2020 we rolled out dozens of safety, 
social distancing and cleaning measures to protect our team during the COVID-19 pandemic, in accordance with guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. This included providing high-quality, disposable face masks and gloves, plexiglass shields in check lanes and health-check materials including thermometers.
Our continued health literacy campaign, started in 
2018, aims to empower team members with basic information on health insurance, so they can be better-informed care users. Medical plan-enrolled team members who take the course earn dollars for their Health Reimbursement Account Plan or Health Savings Account Plan.What’s Next
To help our team members and guests enjoy a safer Thanksgiving during the COVID-19 pandemic, we will close our stores for the holiday. We will also keep our holiday deals running before and after Thanksgiving to prevent crowds and safeguard guests and team members. 
For the foreseeable future, we will require guests 
and anyone entering our stores to wear masks. We will provide disposable masks at the entrance of our stores for those who do not have them. 
We will keep watching the situation and adapting 
where necessary, always keeping health, safety and well-being as our focus. 
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Workplace Health and Safety
 ESG Appendix: Benefits2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 41 ESG Appendix Operations 41
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsCommunities
Accelerating Opportunity
Our Approach
Community has always been at the core of who 
we are. The communities where we live and work sustain businesses, employees and families. We recognize our success is intrinsically linked to their health and vitality, and so our intent is to accelerate opportunities across our business to contribute to their resilience and prosperity. 
Given the breadth of our operations, our work 
spans the spectrum from hyper-local to global. In addition—rooted in our values of optimism, inclusivity and connection—our philanthropic efforts are systemic and responsive. 
Taking a strategic and holistic approach, we apply 
the assets, capabilities and resources that make us successful as a business to our investments in our communities—everything from philanthropic giving to local community engagement and volunteerism. We focus our investments on transformational and catalytic programs and partners that are helping to reshape economic and social systems, while also being there to respond and provide relief in times of crisis and need.
With nearly 1,900 stores across the U.S. and 
approximately 360,000 team members, we have an extraordinary opportunity to support and strengthen our communities through our actions. Since 1946, we have given 5% of our profits to communities, which today equates to millions of dollars a week in cash and product donations. Drawing on Target’s strengths, including our team members, store footprint, global reach and partners, we aim to address some of the world’s toughest social and environmental challenges facing our communities and deliver an even greater impact.
Goals
Volunteer 1 million hours annually
1,064,215 hours
Achieved
Build 100 new soccer play spaces by 2020
65In ProgressWhere We Are Now
PhilanthropyWhen it comes to our philanthropic efforts, we support a wide range of local, national and global organizations. While some of our efforts focus on addressing and improving opportunities that exist today, others seek to create change that will produce opportunities in the future. And through it all, we are listening to and learning from our communities and nonprofit partners to better understand how Target can support their long-term needs. In every community where we operate, we strive to be responsive and locally relevant. For example:
• Our stores and distribution center leaders across the U.S. are empowered to fund local initiatives, nonprofits and organizations that are addressing critical needs in their neighborhoods through our Community Engagement Funds and GiftCard donations. 
• When a disaster strikes, we’re on the scene quickly, providing supplies, volunteers and distribution networks through relief organizations. For example, in 2019 Target donated $150,000 to nonprofits helping communities across California recover from devastating wildfires, including the California Community Foundation, California Fire Foundation and the Redwood Empire Food Bank. 
We align the assets and capabilities of our business to serve communities through a variety of tactics that leverage our size and scale as one of the country’s largest retailers. Examples of our efforts include:
• Target joined the Dougherty Family College team in 2018, to help underrepresented students with financial need kick-start their college education and land their first professional job. Through grants and wraparound services for the 300 students who will ultimately attend the college, the program is breaking down the barriers to higher education that many students face. This, in turn, helps to build a pipeline of qualified professionals from diverse backgrounds. 
• Homelessness is an issue our team members care about deeply in the Oakland area, so Target is supporting a pilot program in California developed by Oakland Mayor Schaaf to temporarily rehome members of the homeless 2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 42 ESG Appendix Operations 42
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—Chemicalscommunity in informal encampments. These 
Community Cabins offer warmth, shelter, electricity, a secure location to store belongings and on-site wraparound services. The fifth site, which Target is supporting in collaboration with Sutter Health and the Oakland Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce, will provide housing to over 70 people.
Target Foundation The Target Foundation deploys its resources toward systemic challenges. Our approach seeks to create change that will shift systems to produce the kind of economic opportunity desired in the future: more sustainable, more equitable and located in communities around the globe where there simply are not yet enough opportunities. The result is support across a range of sectors, implementing a range of models and strategies addressing a variety of systemic issues. Examples of our efforts include:
• We partnered with the Financial Health Network, a national nonprofit that works with diverse 
organizations across sectors to improve the financial health of consumers, employees, and communities, with a focus on low-to-moderate-income and vulnerable households. We are investing in their work to help employers better understand and improve the financial health of their workforce, particularly low-income employees.
• Globally, we are listening to, learning from, and building relationships with partners in Central America, South Asia and Southeast Asia to better understand local issues. We’ve teamed up with Ashoka, leveraging their global network of social entrepreneurs to better understand what helps to create access to—and remove barriers to—sustainable livelihoods in communities around the world.
In addition, the Foundation is committed to upholding equity and inclusion in its work and prioritizes support for organizations whose leadership reflects the communities in which they serve. Community Engagement & VolunteerismWe want to ensure that Target can be responsive and relevant to every community in which we operate. Through local community engagement and volunteerism, our stores and distribution center teams across the country support local programs and organizations that bring joy to families and address critical needs in their communities. 
To maximize our efforts, we collaborate with local 
organizations and nonprofits. Through these associations, we can gather greater insights into community issues and support solutions developed by the people who best understand the local needs.
And across all 50 states and globally, Target 
volunteers continue our long tradition of contributing to efforts to foster resilient communities. For the sixth consecutive year, Target volunteers contributed more than 1 million hours of service through thousands of organizations in the communities where they live and work, to support causes they’re passionate about.
Our teams also engage in pro-bono volunteerism 
as a way to share their unique skills and talents by using them to address unmet needs within the broader community. In addition to our recent commitment to provide 10,000 hours of pro-bono consulting services for Black-owned small businesses—and also those owned by Indigenous people and People of Color—in the Twin Cities, our headquarters-based Legal team also continues to lend their expertise to organizations such as Wills for Heroes and the Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota. In 2020, the Law team is focusing on affordable housing and homeless, including hosting and mentoring a Fellow from the Equal Justice Works initiative as they complete a project in the Twin Cities. Decades of CareTarget has been supporting St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital’s mission to find cures and save children for over two decades. This partnership began back in 1996 when we designed and build a long-term residential facility where families can stay free of charge while their children undergo treatment at the hospital. Target House, which officially opened in 1999, has been a home away from home for 
over 5,000  families to date. Our team 
members are also dedicated supporters of St. Jude. From knitting quilts for patients to participating in the St. Jude Walk/Run across the country, team members are proud to help the hospital in any way they can.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 43 ESG Appendix Operations 43
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsEngaging Our Guests
We are teaming up with our guests to help enrich our shared communities across the country, by providing them with opportunities to support national and local nonprofits, including those helping with COVID-19 relief and addressing social justice. Through our Target Circle loyalty program, members can have a say in how funds are allocated, directing them to causes such as food banks, pet shelters, youth programs and more. Guests have already cast over 58 million votes, and Target donated $5.5 million in the first nine months of the program. Over 600 nonprofits from across the country are now featured each quarter.
In addition, thanks to the help of the thousands 
of attendees last holiday season, Target donated more than $920,000 to Toys for Tots as part of our 2019 Wonderland! limited-time experience. When guests shared their holiday wish, Target made a donation on their behalf to help more 
families experience joy during the holiday season.   The Target Foundation Over 100 years ago, the Target Foundation (originally the Dayton Foundation) was established to give back to and empower our hometown community. As a wholly independent entity, the Foundation has a distinct role to play as one of our many philanthropic assets, working toward long-term solutions across an ecosystem of complex and interconnected economic issues. Our mission is to enable systems that empower people and communities to pursue joy in everyday life. 
In 2019, the Foundation evolved and expanded its support to address the growing urgency in our 
hometown, across the country and globally to help address widening socioeconomic gaps. We are investing in leaders, organizations, coalitions and networks that expand economic opportunity equitably, enabling marginalized communities to determine their own futures. We are focused on making a difference in the following areas: 
• Hometown: advancing racial equity and shared prosperity in the Twin Cities of Minneapolis 
and St. Paul
• National: equitably advancing financial security and economic opportunity for marginalized individuals in a rapidly changing economy 
• Global: improving economic opportunities for families in emerging economies to sustain themselves and their communities long term
In 2019, the Foundation provided funding to approximately 70 nonprofits who are working to advance equitable economic opportunities. For example, we invested in Build Wealth MN, an 
organization whose mission is to strengthen underserved communities by empowering families to build sustainable social and economic wealth.
Going forward, the Foundation will continue to identify and invest in programs and partners that are 
challenging existing economic and social systems.
Looking Out for Each Other During COVID-19In light of the COVID-19 pandemic
, we adapted our 2020 plans across all our philanthropic work  to 
respond to our partners’ needs in real time and help provide stability through the provision of incremental 
and flexible support. This included supporting them in redirecting their most recent grant funds from  specific 
capacity-building projects to general operating, uniquely addressing their needs for virtual program support and extending their grant timeline by months at a time. In addition, the Target Foundation developed an incremental one-time flexible grant for all our Foundation global partners and added two new partners to our national portfolio, focusing on providing funds to low-income families.What’s Next
We are proud of all we do for our communities, but we know there is more to do. 
In collaboration with our REACH committee, we’ll 
specifically focus on fueling the economic, social and structural vitality of Black communities across the country, looking also at where we can help our business become even more supportive within Black communities. 
Similarly, we have immense pride for our 
hometown, and we know there is a lot of work to be done to achieve racial equity in the Twin Cities and the state of Minnesota. In addition to our 10,000 hours of pro bono services, an essential part of this work will be elevating the voices of those most impacted by systemic racism and learning from—and partnering with—Black communities on solutions and programs. 
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Communities2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 44 ESG Appendix Operations 44
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsProperties—Climate and Energy
Bright Ideas for Better Buildings
For nearly 60 years we 
have been bringing joy to 
generations of families—and we 
want to bring it to generations more. We’re working with local 
partners and industry experts 
to create sustainable stores that use energy efficiently and 
reduce our footprint.
Our Approach
Target supports the scientific consensus that the 
climate is changing. To help combat the impacts of climate change, we continue to implement improvements that reduce our GHG emissions and increase the energy efficiency of our operations. Our buildings play a big role in helping us achieve our ambitions.
Over time, our focus has shifted from large 
suburban shopping malls built on undeveloped land to adapting existing buildings to conserve resources and fit into unique communities. 
At the same time, we have expanded our focus 
on water—reducing its use in stores, distribution centers and headquarters—especially in high-risk watersheds. We have also embedded responsible chemical management across the business and continue to explore opportunities to reduce the waste we generate.By making our stores more sustainable and specific to our communities, we’re building a better future for everyone.
To cut our climate impacts, we developed a 
comprehensive set of goals and corresponding initiatives that go beyond our own energy use. We have already reduced the GHGs from our operations by 10% in two years. We aim to build on this and achieve even more meaningful reductions within the next 10 years through significant investments in our store infrastructure and by supporting clean energy adoption on the electric grid. And we use partnerships and industry expertise—from the Renewable Energy 
Buyers Alliance to Tesla—to embed efficiency at every level of our properties operations from how we design or remodel stores to supporting electric vehicle (EV) infrastructure.
Goals
Reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 30% below 2017 baseline levels by 2030
10.5% reduction (Scope 1 & 2) 
In Progress
Source 100% renewable electricity 3 for our global 
operations by 2030 and 60% by 2025
27% 4
In Progress 
Add solar rooftop panels to 500 of our stores and 
distribution centers by 2020
516 panels at year-end
Achieved 
Expand our EV program to more than 600 parking 
spaces with charging stations at more than 100 sites across more than 20 states by 2020
527 spaces at 74 sites in 16 states 
In Progress
Where We Are Now
More than 1,500 of our buildings have earned ENERGY STAR status—the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s certification of energy efficiency—and we have been recognized five years in a row as Partner of the Year with Sustained Excellence.
3 Re newable electricity includes renewable energy credits from Target’s on-site and off-site projects, as well as electricity that we receive from renewable energy generation serving the electric grids where Target factories are located. Data sources include: Target’s 2019 fiscal year electricity consumption data, Target’s 2019 renewable energy credits, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s Annual Energy Outlook (January 2020) data on renewable energy generation in the U.S.
4 Ta rget is now 27% powered by renewable electricity with: 
10% coming from Target Projects; and  
17% coming from the utility 
grid.  
 We ’ve reduced GHG emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 10.5% from 2017.In November 2019, we reached the goal we 
set in 2015 to put solar panels on the rooftops of 500 stores and distribution centers when we installed panels at our store in Napa, California. As of the end of the year, we have installed panels at 16 additional sites. These panels have added more than 259 megawatts (MW) of renewable energy across our buildings—enough to power approximately 49,000 homes in the U.S.—and each project has the capacity to offset between 15% and 40% of a property’s annual electricity needs. Some of our stores generate the solar energy in support of broader clean energy programs and policies in their locations, and in those cases, we do not retain the renewable energy credits.
We’re not only looking at our properties though—
we’re also investing in the use of renewables in communities where we operate. In 2019, we announced our latest renewable power purchase agreements with the Lonetree Wind Project in Illinois (79 MW) and the Sand Fork Solar project in Texas (89 MW). And several of Target’s contracted renewable energy projects began producing clean energy in 2019. In January 2019, Target’s share of Xcel Energy’s Colorado Renewable*Connect program began generating solar power. In August the Solomon Forks Wind Farm in Kansas reached commercial operation, contributing 100 MW of wind power to Target’s clean energy portfolio. And in December Georgia Power ’s Commercial 
& Industrial Renewable Energy Development Initiative program began producing clean energy for Target and other participating customers.
3 Renewable electricity includes renewable ener gy credits from Target’s on-site and off-site projects, as well as electricity that we receive from renewable energy 
generation serving the electric grids where Target factories are located. Data sources include: Target’s 2019 fiscal year electricity consumption data, Target’s 2019 
renewable energy credits, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s Annual Energy Outlook (January 2020) data on renewable energy generation in the U.S.
4  Target is now 27% powered by renewable electricity with: 
• 10% coming from Target Projects; and 
• 17% coming from the utility grid. 
 We’ve reduced GHG emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 10.5% from 2017.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 45 ESG Appendix Operations 45
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsAnother way we’re helping communities fight 
climate change is through our EV program. 
We know many of our guests want to make the 
switch to EVs but worry about the convenience of finding places to charge. Target began installing EV-charging stations in 2012 with the help of ChargePoint. In 2017 and 2018, we teamed up with Tesla, Electrify America and ChargePoint to offer level 2 and DC fast charging to meet the evolving needs of EV drivers. Our goal is to 
provide 600 EV parking spaces at over 100  sites 
across more than 20 states by 2020. At the end of 2019, we had 527 spaces at 74 sites 
in 16 states.
And when it comes to design, while we recognize that it is easier to build a sustainable store from the ground up, our teams across Target Properties are leveraging circular design principles to make our existing buildings more sustainable. Our efforts around adaptive reuse of existing buildings offer opportunities to reduce our impact while adding more unique touches to neighborhood stores. 
Our renovations to date have included a former FBI 
building, a retro bowling alley for our new store in Portland and a former theater in Brooklyn. We also work to support our local communities in alliance with ConstructReach workforce development 
program which is helping to build a diverse supplier base in the construction industry.Noteworthy Awards
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2020 
Green Power Leadership Award for Direct Project Engagement
2019 and 2020 ENERGY STAR Partner of 
the Year
Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) 
recognition as the #1 U.S. Corporate Onsite 
Installer for the fourth year in a row
DOE Interior Lighting Campaign 
2019 Awards
• Exemplary Retail, Food Service, or Grocery Sector Recognition
• Innovative Category Recognition—Other Integrated Systems and LightingWhat’s Next
Our internal Sustainable Building Council is charged with developing model stores to showcase innovations in sustainable design, materials and technologies. The team completed a series of sustainable updates at our Mission Viejo, California store that included adding natural daylighting, localized landscaping and low-flow irrigation, stormwater treatment and filtration systems, outdoor dark-sky friendly LED lighting and EV charging, carpool and Clean Air Vehicle parking. They were completed in summer 2020 and Mission Viejo will act as a leading example of a sustainable site.
Learn More
 Target was awarded the 2019 “Best of the 
Best” award for store certification excellence by 
the EPA’s GreenChill refrigerant management partnership. To date, Target has certified 
38 stores to GreenChill standards and 
installed over 10,300 hydrofluorocarbon 
(HFC)-free units  in our stores, accounting 
for approximately 51% of our operations’ refrigerants in stand-alone cases.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Climate and Ener gy“Our properties are a big part of our 
sustainability story. It starts with how 
we design and remodel stores, and continues every day as we strive to find ways to make our stores run more efficiently and provide extra value to our communities—from using renewable energy to donating millions of meals and eliminating food waste.”
John Leisen
Vice President, Target Property Management2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 46 ESG Appendix Operations 46
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsProperties—Water
Managing Our Use
Water is a crucial part of our 
operations, helping us create 
clean, welcoming stores and 
workplaces for guests and team members. From our 
restrooms to our landscaping, 
we’re maximizing how we efficiently use and manage this 
vital resource.
Our Approach
Two years ago we introduced our freshwater 
stewardship approach, which included a goal to reduce water usage across our stores, distribution centers and headquarter locations and sought to understand our position on water quality within U.S. building operations. 
Our water risk assessments identified California 
watersheds as high risk, so we have an ongoing commitment to continuously promote sustainable water management in the state and have joined the California Water Action Collaborative (CWAC) and Ceres’ Connect the Drops campaign. Additionally, Target will continue to operate and maintain best practices in managing stormwater and the quality of water leaving our sites.Goals
Reduce absolute water withdrawal in stores, 
distribution centers and headquarter locations by 15% below 2010 baseline by 2025
14.5% reduction
In Progress
Where We Are Now
We are continuing to focus our water conservation efforts on irrigation efficiency, interior use efficiency for our restrooms and food services areas, and partnering on initiatives with local municipalities, and have reduced our overall withdrawal by 14.5% from our 2010 baseline.
As water quality is ever changing in regions 
nationwide, Target will continue to operate and maintain best practices in managing stormwater and the quality of water leaving our sites. We will do this by building local collaborations with watershed managers to improve green infrastructure and refining our salt-application practices at stores in snowy states to reduce the amount of chloride entering local water bodies. In areas where salt is used to address high snowfall and ice melt, water quality is a concern because one teaspoon of salt can pollute five gallons of water. In response, Target launched a refreshed 
training program for our stores, distribution centers and headquarters facilities that experience snow events. The training materials are based on techniques developed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and include salt effectiveness guides, proper application techniques and correct disposal methods.What’s Next
Building on Target’s participation in the CWAC Santa Ana River Watershed Project, we are embarking on a leadership role in Southern California with Pacific Institute, a leading international NGO focused on water. The initial project identified how to set context-based water targets at the facility level (such as setting water-use targets for stores and distribution centers within the watershed) and prioritized actions and investments that address the key water challenges in the region. The next phase will involve collective action to increase water supply reliability, increase the climate resilience of water systems, and protect and restore freshwater ecosystems.
Related Links
 Our Water Quality Work
 2020 CDP Wat er Security Response
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Wat er
 ESG Appendix: Environmental Responsibility in 
the Supply Chain2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 47 ESG Appendix Operations 47
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsProperties—Waste
Understanding—and Eliminating—Store Waste
From our packaging to the 
food we sell, we are constantly 
finding new ways to cut down 
on the waste generated in our stores.
Our Approach
To bolster our support for a circular economy, in 
2019 we kicked off an enterprise waste footprint project. The goal was to connect current work and additional efforts to build a comprehensive waste ambition for Target across our value chain and to continue to learn and explore zero waste in our operations.
To develop the ambition, we conducted a 
two-pronged research study that mapped our entire value chain’s waste footprint—identifying where we could make meaningful changes—and explored guests’ and team members’ relationships with waste to identify key attitudes, motivations and barriers and ensure that we position them at the center of our strategy.
Goals
Reduce food waste within our own operations by 
50% by 2025
In ProgressWhere We Are Now
We are looking closely at the different types of 
waste generated in our stores. In terms of food waste, we are in the process of establishing a baseline which we can use to measure our progress. While working to confirm a measurable baseline, we’re moving full speed ahead to reduce food waste using the store tools and technology we already have to promote donating food. In 2019, we donated 104.9 million pounds of food, which is equivalent to 87.4 million meals—a nearly 18% increase from 2018. For foods that cannot be donated, where possible, we have implemented—and continue to implement—organics or composting programs.
In addition, we’re carefully looking at our 
replenishment strategy so that we don’t hold more food than we think we will sell, and we stock what is relevant to a particular store and the guests it serves. This work relies on improving our inventory accuracy through forecasting, ordering tools, merchandising solutions and offering guests discounts on food close to expiration.In June 2019, we added 40% recycled content to our single-use plastic retail bag as part of our work to reduce the impact of plastics. In 2019, 60.2% of construction waste was diverted and we diverted 77.5% of our operational waste from landfill. 
We have also applied sustainability principles to 
guest-facing events and internal team meetings. Since each project is different, a new sustainability plan is designed per event. When planning, we require our agency partners and vendors to adhere to sustainability guidelines, and assign sustainability resources and experts on-site to support them. We strive for zero-waste events by developing robust post-event donation plans and creating and storing evergreen assets that can be used across multiple events. The Events team also participated in Second Harvest Heartland’s “Meal Connect” program to redistribute leftover warm meals to the community.
What’s Next
This year we took a deep dive into our food merchandising and assortments. Pilots were created for assortments, fixtures, space allocations, store volumes and ordering accuracy. Based on the results, we plan to roll out and expand into successful categories based on transition timing.
With the help of multiple external suppliers and 
innovation from our design teams, we are also running a pilot for a closed-loop cardboard program using corrugated cardboard from our warehouses and stores to reduce the need for new wood pulp. The aim is for the corrugated cardboard that is created to come through our supply chain and then go back to the paper manufacturer where they prepare it for recycling, enabling a circular supply chain. The work is ongoing, and we look forward to taking the learnings from the pilot to drive significant reductions in the future.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Wast e and Circular Economy2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 48 ESG Appendix Operations 48
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsProperties—Chemicals
Evolving Chemical Use Across Our  Business
Our Approach
Target’s ambitious Chemicals Policy primarily 
covers the products we make and source, but the spirit of responsible chemical management is embedded across our business. We actively look for ways we can cut chemical use in the way we manage and run our facilities. 
Where We Are Now
As part of our efforts to help support local bee populations, Target has a Neonicotinoid Management Plan to track vendors’ use of neonics on our properties. Our aim is to have an in-depth understanding of where neonics are used on Target properties to develop better risk management options and best practices around 
managing their use in the  future.
We also revamped our salt-application training at stores that experience snow- or ice-related events during the winter. By updating the training, we helped ensure that team members were applying salt correctly, reducing negative impact to local water bodies.In the areas where we store and produce food in our stores and distribution centers, the selection of new chemicals is carefully considered to align with our Chemicals Policy. We responsibly manage inventory and usage throughout the supply chain, using data and on-site visits to verify appropriate purchasing, calibration of equipment and team member understanding for the responsible application of chemicals used to clean our facilities. This helps us prevent overpurchasing and misuse of these chemicals, doing our part for responsible chemical management.
What’s Next
Later this year, Target will transition to phenol-free receipt paper for our stores. There is growing concern—backed by studies—around the negative health effects of handling BPA (bisphenol A) and BPS (bisphenol S), chemicals found in standard thermal receipt paper . By switching to a phenol-
free receipt paper Target will be taking a significant step in proactively ensuring the ongoing safety and health of our team members and guests. By end of year 2020, Target expects to fully convert to phenol-free receipt paper for use in all standard and mobile-device checkout lanes.
See Also
 CR Report: Chemicals
 ESG Appendix: Chemicals2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Products and Guests 49 ESG Appendix Operations 49
Team    Talent Recruitment and Retention    Compensation and Benefits    Diversity and Inclusion    
Learning  and Development     Workplace Health and Safety    Communities    Properties—Climate and Energy    
Properties—Water    Properties—Waste    Properties—ChemicalsProducts 
and Guests2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 50 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 50 Products and GuestsIn This Section
52 Making Decisions Today 
for a Circular Tomorrow
53 Design for Circularity:  
Our Journey of Innovation
55 Design for All:  
Offering  Inclusive  and Accessible 
Products and Experiences 
57 Design for 
Environmental  Impact:  
Crafted  With Conscience
59 Design for Guest  Ease:  
Empowering More 
Sustainable  Choices
60 Design Messaging 
Guests Can  Trust:  
Responsible  Marketing  for 
Informed  Decisions
Products and Guests
We have a vision of an inclusive future 
where we bring joy to every guest by offering the products they need. We use guest needs to choose which brands we offer, learning what they love and exploring whether an owned brand or a national brand helps us serve them better. What guests need can rapidly evolve—no matter how carefully we plan—but it’s our job to listen, learn and adapt. From wellness icons that help guests identify important product features for them and the planet to offering in-store recycling and exploring ways to reduce packaging, we aim to fulfill guests’ values and help drive awareness and demand for sustainable products and services across our portfolio. We’re incorporating sustainability into our owned brands and partnering with national brands to amplify the role they play throughout our business. To do this, we start with our guests. Before we begin to design, we’re thinking about how to meet their needs and spark joy. We have 44 owned brands and a wide range of national brands that give us the scope to embed our sustainability vision. We continually check that our product assortment is accessible, inclusive and aligned with our ambition and with our ethos of being a mass retailer for all families.
And we believe that we have the 
opportunity to design a sustainable future, with products that are better for our guests, our planet, and our communities—and that we can use circular product-design principles to get us there.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 51 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 51 Products and GuestsMaking 
Decisions  Today 
for a Circular 
TomorrowHow We Design
Utilize circular design 
principles—material choice, durability, repairability, recyclability
How We Make
Expand traceability
Source sustainable 
materials, implement 
sustainable  processes
How We Serve 
Collaboration with industryTrade-in and recycling programsHighlight sustainable 
product  qualities2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 52 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 52
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All    
Design for Environmental Impact    Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  Trust     Design for Circularity
Our Journey of Innovation
1 Goal developed by Tar get to support our commitment to the Global Fashion Agenda 2020 Circular Fashion System Commitment  in which Target is a signatory brand. 
Target has embedded this goal as a principle in our design work, and we track it through multiple internal metrics such as returns and complaints. However, we will not 
be reporting on it in the future.We believe that a sustainable 
future will be circular—where 
the focus is on eliminating 
waste and trying to keep resources and products in use 
for longer. To achieve that, 
circular design is critical—not just for the products Target 
makes and sells, but for our 
supply chain, our properties and all our ways of working.
Our Approach
At Target, designing sustainable products means 
being thoughtful about the materials we choose and how we think at the design stage about durability, repairability and a product’s end of life.
We need to make those decisions today to design 
for a more circular present and future—both to answer a guest need for transparent quality products and to help Target be part of shaping tomorrow’s business models.
As we continue to encourage and embed circular 
design principles into our everyday work, we are giving our teams the tools they need to make responsible sourcing and design decisions. We provide dedicated circular design training for teams, covering the importance of material choice and designing for durability, repairability and recyclability.We are also exploring how we can make our products and services circular, understanding we play a critical role in providing more of these products to our guests at an accessible price.
We believe circular design will keep us 
competitive, driving us to continually innovate in the design and production of our owned brands.
Goals
Design all Target owned-brand apparel for 
functional durability to last the life cycle of the product by 2020
 1
In Progress
Invest $1 million in textile-recycling technologies 
by 2020
$1,002,810 as of May 2020
Achieved
Create more demand for recycled packaging 
by creating three new end markets for recycled materials by 2020
3 new end markets created
Achieved
1 Go al developed by Target to support our commitment to the Global Fashion Agenda 2020 Circular Fashion System Commitment in which Target is a signatory brand. Target has embedded this goal as a principle in our design work, and we track it through multiple internal metrics such as returns and complaints. However, we will not be reporting on it in the future.Putting Circular Principles Into FashionBecause material choice is our most prioritized circular design principle, we have worked on a tool to help our teams make material choices in the design process that align with our circular ambition. The Circular Design Calculator enables team members to calculate GHG emissions, along with other factors like water usage, when choosing materials. This allows teams to consider circular design principles and how they intersect with our work around climate and water. The tool is useful for our owned-brand product designers as well as packaging-, store- and fixture-design partners. We are currently testing the tool with 40 team members, with the aim of adapting it based on user feedback and assessing what future program expansion could look like. Similarly, our Home and Apparel designers also have access to the Higg Materials Sustainability Index scoring tool, which helps them understand the GHG-emission impacts of different textiles and fabric materials.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 53 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 53
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All    
Design for Environmental Impact    Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  Trust     Where We Are Now
Educating our team members is key to 
embedding circular design across Target. We want to empower our team—even if “designer” isn’t their job title—to make design decisions that will enable Target to work in a circular system.
To date, we have trained nearly 1,700 internal 
team members—across areas including merchandising, product design, properties, marketing and supply chain—on circular design principles. We have also trained almost 1,200 owned-brand vendors on circular design and enabled them to serve as ambassadors to train their own teams.
In May 2020, we achieved our goal to invest 
$1 million in textile-recycling technology—much of it funding early-stage innovators or pilot projects. For example, for the past four years Target has supported Evrnu, a company working to chemically recycle fabrics. While the project is still scaling, we’re pleased to report that in 2019 we received our first official fabric sample—in Target red!
Target has created three new end markets since 
2017, including using our plastic shopping bags to make plastic park furniture as part of our youth soccer grants program, using post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic in HDPE and PET bottles for our Everspring brand, and using PCR plastic in our plastic shopping bags.Packaging also offers a significant opportunity to operate to a circular model. We are focused on eliminating, reducing and finding alternatives for plastics in our products, packaging and operations. We are also using packaging as an opportunity to make recycling simpler for guests, by continuing to use the How2Recycle label on 
our owned-brand packaging.
We have an ongoing commitment to replace 
conventional polyester with polyester made from recycled plastic in Target owned-brand apparel, accessories and home products. In 2019, our reverse logistics team started working with two textile recyclers, and we have so far developed the test cases and success metrics we aim to use to establish more collaborations. We aim to execute tests throughout 2020. We also became a funder and supporter of the Fashion for Good Advanced Recycling project, which will pre-competitively bring together peer companies to help invest, test and scale chemical recycling options with the most 
promising innovators in the space.“We want to help take the circular 
economy mainstream, and we 
believe we can do that because Target’s size and scope means that every decision adds up to a really powerful impact. We have been embedding a circular mindset across Target, training our designers and our vendors on material choice and on designing for durability, repairability, and recyclability.”
 Julie Guggemos
Senior Vice President & Chief Design Officer
What’s Next
In 2020, we will launch Target’s Circular Design 
Guide, a web-based training hub for team members to learn about circular design and how it impacts their daily work. The interactive resource will include videos, tools and case studies, which we also plan to incorporate into onboarding.
Learn More
 Find out how our ongoing participation in 
Fashion for Good keeps our teams at the 
cutting edge of sustainable fashion innovation.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Laying the Groundwork 
for Circularity2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 54 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 54
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All    
Design for Environmental Impact    Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  Trust     Design for All
Offering Inclusive and Accessible Products and Experiences 
We are at our best when 
all guests see themselves 
reflected in our offerings and 
feel welcomed, included and joyful when they shop with us.
Our Approach
It is important that every dimension of our guests 
is reflected across our entire business. We believe our guests should be able to walk into Target and see their needs reflected in our offerings. We implement ongoing training for teams on how to stay connected to the varied needs of our guests, which gives them the autonomy to design new products. This enables designers through brands like Pillowfort, Auden, All in Motion and more to create functional, desirable products that support all abilities and body positivity.
Where We Are Now
In 2019, Target introduced adaptive Halloween 
costumes for children, with options such as a pirate ship and a princess carriage for children in wheelchairs. The costumes quickly sold out, and we added new lines in 2020, including adult costumes.
In the Universal Thread denim line, we rolled out 
adaptive jeans designed for adults in wheelchairs, with features such as a higher rise in the back. We also have a line of sensory-friendly kids’ furniture items in our Pillowfort brand with items all kids can enjoy—including hideaway tents, super-soft cocooning seats and crash pads.
Target has introduced Aira to create an inclusive 
shopping experience for blind and low-vision guests. Via an app, the tool connects guests with trained agents who act as interpreters. It is now available free of charge in all Target stores across the U.S.Black
Owned or
Founded
BrandIn the wake of George Floyd’s murder and the growing conversation around social justice and racial equity, we noticed more guests were searching for Black-owned and Black-founded brands, which Target has featured 
for years. To make it easier for our guests to find and support these amazing brands, we made it easier to identify relevant products across our assortment. One way we did this was by adding a new icon in the “details” section of our products pages.
Continuing to develop inclusion acumen among 
our teams is helping our team members create inclusive products and services for our guests. We support this through providing immersive experiences for team members such as Humanize My Hoodie workshops, which focus on eliminating bias based on factors such as clothing.
Meeting Guest Needs With Our 
Diverse  Suppliers
Beyond the products we design ourselves, 
we also sell thousands of thoughtfully curated items to give typically underserved guests the shopping experience they deserve. Our Multicultural Merchandising team works to reflect the diversity of our guests in the assortment we offer, and our guests have responded—with over half a billion dollars in annual sales and 8.3% year-over-year growth in beauty & cosmetics, food and dolls designed for diverse audiences. To create products our diverse guests can see themselves in, we turn to suppliers that reflect the communities we serve. And we work hand-in-hand with our suppliers every step of the way on the assortment of products we proudly offer our guests. One example is The Honey Pot, a Black-owned, plant-based feminine care brand, founded by Beatrice “Bea” Dixon. Target’s Merchandising & Supplier Diversity team partnered with The Honey Pot to develop packaging that would pop on shelves. Target shared Bea’s business journey through a national campaign to inspire other Black women to become entrepreneurs, and we’re honored to be working with Bea and her incredible brand.
We also have more than 1,000 products that 
meet the unique beauty needs of our guests, with something for a wide variety of skin tones, skin care needs and hair types. We carry many Black-founded brands and offer products specifically for Black guests, from textured haircare items to Black Girl Sunscreen.Inclusion You Can SeeIn 2020, we released our first documentary film in collaboration with Hulu: Design for All. Produced by RadicalMedia, it focuses on how three individuals’ lives—and the lives of those around them—were changed through accessible design. It celebrates a milestone moment for our brand. Watch the film.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 55 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 55
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All    
Design for Environmental Impact    Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  TrustFor Black History Month 2020, we showcased 
founders Maya Smith, Rochelle Graham-
Campbell, Lisa Price and Melissa Butler on over 
200 end-of-aisle displays. At CURLFEST 2019, we also featured both large and small brands, and hosted a brand panel with founders Melissa Butler, Shontay Lundy, and 
Dr. Camille Howard-Verovic .
Target’s African American Business Council, which includes more than 1,000 team members, was the driving force behind creating the assortment five years ago and continues to advise our teams on the collection. The team also spent months planning and creating meaningful events at our Minneapolis headquarters to help educate and engage team members, as well as celebrate our vendors.
Good & Gather
In September 2019, we launched our new owned brand: Good & Gather . The concept behind 
Good & Gather is simple: “great food, made for real life.” Products sold under the brand are made without artificial flavors, synthetic colors, artificial sweeteners or high-fructose corn syrup. Some Good & Gather products were specially formulated to meet these standards, while others never contained these ingredients.
Target’s aim with Good & Gather—our most 
ambitious food undertaking yet—is to offer convenient, affordable options that do not cut corners on quality or taste. Our expectations are so high for our Good & Gather products that they come with a money-back guarantee.
What’s Next
Target listens to guests, applying their feedback to develop products that meet their physical and emotional needs. We are currently developing extended sizing for our All in Motion sportswear line, and will extend this to outerwear in the fall. We are also researching adaptive clothing opportunities with the aim of producing more clothing designed for more people.
Learn More
 Target helps every guest feel amazing in their 
own skin through our inclusive collections of 
swimwear , intimates and sleepwear .
 See how we’ve embedded body positivity and 
inclusivity in our All in Motion activewear range.
 Explore our new 13-piece swim collection 
designed for guests who have undergone mastectomies.
 Learn how we’re working to create an 
environment where Black guests feel welcome and see themselves represented throughout their experience with Target.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Pr oduct Design2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 56 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 56
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All    
Design for Environmental Impact    Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  TrustDesign for Environmental Impact
Crafted With Conscience
We are working across 
our portfolio of owned and 
national brands to reduce the 
environmental impact of the products we sell.
Our Approach
We believe operating a sustainable business and 
using resources responsibly will allow us to serve our guests for generations to come. Key to our efforts are the valuable partnerships we nurture that make impact at scale possible.
Goals
Add the How2Recycle label to all owned-brand 
packaging by 2020 (where space allows)
3,941 SKUs 
In Progress
Support the Recycling Partnership’s mission 
to improve how more than 25% of the U.S. population recycles by 2020
37% 
AchievedWhere We Are Now
Our PartnershipsTarget is a member of the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation and is taking part in the New Plastics Economy (NPE) Global Commitment by looking at plastics elimination, alternatives to petroleum, and reuse, recycling and composting across all packaging. We have a series of five ambitions designed to help us drive progress on the NPE: 
• Work toward making owned-brand packaging with 20% PCR content by 2025
• Work to eliminate expanded polystyrene from our owned-brand packaging by 2022
• Work toward elimination of the following problematic plastics in owned-brand packaging: polystyrene, PVC, PVDC and carbon black
• Explore at least five reuse programs that work to reduce or eliminate single-use plastic and—where possible—pilot by 2025
• Work toward designing 100% of owned-brand packaging to be recyclable, compostable or reusable by 2025 
Currently, 70% of the reverse-stream material that comes back to Target is in apparel and home. 
We also joined the Materials Recovery for the 
Future project in 2017 because we believe that flexible packaging is the fastest-growing packaging materials segment—and that this partnership can help make it recyclable at curbside. The successful project helped prove that you can teach consumers to collect, sort and recycle this type of packaging. The next step is to find end markets for the material, so we have a business case for recycling.
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 57 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 57
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All    
Design  for Environmental Impact     Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  TrustPackaging
We know consumers are concerned about 
packaging impacts, and so are we. We believe in driving positive systems changes through pre-competitive collaboration across the supply chain. We want to use data to inform our decisions and understand the holistic impact of packaging changes. Target’s cross-functional working group on PCR content is working to increase the percentage of PCR in our owned-brand packaging to 20% by 2025. In 2019, Target utilized over 594,000 lbs of PCR resin (PET & HDPE) to produce bottles in our Everspring household cleaning brand.
How2Recycle
Our guests value packaging that makes recycling simple. For that reason, we continue to work to apply the How2Recycle label to our owned-brand packaging, including our Food and Beverage and our Essentials and Beauty packaging. We are working toward applying it to our style brands’ packaging.
Reverse Logistics
Target has long been aware of the opportunity for a more robust reverse-supply-and-salvage program. To ensure that we extend the life and maximize the value of recovered products, we conducted a pilot with 10 stores in 2019 to explore key questions in this area, mainly around the technology required and how to add value. The pilot showed that our current system is a good start, but that including a simple sorting system at store level—along with the support of third-party technology—would help us make significant progress on our reverse supply chain system.What’s Next
Target has started to plan for the next generation of reverse logistics network capabilities, at store level and for new vendors. We have been able to create programs to redirect the following product categories:
• Headphones
• Speakers
• Home theater products
• Wireless tablets and watches
• Cameras
• Cell phones
This work—along with the data and experience being acquired from existing and new high-value-salvage programs—will be used to shape Target’s long-term strategy on how to maximize the value and product life of its salvage.
To reduce waste from our store remodel 
programs, we recycled over 14,000 tons of metal from fixtures in 2019 and have had a sustainable, closed-loop hanger reuse program since 1994. In 2019, we reused approximately 151 million plastic hangers in our stores. We continue to evaluate additional recycling streams and processes to reduce waste further.Related Links
 Chemicals Policy
 Green Chemistry & Safer Alternatives 
Innovation Grant  Recipients
 Textiles RSL and MRSL Implementation Guide
 Unwanted Chemical List 
 Sustainable Products Implementation Guide
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Chemicals
 ESG Appendix: Environmental Responsibility in 
the Supply Chain
 ESG Appendix: Wast e and Circular  Economy
2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 58 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 58
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All    
Design  for Environmental Impact     Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  TrustDesign for Guest Ease
Empowering More Sustainable  Choices
Our Approach
Making responsible choices just feels good, and 
we know our guests want to make choices that are better for their families, for their communities and for our planet. We want to give our guests the power to make those meaningful choices, and to make it really easy too.
Guests value different aspects of a sustainable 
product, and that impacts their purchasing choices. For some guests, it’s the certifications a product carries—from Fair Trade to GoodWeave to the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS). We participate in a range of certification programs and display accreditation clearly to help guests choose.
Other guests seek more recycled content in what 
they buy or better ways to dispose of products at the end of their useful life. For those guests, we’re putting more recycled content into beloved brands like All in Motion and we run a takeback service for child car seats.Where We Are Now
During 2019, we focused on marketing different products from a sustainability perspective, such as Okabashi shoes, which were our first fully 
circular product available in all stores. We then expanded the offering in 2020 to include more shoe styles for both men and women both in-store and online.
We continued to implement our wellness icons, 
including Target Clean, helping guests easily identify products that align with their values, whether they’re shopping in person or on our website.
From mid-2019, we began manufacturing a 
single-use point-of-sale bag made with 40% recycled content. We are currently working toward including 20% PCR material in these bags.
What’s Next
In July 2020, Target announced its plans to work with Closed Loop Partners’ Center for the Circular Economy, CVS Health, Walmart and other retailers on the Beyond the Bag initiative, which is aiming to reinvent the single-use plastic retail bag. The goal is to identify, test and implement viable design solutions that serve the purpose of the current retail bag in a way that’s better for people and the planet. The first year of this multi-year, multi-retail-sector collaboration will focus on gathering insights, stakeholder engagement and finding innovators. 
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Chemicals
 ESG Appendix: GuestsHow Our Guests Evaluate Sustainable Options at Target
Recycled Content
Guests want more recycled content in what they buy or better ways to dispose of products at the end of their useful life. We run takeback services for items like child car seats and we’re also putting more recycled content into beloved brands like All in Motion.Simplified Searches
Giving guests the detail 
they need at a glance. 
Want more plant-based 
ingredients in your baby’s 
essential products and 
no parabens in your beauty 
choices? Our leading Chemicals Policy and the transparency expectations it sets do the heavy lifting, so guests don’t have to.Certifications 
a Product  Carries
From Fair Trade to GoodWeave to GOTS. 
We participate in a 
range  of certification 
programs and display accreditation clearly to 
help guests choose.2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 59 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 59
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All     
Design for Environmental Impact    Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  Trust     Design Messaging Guests Can  Trust
Responsible Marketing for Informed  Decisions
We love creating inspiring 
campaigns that people 
remember—but what we 
love even more is that our advertising is clear, 
responsible and accurate.
Our Approach
Being truthful and ethical is who we are and what 
we believe in. Our marketing must reflect those values. We commit to promotions, advertising and guest communications that provide guests with accurate information and follow the law. We do not have a single marketing policy, but have marketing criteria and regulations across multiple business policies. When it comes to our advertising, our swimwear campaigns celebrate women of all sizes, body types and skin tones, free of airbrushing. Our intimates and sleepwear brands, like Auden, are also focused on body positivity, inclusiveness and celebrating all body types. And for more than 25 years, we have included people with all different abilities in our advertising as a reflection of our guests and the communities that we serve.
Where We Are Now
In addition to our Inclusive Merchandising Council, which vets product categories such as graphic tees, in 2019 we launched our Inclusive Marketing Council, which is helping us grow our inclusivity acumen. This acts as a cross-functional group that offers a diverse point of view and a crucial source of guidance on multiple cultural perspectives and input. The Council has an escalation committee that connects into Target’s risk and reputation processes.
We have also run several inclusive marketing 
campaigns during the year, including for our intimates brand Auden, which promotes body positivity. Our Black Beyond Measure campaign for 2020 Black History Month was also well received and celebrated several Black entrepreneurs and role models.
What’s Next
We understand the impact that we can have and aim to use our scale and influence for good—inclusivity is one of Target’s core values and we believe in marketing that is representative of all types of people. We will continue to live out these values with the marketing content that we produce.
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Responsible Marketing2020 Target Corporate Responsibility Report The Big Picture Supply Chain Operations 60 ESG Appendix Products and Guests 60
Making Decisions Today for a Circular Tomorrow    Design for Circularity    Design for All     
Design for Environmental Impact    Design for Guest Ease    Design Messaging Guests Can  Trust     2020 Target 
ESG AppendixAbout This Appendix
GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
This Appendix was published in September 
2020 in conjunction with Target’s Corporate Responsibility Report and reflects activities 
and initiatives for our fiscal year 2019 (February  3, 
2019–February 1, 2020), as well as certain subsequent events and initiatives that occurred after the end of fiscal year 2019 and prior to publication. All quantitative data, unless otherwise stated, reflect fiscal year 2019.
Reporting Standards 
This ESG Appendix has been written to provide—where possible and relevant—the environmental, social and governance (ESG) data commonly sought by investors and rating bodies. To that end, this report references the following ESG reporting frameworks: 
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
• Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards for Multiline and Specialty Retailers & Distributors and other relevant industries
• Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs)Forward-Looking Statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements about our business plans, initiatives and objectives, which are based on our current assumptions and expectations. These business plans, initiatives and objectives may change based on subsequent developments. These statements are typically accompanied by the words “expect,” “may,” “could,” “believe,” “would,” “might,” “anticipates” or similar words. The principal forward-looking statements in this report include our sustainability goals, commitments and programs; our business plans, initiatives and objectives; our assumptions and expectations; the scope and impact of corporate responsibility risks and opportunities; and standards and expectations of third parties. All such forward-looking statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Although we believe there is a reasonable basis for the forward-looking statements, our actual results could be materially different. The most important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are set forth in our description of risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
ended February  1, 2020, and in Part II, Item 1A, Risk 
Factors of our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended 
May 2, 2020, which should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in this report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.What’s Inside
63 Environment
64 Climate and Energy
67 Waste and Circular Economy
69 Chemicals
70 Material and Resource Use
72 Water
73 Environmental Responsibility 
in the Supply Chain
74 Social
75 Human Rights
76 Team Members
82 Supply Chain
86 Guests
90 Communities
92 Governance
92 ESG Management and 
Board Oversight
93 Ethics
94 Government Advocacy
95 Indexes and Glossary
95 SASB Index
99 GRI Standards Content Index
117 SDG Index
120 Glossary2020 Target ESG Appendix CR Report Environment Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 62 IntroductionEnvironmentESG
E S G
As one of the largest retailers in the U.S., we 
have an impact on people all over the world, and we want that impact to be positive. People are at the heart of our company, and while we are passionate about helping them thrive today, we don’t want to compromise the ability of future generations to do the same.Climate change, drought, deforestation, waste and resource scarcity highlight the need to transform the way we approach business. We know that our products, supply chain and business model depend on limited natural resources and materials, and we are committed to addressing our environmental impacts so that we can continue to serve our guests for generations to come.In This Section
64 Climate and Energy
67 Waste and Circular Economy
69 Chemicals
70 Material and Resource Use
72 Water
73 Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Frameworks reported on:
 SASB   GRI   TCFD 
Our work contributes to these SDGs
6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION
7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION13 CLIMATE ACTION14 LIFE BELOW WATER15 LIFE ON LAND17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 63 EnvironmentClimate and Energy
1 The scope of the risks and opportunities consider ed includes—but is not limited to—changes in regulation (company and asset level), policy (company and asset 
level), building codes (asset level), guest behavior (company level), reputation (company level), impact to carbon reduction goal (company level) and extreme weather 
conditions (asset level).  Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3   TCFD 
Climate change is one of the most urgent issues 
of our time. It impacts the lives of our team members, guests and communities, as well as our stores in every U.S. state, distribution centers across the U.S. and our global supply chain. Below, we summarize our approach, which is aligned to the four core elements recommended by the TCFD .
Governance
The Corporate Responsibility, Properties and Responsible Sourcing & Sustainability teams coordinate Target’s climate change strategy, identify key initiative areas, assess risks and opportunities, and implement the company’s response.
For information about the role of Target’s 
Board  of Directors and its committees in 
governing corporate responsibility efforts, see 
ESG Appendix  p. 92.Strategy
Through ambitious climate and energy programs 
and partnerships, we are advancing our efforts to reduce our—and our supply chain’s—greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We continue to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy for our direct operations, including LED lighting, solar panels on our facilities, and contracts for off-site renewable energy. Our efforts have been recognized externally, including through certifications and awards. Target has over 1,500 ENERGY STAR-certified facilities and 38 stores 
certified to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) GreenChill standards. We were recognized as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year in 2020, for the fifth consecutive year, and received the 2019 “Best of the Best” award for store certification excellence by the EPA’s GreenChill refrigerant management partnership.
As the majority—around 94%—of our GHG 
emissions are in the value chain, we support our suppliers in implementing emissions-reduction projects. As a significant component of our carbon footprint, apparel is one area where we have established Target-led programs to reduce emissions. We also continue to prioritize the work led by the UN Climate Change (UNFCCC) Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action.As part of our broader climate efforts, we partnered with industry expert Anthesis to validate our new targets and ensure they meet the rigorous requirements of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Since approval, we have continued to refine our methodology to help us account for supplier- and product-level emissions, using these data to identify the most impactful actions.
We are also tracking energy and carbon regulation 
and related proposals at the U.S. federal and state levels and in other key regions of our supply chain to identify opportunities to expand our energy commitments and those of our suppliers.
Risk Management
Target has operational control of a variety of commercial properties, including headquarter offices, distribution centers, data centers, and off-site warehouses. The operations of these facilities contribute to Target’s direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1 and 2) through their use of electricity, natural gas, propane, mobile and stationary fuels, steam, chilled water, and refrigerants, while our 
extensive value chain contributes to our Scope  3 
emissions through the manufacturing and distribution of products, business travel, guests using our products and other indirect sources.
 1
1	 The	sc ope	of	t he	risks	a nd	o pportunities	co nsidered	i ncludes—but	is	n ot	li mited	t o—changes	i n	r egulation	(c ompany	a nd	ass et	lev el),	policy	(c ompany	a nd	ass et	lev el),	b uilding	c odes	( asset	l evel),	g uest	b ehavior	(c ompany	l evel),	r eputation	(c ompany	l evel),	i mpact	t o	c arbon	r eduction	g oal	(c ompany	l evel)	an d	extr eme	w eather	c onditions	( asset	l evel).  Changing prices for electricity and other fuels could significantly impact our business. With 1,868 stores in the U.S., 42 distribution centers, and products spanning multiple categories, we rely heavily on a complex supply chain and logistics network.
We have built a highly energy-efficient portfolio of 
stores by continually adopting new technologies and operating procedures. In addition, we have team members dedicated to identifying financing and rebate opportunities, which has allowed for increased investment in energy efficiency.
Examples of initiatives to address Scope 3 
emissions within our manufacturing supply chain include the Clean by Design program conducted in partnership with the Apparel Impact Institute and the Vietnam Improvement Program in partnership with International Finance Corporation.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 64 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainMetrics and Targets
Target has committed to reduce absolute Scope 
1 and 2 emissions and Scope 3 emissions from Retail Purchased Goods and Services by 30% below our 2017 baseline by 2030, and that by the end of 2023, suppliers representing the top 80% of our retail and non-retail spend will have set science-based Scope 1 and 2 targets. We received SBTi approval for these goals in 2019.
After establishing our baseline footprint, in 2019 
we focused on planning and implementing product and supplier emissions-reduction initiatives. We also refreshed the underlying business-, emissions- and supplier-level data sources, and refined the accounting methodology for reporting year-over-year changes.
Our primary climate-data-capturing tools include 
the CDP Supply Chain survey and the Higg Facility Environmental Module (FEM). We use the CDP Supply Chain survey to capture data at the supplier level to track progress against both Scope 3 targets. We request retail (owned- and national-brand) and non-retail suppliers that fall within the top 80% of our spend to respond to this survey. In addition, we collect climate data at the factory level—using the Higg FEM—from factories that produce our owned-brand products or national-brand products where Target is the importer of record (excluding FDA- and USDA-regulated factories), as well as Tier 2 fabric, trim and packaging suppliers.Beginning in 2020, we are providing our suppliers additional support to set their own targets, implement emissions-reduction projects and improve reporting. As of the end of 2019, suppliers equating to 17% of our total spend had already set science-based targets. 
Related Links
 Climate Policy
 2020 CDP Climate Change Response
 Climate on our Website
See Also
 CR Report: Properties—Climate and Energy
 CR Report: Supply Chain—Climate and Energy
 GRI 302 energy data, p. 104
 GRI 305 climate data, p. 108
 ESG Appendix: Governance
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data. 
2 The scope of these data is U.S. domestic oper ations only, but international offices account for less than 1% of our overall electricity consumption. 
3 Renewable Electricity includes renewable ener gy credits from Target’s on-site and off-site projects, as well as electricity that we receive from 
renewable energy generation serving the electric grids where Target facilities are located. Data sources include: Target’s 2019 fiscal year electricity 
consumption data, Target’s 2019 renewable energy credits, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s Annual Energy Outlook (January 2020) data on renewable energy generation in the U.S.Energy Consumption 2
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Total energy consumption (GJ)* 20,040,246 20,472,495 20,415,745 SASB 
CG-MR-130a.1. (1)
GRI 
302-1
Energy intensity ratio (U.S. electricity) (kWh/SF)* 13.42 13.90 14.69 GRI 
302-3
Percentage of total energy that is renewable and for which 
we retire RECs*7% 4% 4% SASB 
CG-MR-130a.1. (3)
Total electricity consumption (GJ)* 14,566,142 15,041,760 15,843,542 GRI 
302-1
Percentage of total energy consumed that is grid electricity* 65% 69% 74% SASB 
CG-MR-130a.1. (2)
Percentage of electricity consumption that is renewable 3 27% 22% n/a Target goal
(2025: 60% 
2030:  100%)  Covered by Target RECs 10% 6% 5%
 Grid-renewable portion 17% 16% n/a
Number of stores and distribution centers with solar  roofs 516 470 436 Target goal
(2020: 500)
Number of electric-vehicle-charging spaces 527 200 n/a Target goal
(2020: 600)
Number of sites with electric-vehicle-charging stations 74 26 n/a Target goal
(2020: 100)
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data. 
2 Th e scope of these data is U.S. domestic operations only, but international offices account for less than 1% of our overall electricity consumption.
3 Re newable Electricity includes renewable energy credits from Target’s on-site and off-site projects, as well as electricity that we receive from renewable energy generation serving the electric grids where Target facilities are located. Data sources include: Target’s 2019 fiscal year electricity consumption data, Target’s 2019 renewable energy credits, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s Annual Energy Outlook (January 2020) data on renewable energy generation in the U.S2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 65 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainScope 1 & 2 Emissions 4
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Scope 1 GHG emissions (mtCO 2e)* 752,552 755,484 706,176 GRI 
305-1
TCFD 
Scope 2 GHG emissions (mtCO 2e)* GRI 
305-2
TCFD   Market based 1,545,898 1,782,934 1,861,703
  Location based 1,680,682  1,836,105 1,936,817
Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions (mtCO 2e)*
  Market based 2,298,450 2,538,418 2,567,880
  Location based 2,433,234 2,591,588 2,642,994
Change in Scope 1 & 2 emissions from 2017 baseline 
(market based)*-10.5% -1.1% n/a TCFD 
Target goal
(2030: -30%)
GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 & 2, market based) 
(mtCO 2e/SF)*0.00763 0.00845 0.00857 GRI 
305-4
Corporate emissions rate for EPA-applicable refrigeration systems (greater than 50 lbs)15% 14% 12% GreenChill 
Partnership
Pounds of ODS R-22 refrigerant removed and replaced with lower-global warming potential (GWP) alternatives27,243 62,825 56,000 GreenChill 
Partnership
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data. 
4 Th e scope of these data is U.S. domestic operations only, but international offices account for less than 1% of our overall electricity consumption.
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data. 
4 The scope of these data is U.S. domestic oper ations only, but international offices account for less than 1% of our overall electricity consumption. Scope 3 Emissions
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Scope 3 GHG emissions (mtCO 2e) 52,049,000 52,720,000 52,857,000 GRI 
305-3
TCFD  1 – Purchased goods and services 27,389,000 27,276,000 27,923,000
 2 – Capital goods 743,000 1,007,000 999,000
 3 – Fuel- and energy-related activities 509,000 523,000 581,000
 4 – Upstream tr ansportation and distribution 1,655,000 1,676,000 1,466,000
 5 – Waste generated in operations 271,000 224,000 204,000
 6 – Business travel 22,000 23,000 21,000
 7 – Employee commuting 585,000 567,000 526,000
 8 – Upstream leased assets Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
 9 – Downstream tr ansportation and distribution 5,672,000 5,666,000 5,245,000
 10 – Processing of sold products Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
 11 – Use of sold products 12,897,000 13,485,000 13,488,000
 12 – End-of-life treatment of sold pr oducts 2,306,000 2,273,000 2,404,000
 13 – Downstream leased assets Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
 14 – Franchises Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
 15 – Investments Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
Change in Scope 3 emissions from 2017 baseline TCFD 
 Retail Purchased Goods and Services -2.1% -2.7% n/a Target goal 
(2030:  -30%)
 Total Scope 3 emissions -1.5% -0.3% n/a
Percentage of suppliers, by spend, having set science-
based reduction targets for Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions17% n/a n/a Target goal 
(2023:  80%)
Quantity of emissions from commercial air business 
travel  (mtCO 2e)*17,511 17,684 13,230 GRI 
305-32020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 66 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainWaste and Circular Economy
Management Approach
 SASB CG-MR-410a.3   SASB FB-FR -150a.1   
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Target is committed to using our size and 
influence to reduce waste, focusing on products and packaging, construction waste, store fixtures (including signage and mannequins), campaign-shoot sets and events. 
Reducing Waste
We seek to establish a zero-waste culture: our Waste Minimization team is TRUE Zero Waste certified. Our waste-minimization strategy, executed by our passionate team members, includes efforts to reduce unsaleable items through improved processes and fixtures, and to increase donations. We also seek to design out waste, such as reducing plastic packaging and eliminating polybags in apparel shipments.
Our waste stream audit program, which 
conducted 25 audits in 2019, helps us better understand what we send to landfill. In 2019, we launched a waste footprint project to study our value chain and our guests’ and team members’ interactions with and attitudes to waste. This project is helping us identify interventions for further waste reduction, including through reverse logistics and systems designed to extend product life and maximize salvage value.Laying the Groundwork 
for Circularity
Waste can also be a valuable resource. Our aspiration to develop a comprehensive circular strategy builds on extensive work Target has already undertaken: a series of enterprise-wide design principles are now helping us as we work with suppliers and other stakeholders to integrate circularity into every part of our business, including product innovation, packaging considerations and store design. We are also exploring ways to recover material at product end of life and are working with partners on the necessary technology and infrastructure to support a circular economy.
We have a range of initiatives to recover value 
from waste, such as our long-standing hanger reuse program and partnerships with a paper mill to return corrugated cardboard to our Packaging teams for recycling. We have also sought to increase demand for recycled content, including through sourcing recycled polyester. Our Properties team has been recycling eligible roof membrane from reroofing projects since 2007, amounting to approximately 3,250 tons of material to date. 
In July 2020, we announced our plans to work 
with the pre-competitive Consortium to Reinvent the Retail Bag—which will innovate, test and scale new solutions to provide sustainable alternatives to single-use retail bags—with Closed Loop Partners’ Center for the Circular Economy .Percentage of operational waste diverted 
from  landfill 
2018:  76%
2019:  78%
Percentage of construction waste diverted 
from  landfill
2018:  65%2019:  60%
Responsible Disposal
Where we are unable to reuse or otherwise 
recover value from waste, we seek to dispose of it responsibly and reduce our impact on the environment. We have offered front-of-store recycling of plastic bags and some electronics since 2010, and have held child car seat recycling events since 2017.
We require our electronic recycling vendors to be 
certified to the R2 Standard, providing traceability for downstream materials. Our service providers manage 100% of our electronics waste onshore—no materials are exported. Batteries are handled internally or by our hazardous waste vendor, who recycles them and provides tracking data.
For food waste that cannot be donated, we have 
organics-recycling collection for compost at 343 facilities.Number of team members trained on circular 
design since 2018
2018:  266
2019:  1,632
Partnerships
Partnerships are essential to our waste-reduction 
and circular economy strategies.
These include:
• Anthesis and BBMG : consulting on Scope  3 
GHG emissions-reduction progress and 
enterprise waste strategy
• Association of Plastic Recyclers: promoting demand for post-consumer recycled content
• CircularID™ Protocol: advancing the circular economy by connecting products with data essential for circularity
• EcoSet: reusing and recycling items from campaign shoots and special events
• Ellen MacArthur Foundation: developing business models for a circular economy
• Feeding America and Second Harvest Heartland: distributing food donations
• How2Recycle: adding recycling labels to owned-brand packaging
• Materials Recovery for the Future: collaborating with P&G, Dow, PepsiCo and others to make flexible packaging recyclable
• The Consumer Goods Forum: driving reductions in food waste
• The Recycling Partnership: expanding access to recycling in the U.S.
See Also
 CR Report: Design for Circularity
 CR Report: Design for Environmental Impact2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 67 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainResponsible Disposal of Waste
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage of  operational waste  diverted from landfill  78% 76% 74%
Number of Target locations with organics recycling   343 328 98
Percentage of construction waste diverted from landfill  60% 65% n/a
Construction material diverted from landfill  (tons)  5,871 11,887 n/a
Total weight of  non-hazardous  operational  waste  (tons) 966,362 960,912ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 
disposed of by reuse (tons)175,879 173,027ª GRI 
306-2  
  plastic hangers 5 4,996 11,981 10,940
  donations  52,442 44,588 38,150
  salvage 118,441 116,458 93,633
  Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 
disposed of by recycling (tons)568,407 550,319ª GRI 
306-2
  cardboard   514,564 492,547 485,765
  plastic bags and shrink wrap  10,282 9,921 8,477
  plastic, glass and aluminum cans and bottles 4,480 4,063 3,414
  electronics 2,859 1,475 2,063
  metal 14,921 17,565 15,696
  paper  3,121 3,090 5,418
  used cooking oil    168 212 199
  other    18,012 21,446ª
  Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 
disposed of by composting  (tons)   5,345 3,250 2,007 GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of non-hazardous operational 
waste disposed of by recovery, including energy 
recovery (tons)  1 5ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 
disposed of by incineration  (mass burn) (tons)  151 489ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 
disposed of by landfill  (tons)  216,546 233,748 239,100 GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 
disposed of by other means (tons)33 74ª GRI 
306-2
   material release and container recycling 
(i.e. helium)  0 22ª
   wastewater treatment 33 52ª
5 Th e 2019 figure for plastic hangers is an undercount, due to data-tracking difficulties while changing vendors.Metric 2019 2018 2017 Framework
Total weight of hazardous  operational waste (tons)  1,219 1,737ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of 
by recycling  (tons)   12 117ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of 
by recovery  including energy recovery (tons)  3 47ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of 
by incineration  (mass burn) (tons)  1,191 1,547ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of 
by landfill  (tons)   n/a 2ª GRI 
306-2
  Total weight of hazardous operational waste disposed of 
by other means (tons)12 24ª GRI 
306-2
   material release and container recycling 
(i.e. helium)   0 2ª
  wastewater treatment   12 22ª
Number and volume of recorded spills    None One: 15 gallons 
of hydraulic oilNone GRI 
306-3
Total weight of hazardous waste that  was transported  (tons)   1,219 1,737ª GRI 
306-4
Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally  0% 0% 0% GRI 
306-4
ª Th e marked numbers are not available for 2017 due to differences in how we tracked waste categories.
Laying the Groundwork for Circularity
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of team members trained on circular design 
since 20181,632 266 n/a
Recycled polyester used (metric tonnes) 34,800 20,000 18,200 GRI 
301-2
 Apparel & Accessories 20,300 7,000 6,400
 Home & Hardline  14,500 13,000 11,800
Amount invested in textile-recycling technologies since 
2018 (USD) $937,810 $278,700 n/a Target goal
(2020: $1 million)
Number of new end markets for recycled materials created 
since 2017 3 1 n/a Target goal
(2020: 3)
Annual amount of waste recycled from car seat recycling program (million pounds) 7.0 4.8 2.6GRI 
301-3
Number of SKUs with the How2Recycle label 3,941 3,103 1,876
Number of SKUs evaluated but found not to have space for the How2Recycle label 2,146 1,971 1,971
ª The marked numbers ar e not available for 2017 due to differences in how we tracked waste categories. 
5 The 2019 figure for plastic hangers is an under count, due to data-tracking difficulties while changing vendors.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 68 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainChemicals
Management Approach
 SASB CG-MR-410a.2   SASB CG-AA-250a.1   
 SASB CG-HP-250a.3   GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
As described in our chemicals strategy, we are 
committed to using our scale and expertise to drive transparency, progressive chemical management and green chemistry innovation across our value chain. One of our goals is to achieve transparency for all intentionally added ingredients—including generics such as fragrance—in beauty, baby care, personal care and household cleaning formulated products by the end of 2020 for both owned and national brands.
We set our goals using a hazard-based approach 
and focus on carcinogenic, endocrine-disrupting and bioaccumulative aquatic toxins found in our products.
Our Restricted Substances List (RSL) applies to 
owned-brand clothing and non-clothing textiles. In-scope products manufactured after January 1, 2020 must meet our RSL. To assess compliance, we incorporate RSL validation into our owned-brand Multistage Testing Program, taking a risk-based testing approach.
 For our Unwanted 
Chemicals List (UCL), which applies to all brands of formulated beauty, personal care, baby care and household cleaning products, we work with UL Insights to check for the presence of (or screen) unwanted chemicals in ingredients.
 Find 
out more about chemicals on our website.Chemicals
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage of SKUs in beauty, baby care, personal care and 
household cleaning formulated products to which we have 
access to screen ingredients76% 76% 38%
Percentage of SKUs in beauty, baby care, personal care and 
household cleaning formulated products with transparency 
for all ingredients, including generics such as fragrance35% 22% 6% Target goal
(2020: 100%)
Percentage of SKUs in beauty, baby care, personal care and 
household cleaning product categories formulated without 
phthalates, propylparaben, butylparaben, formaldehyde, 
formaldehyde donors or nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEs)47% 44% 7% Target goal
(2020: 100%)
Amount invested in green chemistry innovation since 
2017 (USD)$3,741,522 $2,494,660 $802,440 Target goal
(2022: $5 million)
Our Target Clean icon is designed to help guests 
find products without commonly undesirable chemicals and incentivizes suppliers in formulated essentials categories where Target Clean criteria are aligned to the UCL and transparency goals.
In 2019, we reviewed opportunities among 
children’s product categories. As a result, we are seeking to expand our selection of car seats without flame retardants and hosted a dialogue with our toy suppliers at the NY Toy Fair to identify common challenges and opportunities.
Partnerships are key to moving this work forward. 
We became a member of Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) in 2018 and adopted their MRSL for our owned-brand textiles; we also collaborated with ZDHC in developing the newest version of their Manufacturing Restricted Substance List (MRSL). We are also part of the GC3 Retailer Leadership Council, through which we helped develop a statement in 2019 that outlines chemical functions and priority product categories where innovation in safer alternatives is needed.Related Links
 Chemicals Policy
 Textiles RSL/MRSL
 Formulated Products Unwanted Chemicals 
List (UCL)
 Target Clean icon
 Chemicals on our Website
See Also
 CR Report: Chemicals
 CR Report: Design for Environmental Impact 2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 69 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainMaterial and Resource Use
6 Due to an expansion in the scope of products covered by our palm oil commitment and data in 2019, historical data are not directly comparable to 2019 data.Management Approach
 SASB CG-AA-440a.1   SASB CG-MR-410a.3   
 SASB FB-FR-430a.3   GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
The Earth’s natural resources provide us with 
essential raw materials for our products. To help our suppliers source responsibly while minimizing harm to the planet and supporting communities, we have developed sustainable sourcing policies and programs for cotton, forest products and palm oil, while committing to more sustainably sourcing polyester, animal and coffee products.
Deforestation
Forests provide essential raw materials for many of our products and much of our packaging. However, they also host irreplaceable ecosystems that mitigate climate change, foster habitat and biodiversity and offer livelihoods for communities. We are committed to aiding in the global effort to end deforestation and forest degradation, and we work with vendors, suppliers and other stakeholders to implement our Responsible Sourcing Policy for Forest Products.
As a first step in our transition to responsibly 
sourced forest fibers, we are focusing on three areas: paper-based materials, furniture and décor, and rayon used in apparel. We are also shifting to sustainable retail packaging for our owned brands.
Since forestry supply chains are often long and 
complex, we use chain-of-custody certifications wherever possible to ensure we source from well-managed forests, preferring Forest Stewardship Council standards. We are also piloting our own due diligence program because of the limited availability and prohibitive cost of certified raw materials.Biodiversity
We seek to protect biodiversity, primarily through responsibly sourcing materials for our owned-brand products. We recognize that forests are not the only ecosystem under threat and are working to identify how and where conversion of other types of natural habitat, like grasslands and savannahs, touches our supply chain. Our work includes:
• Participating in the U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef (USRSB) to help identify conversion of natural habit
• Collaborations with Practical Farmers of Iowa, The Nature Conservancy and Sustainable Food Lab to protect and promote biodiversity and soil health
• Working with FishWise to promote sustainably farmed and caught seafood
• Managing the use of neonicotinoid pesticides on Target properties to promote biodiversity and protect pollinators
As an Associate Member of Field to Market: The 
Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, Target is engaged in supporting solutions for sustainability and continuous improvement in U.S. commodity agriculture. During 2020, we have been partnering with The Nature Conservancy, McDonald’s and Cargill to co-fund a project focused on soil health. The aim is to support regenerative agriculture and reduce our supply chain’s carbon footprint in Nebraska.Deforestation
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage of owned-brand paper-based packaging 
sourced from sustainably managed forests 51% 14% 14% SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2
Percentage of SKUs that conform to Target’s forest products policy in: Target goal
 Spritz 99% 99% 10% (2018: 100%)
 Up&Up, Pillowfor t and Cat & Jack 38% 36% 0% (2020: 100%)
 Threshold and Smith & Hawken 0% 0% 0% (2022: 100%)
Palm Oil
Metric 2019 2018 6 20176Framework
Amount of palm oil sourced (metric tonnes) 4,526 2,214 2,519 SASB 
CG-HP-430a.1
Percentage of sourced palm oil certified through the 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains100% 100% 37% SASB 
CG-HP-430a.1
SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2
Target goal Identity Pr eserved 0% 0% 0%
 Segregated 1% 1% 1%
 Mass Balance 45% 37% 6%
 Book & Claim 54% 62% 30%
Percentage of palm volume traced to the importer 79% 84% 79%
6 Du e to an expansion in the scope of products covered by our palm oil commitment and data in 2019, historical data are not directly comparable to 2019 data.
6 Du e to an expansion in the scope of products covered by our palm oil commitment and data in 2019, historical data are not directly comparable to 2019 data.
Palm Oil
Palm plantations are a significant source of 
deforestation. We are committed to using palm oil that meets the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) standards or an equivalent.
In 2019, we expanded our palm oil commitment 
to include additional categories and more ambitious targets. With our partner, Proforest, we work with suppliers to trace and sustainably source palm oil used in our owned-brand food, personal care, household cleaning, baby care, beauty, cosmetics and candle products. By the end of 2022, we aim to achieve traceability to the mill level and use physically certified (Mass Balance, Segregated, or Identity Preserved) palm oil.
 In 2019, about half of our PalmTrace credits 
were sourced from independent smallholders, helping to support their sustainability efforts.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 70 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainCotton
Cotton is an important raw material for Target; 
its farming is also critical to the economic 
well-being of communities around the world. 
Guided by our Sustainable Sourcing Policy for 
Cotton Products, we are leveraging our scale to drive positive change by committing to source 100% sustainable cotton for our owned- and exclusive-brand products by 2022.
Our strategic partnership with the Better Cotton 
Initiative (BCI) is one way we do this. BCI Farmers are trained to use water efficiently and reduce their use of the most harmful chemicals, and they commit to respecting worker rights and well-being.
 We also purchase Cotton LEADS-
certified product. The program—jointly founded by the Australian and U.S. cotton industries—addresses environmental impacts on land and soil, biodiversity, and carbon footprint, as well as accountability throughout the supply chain. Recycled cotton is a preferred source, but the available supply remains quite limited.
As an Associate Member of Field to Market: 
The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, we are engaged in supporting solutions for sustainability and continuous improvement in U.S. commodity agriculture. In 2019, we co-funded a project—the Cotton Incorporated, U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol, Target, and Agrible Texas Panhandle Cotton Sustainability Project—to support cotton producers in West Texas.
Apart from the environmental impact of cotton, 
forced labor is an ongoing concern in the cotton fields of Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and China’s Xinjiang province. We do not accept products containing Uzbek, Turkmen or Xinjiang cotton. Additionally, because of the global concerns that Uzbek cotton is frequently utilized to manufacture textile products in Bangladesh, we do not accept products that contain cotton or cotton-blended fabric that was knit or woven in Bangladesh or cotton or cotton-blended sweater yarn produced in Bangladesh unless the fabric/yarn supplier is pre-approved by Target and successfully demonstrates compliance through a traceability assessment.
Animal Welfare
Our Food Animal Welfare & Antibiotics Policies set out the standards and principles that we expect meat, dairy and deli vendors to follow. They are grounded in our belief that every animal deserves humane treatment throughout its life. We do not support the use of routine, nontherapeutic antimicrobials—including antibiotics—to promote growth. We expect our suppliers and their producers to phase out this practice and only use antimicrobials when medically necessary.
Coffee
We have joined the Sustainable Coffee Challenge, committing to source coffee certified to the Fair Trade USA standard or an equivalent for Archer Farms and Good & Gather coffee in both bags and pods by 2022.
 7
Seafood
All of our fresh and frozen seafood is rated green or yellow by Seafood Watch, certified by the Marine Stewardship Council, Aquaculture 
7 Ar cher Farms brand coffee is transitioning to Good & Gather in 2020. All Good & Gather coffee in bags and pods will be Fair Trade Certified. Stewardship Council, or Best Aquaculture Practices, or sourced from a credible time-bound improvement process. In 2020, we are adding six products certified by the Marine Stewardship Council to our shelf-stable tuna assortment. Target partners closely with FishWise, a nonprofit seafood sustainability consultancy, to monitor and continually improve the sustainability of our seafood assortment.Cotton
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Cotton from sustainable cotton standards (metric tonnes) SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2
Target goal 
(2022:  100%) BCI 79,776 22,592 4,478
 U.S. Cotton LEADS 3,600 4,600 n/a
Animal Welfare
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage of shell eggs sold from cage-free sources (by 
revenue) 8 51% 40% n/a SASB 
FB-FR-430a.2
Target goal 
(2025:  100%)
Coffee
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage of SKUs of Archer Farms and Good & Gather coffee in bags or pods certified by Fair Trade USA 29% 28% 24%SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2
Target goal 
(2022:  100%)
Seafood
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage by weight of fresh and frozen seafood meeting our Sustainable Seafood Policy
 9 100% 100% 100% SASB 
CG-AA-440a.2
8 In cludes owned and national brands.
9 In cludes owned and national brands. Does not include sushi or shelf-stable tuna.
7 Archer Farms brand coffee is transitioning to Good & Gather in 2020. All Good & Gather coffee in bags and pods will be Fair Trade Certified. 
8 Includes owned and national brands.
9 Includes owned and national brands. Does not include sushi or shelf-stable tuna.Related Links
 Responsible Sourcing Policy for 
Forest  Products
 Palm Oil Commitment
 Sustainable Sourcing Policy for 
Cotton  Products
 Animal Welfare & Antibiotics Policies 
 Sustainable Seafood Policy
 2020 CDP Forests Response
 Deforestation on our Website
See Also
 CR Report: Materials2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 71 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainManagement Approach
 SASB CG-HP-140a.2   GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Clean, drinkable water and sanitation are human 
rights—yet clean water sources are disappearing at an alarming rate. We recognize the tension between protecting water and needing it to operate our business.
Through our freshwater stewardship commitment, 
we seek to improve water quality, optimize water efficiency and increase access to clean water. Our framework incorporates our existing water-management aspirations as well as our work in climate change, chemicals management and sustainable resource use. This allows us to make thoughtful resource-allocation decisions and measure progress.Water
Reduction in water withdrawal in stores, 
distribution centers and headquarters locations from 2010 baseline (Goal: 15% by 2025)
2017:  9.9%
2018:  13.5%
2019:  14.5%Our areas of focus include food and fiber (such 
as cotton) in our raw material supply chain; textile and apparel factories in priority watersheds in our manufacturing supply chain; and irrigation and stormwater flows in our direct operations. We rely on key partnerships—in which Target often has a high level of involvement and engagement—to better direct our efforts and reduce our impact. These include the WWF AgWater Challenge and Ceres’ Connect the Drops to support improved sourcing solutions and connect legislators and corporations to address pressing issues in water-stressed regions.
In textile and apparel production, we have 
worked to design out hazardous chemicals (including through our collaboration with ZDHC), incorporate water-saving design principles and improve the water management of factories in our supply chain. The latter effort has involved close partnerships such as with the Apparel Impact Institute’s Clean by Design program in China, Taiwan and India, and the International Finance Corporation’s Vietnam Improvement Program. At the end of 2019, 68 textile wet-processing factories and 37 Tier 1 assembly factories in priority watersheds where we work were covered by these two programs.
Recognizing the importance of access to water 
and sanitation in the communities we source from, we also work with Water.org to support communities in need in India, Bangladesh and Indonesia—impacting 1 million people to date—and have mobilized over $69 million in capital for microfinance loan disbursement.
Through our domestic operational water quality pillar, we’re improving our water use efficiency, building local partnerships with watershed managers to develop green infrastructure, and refining our salt-application practices at stores in snow states to reduce the amount of chloride entering local water bodies.Water Use in the Supply Chain
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage of SKUs of garment-washed owned-brand 
apparel utilizing water-saving design principles49% n/a n/a Target goal 
(2025:  100%)
 Denim 61% n/a n/aTarget goal (2025:  100%)
 Non-denim 42% 36% 14%Target goal (2025:  100%)
Water Use in Our Operations
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Water withdrawal GRI 
303-3
SASB 
CG-HP-140a.1 Total water withdrawn (ML) 10,986 11,107 11,572
 Percentage from municipal water utilities >99% >99% >99%
  Percentage of withdrawal in regions with high or extremely 
high baseline water stress50% 51% n/a
Change in water withdrawal at stores, distribution centers 
and HQ locations from 2010 baseline-14.5% -13.5% -9.9% Target goal 
(2025:  -15%)
Related Links
 2020  CDP Water Security Response 
 Human Rights Statement
 Water on our Website
See Also 
 CR Report: Supply Chain—Water
 CR Report: Properties—Water2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 72 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainEnvironmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Management Approach
 SASB CG-AA-430b.32   SASB FB-FR-430a.3   
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Target was the first major retailer to publish a 
list of Tier 1 factories and the first U.S. retailer to publish a list of our Tier 2 apparel wet-processing factories. As part of our efforts to improve transparency and visibility in our supply chain, we continue to engage and collaborate with external stakeholders and vendor partners.
We outline our standards for suppliers’ 
environmental practices in our Standards of Vendor Engagement. Suppliers must maintain legally required environmental permits and environmental management and monitoring systems that accurately track their impacts. Beyond these basic requirements, we also work with select suppliers directly and through collaborations to improve water and energy efficiency and wastewater management.
Our Responsible Sourcing strategy is grounded 
in our commitment to supply chain transparency and our embrace of opportunities to drive positive change. One way we do both is by sharing our supplier factory list and data with the Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs (IPE) Green Supply Chain Map.
 IPE’s Map provides real-time 
performance data and historical trend information related to air-pollution emissions and wastewater discharge for thousands of major Chinese manufacturing factories.Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Percentage of supplier factories that have completed the 
Higg FEM assessment SASB 
CG-AA-430a.2
 Tier 1 apparel factories 78% n/a n/a
  Tier 2 fabric mills, packaging factories and trim factories 48% n/a n/a
Percentage of audits with acceptable environmental results GRI 
308-2
 China 81% 71% 74%
 Southeast Asia 89% 90% 76%
 The Americas 99% 96% 89%
 India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 94% 88% 62%
 Other 85% 89% 87%
Average number of environmental issues per audit GRI 
308-2
 China 1.5 2.0 2.8
 Southeast Asia 1.7 1.4 1.4
 The Americas 1.0 0.8 0.5
 India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 2.0 2.6 2.6
 Other 1.6 1.3 1.4
Percentage of new suppliers screened using 
environmental criteria100% 100% 100% GRI 
308-1
We also support the Open Apparel Registry 
(OAR)—an open-source tool that maps garment factories worldwide. It creates a unique ID for each apparel or footwear factory to facilitate collaboration and data sharing. Quarterly, we publish lists of Tier 1 apparel and accessories factories and Tier 2 apparel factories that produce owned-brand products to the OAR platform. Related Links
 Global Factory List
 Vendor Code of Conduct
 Supply-Chain Sustainability on our Website
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Social Responsibility in the 
Supply Chain
 CR Report: Properties—Water2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Social Governance Indexes and Glossary 73 Environment 
Climate and Energy    Waste and Circular Economy    Chemicals    Material and Resource Use     
Water    Environmental Responsibility in the Supply ChainE S GESG
Social
At Target, people matter. Putting the needs of 
people and communities at the heart of how we work will help families find joy in everyday life and create a better tomorrow.
Our team members are the heart of the Target 
brand, so we continue to invest in them and in good jobs that allow them to thrive. We create opportunities to grow in their careers, enhance their health and well-being, help them take care of themselves and their families, and provide compensation and benefits that support financial security.
We are also committed to diversity and inclusion 
in our workforce and providing an environment where our talented team can truly be themselves. Inclusivity extends to the products, services and experiences we offer our guests: they must meet guests’ diverse needs, regardless of dimensions of difference, such as size, skin tone or ability.We know we can impact the human rights of our team members, guests and workers in the supply chain, as well as people in the communities in which we operate. We are committed to respecting human rights throughout our operations and aim to improve the livelihoods of workers throughout our global manufacturing supply chain.
As a good neighbor and global partner, we 
have always been deeply connected to the communities we are lucky enough to be a part of. By giving a portion of our profits and investing in initiatives in the places where we live and work, we create more sustainable communities for future generations of guests and team members. And when disaster strikes, we are ready to volunteer and help our communities rebuild. In This Section
75 Human Rights
76 Team Members
82 Supply Chain
86 Guests
90 Communities
Frameworks reported on:
 SASB   GRI 
Our work contributes to these SDGs
1 NO POVERTY
2 ZERO HUNGER3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING5 GENDER EQUALITY8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES17 PARTNERSHIPS AND GOALS2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 74 SocialHuman Rights
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
All team members have a shared responsibility 
to respect human rights, and we recognize that we can impact the human rights of our team members, guests and workers in the supply chain, as well as people in the communities in which we operate.
In line with the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the International Labour Organization’s fundamental Conventions, we are committed to respecting human rights and seeking to avoid adverse human rights impacts throughout our operations. We are continually working to do better, but if there are adverse impacts, our aim is to provide access to effective remedy. For more information, please see our Human Rights Statement.In early 2019, we completed a human rights impact assessment (HRIA) that helped identify salient human rights issues in our business and operations and guided the specific issues addressed in our Human Rights Statement. We are continuing to leverage the results of our HRIA to evolve our enterprise human rights work.
Our Vice President of Corporate Responsibility 
has executive oversight, but day-to-day implementation of our human rights commitments is led by numerous teams embedded throughout the company. 
For information about the role of Target’s Board 
of Directors and its committees in governing corporate responsibility efforts, see ESG Appendix p. 92. Oversight of certain aspects of human rights is part of that governance role. For example, the Risk & Compliance Committee has oversight over operating, business, compliance and ethics risks, including workplace conduct, and the Human Resources & Compensation Committee has oversight over compensation policies and practices, and organizational talent and development.Related Links
 Human Rights Stat ement
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Team Members
 ESG Appendix: Supply Chain
 ESG Appendix: Environmental Responsibility in 
the Supply  Chain
 CR Report: Responsible Products
 CR Report: Human Rights in Manufacturi ng
 CR Report: Eliminating Forced and 
Underaged  Labor
 CR Report: Worker Well-Being in the 
Supply  Chain2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 75 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesTeam Members
Our aspirations build on 
the central role our team 
members play in our strategy, 
their dedication to our purpose and the connection 
they create with our guests 
and communities.
In the best of times, our team brings incredible 
energy and empathy to our work, and in harder times they bring those qualities plus extraordinary resilience and agility to keep Target on the forefront of meeting the changing needs of our guests and our business.
We care about our team members and believe 
“taking care” means investing in the whole self, both at and outside of work. We are dedicated to enhancing the well-being of our team and their families, and we support team members with opportunities to learn as well as earn.
As 2020 has so often reminded us, it is important 
to acknowledge each of our team members as a whole person with many intersections between work and life, and we are here for our team members—as they are here for us.Employment 
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
The most important investments we make are in our team. These investments help ensure that team members can build meaningful careers, take care of themselves and their families, and contribute to building our communities through their work inside and outside of Target.
Target is proud to support our team members 
with market-competitive wages across our stores, distribution centers and headquarters offices. In 2017 we publicly committed to reach a minimum hourly wage of $15 per hour across our U.S. team by the end of 2020, and we fulfilled that commitment in July 2020.
Target strives to ensure that our team 
members benefit from equitable experiences and compensation. For example, we prohibit questions about prior salary when recruiting new team members, have removed questions related to criminal history in initial applications, and regularly conduct pay audits. We also give training and tools to hiring managers to help them reduce the risk of bias in their work and compensation decisions.
Our latest audit of the U.S. team confirmed that 
we pay our team members equitably, regardless of gender, race or ethnicity when relevant factors such as position, tenure and location are considered. We are committed to sustaining these results.
We have a pay-for-performance philosophy, and 
are committed to providing fair and competitive compensation so we can recruit and retain a high-performing, diverse and engaged team.All eligible team members participate in a formal performance review once a year. Additionally, all leaders received annual training on performance and pay processes to ensure a uniform approach in assessing, reviewing and rewarding talent.
We have also regularly asked our team members 
how we’re doing through both annual and more frequent surveys, and have recently established an internal dashboard to track perceptions in the employment marketplace.
A key component of Target’s ability to attract 
team members is our ability to offer a variety of schedules to meet the needs of our diverse population. Hourly team members establish the hours they are available to work, and Target builds schedules around their availability. Target posts store schedules at least 10 days in advance. We allow store team members to trade and pick up shifts at their store location, and we don’t do on-call scheduling at our stores. Team members are generally scheduled no more than 5 days a week unless they request extra hours, and we provide 10 hours between shifts. We offer flexibility to help accommodate team member commitments outside of work for family or childcare reasons, balancing a school schedule, or an emergency (e.g. taking every Monday off to care for a sick relative for a period of time). Where job duties allow, we offer job sharing or reduced or condensed work weeks to accommodate requests for more flexible working schedules.
We offer competitive benefits packages to our 
team members, whether they’re in part-time, full-time or salaried positions. Launched in 2019, Target’s new paid family leave policy provides four weeks of paid, job-protected leave for eligible part-time, full-time and salaried team members to welcome a new child to the family (on top of six to eight weeks for giving birth) or care for an immediate family member. Our affordable backup care benefit includes an industry-leading 20 days per dependent of in-center child care or in-home child or elder care, and our response to COVID-19 has included waiving copays and increasing the numbers of days available.
We also offer benefits to support team members’ 
mental and financial well-being, including education assistance, credit union membership, 401(k) options (with a 5% match), 24/7 access to trained mental health clinicians, merchandise discounts and the Team Member Giving Fund. The Team Member Giving Fund helps colleagues who are facing financial hardship after a natural disaster or unforeseen personal events. The fund was partially used to support team members affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Target’s employment practices do not involve 
the use of mandatory arbitration provisions that would limit an employee’s ability to seek relief for employment-related claims through a court action. 
Related Links
 Benefits on our Websit e
 Coronavirus Hub
See also 
 CR Report: Team 
 CR Report: Talent Recruitment and Retention 
 CR Report: Compensation and Benefits2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 76 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesEmployment
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of team members 368,000 360,000 345,000
Average hourly wage of store and distribution center team 
members (USD) 1 $14.48 n/a n/a SASB 
CG-MR-310a.1
Percentage of store and distribution center team members 
earning locally applicable minimum wage14% 2 n/a n/a SASB 
CG-MR-310a.1
Percentage of active workforce under collective bargaining agreements0% 0% 0%SASB 
FB-FR-310a.2
1 Av erage wage of all hourly team members as of FY19 year-end; excludes overtime and benefits; includes full- and part-time team members.
2 In l ocalities with $13 or higher minimum wage.Benefits
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of team members eligible for a 401(k) 228,375 221,565 222,705 GRI 
401-2
Number of team members participating in our 401(k) plan 115,384 111,729 104,587 GRI 
401-2
Number of team members receiving full employer match in 
a 401(k) 88,234 81,745 74,711 GRI 
401-2
Average team member percentage contribution to 401(k)s  
(for those who contribute, not including the 5% 
company match) 5.9% 5.7% 5.5% GRI 
401-2
Number of team members receiving tuition reimbursement 1,823 1,975 2,116 GRI 
401-2
Number of people using Team Member LifeResources 108,986 n/a n/a GRI 
401-2
Number of team members enrolled in Target Credit Union 19,616 19,333 17,257 GRI 
401-2
Amount saved by team members using our wellness 
discount (USD) $10.6 million $10.2 million $9.9 million GRI 
401-2
1 Average wage of all hourly team members as of FY19 year-end; excludes overtime and benefits; includes full- and part-time team members.
2 In localities with $13 or higher minimum wage.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 77 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesDiversity and Inclusion 
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Diversity and inclusion are key to our business 
strategy. To remain relevant to our guests, we must have their perspectives represented. Our dimensions of difference are one of our greatest strengths, and we are working to build an inclusive environment in which everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected and free to be themselves.
We track our progress as a company in three 
key areas:
• Representation: equitably recruiting, retaining and advancing a talented team that reflects the qualified applicant pools within the communities we serve
• Inclusive Experience: delivering an equitable experience for all team members and driving inclusive leadership and individual behavior
• Business: continuing to invest in diverse suppliers, assortments relevant to multicultural guests and marketing messages relevant to diverse audiences
We have a deep focus on bringing more women and underrepresented people into business areas such as technology and supply chain. Our Engineering Manager Immersion Program (eMIP), which provides on-the-job leadership training for groups typically underrepresented in the technology, data and engineering fields, is one such program.
To inspire the diverse workforce of the future, we 
created Target Lab, an immersive professional development experience offering meaningful interactions, speakers, workshops, activities, product showcases and networking while highlighting Target as a great place to work. We have also established relationships with Female 
59%Female 
53%
Male 
41%Male 
46%
W: 49% W: 61%U: 1% T: 3% T: 3%
B: 16%B: 12%L: 25% L: 20%A: 5% A: 4%NH: 1% NH: 1% AI: 1% AI: 1%
W White    B Black/African American    L Latinx    A Asian    NH Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander    
AI American Indian/Alaska Native    T Two or more    U Unknown    credible partners that further help us connect to 
diverse candidates.
Delivering an inclusive experience is everyone’s 
responsibility. Training in inclusion acumen—the practice of creating an inclusive environment—is delivered to the company through stand-alone courses and integrated modules.
Each business unit has its own diversity and 
inclusion goals, aligned to our overall and public-facing goals, which are supported by our Diversity Action Committees throughout the organization. Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) amplify diverse voices, including through hosting diverse supplier events and providing input on products and marketing.
Target has a comprehensive disability toolkit 
designed to assist HR partners and leaders to effectively ensure inclusion for team members with disabilities. In addition, we partner and collaborate with the National Organization on Disability and 
take part in their Disability Employment Tracker to benchmark our practices and policies.
Related Links
 Racial Equity Action and Change
 Human Rights Statement
 Code of Ethics
 Workforce Diversity Report
 Diversity & Inclusion on our Website
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Supplier Diversity
 ESG Appendix: Product Design
 ESG Appendix: Responsible Marketing 
 CR Report: Economic Opportunity
 CR Report: Design for All
 CR Report: Team
 CR Report: Diversity and Inclusion
 CR Report: Design Messaging Guests 
Can TrustWorkforce composition by gender (global)
Workforce composition by racial/ethnic group (U.S.)Non-managers Managers
Non-managers Managers2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 78 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesDiversity and Inclusion
Metric 2019 2018 2017 Scope F ramework
Percentage of women in our 
global workforceGlobal SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 Total workforce 58% n/a n/a
 Managers 53% 51% 52%
 Non-managers 59% n/a n/a
 Officers 40% n/a n/a
 Leadership team 42% 42% 36%
 Board of Directors 31% 31% 36%
Percentage of people of color in our 
U.S. workforceU.S. SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 U.S. workforce 49% 48% 47%
 Managers 39% 35% 33%
 Non-managers 51% n/a n/a
 Officers 28% n/a n/a
 Leadership team 25% 33% 36%
 Board of Directors 46% 46% 45%
Percentage American Indian/Alaska Native in U.S. workforceU.S.SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 U.S. workforce <1% n/a n/a
 Managers <1% n/a n/a
 Non-managers <1% n/a n/a
 Officers <1% n/a n/a
 Leadership team <1% n/a n/a
 Board of Directors <1% n/a n/a
Percentage Asian in U.S. workforce U.S. SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 U.S. workforce 5% n/a n/a
 Managers 4% n/a n/a
 Non-managers 5% n/a n/a
 Officers 10% n/a n/a
 Leadership team 8% n/a n/a
 Board of Directors <1% n/a n/aMetric 2019 2018 2017 Scope Framework
Percentage Black/African American in 
U.S. workforceU.S. SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 U.S. workforce 15% n/a n/a
 Managers 12% n/a n/a
 Non-managers 16% n/a n/a
 Officers 5% n/a n/a
 Leadership team 8% n/a n/a
 Board of Directors 15% n/a n/a
Percentage Hispanic/Latinx in 
U.S. workforceU.S. SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 U.S. workforce 25% n/a n/a
 Managers 20% n/a n/a
 Non-managers 25% n/a n/a
 Officers 11% n/a n/a
 Leadership team 8% n/a n/a
 Board of Directors 31% n/a n/a
Percentage Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander in U.S. workforceU.S.SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 U.S. workforce <1% n/a n/a
 Managers <1% n/a n/a
 Non-managers <1% n/a n/a
 Officers <1% n/a n/a
 Leadership team <1% n/a n/a
 Board of Directors <1% n/a n/a
Percentage multiracial in U.S. workforce U.S. SASB 
CG-MR-330a.1
GRI 
405-1 U.S. workforce 3% n/a n/a
 Managers 3% n/a n/a
 Non-managers 3% n/a n/a
 Officers 1% n/a n/a
 Leadership team <1% n/a n/a
 Board of Directors <1% n/a n/a2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 79 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesLearning and Development
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Learning and development is fundamental to 
Target’s continued strength. We are committed to building a learning culture that invests in moments that matter, builds critical skills and develops great leaders.
We invest in our team members’ careers at every 
stage and level. Beginning with onboarding, Target provides training that reinforces the importance of our purpose, values and guest-first mindset. We know how important it is for teams to grow their skills, so we invest in building critical skills in our guest-facing areas.
We aim to provide meaningful work experiences—
through rotational programs, job postings and talent-sharing opportunities—so our teams can learn different areas of the business. We also support continuing education, provide access to industry-leading, on-demand learning content and certifications, and offer benefits that help eligible team members pay for job-related courses at accredited tech schools, colleges and/or universities, as well as helping to pay costs associated with obtaining a General Educational Development (GED).Everyone at Target should work for a great leader. Through our leadership programs, more than 1,500 leaders in 2019 were able to build their capabilities in topics including self-development, developing culture, seeking feedback, change agility, collaboration, inclusion and team member development. Mentors, coaches, teams and peers also play a critical role in how we grow and learn.
We set goals and track metrics to indicate 
the success of our learning and development programs and use our team member surveys to understand sentiment on training, development and career growth. Where possible, we also use business metrics to understand our return on investment.
Career development resources include:
• A consistent approach to assessing, reviewing 
and rewarding talent through formal annual performance reviews, as well as ongoing development conversations throughout the year
• A commitment to posting all positions at Director level and below for HQ positions
• Experience-based learning through opportunities such as stretch assignments, business councils, leadership labs and volunteer events that highlight career options and opportunities for growth • To increase talent mobility at Target, we provide an internal talent marketplace for short-term assignments that allow team members to explore areas of interest. Additionally, enterprise rotational programs across HQ, stores, and distribution (piloted in 2019, with expansion planned for 2021) allow team members to experience different areas of the business and grow through meaningful work experiences.
• On-demand, curated learning resources that are delivered to the team via Workday Learning and the Skillsoft learning catalogLearning and Development
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Average hours of training per team member (including 
onboarding and compliance) (hours) 3 22 n/a n/a GRI 
404-1
Percentage of team members receiving training during the fiscal yearGRI 
404-2
  Excluding onboarding & compliance 65% n/a n/a
  Including onboarding & compliance  97% n/a n/a
Select training programs (hours) GRI 
404-2   Onboarding (Target Welcome) 1,688,352 1,248,000 18,673
 Diversity & inclusion 350,426 170,000 21,000
  Leadership development  74,148 n/a n/a
Percentage of eligible team members who received an annual 
performance review 4 100% 100% n/a GRI 
404-3
Number of team members receiving regular 
performance reviews4 311,000 277,000 n/a GRI 
404-3
 4 Al l team members are eligible for performance reviews except those on leave of absence for more than 305 days, those hired in Q4 and interns.
3 Av erage hours figure refers to our nonexempt (or hourly) guest-facing team members only.
4 Al l team members are eligible for performance reviews except those on leave of absence for more than 305 days, those hired in Q4 and interns.
3 Average hours figure refers to our nonexempt (or hourly) guest-facing team members only.
4 All team members are eligible for performance reviews except those on leave of absence for more than 305 days, those hired in Q4 and interns.• Tuition-reimbursement benefits that can be 
applied to job-related courses at accredited tech schools, colleges and/or universities, as well as to costs associated with obtaining a GED
See Also
 CR Report: Team
 CR Report: Learning and Development2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 80 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesWorkplace Health and Safety
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
At Target, we look out for each other and do our 
part to maintain a safe and secure environment. This requires each of us to commit to being a safety advocate and to follow laws, safety procedures and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards.
We have specific safety programs designed 
to eliminate or reduce hazards. These include administering a comprehensive and continuous occupational injury- and illness-prevention program for team members. Target’s goals are to prevent occupational incidents, injuries and illnesses, and to comply with safety and health standards.
We expect our team members to closely follow 
our health and safety programs and procedures. We require the use of personal protective equipment where applicable and the immediate reporting of incidents, injuries and near misses. We also encourage an environment where team members can talk openly to their leaders if they become aware of a safety hazard or unsafe behavior.Mental health has long been a focus area across our company. We continue to offer free, 24/7 access to trained mental health clinicians to all of our team members and everyone in their households. In recent years we’ve moved our focus from removing the stigma around mental health to rolling out new and innovative peer-support programs. In addition, leaders and HR partners in our stores and distribution centers have received suicide-prevention training. The well-being of our team members has also been our top priority during the coronavirus outbreak.
Related Links
 Code of Ethics
 Human Rights Statement
 Coronavirus Hub
 Benefits on our Websit e
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Employment 
 CR Report: Team
 CR Report: Workplace Health and Safety
 CR Report: Compensation and Benefits 
 CR Report: Our Response to COVID-192020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 81 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesSupply Chain
Target works with suppliers 
in 49 countries to source our 
owned and exclusive brands 
and national brands where we are importer of record. 
Accounting for about a third 
of our overall sales, our 50+ owned and exclusive brands 
span beauty and household 
essentials, food and beverage, home furnishings and décor, 
apparel and accessories, and 
hardlines categories. 
The health and livelihoods of workers and 
communities along our supply chain are essential to Target’s continued success.
We continually evaluate the mix of countries from 
which we source and adjust for many factors, including product quality, social responsibility, environmental sustainability, capacity, speed to market and pricing. We also intentionally invest in diversifying our roster of suppliers, both to foster a more equitable society and to better serve the diverse needs and expectations of our guests.
In the interest of supply chain transparency, Target 
publishes a list of all Tier 1 factories that produce our owned-brand products or national-brand products where Target is the importer of record, as well as Tier 2 apparel textile mills and wet-processing factories. This list is subject to change, and updates are provided on a quarterly basis on our website.Social Responsibility in the 
Supply  Chain
Management Approach
 SASB CG-AA-430b.3   SASB FB-FR-430a.3   
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
We are committed to respecting the rights of workers within our supply chain, especially at-risk groups including women, young workers and foreign contract workers.
 We take a risk-based 
approach to supply chain management, and we continually assess and address the risks that emerge and evolve over time.
We expect our suppliers to respect human 
rights and comply with Target’s Vendor Code of Conduct—including our Standards of Vendor Engagement (SOVE)—and applicable laws. 
Target’s  Responsible Sourcing Audit Program 
monitors worker safety and labor compliance in factories that produce Target’s owned and exclusive brands, as well as factories that produce nationally branded products for which Target is the importer of record.
The SOVE, which must be posted in all supplier 
factories in workers’ native languages, tells workers and others how to report misconduct or unethical behavior, and we expect suppliers to also maintain effective grievance mechanisms.
 In 
accordance with our commitment to anonymity, we do not share or publish specific grievances or specific issues raised.
We are committed to working with our supply 
chain partners and industry experts to help prevent, identify and swiftly eradicate forced labor in our global manufacturing supply chains. We recognize that eliminating forced labor requires preventative measures, sophisticated identification techniques and collaborative remediation. We have enhanced our processes and established key partnerships with experts such as the International Justice Mission, Verité, Center for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility, Impactt and GoodWeave.
Responsible recruitment is particularly important 
to foreign migrant workers. In 2017, we committed to the Employer Pays Principle, and since then have been working with our suppliers to embed responsible recruitment policies and practices within their operations. This work has helped to return significant sums to workers around the world through recruitment expense reimbursement. Target is a proud member of the Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment, an initiative of the Institute for Human Rights and Business, where we utilize our collective influence, voice and size to push for improved recruitment systems globally.
We audit compliance with our standards 
through factory vetting, on-site assessments, corrective action plan development, deployment and oversight, capability building and training. 
Our audit program applies to all facilities that 
produce owned- and exclusive-brand products, as well as national-brand products for which Target is the importer of record. When serious human rights violations are found, we work with third-party experts to develop, execute and oversee comprehensive remediation programs, and cooperation is required of our suppliers as a condition of ongoing business.Number of lives enhanced in the factories and 
surrounding communities where Target’s goods 
are produced 
2018:  435,000
2019:  2,201,6102020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 82 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesSocial Responsibility in the Supply Chain
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of registered manufacturing facilities 3,696 2,921 2,722 GRI 
102-9
 China 2,165 1,442 1,312
 Southeast Asia 322 236 206
 The Americas 970 1,020 993
 India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 159 149 142
 Other 80 74 69
Number of countries in which we have registered 
manufacturing facilities 49 49 49 GRI 
102-9
Number of audits and percentage that were unannounced 2,082
100%1,092
100%1,319
100%GRI 
412-1
414-2
Number of countries in which we conducted audits 29 26 28 GRI 
412-1
Percentage of audits with acceptable results by country/region GRI 
414-2
 China 47% 37% 56%
 Southeast Asia 44% 44% 53%
 The Americas 67% 69% 80%
 India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 47% 77% 85%
 Other 63% n/a n/a
Percentage of audits with non-compliant results GRI 
414-2
SASB 
CG-AA-430b.2 Due to repeat or excessive issues 2.5% 3.8% 3.2%
 Due to severe violations 1.0% 0.6% 1.2%
Average number of health and safety issues per audit GRI 
414-2
 China 3.8 5.2 3.7
 Southeast Asia 4.0 3.5 2.8
 The Americas 2.3 2.7 1.0
 India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 4.7 4.7 3.1
 Other 3.6* n/a n/a
Average number of wage issues per audit GRI 
414-2
 China 1.2 0.4 0.7
 Southeast Asia 0.6 0.3 0.5
 The Americas 0.1 0.0 0.0
 India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 0.4 0.3 0.3
 Other 0.3 n/a n/aMetric 2019 2018 2017 Framework
Average number of working hours and time-off issues per audit GRI 
414-2
 China 1.0 1.5 0.3
 Southeast Asia 0.8 0.7 0.4
 The Americas 0.3 0.3 0.2
 India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Egypt and T urkey 0.5 0.5 0.3
 Other 0.1 n/a n/a
Percentage of new suppliers screened using social criteria 100% 100% 100% GRI 
414-1
Number of lives enhanced in the factories and surrounding 
communities where Target's goods are produced 2,201,610 435,000 n/a  Target goal 
(2020: 3 million)
Target is included in the Fashion Transparency 
Index (FTI), a project of the nonprofit Fashion Revolution, which reviews and ranks 250 of the largest global fashion and apparel brands and retailers in governance and transparency practices. We scored 37%, which was an increase of one percentage point over 2019, and above the 23% average. Our largest category improvement was Traceability.
We also recognize that we can do more than 
protect human rights, and we have set out to enhance the lives of people in our supply chain communities. This effort has included providing vision screening and glasses in partnership with VisionSpring, water and sanitation in partnership with Water.org, and work with eight other close partners. As of May 2020, these projects had impacted the lives of more than three million people.Related Links
 Responsible Sourcing on our Website
 Human Rights Statement
 Vendor Code of Conduct, including Standards of Vendor Engagement (SOVE)
 Code of Ethics
 Conflict Minerals Policy and Report
See Also
 CR Report: Responsible Products
 CR Report: Human Rights in Manufacturing
 CR Report: Eliminating Forced and 
Underaged  Labor
 CR Report: Worker Well-Being in the 
Supply  Chain2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 83 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesAnother way we support our communities, 
including diverse entrepreneurs, is through Target Accelerators. When we combine the passion, vision and agility of entrepreneurs with our network, contacts and infrastructure, anything is possible. Our entrepreneurial accelerator programs provide stipends, mentoring and experiences for those looking to scale their business.
Related Links
 Target Accelerators
 Supplier Diversity
See Also
 CR Report: Diversity and Inclusion
 CR Report: Economic OpportunitySupplier Diversity 
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Working with diverse and underrepresented 
businesses enhances the shopping experiences we create for our guests. By investing in these suppliers, we demonstrate our commitment to building strong partnerships that ensure broader, more innovative assortments, economic development and quality of life for the communities we serve.
Our partnerships with diverse suppliers for both 
retail and non-retail needs build upon our ability to reduce disparity and champion societal impact. We actively cultivate an ecosystem of diverse suppliers through accelerators, mentoring, vendor fairs and other programs.
Target’s proud to work with an ever-growing 
roster of diverse suppliers that are at least 51% owned, controlled and operated by women; Black, Indigenous and People of Color; LGBTQ+; veterans or persons with disabilities.By helping to accelerate economic development everywhere we operate, we create jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities for an increasingly diverse and inclusive local supply chain. We believe the next generation of innovators, change-makers and leaders see the world differently and recognize alternative solutions in a way that can both grow business and strengthen society. To help us develop these supplier relationships, we partner with multiple national business groups, including:
• National Minority Supplier Development Council
• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council
• National LGBT Chamber of Commerce
• United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
• Disability:IN
• Mennonite Economic Development Associates 
• National Veteran-Owned Business Association
In addition to our Black-Owned Vendor Fair at our Minneapolis headquarters, in 2019 we launched a new on-site Supplier Diversity Summit, providing incentives for diverse businesses to become certified and offering opportunities that are unavailable to noncertified businesses. The summit brought together 10 companies from around the country for an in-depth learning experience, and we have already selected new brands for consideration for future campaigns.Amount of spending with diverse suppliers (USD)
First tier 
2017:  $1,042.7 million
2018:  $1,412.0 million
2019:  $1,073.0 million
Second tier
2017:  $705.9 million
2018:  $819.2 million
2019:  $893.1 million
First-tier spending dropped in 2019 due to acquisitions that 
resulted in some of our suppliers no longer qualifying as diverse 
owned and an overall reduction in Target’s vendor count. We 
continue to seek out new relationships with diverse suppliers.
Number of companies supported by Target 
Accelerators during the FY
2017:  27
2018:  25
2019:  442020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 84 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesDiverse and Local Suppliers 
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of diverse suppliers
 Total 442 536 667
 New 81 114 121
Amount of spending with diverse suppliers (USD)
 First tier $1,072,974,470 $1,411,955,735 $1,042,706,618
 Second tier $893,059,516 $819,227,453 $705,934,014
Change in Tier 1 spending with diverse suppliers year-over-
year -24% +35% +46%
Percentage of diverse supplier bid inclusion 46% 33% 30%
Percentage of the procurement budget spent on suppliers local to Minnesota and three counties in Western Wisconsin 
(Polk, St. Croix and Pierce) 5.0% 4.2% 4.5%GRI 
204-1Accelerators 
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of companies supported by Target Accelerators during the FY
 Target Takeoff 17 10 10
 Target Incubator 8 n/a n/a
 Target Technology Accelerator 9 9 10 
 Target Accelerator Program India 10 6 7
Number of products on shelves in Target stores from 
graduates of Target Takeoff (SKUs) 59 n/a n/a2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 85 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesGuests
Our aim is to offer guests 
outstanding value without 
compromising on quality or 
safety. We want all families to find products that reflect 
their needs and match 
their expectations. 
From the materials we choose to the recycling 
services we offer, we’re transforming the retail experience for guests and reimagining the impact our industry can make. As part of our focus on putting the guest at the center of everything we do, we have deployed training on creating an inclusive guest experience for our store team members.
Our passion is delivering products, services and 
experiences that are better for our guests and for the planet. We have introduced a series of enterprise-wide design principles to integrate circularity into every part of our business, from product innovation to packaging considerations and store design. By training our team members on these principles and the thought process behind them, we are making real progress in establishing a culture and mindset of zero-waste living and design thinking throughout our business and value chain.Product Design
Management Approach
 SASB FB-FR-260a.2   GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Good product design helps us meet evolving guest priorities as well as the needs of underserved guests—both today and in the future.
Our inclusive products are driven by our belief that 
our guests should see their needs reflected in our offerings. For example, we cater to a wide variety of skin tones and hair types, with beauty products focused on diverse guests’ needs. Our focus on inclusivity extends from the products we carry to the marketing we create. Target’s Inclusive Merchandising Committee and Inclusive Marketing Council aim to ensure that the products sold by Target and the ways we market them are inclusive and representative of our guests and team.
We developed extended sizing for our All in 
Motion sportswear line and extended this to 
outerwear in fall 2020. We are also researching further adaptive clothing opportunities, with the aim of producing more clothing designed for more people. We have also introduced a range of wellness icons to help guide guests in their decision-making. The icons indicate whether products are appropriate for certain diets, contain certain chemicals or are better for the environment than alternatives.
Target products must also reflect the urgent need 
to reduce our collective environmental footprints, which is why we are designing for a circular future.Our aspiration to develop a comprehensive circular strategy builds on extensive work Target has undertaken to address the environmental impacts of our business, including our efforts to reduce waste and establish a zero-waste mindset.
We work across our portfolio to improve the 
environmental impacts of the products we sell. While our focus is on our owned brands, since this is where we have the greatest influence, we also address these issues in our choice of national brands wherever possible. One way we do this is via our commitment to purposeful brands. We are working with suppliers and other stakeholders to integrate circular design into our business—from product innovation to packaging considerations and store design.
See Also
 CR Report: Economic Opportunity
 CR Report: Responsible Products
 CR Report: Design for All
 CR Report: Design for Environmental Impact
 ESG Appendix: Chemicals
 ESG Appendix: Waste and Circular EconomyIn 2019, Target launched Target Plus, 
a curated assortment of products from third-party sellers on Target.com. Taking a different approach from many competitors, we’re opening the platform to a targeted list of vendors because we want to make sure our guests can trust Target and the reliability of the products we’re offering. All sellers are vetted through our vendor risk management process and acknowledge our Standards of Vendor Engagement (SOVE).2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 86 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesProduct Quality and Safety
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
We strive to offer our guests outstanding value 
through high-quality products. We want all families to find products that reflect their needs and values. Product quality and safety are primarily overseen by two teams: the Product Safety and Quality Assurance (PSQA) team manages non-food quality and safety, while the Food and Essentials Safety and Quality Assurance (FESQA) team oversees food and essentials.
Target’s PSQA team protects our guests by 
ensuring that our products meet mandatory safety standards, and we frequently require Target-brand vendors to exceed regulatory requirements. We expect our vendors to comply with good manufacturing and quality processes. Our product safety and quality program is incorporated at every stage of the product life cycle of our owned-brand products. A Target-brand product must pass all testing before it is approved for shipment.Target’s FESQA team protects our guests by 
delivering high-quality and compliant food and essentials products. All factories that produce Target-brand food are accountable to regulatory requirements and Target food safety and quality standards, such as:
• Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification, which we have required since 2009
• Preventative Food Safety Plan
• Environmental Monitoring Program for Pathogen Control
• Allergen Management Program
• Product traceability
We monitor the safety and quality of our food products through holistic food safety and quality 
management—from auditing vendor factories and fields to inspecting our distribution centers and stores. We align with local regulatory requirements for food manager certification in stores. We train on hazard analysis and critical control points in our distribution centers as well as across our headquarters team. We also provide vendor and new team member onboarding.
Beyond regulatory compliance and safety, we 
also have a dedicated Quality, Standards and Development team focusing on the quality and consistency of our food products. We take exceptional care with the taste, texture, ingredients and other elements of our food brands, from setting brand standards and finished product specifications to monitoring results.If we learn about a problem with a product, we investigate and—when necessary—quickly remove it from our stores and Target.com. If a product is recalled, we prevent further sales by issuing a lock on the item number, notify guests who purchased a recalled item on Target.com or used a REDcard in stores, and provide recall information on Target.com, Target’s Facebook application and in-store.
Target—and select individual team members—are 
active members of the Retail Industry Leaders Association, the National Retail Federation, The Toy Association and other product-specific groups for non-food products. We are also members of the Center for Produce Safety, the National Environmental Health Association, FMI, Consumer Brands Association and the International Association for Food Protection.Related Links
 Product Recalls
 Vendor Code of Conduct
 Product Safety on our Website
 Food Safety on our Website
See Also
 CR Report: ChemicalsProduct Quality and Safety
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of vendor factories (countries) producing Target-
brand foods 821 (23) n/a n/a
Number of factories (countries) producing Target-brand non-food products 1,990 (35) n/a n/a
Number of factory evaluations Target conducted
 Food 1,662 n/a n/a 
 Non-food 1,649 n/a n/a
Number of product test reports for Target-brand products 
conducted by independent third-party labs 32,633 n/a n/a
Number of product inspections of Target-brand products 
conducted by Target team members and independent 
third parties 43,899 n/a n/a2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 87 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesData Security
Management Approach
 SASB CG-MR-230a.1   GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Personal information must be used appropriately 
and protected. We take care to protect information regarding our guests, team members and business partners.
The Information Security program is based 
on industry security standards and control frameworks, which we validate through internal and external assessments. The team continually tests our controls through penetration testing, vulnerability scanning and attack simulations. We have a dedicated Cyber Threat Intelligence team to keep pace with evolving security threats, and we leverage industry-leading security tools and our advanced in-house engineering capability to build innovative solutions to protect Target. 
Our people are what sets us apart, which is 
why we invest heavily in building cybersecurity talent in-house rather than relying on third-party providers for critical capabilities. Our Information Security team regularly recruits cybersecurity experts, and we support continual learning through bootcamps and trainings. As part of the Information Security team’s investment in development we manage programs such as our Cyber Plus Institute, which allows team members to sign up for and participate in courses—similar to a university, but with the convenience of in-house training. Our team sets a goal of having every team member spend 
50 days each  year 
building skills and exploring new ideas and tools. We are looking to the future, putting resources in place to help build the cybersecurity talent pipeline. As part of this, our team has worked closely with the University of Minnesota on a unique multi-year collaboration to inspire the next generation of cybersecurity leaders. Its goal is to offer hands-on information security experiences, student scholarships and opportunities for students to network with our cybersecurity experts. Our Information Security team also benefits from Target’s Engineering Manager Immersion Program (eMIP), an initiative that supports women in leadership roles in technology, as well as working with the Executive Women’s Forum and Women in CyberSecurity .
Everyone—at every level of Target—has a responsibility to protect our non-public information by following our Acceptable Use of Information Resources Policy. Our Information Security team is responsible for identifying and managing security risks and for elevating them to our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) when necessary. 
For information about the role of Target’s Board 
of Directors and its committees in governing corporate responsibility efforts, see ESG Appendix p. 92. In addition, the Board has oversight of our information security, cybersecurity and data privacy risks within Target’s overall risks. The Risk & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors has been delegated with primary oversight responsibility for information security, cybersecurity and data privacy risks and the Audit & Finance Committee of the Board of Directors oversees internal controls designed to mitigate these risks. Management provides regular updates to the Board and/or Committees of the Board on these risks throughout the year and, at least annually, the CISO provides an information security program review to the Risk & Compliance Committee to inform the Committee in its oversight of these risks.
All team members are responsible for complying 
with our privacy and information security programs. Team members complete mandatory information security and awareness training to understand the behaviors and technical requirements necessary to safeguard information resources at Target. Additionally, we offer ongoing practice and education for team members to recognize and report suspicious activity to our security team. To further engage our team members, we’ve dedicated October to National Cybersecurity Awareness Month with a variety of in-person events and immersive learning opportunities.
Target has been discussing and helping to 
address risks, benchmarking and collaborating among companies in retail and across other industries—including as a founding member of the Retail & Hospitality Information Sharing and Analysis Center (ISAC) and the first retailer in the Financial Services ISAC—and sharing best practices from our Cyber Fusion Center .We are also a founding member of the Twin Cities Cybersecurity Collaboration (TC3), a self-governed partnership between leading cybersecurity programs that work together to share best practices, mentor within organizations, and invest in local trainings and conferences.
We work hard to track industry trends in order 
to protect our guests’ and team members’ information. In addition, we maintain insurance coverage to limit our exposure to certain events, including network security matters.
Related Links
 Security at Target
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Data Privacy2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 88 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesData Privacy
Management Approach
 SASB CG-MR-230a.1   SASB CG-EC-220a.2   
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
Personal information must be collected, shared 
and used appropriately and according to Target policies and legal requirements.
We conduct external benchmarking from retail 
and other industries to understand best practices and industry trends in the privacy space. We are also active participants and contributors to the Retail Industry Leaders Association’s Privacy Leaders Council and the National Retail Federation’s Privacy Working Group.
Everyone at Target who works with personal 
information has a responsibility to understand and honor our privacy obligations. They must read and comply with our internal Privacy Compliance Policy and actively work with our Privacy Compliance team to design processes and procedures in accordance with those requirements. Team members must complete mandatory training to understand the requirements necessary to properly collect, use or share personal information.
Our dedicated Privacy Compliance team works 
with our business to design privacy controls into our operations. We invest in our team members and support continual learning and professional certification, including the Certified Information Privacy Professional designation. In addition, team members receive mandatory training on privacy, and more role-specific training when they have access to personal information.Our Privacy Compliance team is responsible for identifying and managing privacy risks and elevating them to our Executive Vice President and Chief Legal & Risk Officer.
For information about the role of Target’s Board 
of Directors and its committees in governing corporate responsibility efforts, see ESG Appendix 
p. 92. In addition, the Board has oversight of our information security, cybersecurity and data privacy risks within Target’s overall risks. The Risk & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors has been delegated with primary oversight responsibility for information security, cybersecurity and data privacy risks, and the Audit & Finance Committee of the Board of Directors oversees internal controls designed to mitigate these risks. Management provides regular updates to the Board and/or Committees of the Board on these risks throughout the year and, at least annually, the CISO provides an information security program review to the Risk & Compliance Committee to inform the Committee in its oversight of these risks.
Related Links
 Privacy Policy
 Code of Ethics
 Security at Target
See Also
 ESG Appendix: Data SecurityResponsible Marketing
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
We are committed to promotions, advertising 
and guest communications that provide accurate information and follow the law.
In 2019, we established our Inclusive Marketing 
Council. This council is responsible for helping teams across the enterprise make decisions on product design and assortment selection, and working with teams to understand how their products fit with our brand beliefs and our guests’ needs. It does this through establishing a set of guidelines which apply to all assortment choices. When there are questions or potential violations of these guidelines, the Inclusive Marketing Council is consulted.
See Also
 CR Report: Responsible Products
 CR Report: Design for All
 CR Report: Design for Environmental Impact2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 89 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesCommunities
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
We support our communities through how we 
act as a business, team member engagement, corporate giving and the Target Foundation.
We focus our investments on transformational 
and catalytic programs and partners that are helping to reshape economic and social systems, helping to create the conditions that empower systemic change.
We always aim to respond to and evolve with 
emergent issues in society. In 2020, that means facing COVID-19 alongside our communities and doubling down on our commitment to advance social justice and racial equity, building on our commitment to invest in underserved and under-represented communities.The Target Foundation
The Target Foundation is a wholly independent entity and plays a distinct role as one of Target’s many philanthropic assets. The Foundation’s capabilities allow it to work toward long-term solutions across an ecosystem of complex and interconnected economic issues.
In fall 2019, the Foundation announced an 
evolution to focus on long-term systems change, with our approach grounded in the voices of and led by BIPOC communities and organizations. In addition, we expanded and evolved our footprint and focus areas:
• Hometown: advancing racial equity and shared prosperity in the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul
• National: equitably advancing financial security and economic opportunity for marginalized individuals in a rapidly changing economy
• Global: improving economic opportunities for families in emerging economies to sustain themselves and their communities in the long termCorporate and Local Philanthropy
Our corporate giving leverages a range of financial and in-kind resources across support for disaster and hunger relief, store community grant programs, local efforts to expand access to economic opportunity and resilience, and our backing of national initiatives to provide access to youth soccer for underserved communities.
Target Circle is Target’s new loyalty program, 
launched in October 2019. Guests earn votes with purchases, which allow them to direct funding to nonprofits across the country. April 2020’s guest-directed giving cycle included two COVID-19-specific nonprofit funds: the Center for Disaster Philanthropy and the UN Foundation’s COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund.
 We have also added 
the National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC) to our list of organizations, as Target reaffirmed our commitment to advancing social justice and racial equity.
Our team members directly support our 
communities in various ways, including lending their skills to a variety of nonprofits. This includes supporting Feeding America with funding for their network of over 200 food banks. We also support their local food banks directly—we helped design the new volunteer center at Second Harvest Heartland in Minnesota, for example. In addition, we invested over $1 million throughout 2019, providing disaster support for various communities.We also empower team members to extend a helping hand to each other. The Target Team Member Giving Fund was created to help colleagues who are facing financial hardship after a natural disaster or unforeseen personal events. The fund relies primarily on individual donations from team members and support from Target. Team members across the country can apply for up to a $2,000 grant to help in times of hardship.
 During 2019, $1.2 million was given by 
team members.
Beyond giving, we also have a unique 
opportunity to support local small businesses 
and entrepreneurs. To build up local economies 
and businesses, we are working to understand 
the kind of support these businesses currently 
receive and where there are gaps and barriers 
for entrepreneurs.
Related Links
 Target Foundation
 Philanthropy on our Website
See Also
 CR Report: Communities2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 90 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesVolunteerism and Philanthropy
Metric 2019 2018 2017 F ramework
Number of hours volunteered 1,064,215 1,089,814 1,096,730 Target goal 
(annual:  1 million) 
Amount donated through Target and Target 
Foundation (USD)$225 million $204 million $217 million
 Cash $68 million $64 million $105 million
 In kind $157 million $140 million $113 million
Amount donated through Target and Target 
Foundation (USD) to:5
  Organizations that support 
underrepresented communities in the 
U.S. $105 million $99 million $108 million
  Local community programs 
and organizations $199 million $186 million $195 million
  Disaster preparedness and response $1.3 million $2.9 million $3.3 million
Amount of food donated
 By weight (pounds) 104.9 million 89.2 million 76.9 million
  By number of meals 87.4 million 74.3 million 64.0 million 
Guest-directed giving through Target Circle
 Number of guests engaged  2.3 million n/a n/a
  Number of grants distribut ed 972 grants n/a n/a
  Amount of grants distribut ed (USD) $2.4 million
Number of new soccer play spaces built since 2018 65 29 n/a Target goal 
(2020: 100)
Team member giving
  Percentage of team members 
participating in the Team Member Giving Campaign94% 93% 94%
  Amount donated t o organizations our 
team members support (USD) $10.4 million $11.6 million $12.5 millionCash and in-kind giving through Target and Target 
Foundation (USD)
2017:  $217 million
2018:  $204 million
2019:  $225 million
Number of hours volunteered
2017:  1,096,7302018:  1,089,814
2019:  1,064,215
5 Programs may be reported in multiple categories2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Governance Indexes and Glossary 91 Social 
Human Rights    Team Members    Supply Chain    Guests    CommunitiesE S GESG
Governance
Target’s Board of Directors retains oversight 
responsibility over Target’s overall risks, with an emphasis on strategic risks. The Governance Committee of the Board of Directors is delegated with primary oversight responsibility for corporate responsibility matters and alignment of such efforts with our overall strategy. The full Board of Directors and other committees of the Board also have oversight roles over certain aspects of corporate responsibility. For example:
• The Risk & Compliance Committee has oversight over operating, business, and compliance and ethics risks, including information security, cybersecurity, data privacy and workplace conduct• The Audit & Finance Committee oversees internal controls designed to mitigate information security, cybersecurity and data privacy risks
• The Human Resources & Compensation Committee has oversight over compensation policies and practices, and organizational talent and development 
The Vice President of Corporate Responsibility (CR) and the CR team work with functional leaders across the company to determine sustainability strategies, policies and goals related to corporate responsibility, and regularly report to and seek input from the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors on those matters, including the review of the annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
For more information on Target’s Corporate 
Governance, please see our Corporate Governance website and 2020 Proxy Statement.In This Section
93 Ethics
94 Government Advocacy
Frameworks reported on:
 GRI 
Our work contributes to these SDGs
16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS
17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Indexes and Glossary 92 GovernanceEthics
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
As a purpose-driven company, we know how 
important it is to draw on our shared values and behaviors to bring our purpose to life. In our daily work, we’re building connections with the people and communities we serve. Every good decision strengthens those bonds and helps create a brand we can be proud of every day.
Our Code of Ethics (“the Code”) establishes 
expectations to consistently guide ethical decision-making by our team members, while our Vendor Code of Conduct communicates our expectations of ethical behavior by our vendor partners.
Target team members are expected to follow 
applicable laws and Target’s Code and policies, which address areas such as diversity and inclusion, privacy and data security, and conducting business fairly. Team members are required to hold themselves and each other accountable to the Code and report any actual or suspected violations. Every report received is investigated promptly and fairly. 
Our board members have a separate Code 
of Ethics, contained within our Corporate Governance Guidelines, tailored to their unique role. New members also participate in an orientation program that includes corporate responsibility priorities.Ethics & Compliance Training
Target provides team members guidance on ethics and the compliance responsibilities relevant to their role. Delivered at new hire onboarding and annually, our mandatory ethics and compliance trainings are one of the ways we reinforce expectations for every team member.
In 2019, for the first time, we delivered the ethics 
training to all team members, including nonexempt team members in stores and distribution centers. The training launch coincided with other ethics-awareness activities and the launch of the Code of Ethics, which replaced the Business Conduct Guide.
Beyond core ethics, our approximately 180 
compliance trainings cover a wide range of key obligations and behaviors, including anti-bribery, government interactions, anti-competitive behavior, environment, food safety and privacy. We also train on employment compliance topics including wage and hour, discrimination and harassment, and health and safety. Training is tailored to Target’s specific operations and team functions. For instance, team members who interact with government officials receive additional training to reinforce our anti-bribery policies and practices.Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Target is committed to conducting business ethically. We neither rely upon nor tolerate unethical or illegal business practices. Our Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery Policy provide 
anti-corruption guidance to our teams that we 
expect all team members to understand and follow. We comply with regulations including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery laws.
We similarly prohibit vendors, suppliers, third-
party sellers, manufacturers, contractors, subcontractors and their agents from offering, promising or providing anything of value directly or indirectly to a government official for the purpose of exerting improper influence or to obtain or retain an improper benefit or advantage.Anti-Competitive Behavior
Acting ethically is core to our culture, and we believe competition and antitrust laws promote free and fair competition between companies. By complying with these laws, we contribute to a thriving marketplace and compete for business based on the quality of our products and services. 
Our Antitrust Policy requires our team members 
to comply with competition and antitrust laws and prohibits team members from making agreements with competitors that restrain competition.
Related Links
 Code of Ethics
 Vendor Code of Conduct
 Corporate Governance Guidelines2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Indexes and Glossary 93 Governance 
Ethics    Government Advocacy Government Advocacy
Management Approach
 GRI 103-1   GRI 103-2   GRI 103-3 
We believe it is important to discuss with 
government officials public policy that may impact our business operations, team members, industry and communities. We adhere to applicable laws that govern our interactions with public officials and to our own company policies and disclosure practices.
We work with elected officials of both political 
parties to help shape constructive public policy solutions that benefit our business, team, guests and the communities we serve.
Target may provide financial support to political 
candidates, political parties or ballot initiatives through two separate channels: the TargetCitizens PAC (funded through voluntary contributions from eligible team members) and general corporate funds, where permitted by law.
Our financial support of political activities is 
provided in a bipartisan manner based strictly on issues that directly impact our business priorities. A subset of the Executive Leadership team is responsible for those making decisions and reports to the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors at least twice per year.We play a constructive role in informing policymakers about many legislative issues. Recent issues on which we have shared expertise and engaged in lobbying activities include taxes, trade, product safety, sustainability, data security, health care, and employment and labor issues. We advocate directly and through our memberships in trade associations and other policy-based organizations.
Given the diversity of interests, viewpoints 
and broad membership represented by trade associations and other policy-based organizations, the positions they take do not always reflect Target’s views. Our financial support of such organizations is limited to educational, lobbying and association management activities, and we expressly require that our financial contributions not be used for making campaign contributions to candidates or for influencing the outcome of specific elections or ballot initiatives.
Reports on our political contributions, lobbying 
and memberships of associations are published on our corporate website.
Related Links
 Corporate Political Contributions
 Lobbying Reports
 Trade Association and Policy-Based 
Organization Support
 Code of Ethics
 Civic Activity on our Website2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Indexes and Glossary 94 Governance 
Ethics    Government Advocacy SASB Index
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent standards-setting organization that promotes disclosure of material sustainability information to meet investor needs. The table below 
references select indicators from the SASB standards for the Multiline and Specialty Retailers & Distributors; Food Retailers & Distributors; Apparel, Accessories & Footwear; Household & Personal Products; and E-commerce industries. Given our unique business model—and in line with our ongoing commitment to transparency—we have chosen to go beyond the Multiline Retail SASB Standards.
This index references Target’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) and Target’s 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Appendix (ESGA).
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.Topic SASB Accounting Metric C ategory Code Target 2019 Data Reference
SASB Multiline and Specialty Retailers & Distributors Standard
Energy Management in Retail 
& Distribution(1) Total energy consumed, 
(2) Percentage grid electricity, 
(3) Percentage renewableQuantitative CG-MR-130a.1 (1) 20,040,246 GJ* 
(2) 65.3%* 
(3) 7.4%* ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Data Security Description of approach to identifying and addressing data 
security risksDiscussion & Analysis CG-MR-230a.1 ESGA: Data Security p. 88
ESGA: Data Privacy p. 89
Labor Practices (1) Average hourly wage of store & DC employees 
(excluding overtime), 
(2) Percentage of in-store & DC employees earning minimum wage 
by regionQuantitative CG-MR-310a.1 (1) $14.48 per hour (average wage of all hourly team members as of FY19 year-end; excludes 
overtime and benefits; includes full- and part-time 
team members) 
(2) 13.9% (in localities with $13 or higher minimum 
wage) Target raised its minimum wage to $13 
per hour in June 2019 and to $15 per hour in July 2020.ESGA: Employment p. 76
Workforce Diversity & Inclusion (1) Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for management, 
(2) Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for all 
other employeesQuantitative CG-MR-330a.1 (1) Management: 53% female in global workforce. 39% racially diverse in U.S. workforce (20% 
Hispanic/Latinx, 12% Black/African American, 
4% Asian, 2% Multiracial, <1% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, <1% American Indian/
Alaska Native)
(2) Non-management: 59% female in global 
workforce. 50% racially diverse in U.S. workforce 
(25% Hispanic/Latinx, 16% Black/African 
American, 5% Asian, 3% Multiracial, <1% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, <1% American Indian/
Alaska Native)ESGA: Diversity and Inclusion p. 78
Workforce Diversity Report
Product Sourcing, Packaging 
& MarketingDiscussion of processes to assess and manage risks and/or hazards 
associated with chemicals in productsDiscussion & Analysis CG-MR-410a.2 ESGA: Chemicals p. 69
CRR: Properties—Chemicals p. 49
Target chemicals webpage
Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact 
of packagingDiscussion & Analysis CG-MR-410a.3 ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
CRR: Materials p. 20CRR: Design for Circularity p. 53
Activity metrics Number of (1) retail locations and (2) distribution centers Quantitative CG-MR-000.A (1) 1,868 stores (2) 42 distribution centers
2019 10-K: Item 2. Properties
Total area of (1) retail space and (2) distribution centers Quantitative CG-MR-000.B (1) 240.5 million sq. ft. (22.3 million m2) of 
retail space
(2) 53.2 million sq. ft. (4.9 million m2)2019 10-K: It em 2. Properties2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 95 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index Topic SASB Accounting Metric Cat egory Code Target 2019 Data Reference
SASB Food Retailers & Distributors Standard
Air Emissions from Refrigeration Gross global Scope 1 emissions from refrigerants Quantitative FB-FR-110b.1 468,470 mtCO 2e ESGA: GRI 305-1 p. 108
Average refrigerant emissions rate Quantitative FB-FR-110b.3 15.4% corporate emissions rate for EPA-
applicable refrigeration systems > 50 lbsESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Food Waste Management Amount of food waste generated, percentage diverted from the waste streamQuantitative FB-FR-150a.1 Target donated 104.9 million pounds of food (47,582 metric tonnes), the equivalent of 
87.4 million meals. We composted 5,345 tons 
(4,849  metric tonnes) of food waste.ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Product Health & Nutrition Discussion of the process to identify and manage products and ingredients related to nutritional and health concerns among consumers Discussion & Analysis FB-FR-260a.2
ESGA: Product Design p. 86
CRR: Design for Environmental Impact p. 57Good & Gather FAQs (brand & ingredient standards)
Target Wellness Icons
Labor Practices Percentage of active workforce covered under collective 
bargaining agreements Quantitative FB-FR-310a.2 None of our active workforce is covered under collective bargaining agreements.
Management of Environmental & Social Impacts in the Supply ChainPercentage of revenue from (1) eggs that originated from a cage-free environment and (2) pork produced without the use of gestation cratesQuantitative FB-FR-430a.2 (1) 51% of revenue from shell eggs came from hens that were cage-free
(2) We continue working to eliminate gestation 
crates from our pork supply chain.ESGA: Animal Welfare p. 71
Management of Environmental & Social Impacts in the Supply ChainDiscussion of strategy to manage environmental and social risks within the supply chain, including animal welfareDiscussion & Analysis FB-FR-430a.3
ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73CRR: Sourcing With Purpose p. 18 Responsible sourcing webpage
SASB Apparel, Accessories & Footwear Standard
Management of Chemicals 
in ProductsDiscussion of processes to maintain compliance with restricted substances regulationsDiscussion & Analysis CG-AA-250a.1
ESGA: Chemicals p. 69
CRR: Properties—Chemicals p. 49Target chemicals webpage
Environmental Impacts in the 
Supply ChainPercentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 in compliance with wastewater discharge permits and/or contractual agreementQuantitative CG-AA-430a.1 Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement require all factories producing Target-brand products to meet local permit requirements. Target is helping 
owned-brand textile suppliers—typically in Tier  2—
to go beyond permit requirements to meet Target’s Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) commitments, particularly regarding wastewater parameters. We began implementing this with strategic apparel suppliers in October 2019 and are looking to scale up to broader apparel and accessories during 2020.ESGA: Water p. 72
ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73
Environmental Impacts in the 
Supply ChainPercentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 that have completed the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Facility Environmental Module (Higg FEM) assessment or an equivalent environmental data assessmentQuantitative CG-AA-430a.2 (1) 78% of Tier 1 apparel factories
(2) 48% of Tier 2 fabric mills, packaging factories, 
and trim factoriesESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 732020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 96 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index Topic SASB Accounting Metric Cat egory Code Target 2019 Data Reference
Labor Conditions in the 
Supply ChainPercentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 that have been audited to a labor code of conduct, (3) percentage of total audits conducted by a third-party auditorQuantitative CG-AA-430b.1 Target conducted 2,082 unannounced audits. ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Labor Conditions in the Supply ChainPriority non-conformance rate and associated corrective action rate for suppliers’ labor code of conduct auditsQuantitative CG-AA-430b.2 2.5% of audits yielded noncompliant results for excessive or repeated issues and 1.0% yielded noncompliant results for severe violations. 
Target will only allow a vendor to use a previously 
noncompliant factory once the deactivation period has expired and provided the vendor can then satisfactorily demonstrate compliance with Target’s Standards of Vendor Engagement and applicable laws. The formal reinstatement process involves a review of the corrective actions undertaken and a re-audit to validate the issues have been satisfactorily remediated. Social Compliance Audit Process
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Labor Conditions in the Supply ChainDescription of the greatest (1) labor and (2) environmental, health, and safety risks in the supply chainDiscussion & Analysis CG-AA-430b.3
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73CRR: Sourcing With Purpose p. 18 Responsible sourcing webpage
Raw Materials Sourcing Description of environmental and social risks associated with 
sourcing priority raw materialsDiscussion & Analysis CG-AA-440a.1 ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
CRR: Sourcing With Purpose p. 18
Percentage of raw materials third-party certified to an environmental 
and/or social sustainability standard, by standardQuantitative CG-AA-440a.2 Palm oil: 100% of owned brand, specific categories only, is RSPO certified: 1% Segregated, 45% Mass Balance, 54% Book and Claim 
Coffee: 28.6% of Archer Farms and Good & 
Gather coffee SKUs (bags and pods) certified by Fair Trade USA  
Cotton: 79,776 metric tonnes Better Cotton 
Initiative and 3,600 metric tonnes U.S. LEADS in owned-brand products
Wood & pulp: 51% of owned-brand paper-based 
packaging (by weight) sourced from mostly 
FSC-certified—and some PEFC- and SFI-
certified—forestsESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
CRR: Responsible Sourcing & Sustainability p. 20Sustainability Certifications
Activity Metric Number of (1) Tier 1 suppliers and (2) suppliers beyond Tier 1 Quantitative CG-AA-000.A
Global Factory List
SASB E-Commerce Standard
Data Privacy & 
Advertising StandardsDescription of policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacyDiscussion & Analysis CG-EC-220a.2
Privacy Policy
ESGA: Data Security p. 88
CRR: Design Messaging Guests Can Trust p. 60 
Activity Metric Entity-defined measure of user activity Quantitative CG-EC-000.A 8.8% of sales digitally originated 2019 10-K: Item 7. Analysis of Results of Operations2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 97 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index Topic SASB Accounting Metric Cat egory Code Target 2019 Data Reference
SASB Household & Personal Products Standard
Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of 
each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressQuantitative CG-HP-140a.1 (1) Withdrew 10,986 ML of water (>99% from municipal water utilities), of which 50% (5,547 ML) was from areas with WRI baseline water-stress characterizations of high or extremely highESGA: Water p. 72
CRR: Properties—Water p. 47
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies 
and practices to mitigate those risksDiscussion & Analysis CG-HP-140a.2
ESGA: Water p. 72
CRR: Properties—Water p. 47 Target water webpage
Product Environmental, Health, 
and Safety PerformanceDiscussion of process to identify and manage emerging materials and chemicals of concernDiscussion & Analysis CG-HP-250a.3 ESGA: Chemicals p. 69
CRR: Properties—Chemicals p. 49
Packaging Lifecycle Management (1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from recycled 
and/or renewable materials, and (3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostableQuantitative CG-HP-410a.1 51% of owned-brand paper-based retail packaging was sourced from sustainably managed forests.
Our plastic bags contain a minimum of 40% 
recycled content.ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Environmental & Social Impacts of 
Palm Oil Supply ChainAmount of palm oil sourced, percentage certified through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains as (a) Identity Preserved, (b) Segregated, (c) Mass Balance, or (d) Book 
& ClaimQuantitative CG-HP-430a.1 4,526 metric tonnes of palm oil was consumed in Target’s owned-brand food, household cleaning, personal care, baby care, beauty, cosmetics and candle products, of which 100% was RSPO certified (0% Identity Preserved, 1% Segregated, 45% Mass Balance, 54% Book and Claim). We are currently able to trace 79% to the importer.ESGA: Palm Oil p. 70
Activity Metric Number of manufacturing facilities Quantitative CG-HP-000.B There are 3,696 registered manufacturing facilities in 49 countries across all categories of owned brands and where Target is importer of record.
There are 821 facilities in 23 countries producing 
Target-brand foods. There are 1,990 factories in 35 countries producing Target-brand non-food products.ESGA: Supply Chain p. 82
ESGA: Product Quality and Safety p. 87
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 98 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standards Content Index
We continue to report against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the most widely used framework for reporting on environmental, social and governance 
issues. The report has been prepared with references to 2016 and 2018 GRI Standards.
This index references T arget’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) and Target’s 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Appendix (ESGA).
GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosur e Number Target Response
General Disclosures
Organizational Profile
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016Name of the organization 102-1 Target Corporation
2019 10-K: Cover page
Activities, brands, products and services 102-2 2019 10-K: Business p. 2
Target does not intentionally sell items that are banned in certain markets.
Location of Headquarters 102-3 2019 10-K: Properties p. 10
Location of Operations 102-4 2019 10-K: Properties p. 10
Responsible Sourcing: See Target’s Global Factory  List
Ownership and legal form 102-5 2019 10-K: Business p. 2, Item 5 p. 13
Markets served 102-6 2019 10-K: Business, pp. 2–4, Properties p. 10
Scale of the organization 102-7 2019 10-K: Business, p. 3
2019 10-K: Properties p. 10
2019 10-K: Organization p. 39
2019 10-K: Selected Financial Data p. 15
Information on employees and other workers 102-8 CRR: Team p. 34ESGA: Team Members p. 76
ESGA: Diversity and Inclusion p. 78 
2019 10-K: Business, p. 3
Supply chain 102-9
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73
CRR: Sourcing With Purpose p. 18
2019 10-K: Business pp. 2–3Standards of Vendor Engagement
Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-10 There have been no significant changes to the organization or its supply chain.
Precautionary principle or approach 102-11 Target does not have an official policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle. 
External initiatives 102-12 Target incorporates a number of external standards into our work. These may be found referenced throughout the ESGA and CRR and 
on our website, including in our goals and within our policies.
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016Membership of associations 102-13 Target partners with numerous organizations to bring our corporate responsibility vision to life through our business operations, within our industry and across communities. An illustrative list is available on page 15 of this report, and additional partners are mentioned 
throughout this report. Our trade association and policy-based organization support can be found on our corporate website.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 99 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Strategy
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016Statement from senior decision-maker 102-14 CRR: CEO Letter p. 04
Key impacts, risks and opportunities 102-15 CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14
ESGA: Governance p. 922019 10-K: Risk Factors pp. 4–92020 Q1 10-Q: Risk factors p. 24, quarterly update reflecting some COVID-19-related changes
Ethics and Integrity
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 102-16 ESGA: Ethics p. 93
Our Purpose & HistoryCode of Ethics
Corporate Governance Guidelines (Includes Director Code of Ethics)
Standards of Vendor Engagement
Vendor Code of Conduct
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 102-17
ESGA: Ethics p. 93Code of Ethics
Corporate Governance Guidelines (Includes Director Code of Ethics)
Target Integrity Hotline
Governance
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016Governance structure 102-18 ESGA: Governance p. 92
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Corporate Governance Guidelines
Delegating authority 102-19 ESGA: Governance p. 92Governance Committee Charter  
2020 Proxy Statement: Corporate responsibility and reputation p. 16
Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and 
social topics102-20 ESGA: Governance p. 92
Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics102-21
CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14
Stakeholder engagement
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 102-22 2020 Proxy Statement: Our directors p. 9; Board leadership structure p. 10; Committees p. 11 and Determining committee composition 
and leadership pp. 11–13Board of Directors
Board Committees
Chair of the highest governance body 102-23
2019 10-K: Executive Officers p. 12
Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 102-24 2020 Proxy Statement: Election of directors pp. 18–202020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 100 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016Conflicts of interest 102-25 2020 Proxy Statement: Director independence p. 17; Policy on transactions with related persons p. 17; Business ethics and 
conduct  pp.17–18
Code of Ethics
Corporate Governance Guidelines p. 9
Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values 
and strategy102-26 ESGA: Governance p. 92
2020 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight p. 14; Corporate responsibility and reputation p. 16
Governance Committee Charter
Collective knowledge of highest governance body 102-27 ESGA: Governance p. 922020 Proxy Statement: 2020 nominees for director pp. 20–26Board of Directors
Evaluating the highest governance body's performance 102-28
2020 Proxy Statement: Board evaluations and refreshment p.19Corporate Governance Guidelines: Board Recruitment, Evaluations and Refreshment
Identifying and managing economic, environmental and 
social impacts102-29 ESGA: Ethics p. 93
ESGA: Human Rights p. 75ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Effectiveness of risk management processes 102-30
2020 Proxy Statement: Board Risk & Compliance Committee p. 13; Risk oversight p. 14; Communications with directors and 
shareholder outreach p. 18
Review of economic, environmental and social topics 102-31 ESGA: Governance p. 92 2020 Proxy Statement: Risk oversight p. 14; Corporate responsibility and reputation p. 16 
Governance Committee Charter
Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-32 ESGA: Ethics p. 93ESGA: Human Rights p. 75ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Communicating critical concerns 102-33
2020 Proxy Statement: Business ethics and conduct pp. 17–18; Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 18
Corporate Governance Guidelines
Code of Ethics
Remuneration policies 102-35 2020 Proxy Statement: Human Resources & Compensation Committee Report p. 31, Compensation Discussion and Analysis and 
compensation tables pp. 31–49  
Process for determining remuneration 102-36 2020 Proxy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis pp. 31–46
Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102-37 2020 Proxy Statement: Communications with directors and shareholder outreach p. 18 ; Shareholder support for our 2019 advisory vote 
on executive compensation and shareholder outreach program p. 32
Annual total compensation ratio 102-38 2020 Proxy Statement: Pay ratio disclosure p. 572020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 101 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016List of stakeholder groups 102-40 CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14
Collective bargaining agreements 102-41 None of our active workforce is covered under collective bargaining agreements. 
Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-42 CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14
Stakeholder engagement
Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-43 CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14Stakeholder engagement
Key topics and concerns raised 102-44
CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14Stakeholder engagement
Reporting Practice
GRI 102: 
General  Disclosures 2016Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-45 2019 10-K: Exhibit 21 List of Significant Subsidiaries
Unless specifically noted, the scope of this report does not include subsidiaries Shipt and Dermstore. 
Defining report content and topic Boundaries 102-46 CRR: About This Report p. 03
CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14
List of material topics 102-47 CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14Target materiality webpage
Restatements of information 102-48 Due to an error in billing for district heating and cooling, we have revised our 2017 and 2018 consumption of steam and chilled water as 
well as the associated GHG emissions. The billing error also affects total energy consumption and total GHG emissions for those two years. The correct values are listed in 302-1, 305-2 and 305-4.
Changes of reporting 102-49 There have been no changes to our material topics since our previous report.
Reporting period 102-50 CRR: About This Report p. 03
Date of most recent report 102-51 CRR: About This Report p. 03
Reporting cycle 102-52 CRR: About This Report p. 03
Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-53
CorporateResponsibility@Target.com
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-54 The report is in reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI Content Index 102-55 GRI Standards Content Index pp. 99–116
External assurance 102-56 Some of our climate and energy data is independently verified to a limited level of assurance. We did not seek external assurance for the remainder of this report.
Economic Performance
GRI 201
Economic performance 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3
2019 10-K: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations pp. 16–29 , Risk Factors pp. 4–9
Direct economic value generated and distributed 201-1 2019 10-K: Selected Financial Data p. 15 and Consolidated Statements of Operations p.  34
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change201-2 Target climate webpage
CDP Climate Response
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201-3 2019 10-K: Defined Contribution Plans and Pension Plans pp. 55–58
Financial assistance received from government 201-4 Target receives government assistance in the form of statutory and project-specific incentives, which may include tax credits.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 102 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 203: 
Indirect Economic 
Impacts 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Communities p. 90
ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
Infrastructure investments and Services supported 203-1 ESGA: Communities p. 90
Significant indirect economic impacts 203-2 ESGA: Communities p. 90ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
Procurement Practices
GRI 204: 
Procurement practices 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Sourcing With Purpose p. 18ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73 
Proportion of spending on local suppliers 204-1 5.0% of our procurement came from Minnesota and three counties in Western Wisconsin (Polk, St. Croix and Pierce counties).ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
Anti-Corruption
GRI 205: 
Anti-Corruption 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Ethics p. 93
Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205-1
Code of Ethics p. 23 and throughout
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and procedures205-2 ESGA: Ethics p. 93
Materials
GRI 301: 
Materials 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Recycled input materials used 301-2 ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 301-3 ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 672020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 103 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Energy
GRI 302: Energy 2016 Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
CRR: Climate and Energy p. 27CRR: Properties—Climate and Energy p. 45 
Energy consumption within the organization 302-1
Domestic Energy Consumption*:
2019 2018 2017
Total Ener
gy Consumption* 20,040,236 20,472,495 20,415,745
Energy data reported in different units was converted into gigajoules (GJ) using http://www.onlineconversion.com/energy.htm. 
Percentage of renewable on electricity grid is 18.6% and sourced from the U.S Energy Information Administration (EIA) Annual Energy 
Outlook (published January 2020).
2019 Direct Energy Use
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion F act or GJ
Natural Gas*  44,977,905 Therms 0.1055  4,745,169 
Propane*  305,370 Gallons 0.0963  29,407 
Stationary Diesel*  190,370 Gallons 0.138 26,271
Mobile Diesel*  4,063,907 Gallons 0.138  560,819 
Direct Energy Use Total*  5,361,666 
2018 Direct Energy Use
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion F act or GJ
Natural Gas*  45,245,667 Therms 0.1055  4,773,418 
Propane*  295,257 Gallons 0.0963  28,433 
Stationary Diesel*  277,114 Gallons 0.138  38,242 
Mobile Diesel*  3,523,628 Gallons 0.138  486,261 
Direct Energy Use Total*  5,326,354 
2017 Direct Energy Use
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion F act or GJ
Natural Gas*  38,983,182 Therms 0.1055  4,112,726 
Propane*  289,253 Gallons 0.0963  27,855 
Stationary Diesel*  292,486 Gallons 0.138  40,363 
Mobile Diesel*  1,860,776 Gallons 0.138  256,787 
Direct Energy Use Total*  4,437,731 
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 104 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 302: Energy 2016 Energy consumption within the organization (continued) Due to an error in billing for district heating and cooling, we have revised our consumption of steam and chilled water for 2017 and 
2018. The error also affects total energy consumption. The correct values are reflected below. 
2019 Indirect Energy Use 
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion F act or GJ
Grid Electricity*  2,957,128 MWh 3.600  10,645,662 
Cooling (Chilled Water)*  15,496 MWh 3.600  55,784 
Steam*  53,700 MMBTU 1.055  56,654 
Nonrenewable Total*  10,758,099 
Renewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ
On-site Solar (RECs)* 114,514 MWh 3.600  412,250 
Off-site Renewable (RECs)*298,801 MWh 3.600  1,075,684 
Grid Electricity* 675,707 MWh 3.600  2,432,547 
Renewable Total* 3,920,481
Indirect Energy Use Total*14,678,580
2018 Indirect Energy Use 
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion F act or GJ
Grid Electricity* 3,245,454 MWh 3.600  11,683,633 
Cooling (Chilled Water)* 13,994 MWh 3.600  50,379 
Steam* 51,188 MMBTU 1.055  54,003 
Nonrenewable Total*  11,788,015 
Renewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ
On-site Solar (RECs)* 105,938 MWh 3.600  381,377 
Off-site Renewable (RECs)*143,208 MWh 3.600  515,549 
Grid Electricity* 683,667 MWh 3.600  2,461,201 
Renewable Total* 3,358,127
Indirect Energy Use Total*15,146,142
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 105 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 302: Energy 2016 Energy consumption within the organization (continued)2017 Indirect Energy Use 
Nonrenewable Activity Data Units Conversion F act or GJ
Grid Electricity* 4,186,870 MWh 3.600 15,072,731 
Cooling (Chilled Water)* 18,678 MWh 3.600 67,239
Steam* 63,728 MMBTU 1.055 67,233
Nonrenewable Total* 15,207,204 
Renewable Activity Data Units Conversion Factor GJ
On-site Solar (RECs)* 68,098 MWh 3.600 245,153 
Off-site 
Renewable (RECs)*146,016 MWh 3.600 525,658 
Renewable Total* 770,810
Indirect Energy Use Total*15,978,014
Solar is for production where RECs have been retained.
Our international electricity consumption is not included in the tables above but accounts for only 0.14% of total electricity 
consumption in 2019.
Conversion factors from: http://www.onlineconversion.com/ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Energy intensity 302-3
2019 2018 2017
Energy int
ensity ratio (kWh/SF)* 13.42 13.90 14.69 
The energy intensity ratio above is calculated using electricity consumption in the U.S., divided by the square footage of our 
U.S. properties.
Previously, energy intensity was reported only for stores; the above data have been updated to include all properties in the U.S.ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 106 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 302: Energy 2016 Reductions in energy consumption 302-42019 Energy Efficiency and Conservation Projects (U.S.)
Improvement First- Y ear Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor GJ
Sales Floor LED (54 stores) 12,148 3.600 43,733
Parking Lot LED (333 stores) 20,849 3.600 75,056
Backroom LED (208 stores) 13,810 3.600 49,716
Downlight LED (286 stores) 3,027 3.600 10,897
Total Energy Consumption Reduction 49,834 179,402 
Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives: 179,402 GJ
Types of energy included in the reductions: electric, heating, coolingBasis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as baseline year or baseline: Annual Value (2019 Fiscal Year); 
engineering  calculations based on MWh reductions converted into GJ
2018 Energy Efficiency and Conservation Projects (U.S.)
Improvement First- Y ear Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor GJ
Sales Floor LED (695 stores) 168,280 3.600  605,808 
Parking Lot LED (110 stores) 7,498 3.600  26,993 
Backroom LED (40 stores) 2,673 3.600  9,623 
Total Energy Consumption Reduction 178,451  642,424 
2017 Energy Efficiency and Conservation Projects (U.S.)
Improvement First- Y ear Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor GJ
Sales Floor LED (534 stores) 163,926 3.600  590,133 
Variable Frequency Drives (VFD)-HVAC 82 3.600  294 
Unreachable LED 20 3.600  73 
DC Exterior LED 278 3.600  1,002 
Wall Pack LED 12,184 3.600  43,864 
Parking Lot LED 9,009 3.600  32,432 
Improvements to Energy Outlier Stores 960 3.600  3,454 
Total Energy Consumption Reduction 186,459  671,253 
Conversion factors from: http://www.onlineconversion.com/ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 642020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 107 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Water & Effluents
GRI 303: 
Water & Effluents 2018Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Water p. 72CRR: Water p. 29CRR: Properties—Water p. 47Target water webpage
Interactions with water as a shared resource 303-1 ESGA: Water p. 72
Management of water discharge-related impacts 303-2 ESGA: Water p. 72
Water withdrawal 303-3 ESGA: Water p. 72
Water discharge 303-4 Our withdrawn water is discharged to municipal systems for treatment. At this time, Target does not track the amount of 
water discharged.
Water consumption 303-5 Our withdrawn water is discharged to municipal systems for treatment. At this time, Target does not track the amount of water discharged.
Biodiversity
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
Significant impacts of activities, products, and services 
on biodiversity304-2 ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70Target deforestation webpage
Emissions
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64CRR: Climate and Energy p. 27CRR: Properties—Climate and Energy p. 45 
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-1
Domestic GHG Emissions: Scope 1—Direct Emissions (mtCO 2e)
2019 2018 2017
Natural Gas* 238,899  240,740  207,419 
Propane* 1,758  1,739  1,648 
Stationary Diesel* 1,955  2,846  3,004 
Mobile Diesel* 41,470  35,996  19,053 
Refrigerants* 468,470  474,163  475,053 
Total Emissions (Scope 1)* 752,552  755,484  706,176 
Gases included in the calculation: CO 2, CH 4,N2O, HFCs
Biogenic CO 2 emissions: 0 mtCO 2e
Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rate used: AR4 Emission Factors; 2017-TCR-Default-EF-
March-2017; 2020-EPA-CCL Emissions-Factors-GHG-Inventories-March-2020
Chosen consolidation approach for emissions: Operational ControlStandards, methodologies and assumptions used: AR4 Emission Factors; 2017-TCR-Default-EF-March-2017; 2020-EPA-CCL 
Emissions-Factors-GHG-Inventories-March-2020
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 108 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-2Domestic GHG Emissions: Scope 2—Indirect Emissions (mtCO 2e)
2019 2018 2017
Electric (Market)* 1,541,283 1,778,428 1,856,634 
Electric (Location)* 1,676,067 1,831,598 1,931,749 
Steam* 2,852 2,719 3,385 
Chilled Water* 1,762 1,787 1,684 
Total (Market—Scope 2)* 1,545,898 1,782,934 1,861,703 
Total (Location—Scope 2)* 1,680,682 1,836,105 1,936,817 
Total Emissions (Market—Scope 1 & 2)* 2,298,450 2,538,418 2,567,880 
Total Emissions (Location—Scope 1 & 2)* 2,433,234 2,591,588 2,642,994 
Gases included in the calculation: CO 2, CH 4,N2O, HFCs
Source of the emission factors and the GWP rate used: AR4 Emission Factors; 2017-TCR-Default-EF-March-2017; 2020-EPA-CCL 
Emissions-Factors-GHG-Inventories-March-2020
Chosen consolidation approach for emissions: Operational ControlStandards, methodologies and assumptions used: AR4 Emission Factors; 2017-TCR-Default-EF-March-2017; 2020-EPA-CCL 
Emissions-Factors-GHG-Inventories-March-2020
Our international electricity consumption is not included in the tables above but accounts for only 0.14% of total electricity 
consumption in 2019.
Due to an error in billing for district heating and cooling, we have revised our emissions from steam and chilled water, going back to our 
2017 baseline. The error also affects the total emissions results. The correct values are reflected above.
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 109 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-3GHG Emissions: Scope 3—Indirect Emissions by GHG Protocol Category (mtCO 2e)
2019 2018 2017
1 – Purchased goods and services 27,389,000 27,276,000 27,923,000
2 – Capital goods 743,000 1,007,000 999,000
3 – Fuel- and energy-related emissions 509,000 523,000 581,000
4 – Upstream transportation and distribution 1,655,000 1,676,000 1,466,000
5 – Waste generated in operations 271,000 224,000 204,000
6 – Business travel 22,000 23,000 21,000
7 – Employee commuting 585,000 567,000 526,000
8 – Upstream leased assets Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
9 – Downstream transportation and distribution 5,672,000 5,666,000 5,245,000
10 – Processing of sold products Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
11 – Use of sold products 12,897,000 13,485,000 13,488,000
12 – End-of-life treatment of sold products 2,306,000 2,273,000 2,404,000
13 – Downstream leased assets Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
14 – Franchises Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
15 – Investments Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant
Total 52,049,000 52,720,000 52,857,000
In 2019, we revised our 2017 Scope 3 emissions calculations with higher-quality available emission factors and more detailed product-
level data. The revised results are shown in the table above and below. When more granular Scope 3 activity and emission factor data sources are available, we may continue to revise our methodology and 2017 baseline to ensure our reduction strategies are driven by the best available data.
Category 6 above includes travel by both commercial airlines and cars. Of that figure, commercial air travel has been calculated based 
on independently assured data: 
Independently Verified Components of Scope 3 Indirect Emissions (mtCO 2e)
2019 2018 2017
Commercial air travel* 17,511 17,684 13,230
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Our business travel emissions estimate includes passenger miles on commercial airlines. We used emissions factors from the U.S. EPA 
Climate Leaders Business Module. Global warming potentials are from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second Assessment Report. We did not apply a radiative forcing adjustment to the airline travel emissions. 
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 110 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016GHG emissions intensity 305-42019 2018 2017
GHG Emissions Intensity Ratio (mtCO 2e)* 0.00763 0.00845 0.00857
Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1) and market-based indirect (Scope 2)Gases included in the calculation: CO
2, CH 4, N2O, and HFCs
Due to an error in billing for district heating and cooling, we have revised our emissions from steam and chilled water, going back to our 
2017 baseline. The error also affects the emissions ratio. The correct values are reflected above.
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Reduction of GHG emissions 305-52019 GHG Emissions Reduction Projects (U.S.)
Improvement First- Y ear Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor mtCO 2e
Sales Floor LED (54 stores) 12,148 0.4243 5,154
Parking Lot LED (333 stores) 20,849 0.4243 8,846
Backroom LED (208 stores) 13,810 0.4243 5,859
Downlight LED (286 stores) 3,027 0.4243 1,284
Total Reduction  49,834 21,143
Gases included in the calculation: CO 2, CH 4, N2O, and HFCs
Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as baseline year or baseline: Annual Value (2019 Fiscal Year)Engineering calculations were based on MWh reductions converted into mtCO
2e. The reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct 
(Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions.
2018 GHG Emissions Reduction Projects (U.S.)
Improvement First- Y ear Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor mtCO 2e
Sales Floor LED (695 stores) 168,280 0.4526  76,168 
Parking Lot LED (110 stores) 7,498 0.4526  3,394 
Backroom LED (40 stores) 2,673 0.4526  1,210 
Total Reduction 178,451  80,772 
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 111 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016Reduction of GHG emissions (continued)2017 GHG Emissions Reduction Projects (U.S.)
Improvement First- Y ear Energy Savings (MWh) Conversion Factor mtCO 2e
Sales Floor LED (534 stores) 163,926 0.4883  80,045 
Variable Frequency Drives (VFD)-HVAC 82 0.4883  40 
Unreachable LED 20 0.4883  10 
DC Exterior LED 278 0.4883  136 
Wall Pack LED 12,184 0.4883  5,950 
Parking Lot LED 9,009 0.4883  4,399 
Improvements to Energy Outlier Stores 960 0.4883  469 
Total Reduction 186,459  91,048 
Conversion factors from: http://www.onlineconversion.com/ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
Effluents & Waste
GRI 306: 
Effluents & Waste 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67CRR: Properties—Waste p. 48
Waste by type and disposal method 306-2 ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Significant spills 306-3 ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Transport of hazardous waste 306-4 ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 308: 
Supplier environmental 
assessment 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73
CRR: Responsible Products p. 22
New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 308-1 ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73
Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 
and actions  taken308-2 ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
Employment
GRI 401: 
Employment 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Team p. 34ESGA: Team Members p. 76ESGA: Employment p. 76
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees401-2
ESGA: Employment p. 76
Benefits
Parental leave 401-3 ESGA: Employment p. 762020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 112 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 403 
Occupational Health & 
Safety 2018Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Workplace Health and Safety p. 81
CRR: Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain p. 25 
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 403-2 Code of Ethics p. 13
Labor & Human Rights Policies
Worker training on occupational health and safety 403-5 CRR: Workplace Health and Safety p. 41ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80
Promotion of worker health 403-6 CRR: Workplace Health and Safety p. 41CRR: Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain p. 25 ESGA: Workplace Health and Safety p. 81ESGA: Supply Chain p. 82
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationships403-7 CRR: Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain p. 25 
ESGA: Supply Chain p. 82
Training & Education
GRI 404: 
Training and Education 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Learning and Development p. 40ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80
Average hours of training per year per employee 404-1 ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition-
assistance programs404-2 CRR: Learning and Development p. 40
ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80ESGA: Employment p. 76
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews404-3 ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80
Diversity & Equal Opportunity 
GRI 405: 
Diversity & Equal 
Opportunity 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Diversity and Inclusion p. 38
ESGA: Diversity and Inclusion p. 78
Diversity of governance bodies and employees 405-1
ESGA: Diversity and Inclusion p. 78Workforce Diversity Report
Non-discrimination
GRI 406: 
Non-discrimination 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Diversity and Inclusion p. 38ESGA: Employment p. 76
Child Labor
GRI 408: 
Child Labor 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor p. 24ESGA: Human Rights p. 75ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82 
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 408-1 CRR: Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor p. 24ESGA: Human Rights p. 75ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 822020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 113 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Forced or Compulsory Labor
GRI 409: 
Forced or Compulsory 
Labor 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor p. 24
ESGA: Human Rights p. 75ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor409-1 CRR: Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor p. 24
ESGA: Human Rights p. 75ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Human Rights Assessment 
GRI 412: 
Human Rights 
Assessment 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Human Rights in Manufacturing p. 23
ESGA: Human Rights p. 75ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessments412-1 CRR: Human Rights in Manufacturing p. 23
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 412-2
Target’s global sourcing offices are subject to the same standards and policies as our domestic offices. Human rights considerations 
are made when exploring new countries for office locations.
ESGA: Ethics p. 93Human Rights Statement
Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 
rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening412-3
Every merchandise vendor is contractually required to comply with our Standards of Vendor Engagement.
Standards of Vendor Engagement
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Local Communities
GRI 413: 
Local communities 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Growing Prosperity for All Through Supplier Diversity p. 26CRR: Communities p. 42ESGA: Communities p. 90ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments 
and development programs413-1 CRR: Communities p. 42
ESGA: Communities p. 90CRR: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p. 14CRR: Supply Chain p. 17
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 
local communities413-2 ESGA: Communities p. 90
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82ESGA: Environment p. 632020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 114 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Disclosure Number T arget Response
Supplier Social Assessment
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 414-1 ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 414-2 ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
Responsible Sourcing
Social Compliance Audit Process
Public Policy
GRI 415: 
Public Policy 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Government Advocacy p. 94
Political contributions 415-1 ESGA: Government Advocacy p. 94Civic Activity
Customer Health & Safety
GRI 416: 
Customer Health & 
Safety 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ESGA: Product Quality and Safety p. 87
ESGA: Product Design p. 86
Incidents of noncompliance concerning the health and safety impacts 
of products and services416-2 Target has multiple processes to address product compliance and safety. In addition, Target has processes in place to meet its reporting obligations under federal and state laws.
Marketing & Labeling
GRI 417: 
Marketing & Labeling 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Design Messaging Guests Can Trust p. 60ESGA: Responsible Marketing p. 89
Customer Privacy
GRI 418: 
Customer Privacy 2016Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3
ESGA: Data Security p. 88Privacy Policy
2020 Proxy Statement: Information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy p. 15
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 
and losses of customer data418-1
Target has an Incident Response program to address potential security and privacy incidents. The program includes processes to meet Target’s notification, or other reporting, obligations under federal and state laws.
ESGA: Data Security p. 882019 10-K: Risk Factors p. 6
* Data have been independently verified, or calculated using independently verified data.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 115 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index Material topic Disclosure Title Disclosur e Number Target Response
Additional material topics not covered by GRI Standards
Access to Products 
and servicesManagement approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Design for All p. 55
ESGA: Product Design p. 86
Environmental impacts of 
products and servicesManagement approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Design for Environmental Impact p. 57
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
ESGA: Chemicals p. 69
ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70ESGA: Product Design p. 86
Product Design Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Materials p. 20CRR: Design for Circularity p. 53CRR: Design for Environmental Impact p. 57
ESGA: Product Design p. 86
Consumption Behaviors Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: Design for Guest Ease p. 59ESGA: Guests p. 86
ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
Transparency and reporting Management approach 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 CRR: How We Source Products p. 19 and throughout the CRRESGA: About This Appendix p. 622020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 116 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index SDG Index
Target recognizes the importance of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call on governments, 
business and civil society organizations to take action to address the urgent problems facing our world today. Target values the important role these goals play in equitable, inclusive, sustainable development. We’re proud to share how we’re contributing to each SDG. We invite our stakeholders and partners to join us in our efforts to contribute toward the implementation of this blueprint for a more sustainable future for all.
This index references Target’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) and Target’s 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Appendix (ESGA).
Sustainable Development Goals Information on how we’re contributing
1 No Poverty
• End poverty in all its forms ever ywhereCRR: Communities p. 42
CRR: Compensation and Benefits p. 36
CRR: Economic Opportunity p. 26
ESGA: Employment p. 76
ESGA: Social Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 82
ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
2 Zero Hunger
• End hunger, achieve food security and impr oved nutrition and promote sustainable agricultureCRR: Communities p. 42ESGA: Product Design p. 86
3 Good Health and Well-Being
• Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all agesCRR: Communities p. 42CRR: Compensation and Benefits p. 36
CRR: Workplace Health and Safety p. 41
CRR: Worker Well-Being in the Supply Chain p. 25CRR: Properties—Chemicals p. 49
ESGA: Product Design p. 86
ESGA: Chemicals p. 69
ESGA: Workplace Health and Safety p. 81
ESGA: Product Quality and Safety p. 87
4 Quality Education
• Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for allCRR: Compensation and Benefits p. 36CRR: Learning and Development p. 40
CRR: Economic Opportunity p. 26
ESGA: Employment p. 76
ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80
5 Gender Equality
• Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girlsCRR: Compensation and Benefits p. 36
CRR: Diversity and Inclusion p. 38
ESGA: Learning and Development p. 80
ESGA: Diversity and Inclusion p. 78ESGA: Governance p. 92
ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
6 Clean Water and Sanitation
• Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for allCRR: Water p. 29
CRR: Properties—Water p. 47
ESGA: Water p. 722020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 117 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index Sustainable Development Goals Information on how we’re contributing
7 Affordable and Clean Energy
• Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for allCRR: Climate and Energy p. 27
CRR: Properties—Climate and Energy p. 45
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
• Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for allCRR: Communities p. 42
CRR: Compensation and Benefits p. 36
CRR: Economic Opportunity p. 26
CRR: Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor p. 24ESGA: Team Members p. 76
ESGA: Supply Chain p. 82
ESGA: Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain p. 73ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
• Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovationCRR: Communities p. 42CRR: Properties—Climate and Energy p. 45
CRR: Design for Circularity p. 53
CRR: Properties—Waste p. 48CRR: Responsible Products p. 22
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
ESGA: Chemicals p. 69
ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70ESGA: Product Design p. 86
10 Reduced Inequalities
• Reduce inequality within and among countriesCRR: Communities p. 42CRR: Economic Opportunity p. 26
ESGA: Supply Chain p. 82
ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
11 Sustainable Cities and Communities
• Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainableCRR: Communities p. 42CRR: Economic Opportunity p. 26
CRR: Responsible Products p. 22
ESGA: Supply Chain p. 82
ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
12 Responsible Consumption and Production
• Ensure sustainable consumption and production patternsCRR: Materials p. 20
CRR: Design for Environmental Impact p. 57
CRR: Responsible Products p. 22
CRR: Properties—Waste p. 48CRR: Water p. 29
CRR: Design for Circularity p. 53
CRR: Properties—Chemicals p. 49ESGA: Waste and Circular Economy p. 67
ESGA: Chemicals p. 69
ESGA: Water p. 72
ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 702020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 118 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index Sustainable Development Goals Information on how we’re contributing
13 Climate Action
• Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impactsCRR: Climate and Energy p. 27
CRR: Properties—Climate and Energy p. 45
ESGA: Climate and Energy p. 64
14 Life Below Water
• Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable developmentCRR: Materials p. 20
ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
15 Life on Land
•  Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt 
and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity lossCRR: Materials p. 20ESGA: Material and Resource Use p. 70
16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
•  Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable 
and inclusive institutions at all levelsCRR: Diversity and Inclusion p. 38
CRR: Economic Opportunity p. 26
CRR: Eliminating Forced and Underaged Labor p. 24ESGA: Diversity and Inclusion p. 78
ESGA: Product Design p. 86
ESGA: Governance p. 92ESGA: Supplier Diversity p. 84
ESGA: Anti-Bribery and Corruption p. 93
ESGA: Anti-Competitive Behavior p. 93
17 Partnerships for the Goals
• Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable developmentCRR: Design for Environmental Impact p. 57CRR: Materials p. 20
CRR: Water p. 29
CRR: Economic Opportunity p. 26CRR: Communities p. 42
ESGA: GRI 102-12 and 102-13 p. 992020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 119 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index Glossary
Term Definition
Team Members We refer to our full-time, part-time and seasonal employees as “team members.” Team members do not include contractors, employees of our subsidiaries or the employees of vendors, suppliers or manufacturers with whom we do business.
Supply Chain All vendors, suppliers, manufacturers, contractors, subcontractors and their agents involved in the production of Target’s owned- and exclusive-brand products or national-brand products for which Target is the importer of record.
Value Chain All business activities that create value for Target’s products or services. The value chain includes the supply chain, Target activities outside the supply chain (e.g. product development and marketing) and the end consumer and communities for 
which the company is helping create value. 
Operations Our operations cover our team members, our stores and other physical locations, and our communities.
Guests We refer to our shoppers (customers) as “guests.” We want to bring our guests not only what they need, but also what they want. Our buyers carefully curate collections and experiences for our guests. Our strategy is rooted in offering the national brands our guests know and love, plus the only-at-Target items they can't get anywhere else.
Brands at Target
National Brands  – Brands we sell, but do not own 
Owned Brands  – Brands we own, source and sell
Exclusive Brands  – Brands we do not own, but are the only retailer licensed to sell
Approximately one-third of 2019 sales  were  related to our owned and exclusive brands.    
Find out more here
Materiality We regularly evaluate and align our strategy and reporting against the most material corporate responsibility topics for our business and stakeholders. For the purposes of this report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards’ definition 
of materiality, meaning that we cover topics that:
- Reflect Tar get’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts
- Substantively influence the assessment and decisions of stakeholders
This materiality definition is different from the definition used for filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Topics deemed material for purposes of this report may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes.
Neonics Certain neurotoxic insecticides shown by studies to be harmful to bees and other pollinators.
Noncompliant due to Repeat 
or Excessive IssuesA factory fails three consecutive audits, an excessive number of violations are discovered, or the auditor is denied access twice.
Noncompliant due to Severe ViolationsSevere violations include underaged labor, forced labor, corporal punishment, attempted bribery, sandblasting, unauthorized subcontracting, egregious wastewater treatment and/or absence of appropriate licensing/permitting.
Sustainable Product Design Designing products that are better for our guests, our planet and/or our communities.
Circular Product Design Designing products in a way that designs out waste and keeps products and materials in use for as long as possible.
Sustainable Products Products that are better for our guests, our planet and/or our communities.2020 Target ESG Appendix Introduction CR Report Environment Social Governance 120 Indexes and Glossary 
SASB Index    GRI Standards Content Index    SDG Index 