04 Chairman's letter
06 Ternium
09 Safety and health
13 Environment
21 Innovation
27 Human resources
33 The value chain: 
 ProPymes program
37 Community
43 Governance & 
 economic indicator sSince Ternium was founded in the Argentine city of Ensenada almost half a century ago, 
the company has based its management philosophy on the concept of sustainability . 
This is the premise for a long-term industrial project which envisages growth as 
a member of the communities where the company lives and works. 
Over the years, we have consistently published information on many of the areas 
presented here in our Annual Report  (http://www .ternium.com/en/centro-de-
inversores/). This year, we are extending the scope of our reporting to provide a more 
integral vision of the actions we are taking to improve the long-term sustainability 
of our activity . 
Ternium has pursued an agenda of regional expansion, making the company the largest 
flat steel producer in Latin America. We have grown thanks to a strategy of acquisitions 
and greenfield investments in the region’s main markets, seeking to preserve our identity 
and act as a positive factor for growth in each of the communities where we are present.
In 2017, Ternium laid the foundations for a new cycle of growth. With the integration 
of Companhia Siderúrgica do Atlântico (CSA), thyssenkrupp’s advanced steel 
slab production facilities in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, we are consolidating an agenda 
centered on industrial and technological excellence, customer service and competitive 
differentiation. T oday we are a team of over 21,000 people, whose motivation, 
commitment and knowledge are our main assets.
Our safety performance has shown improvement, as evinced by our indicators; in the 
last five years, we have reduced our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by half, 
this being the industry’s benchmark safety indicator. We are ranked among the best-
performing companies in the world of steel. Safety is a top priority for management, 
and our LTIFR achievement is the result of a sustained effort which we continue to 
reinforce every year, in the understanding that all work-related accidents can and must 
be prevented. 
As an active participant of the World Steel Association (worldsteel), Ternium is a 
signatory of its Sustainability Policy and has taken part in industry-wide efforts to 
minimize steel’s CO 2 footprint. The steel industry is an intensive energy user and 
directly or indirectly generates significant CO 2 emissions. The company has been 
submitting indicators to the association’s monitoring programs for over ten years in 
the belief that a modern and innovative steel industry can help tackle the issue 
of climate change, one of today’s most pressing challenges, in the move to a low 
carbon future. 
During the first half of 2018, Ternium updated its Environmental Policy in line with a 
renewed focus on the development of energy efficiency concepts, in which environmental 
protection plays a vital role as a core value underpinning all of our activities. 
In 2017, we continued to invest in improving the environmental performance of our 
plants. The company completed projects in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico, 
seeking to maximize the efficient use of energy resources, the re-use of by-products 
and the appropriate treatment and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste-water. 
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017 5Ternium’s industrial project seeks to create a virtuous circle of growth in the locations 
where we operate, as we believe that our corporate development goes hand-in-hand 
with that of our employees and the communities. With our ProPymes program, which 
we launched in 2002 in Argentina and in 2006 in Mexico, we seek to prop up our value 
chain of small and medium size businesses by enhancing its professional, management 
and financial capabilities. In 2017 the program provided assistance and training to over 
1,500 SMEs.
Our community investment emphasizes education as a source of personal and social 
development and our programs accordingly support education at all levels, with a 
special focus on technical schooling. Over the last four years, we have invested almost 
USD 30 million in building and equipping the Roberto Rocca Technical School in 
Pesquería, Mexico, which opened its doors in 2016 to its first cohort of graduates, due 
to complete their three years of preparatory schooling in 2019. The school now has 380 
students. Pesqueria is a rural town 35 kilometers from Monterrey in Nuevo León where 
we inaugurated our Ternium Industrial Center in 2013. The region is being transformed 
into an industrial hub, and the need for well-trained technicians has grown; the school, 
which grants scholarships to all its students, is educating the professionals who will 
fill this gap in the future. In 2013 Tenaris, another company in Ternium’s parent 
organization, the Techint Group, inaugurated the first Roberto Rocca Technical School 
in Campana, Argentina.
As part of our continued quest to achieve operational excellence and innovation in 
our processes and products, Ternium is developing and implementing new digital 
technologies to create the smart factory of the future. Over the last decade we have 
dedicated substantial efforts to establishing a broad-based digital platform, integrating 
it into our value chain to promote real-time monitoring and decision-making. 
Based on this, we will continue to work on a digital transformation that will allow 
us to further enhance efficiency and productivity , as well as improve our safety and 
environmental record.
Ternium performed well in 2017 and faces a challenging agenda in the next few years. 
The publication of this first Annual Sustainability Report enshrines our commitment 
to keeping our stakeholders informed of the actions we are taking to ensure our business 
activity is sustainable in the long term.
Paolo Rocca
Chairman
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017 7Ternium is Latin America’s leading flat 
steel producer with an annual crude 
steel production capacity of 12.4 million 
tons. The company operates through its 
subsidiaries in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, 
Colombia, the southern United States 
and Central America, with its own 
regional manufacturing, service center 
and distribution networks.  
Our mission is to create value with our 
customers, improving competitiveness 
and productivity together, through a highly 
efficient industrial and technological 
base and a global commercial network. 
Ternium is committed to establishing 
a long-term presence, through local 
development and education. The company 
provides customers in varied industries, 
such as construction, automotive, 
manufacturing, home appliances, 
packaging, energy and transport.
By means of a solid positioning, the 
company supplies with high quality steel 
all the main regional markets. 
Ternium provides steel through a highly 
integrated production procedure. 
Its facilities feature the whole 
manufacturing process of steelmaking, 
from the mining of  iron ore to the 
production of high value-added products. 
The company also promotes 
the development of other companies 
from the metallurgical industry .
TERNIUM IN FIGURESTernium | Sustainability Report 2017 9
SAFETY
AND HEALTHTernium | Sustainability Report 2017Ternium’s top priority is safety , and the 
care of each employee’s health and safety a 
core value, as enshrined in the company’s 
Occupational Health and Safety Policy , 
This means that people’s health and safety 
cannot be compromised by an emergency 
situation, production process nor results, 
and that all work-related injuries and 
illnesses can and must be prevented. 
Ternium’s safety indicators have shown 
significant signs of improvement in recent 
years; in 2017, the company’s Lost Time 
Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) improved 
by 28% to 0.7. Since 2013, the company 
has reduced its LTIFR rating by half, in line 
with other key safety indices. 
However, the issue of safety embraces more 
than just numbers, as management strives 
to foster a corporate culture embodying 
values centered on safety as an integral part 
of its everyday life. In July 2013, despite 
the company’s continuous work to improve 
safety at its plants, an accident occurred at 
the Guerrero mill in Monterrey , Mexico, 
causing the death of 11 employees, the 
worst in Ternium’s history . This tragic 
event prompted a renewed commitment 
to improving safety performance and 
increasing awareness, in the understanding 
that every accident must be prevented. 
The company actively participates in 
industry-wide efforts to promote safety in 
the workplace, including the World Steel 
Association’s (worldsteel) Steel Safety Day , 
which takes place every April 28 coinciding 
with the International Labor Organization’s 
World Day for Safety and Health at Work. 
Since 2014, Ternium has been holding 
its own yearly Safety Day . Every July 22, 
throughout the organization, the company 
organizes activities to mark the day of the 
Guerrero Plant accident. In every location 
where we operate, we hold management 
meetings and discussions to review our safety performance in the past year and 
agree on concrete action to improve it. 
Ternium’s steelmaking and steel processing 
facilities in Mexico, Argentina, Colombia 
and Guatemala, are certified under 
OHSAS 18001. The Occupational Health 
and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 
standard is the result of a concerted 
effort by the world’s leading national 
standards bodies, certification bodies and 
specialist consultancies to develop safety 
management systems commensurate with 
the highest levels of excellence. Ternium is 
implementing a range of health and safety 
programs within the management system 
at its recently-acquired facility in Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil, which will be undergoing 
certification in 2019. 
This year, as part of an organizational 
restructuring process, we gave more 
hierarchy to our corporate industrial 
coordination department, in a move to 
improve the integration of best practices 
in engineering, automation, safety and 
environmental protection throughout 
our industrial system. 
Safety first
Almost a decade ago, Ternium launched 
a company-wide drive to promote Safety 
First (“Primero Seguridad”) showcasing 
a number of initiatives to foster a more 
comprehensive safety culture, prevent 
accidents and positively impact 
corporate indicators. 
The Safety Hour program, introduced in 
2010, is an opportunity for middle and 
senior managers to tour operating areas 
for an hour three times a week, and talk 
to employees about safety conditions in 
their working environment. This exchange 
helps to identify potential risks and enables 
fluid and constructive feedback about 
implementing improvements.  11 Safety and healthThe program, which has evolved over
 the years, began as a way of demonstrating 
management commitment to safety . 
Next was the development and adoption 
of a routine designed to detect deviations 
and define the relevant safety issues, and 
the current focus is a drive to correct unsafe 
behavior, which is the main cause of safety 
incidents and accidents in our plants. 
In 2017, the company held a total of 
128,463 Safety Hour sessions, with the 
regular participation of 842 people, and 
which helped to detect, record and correct 
69,647 deviations. 
In 2016, Ternium consolidated the main 
principles of its safety program in its 
document “Ten Life-Saving Rules,” 
enumerating ten basic actions that all 
employees should follow in order to 
protect their own lives and those of 
their colleagues. The Ten Rules are the 
result of a process which included focus 
groups and instances of analysis to detect 
the main causes of risk in operations. 
The Ten Rules also reflect the scope of 
legal safety regulations in the countries 
where the company operates, and are 
backed by specific behavioral procedures 
and routines to be followed. The rules 
have been extensively communicated 
throughout Ternium’s operations to raise 
employee awareness and help enforce their 
application. In 2017, 17,328 audits were 
held to ensure compliance with the
Life-Saving Rules.
Technology to avoid exposure to risk
Ternium is committed to training all 
employees to ensure they are sufficiently fit 
and knowledgeable to perform their tasks, 
and that they make appropriate use of the 
company’s health and safety management 
systems. In 2017, the company delivered 
358,662 hours of training on safety issues. 
The company’s investments in technology 
and innovation throughout its industrial system, as detailed in the Innovation 
chapter in this report, reflect a commitment 
to developing and integrating innovative 
safety-oriented technologies in the 
workplace. The emphasis is on avoiding 
direct human intervention in hazardous 
tasks wherever possible, and also on the 
real-time detection and report of dangerous 
situations that could potentially lead to 
accidents. The company is increasing its 
use of drones to perform maintenance 
inspections at height as well as developing 
video analytics and tracking systems to 
detect and report deviations from the safety 
rules. Virtual reality techniques are also 
being used in staff safety training courses, 
and the introduction of RFID technology 
means that steel coils at the yards can be 
remotely identified and tracked, protecting 
inspectors from the need to deal with 
unnecessary safety risks as they perform 
their tasks. LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR)
1.50
1.25
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘171.00
0.500.75
‘131.41
1.081.08
0.98
0.71
INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (IFR)
4.50
4.00
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘173.50
2.503.00
‘134.10
3.293.48
3.083.44SAFETY INDICATORS
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017Ternium, an integrated steel company , along with its subsidiaries is committed to 
the occupational safety and health of its personnel, clients, contractors, and suppliers. 
The company’s occupational safety and health policy is the baseline for sustainable 
development across all its operations. 
Policy adherence, dissemination, and compliance apply and are to be promoted 
throughout Ternium and its subsidiaries.
Looking out for the occupational safety and health of every person who works for 
the company or is inside its facilities is an essential value.
T o that end, we promote our commitment through the following principles:
• All work-related injuries and illnesses can and should be prevented.
• Compliance with all applicable legal and other regulations to which Ternium
 voluntarily agrees.
• Continuous improvement of all processes related to staff’s health and safety .
• Occupational safety and health must be integrated into all company processes.
• No emergency situation, production process or results justify putting people’s
 occupational safety or health at risk.
• Commitment from and training of the entire staff is essential.
• Working safely is an employment condition.
• Every person is responsible for looking after his/her own safety and the safety 
 of others.
In each company , everyone is responsible for occupational health and safety:
• The company provides the means and resources for activities to be carried out safely
 so as to preserve everyone’s physical integrity and occupational health.
• Managers are in charge of the occupational health and safety of everyone who works
 for them or is in their area.
• All other workers must comply with regulations and instructions, and work with their
 managers to detect, control, and resolve any dangerous situations.
• Contractor companies and their staff must comply with the Safety Regulations in force
 at the facilities where they provide services.
• People who enter the facility must comply with the applicable Safety Regulations.
• Health and Safety staff must take preventive measures through support, advising 
 and auditing.
At Ternium and its subsidiaries, these principles are shared throughout the entire 
value chain and in all the communities where it operates in order to promote people’s 
healthcare and safety .
Máximo V edoya
CEO Ternium
 13
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017Protection of the environment is 
a fundamental value for Ternium. 
Our goal is to reach the highest standards 
of environmental performance in order to 
minimize the footprint of our operations. 
In order to achieve that, we are committed 
to the continuous improvement of our 
integrated production system.
This commitment is reflected in our 
Environmental Policy , a document approved 
in 2014 that states our intentions and 
principles in relation to our environmental 
performance. In 2018 we updated 
our policy . 
In accordance with the Policy provisions, 
we have a solid environmental 
management system implemented in all 
the company’s production units. 
Over the last five years, we have certified 
our Environmental Management System 
under the ISO 14001 standard in all 
our main industrial sites. Periodical 
recertification helps us to identify 
improvement opportunities, to make sure 
we comply with the latest legal regulations, 
and to communicate our environmental 
performance to the communities where 
we operate. 
The percentage of our employees working 
in production facilities operating under a 
certified management system went down 
slightly in 2017 following the integration 
of our new plant in Rio de Janeiro. 
We aim to obtain the certification of 
the Rio plant by the end of 2018.
In 2017, the Rio plant certified its energy 
efficiency management system under the 
ISO 50001 standard. The aforementioned 
update of our Policy , formally integrates 
energy efficiency concepts and establish 
the principles for the implementation of 
energy efficiency management systems in 
all our production sites. As members of the World Steel Association 
(worldsteel), we are signatory of its 
Sustainability Policy . For over a decade, 
we have consistently submitted our 
indicators to the association’s Climate 
Action, Sustainability and Life Cycle 
Inventory programs. These programs, 
respectively , seek to measure and report 
the industry’s CO 2 emissions globally and 
provide support on the environmental 
credentials of steel to customers and users. 
In 2017, Ternium started to develop life 
cycle analyses for some of its products in 
order to elaborate Environmental Product 
Declarations (EPDs).
In addition, every year Ternium revalidates 
each steel and in-use mining facility in 
Mexico with Clean Industry certificates 
issued by Mexican environmental 
authorities. The Clean Industry standard 
is the result of an environmental voluntary 
program developed by the Mexican 
government in collaboration with EMA, a 
network of private companies and industry 
chambers that design technical standards 
and rate laboratories, inspection bodies 
and certification bodies. The standards 
set for Clean Industry certificates are in 
line with the requirements of Mexican 
environmental legislation. 
  GREEN BUILDINGS
Our production facilities in the Ternium 
Industrial Center in Pesquería, Mexico, 
have been certified under the LEED 
(Leadership in Environment and Energy 
Certification) standards of 
the US Green Building Council. 
The new galvanizing and painting lines 
currently under construction are also 
designed under those standards and 
will seek the certification. 15 EnvironmentENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
100%
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1720%
0%40%80%
60%
‘135.86.518.583.574.5% Of employees and contractors
working in registered production facilities Investments for continuous 
improvement
As part of our drive to continuously 
improve our environmental performance, 
we invest consistently in the adoption 
of best-available technologies in several 
areas. In addition, new facilities like our 
Ternium Industrial Center in Pesquería 
that is currently undergoing expansion, 
adopted best available technologies from 
the design phase. 
During 2017, our investment in 
environmental projects totaled USD 69 
million in several projects in Argentina, 
Brazil, Colombia and Mexico, and sought 
to maximize the efficient use of  energy 
resources, the re-use of by-products and 
the appropriate treatment and disposal of 
wastes, air emissions and wastewater. 
These improvement initiatives require 
significant investments in new equipment, 
such as de-dusting systems, scrap-handling 
facilities or briquetting facilities to clean 
and recycle material recovered from 
air emissions; and hydrochloric acid 
regeneration and coke-oven gas treatment 
facilities to capture re-usable by-products. 
Energy and climate
Steel is a CO 2 and energy intensive 
industry . The steel industry is responsible 
for roughly 8% of GHG (Greenhouse Gas) 
man-made emissions, but in the last half 
century the industry has reduced its energy 
consumption per ton of steel produced 
by 60%, according to the World Steel 
Association. Being infinitely recyclable, 
steel is at the heart of delivering solutions 
to many of the climate change challenges 
that the world faces.
Ternium is committed to maximize the 
energy efficiency of our processes and 
minimize our CO 2 emissions. In 2014, we launched an Energy Efficiency 
program to identify and implement 
improvements in our energy management. 
Since then, we have completed 177 projects 
that, combined, reduced our CO 2 emissions 
by 85,000 tons a year. 
Since worldsteel launched its Climate 
Action Recognition Program in 2008, 
Ternium has been collecting and reporting 
its CO 2 emissions annually . 
As an integrated steel producer, we work 
towards reducing our CO 2 footprint and 
contributing to the targets established 
by the United Nations Climate Change 
Conference (COP 21) in the countries 
where we operate. 
The steel industry has two mains routes 
of production: Blast Furnace (BF), where 
pig iron is extracted from iron ore and 
then further converted to steel in the Basic 
Oxygen Furnace (BOF), and the Electric 
Arc Furnace (EAF), which uses either direct 
reduced iron (DRI) or scrap.
After the incorporation of the Brazilian 
mill, in 2017 Ternium’s production route 
share was 63% of Basic Oxygen Furnace 
(BOF), and 37% of Electric Arc Furnace 
(30% DRI and 7% scrap). 
  CO2 CAPTURED AND REUSED 
FOR BEVERAGES
In our steel shops in Puebla and 
Guerrero, Mexico, Ternium has 
installed technology to recover 
210,000 tons of CO 2 annually. 
After processing for enhanced quality, 
the recovered CO 2 is used mainly by 
the beverage industry to manufacture 
soft drinks.ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORSTernium | Sustainability Report 2017EMISSION INTENSITY
2.0
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘170.5
0.01.01.5
‘13
Emission intensity: total CO2 
emissions (tCO2) per tonne 
of crude steel production (tCS)1.49 1.50 1.49 1.441.79ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS
ENERGY INTENSITY
22.5
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1721.0
20.020.521.522.0
‘13
Energy intensity: gigajoules 
(GJ) per tonne of crude steel 
production (tCS) 21.2321.55
21.1721.0121.66
* After integration of Rio de Janeiro slab
manufacturing facility in September 20 17TERNIUM PRODUCTION ROUTE SHARE (201 7)
EAF - DRI
30%EAF - Scrap
7%BF
63%
 17Under this production matrix and after the 
integration of our mill in Brazil, in 2017 
our average emissions reached 1.79 tons of 
CO 2 per ton of liquid steel manufactured, 
still below the world average of 1.9.
Air quality 
The steelmaking process, in all its 
routes of production, is intensive in 
the generation of particulate material, 
nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides.
We acknowledge that these emissions 
are among the main concerns of the 
communities where we operate, and 
we have established systems to monitor 
them and actions to reduce our air 
pollution footprint.
Over the last five years, we have made 
investments for over USD 60 million to 
improve the capture and treatment of 
air emissions especially in our Guerrero 
and Apodaca mills in Mexico and our 
Manizales mill in Colombia. 
The facilities installed allow for the 
treatment of 5.4 million cubic meters 
per hour in the case of Guerrero, 300,000 
cubic meters per hour in the case 
of Apodaca and of 470,000 cubic meters 
per hour in the case of Manizales. In 2018, 
we plan to complete the commissioning 
of a similar system in our plant in Puebla, 
Mexico. In our General Savio plant in 
Argentina, meanwhile, we are enhancing 
the entire primary and secondary 
de-dusting systems in the steel shop.
Water management
Water is a scarce resource and we are 
committed to use it responsibly . 
Our water management is designed in 
accordance with the different contexts 
in which we operate. Over the last few years, we carried out a 
series of investments to incorporate best 
available technologies in the management 
of water, including a zero discharge 
treatment plant in our industrial center 
in Pesquería, municipal sewage water 
treatment plants in our facilities in 
Churubusco and Pesquería in order to 
incorporate it to our production process, 
and the closing of the gas scrubbing circuit 
of the Blast Furnace 2 in Planta Savio, 
in Argentina. 
Material efficiency
Steel can be recycled infinitely without 
losing any of its properties, and it is 
the most recycled material in the world. 
By recycling steel we also save iron ore, 
energy , coal and other materials, produce 
less CO 2 emissions and prevent useful 
material from ending up in landfill as 
waste. In 2017 we recycled 2 million tons 
of post consumer scrap.
Ternium is committed to introducing 
circular economy concepts in its 
production process, and maximize the 
efficiency of our use of materials and 
reduce the amount of materials sent 
to landfill.
Our material efficiency has remained 
steady at above 99% over the last five 
years, and the amount of co-products 
produced from our production process 
increased significantly in 2017.
Our co-products are used in the cement, 
chemical, plastic and construction 
industries, among others.
In 2017 we also registered an increase 
in the level of waste that our production 
facilities generated, attributed to the 
integration of our new plant in Brazil.  STEEL AND BIODIVERSITY
Ternium is engaged in a number of 
projects to promote biodiversity in the 
locations where we have our operations 
and beyond. 
In Pesquería, Mexico, 
we created a 99-hectare natural 
reserve in the vicinity of our Industrial 
Center to preserve more than 50,000 
specimens of native flora and fauna. In 
2016, the reserve obtained recognition 
from the Nuevo León Flora and Fauna 
Council. In the state of Colima, where 
we carry out mining activities, we join 
local reforest efforts. 
In Argentina, we participated along 
with our sister companies Tenaris and 
Tecpetrol in the Techint Group in a 
project to establish a breeding center 
for endangered yaguaretés (jaguars) in 
the province of Corrientes. The project 
seeks to bring the jaguars back to the 
Iberá, where they originally belong. The 
first jaguars to arrive come from zoos. 
Their offspring will be retrained so that 
they can hunt and be reintroduced 
into their natural habitat. Tenaris and 
Tecpetrol provided seamless steel 
tubes to serve as posts, and Ternium
donated flat galvanized sheets for 
the fences.
Environment
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017MATERIAL EFFICIENCY
100%
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1740%
0%20%60%80%
‘13
Ternium material 
efficiency (%)99.76 99.80 99.7799.7299.68CO-PRODUCTS (T)
3
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘171
-0.51.52.5
29
3
-2
148
7
6
5
‘13
Co-productsMillion tons 
by-productsMillion tons
CS production
Crude steel
(CS)
WASTE
40
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1715
-510202535
309
3
-2
148
7
6
5
‘13Thousands 
of tons waste
WasteMillion tons crude 
steel (CS) production
CS productionENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 19Ternium is an integrated steel company committed on preserving the environment. 
Its goal is to achieve the highest standards in environmental and energy performance as 
a basis for sustainable development throughout its operations in regards to company 
employees, the community and future generations. The company has committed to 
develop a high-quality performance integrated and eco-efficient production system based 
on continuous improvement.
Caring for the environment is a fundamental value, and it’s principles are the following:
• Compliance with the applicable legislation, as well as any voluntary agreements in
 relation to environmental protection  and energy use, consumption and efficiency .
• All levels in each area, throughout the chain of command, are responsible for the results
 of environmental protection.
• The commitment of all our personnel is essential, as is the training provided.
• Environmental protection and energy efficiency are responsibilities of Ternium’s staff 
 as well as its subsidiaries, suppliers and contractor personnel.
• Environmental and energy components are an integral part of the company’s
 management processes.
• Continuous improvement in environmental and energy performance is actively
 promoted through the company , in addition  to all the efforts necessary to achieve 
 the objectives and established goals. 
• Pollution must be prevented at the source, controlling the most significant
 environmental aspects of our operations and minimizing their impacts and risks.
• Promoting the acquisition of energy efficient products, technologies, services and
 implementing projects that enhance our energy performance.
• Use energy and natural resources efficiently . 
• Encourage the use of best technologies and practices, as well as renewable energies,
 when feasible.
• In each company , everyone is responsible for environmental and energy management:
• The company supplies the means and resources to enable compliance with this policy ,
 thereby supporting the sustainability of all operations, depending on the operations
 context.
• All persons entering company facilities, such as own personnel, suppliers, contractors
 and customers, must comply with  this Policy .
The company seeks to share these principles throughout its value chain and across the 
communities where it operates,  to promote the protection of the environment, encourage 
the efficient use and consumption of energy resources and foster an open dialogue with 
stakeholders.
This Policy applies to Ternium and its subsidiaries. It will be actively disseminated with 
a view to ensuring compliance throughout the organization.
Máximo V edoya
CEO Ternium
EnvironmentTernium | Sustainability Report 2017 21
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017The properties inherent to steel are what 
make innovation possible: over 70% of the 
structural steel parts used to build a car 
today involves solutions that simply did 
not exist 20 years ago. Ternium’s corporate 
production strategy is based on offering a 
complete range of value-added, high-end 
products, with an emphasis on creating and 
manufacturing increasingly sophisticated 
steel for groundbreaking applications and 
new industries.
Ternium works to stay up-to-date with 
the latest technological advances in 
product development and industrial 
processes, strengthening its partnership 
with customers by promoting digital 
transformation and integrating the online 
value chain. Innovation in these areas is 
a vital aspect of differentiation, as the 
company’s commercial strategy targets 
highly demanding industries, such as the 
automobile and housing appliances sectors.
Over the last five years, Ternium has 
invested over USD 40 million in research 
activities. In 2016, the Mexican edition 
of Forbes magazine placed Ternium 
among the top 10 of the most innovative 
companies in the country . 
The inauguration of the Ternium Industrial 
Center in Pesqueria, Nuevo Leon, Mexico, 
in 2013 saw the start of an intensive process 
to develop new products and provide 
customers with more effective technological 
assistance. As its customers’ market share 
in the industrial sector rises, Ternium has 
identified ways to partner with them in the 
early stages of their projects in order to 
find better synergies. 
Over the last five years, Ternium has 
received almost 400 certifications from 
the automobile industry , and in 2017 the 
company was admitted to WorldAutoSteel, 
an organization comprising 22 of 
the world’s major steel producers. The group is dedicated to advancing and 
communicating steel’s ability to meet the 
automotive industry’s needs under the
 aegis of the World Steel Association. 
Ternium’s research program is open 
to a broad-based international network 
of industry consortiums, with over 
50 universities and research laboratories 
taking part from both the public and 
private sectors. The goal is to find and 
develop the best solutions to support an 
agenda aimed at achieving better and 
more sustainable steel. The research spans 
the entire production cycle, from primary 
steelmaking and metallurgy , to rolling 
and galvanizing. Over the last five years, 
Ternium has achieved an average of 
100 product developments projects a year 
in partnership with industrial customers, 
and a total of 40 research projects 
involving university researchers and 
students from some of the world’s most 
prestigious institutions.
Although the industrial sector, particularly 
the automobile industry , is heading up 
innovation in the steel industry , Ternium 
also seeks to introduce new products for 
construction customers, such as wood-
resembling panels, metal roof tiles and 
sides showcasing original designs and 
colors, and innovative antibacterial 
products for cold chamber panels, among 
other applications.
Ternium believes that staying up-to-
date with the fast-paced changes in 
technology means consolidating a 
culture of innovation throughout the 
organization. In 2017, the company 
held the second edition of its internal 
Innova TX (Ternium Innovates) program, 
which encourages employees to work 
together in groups to develop new ideas 
for improving the way the company does 
things in four main areas: Quality , Work 
Environment, Productivity and Safety .  23After being reviewed by a committee, the 
ideas presented by the winning team are 
implemented.
A digital transformation process
Ternium has launched a process 
of continuous digital transformation 
in order to make the most of the business 
advantages offered by the disruptive 
information and exponential technologies 
in vogue today .
The process involves three stages: 
1) bringing the company online in real 
time, 2) extending the benefits of real-
time information management to its 
value chain, and 3) moving toward the 
construction of a S.M.A.R.T . factory 
(the acronym for Social, Mobile, Analytics, 
Robotics and Internet of Things).
Prior to the greenfield construction of the 
Industrial Center in Pesqueria, Ternium’s 
growth strategy was largely based on 
acquisitions. Integration into the company 
required a complex process of system 
updates that, in the case of the Mexican 
mills acquired by Ternium (Hylsa and Imsa 
in 2005 and 2007, respectively) implied 
merging 28 different systems into one.
After this process finalized, the company 
began extending its digital tools to 
suppliers and customers to enable the 
integration of their processes with those 
of Ternium. A digital marketplace called 
Webservice was launched, and today , over 
80% of the company’s customers in the 
commercial sector use the tool as a way 
of achieving efficient interaction. 
The Webservice has 75 functions covering 
the entire business relationship with 
customers, including mobile product 
catalogs, order placement (end-to-end 
orders, sale from stock, or bidding and 
auction), production and inventory 
monitoring, transportation tracking and payment through a direct connection 
with banks.
In May 2017, after a two-year preparation 
process, the company certified its IT 
system under the ISO 20000 standard, 
the international Service Management 
Standard describing the processes and 
functions aligning IT with organizational 
goals. Follow-up audits under the 
certification process are taking place in 
2018 and 2019, and every two years after 
that. The certification has allowed the 
company to optimize costs, resources and 
processes, enhance customer satisfaction, 
strengthen the measurement of the IT 
system performance, comply with multiple 
regulations more efficiently , and increase 
overall business competitiveness.
During 2017, a number of technological 
projects were implemented to make 
Ternium a SMAR T company , improving 
productivity , efficiency and safety . 
Over 1,000 employees in the industrial and 
commercial areas are now equipped with 
mobile devices enabling them to perform 
all their tasks and workflows on site 
and/or remotely .
In the area of safety , substantial progress 
has been made using drone technology to 
replace human inspection at height and 
minimize the risks inherent to this task. 
We are installing video analytics on 
600 cameras to track operations in our 
Argentine and Mexican facilities, as the 
platform for the adoption of an early alarm 
system. The objective is to achieve the 
early detection of plant deviations and 
prevent accidents. 
Other projects that are vital for improving 
safety and productivity are virtual reality 
for training, augmented reality for remote 
assistance, 3D printing and 3D scanning. 
We have specific projects to advance on 
each of these areas. 
Innovation
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CERTIFICATIONS
500
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17100
0200400
300
‘13
Number of certifications 
approved131286363397
69
INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH
12.0
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘172.0
0.04.08.010.0
6.0
‘13
Investment in researchIn USD million
7.6
6.29.29.8
8INNOVATION INDICATORSIn May 2018, the company received 
an RFID project award granted by the 
US-based RFID Journal in the category 
of Best Logistics/Supply Chain RFID 
Implementation. Ternium’s RFID project 
identifies and tracks each coil from 
the moment it reaches the yards until 
shipment, making inspections easier, 
improving inspector safety and reducing 
operations timeframes. The tracking 
system has already been implemented in 
five yards in Mexico and is undergoing 
implementation in another 12 yards in 
Mexico and Argentina.
What’s next? Our goal in the coming years 
is to deepen and extend this S.M.A.R.T 
concept throughout our industrial system 
without neglecting the day-to-day control 
and operations. We will work towards 
implementing digital transformation across 
all processes, and, like in any process, in 
stages. Each stage is a necessary building 
block for the next one. The progress we 
have made on this field makes us ready to 
stay up to date with the fast-moving pace 
of technology in our time. 25At Ternium, we are committed to high quality standards for our products and services. 
We recognize that complying with our customers and exceeding their expectations are 
responsibilities of the entire organization.
As a part of this policy , Ternium commits to:
• Implement and continuously improve the Quality Management System to provide
 excellent products and services.
• Maintain transparent communication with our customers, measure their level 
 of satisfaction and establish mutually beneficial relationships to ensure 
 the competitiveness and profitability of the Company .
• Generate reliable long-term relationships with our suppliers, assessing the quality 
 of their products and services.
• Promote an organizational culture that prioritizes planning, integration, quality 
 of life and safety of our personnel, as well as the well-being of local communities 
 and the preservation of the environment.
• Assess, train and motivate our employees on an ongoing basis.
• Review , communicate and ensure the application of this Quality Policy throughout 
 the organization.
Máximo V edoya
CEO Ternium
InnovationTernium | Sustainability Report 2017 27
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017Ternium has become a steel market leader 
in the Americas, consolidating its position 
thanks to the commitment, hard work, 
skills and innovation of a highly qualified 
and diverse team, which is its main asset. 
In 2017, the Ternium team grew by 27% 
to reach over 21,000 people across the 
Americas with the incorporation of 
over 4,000 employees at the new plant 
in Rio de Janeiro. The Brazilian team 
has brought greater diversity into the 
company , integrating practices, systems and 
procedures in record time.
The talent and determination of Ternium’s 
people will be a defining factor in the shape 
of the company’s growth over the coming 
years, as it embarks upon a new stage of 
expansion. 
The company’s Human Resources 
policy is focused on managing talent and 
attracting, retaining and helping motivated 
professionals to develop their careers. 
Ternium is an equal opportunity employer 
and embraces diversity in all its forms, 
gender, age, ethnicity , race, creed or 
nationality , on the understanding that 
diverse points of view and perspectives 
contribute to the rational solution of 
problems and the effective accomplishment 
of team goals. 
Over the years, we have grown increasingly 
diverse and we will continue to welcome 
and adopt new and different points of view . 
A total of 30 nationalities are represented 
among our staff. We are currently working 
on formalizing this commitment with the 
launching of a Diversity program.
The company’s Code of Conduct forbids 
unlawful discrimination in employment 
relations and grants all persons the 
right to apply for a position in Ternium 
or be considered for a new position in accordance with the commensurate 
skills requirements. In the first quarter 
of 2018, the company held its periodic 
employee opinion survey polling 16,747 
people working at each of our operations. 
As in previous editions (2006, 2008, 
2010, 2012 and 2015), the international 
consultancy firm Willis T owers Watson, 
was commissioned to conduct the salaried 
employees survey in order to guarantee 
confidentiality . The overall rate of response 
among salaried and hourly employees 
reached 88%. Some of the highlights of the 
results include:
• Among the hourly employees, 96% 
expressed overall satisfaction and 97% said 
they were proud to be working at Ternium. 
This is the second edition of the hourly 
employees’ survey (2015, 2018)
• 87% of salaried employees expressed 
overall satisfaction and 95% said they 
were proud to be working at Ternium. 
The company is now developing corporate 
and regional action plans based on the 
results of the survey to tackle those areas 
singled out for improvement.
Development and training
The company’s constant pursuit of 
excellence in its operations requires teams 
to grow and develop in the quest for 
continuous improvement and innovation, 
and training is the principal tool used to 
achieve this. Over the last five years, each 
salaried employee has received an average 
of 40 hours of training per year, while 
each hourly employee has had an average 
of 103 hours of annual training, including 
on-the-job formation. The program 
spans a person’s entire career from young 
professional to management levels.
More recently , the company has begun to 
focus on training and developing its leaders 
and supervisors.  2916,78816,91916,73916,72521,255HEADCOUNT
25
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘175
01020
15
‘133.7In thousands of peopleSALARIED EMPLOYEES BY GENDER
5
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘171
024
3
‘13
Female Male2,5002,383926
2,326 2,296891875 8531120
2,911In thousands of people
Colombia
7%Guatemala
1%Others
2%Brazil
19%Argentina
27%Mexico
44%EMPLOYEES BY NATIONALITY (DEC. 2017)
HR INDICATORS
Human resourcesTernium | Sustainability Report 2017In 2017, supervisors received an average 
of 119 hours’ training, accounting for 
roughly 5% of this segment’s total working 
hours during the course of the year. In 
2018, the “Elements of the Supervisor’s 
Role” course received the Excellence in 
Practice Award from the Association for 
Talent Development (ATD); over 950 
supervisors have taken part in the 40-hour 
course since it was launched in 2015.
Dedicated training has been provided 
for the company’s current and future 
leaders since 2014 through the Leaders’ 
Development Program (PDL, for its 
acronym in Spanish), a course designed to 
enhance middle management leadership 
skills as executives progress in their careers. 
Roughly half the company’s middle–level 
managers have benefited so far from the 
program, which has garnered 100% of 
positive recommendations from all the 
program’s participants.
In 2017, with the addition of a new feature 
to the program, the first edition of a 
leadership course for managers was held, a 
joint effort between the EGADE Business 
School of Monterrey’s TEC in Mexico and 
the T orcuato Di Tella University in Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. The first line-up for the 
managerial stage of the program involved 
20 participants from Argentina and 24 
from Mexico. 
In the search for excellence, we are 
working toward restructuring our learning 
model in order to foster accountability 
among learners as responsible for their 
own development. 
Performance management
The company believes in enhancing its 
employees’ working experience from 
the moment they join the company and 
throughout their careers. The performance 
management system is an important aspect of our Human Resources policy , 
and efforts are continuously being made 
to ensure it is as transparent as possible. 
The aim is to enhance the relationship 
between employees and their supervisors, 
ensuring that everyone’s goals are aligned 
with the company’s objectives. This is 
a key component of the performance 
management evaluation process, as it 
guarantees transparency and fairness in 
the assessment of each employee’s work 
throughout year. 
Over the years, the company has sought to 
consolidate a 360-degree approach to the 
evaluation of its people. The performance 
management process functions on an 
annual cycle by setting measurable 
objectives which include input from a 
range of different sources: employee self-
assessments, internal customer-supplier 
appraisals, evaluation committees and 
feedback stages, as well as a mid-year 
review . Since the option for employees to 
provide upward feedback concerning their 
supervisors was introduced in 2013, the 
number of people providing feedback - 
which is confidential and only accessible to 
the supervisor’s supervisor - has increased 
from 50% to 77%, a clear indication that 
the system is gaining credibility .
During 2018, the company has continued to 
introduce features designed to improve the 
performance management system in order 
to give employees more options to provide 
and receive evaluations. These changes 
include the possibility of submitting 
spontaneous client-supplier opinions related 
to specific objectives, and the introduction 
of more clearly-worded descriptions for the 
upward feedback review stage. 31HOURS OF TRAINING PER SALARIED EMPLOYEE
60
50
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1720
0103040
‘1335 3753
42
33Hours of training per yearHOURS OF TRAINING PER HOURLY EMPLOYEE
140
120
100
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1740
0206080
‘1379111 112120
94Hours of training per year
100%
80%
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1740%
0%20%60%
‘1374%85%89%93% 94%UPWARD FEEDBACK
Supervisor with at least one evaluationUPWARD FEEDBACK
100%
80%
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1740%
0%20%60%
‘1350%64% 64%72%77%% of employees that evaluated their supervisor
5
‘16 ‘171234
‘153.9
2.22.7RESIGNATION RATEHR INDICATORS
Human resourcesHOURS OF TRAINING PER SUPERVISOR
140
120
100
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1740
0206080
‘13434876
67119Hours of training per yearTernium | Sustainability Report 2017 33
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017Ternium believes that an industrial project 
such as the one it pursues must grow in 
tandem with the communities where it 
operates. Ternium’s community , program 
as described in a dedicated chapter 
of this report, places major emphasis 
on education, and technical education 
in particular. 
The small and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs) making up Ternium’s value 
chain are key players for the social 
integration of its communities, as they 
generate an average of 70% of the jobs 
in the local environment. The market in 
Latin America is subject to periods of 
economic volatility and the industrial 
value chain needs to be prepared and able 
to withstand the difficulties presented by 
such conditions. Ternium believes that its 
role as a large industrial project is to work 
with small and medium-sized businesses to 
enhance their professional, management 
and financial capabilities, and help them 
integrate competitively in both domestic 
and foreign markets.
The company’s ProPymes program was 
first launched in Argentina in 2002, named 
after the Spanish language acronym Pyme, 
which stands for small and medium-sized 
enterprise. In Mexico, the program was 
introduced four years later. ProPymes 
institutionalizes cooperation between 
Ternium and the company’s small and 
medium-sized customers and suppliers. In 
2017, the program provided assistance and 
training to some 1,500 SMEs in Mexico 
and Argentina. 
The initiative seeks to improve the 
quality of management structures and 
effectiveness among the SMEs taking part, 
helping them to make their investments 
as productive as possible, promoting 
their exporting capacity and encouraging 
efficient market import substitution. 
The program offers a variety of services, including training, industrial assistance, 
institutional assistance, commercial 
support and financial aid. Over the 
years, ProPymes has helped to create 
an industrial network which actively 
promotes professionalization and 
excellence in the SME sector. 
The program offers in-house training, or 
courses at universities or business schools, 
with a curriculum designed to meet the 
increasingly sophisticated range of needs 
facing SMEs. The course contents are 
continuously updated and broadened 
to keep pace with the expanding 
requirements of managers and their 
salaried and hourly employees. 
In Argentina in 2017, ProPymes delivered 
56,311 hours of training to over 3,700 
people. In Mexico, over 2,300 people have 
been trained since the program 
was launched.
The company’s industrial assistance 
programs cover areas such as the use 
of automation technology , production 
facility optimization, the development 
of environmental, health and safety 
protocols, and human resources 
management.
The institutional assistance program helps 
SMEs to develop strategies to help them 
compete more successfully in the local 
market, in the context of the potential 
threat represented by unfairly-traded 
imports affecting the markets as a whole. 
Tactics include actions to set up industry 
chambers, the development of technical 
standards for industrial products, and 
institutional initiatives aimed at fostering 
competitiveness among SMEs. 
Commercial support initiatives in Mexico 
are geared towards fostering commercial 
relations between SMEs and potential 
customers in the automotive sector as 
well as other industries in Ternium’s  35value chain. In addition, the company 
provides assistance to help SMEs complete 
the processes required to become a 
supplier of a large company and make 
the most of opportunities to leverage 
the Techint Group’s global commercial 
offices network in order to enhance market 
reach. The financial assistance program 
provides advice on investments to improve 
productivity and increase installed capacity , 
taking advantage of government-sponsored 
low-cost financing instruments.
In Argentina the program has financed 
industrial investment projects for USD 
63.9 million since 2002. In Mexico, it has 
financed projects for USD 37 million.
Advancing the SME agenda
The ProPymes program plays an important 
role in advancing the SME policy agenda in 
Argentina and Mexico. 
Ternium organizes major events under 
the auspices of the ProPymes initiative, 
bringing SME representatives together 
with government officials, economists and 
journalists to discuss the sector’s economic 
context and outlook. In Argentina, the 
event is held in December and features 
several panels designed to allow SME 
executives to share their experiences and 
learnings. In Mexico, the first ProPymes 
biennial event was held in 2015, showcasing 
awards for SMEs excelling in areas such as 
industrial safety , logistics services, delivery , 
raw materials handling and overall services. 
The occasion also included a Supplier 
of the Y ear award.
In 2017, the Argentine government 
launched the “Ecosistema Pyme” program 
(SME Ecosystem) which uses the ProPymes 
program as a model to be replicated by 
other large companies in the management 
of their value chains.In Argentina, the 
stories of SMEs that are part of Ternium’s 
ProPymes program appeared in video SME S ASSISTED - ARGENTINA AND MEXICO
400
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘1750100200
0150300350
250
‘13
Industrial 
assistance
ArgentinaIndustrial 
assistance
Mexic o2890107132 128147125184179229
stories published by La Nación, one 
of the country’s largest media groups. 
 The founders and owners are featured 
talking about how their companies started 
and grew , the difficulties they had to 
overcome, and the potential they envisage 
for the future. The video-stories were 
published on La Nación’s web platform 
and have been widely circulated on 
social media. 
In 2017, Mexico’s Automotive Industry 
Cluster (CLAUT) gave ProPymes the 
CLAUT 2017 Award for the best Supplier 
Development program, while in Argentina, 
the program has been nominated to 
compete for the prestigious Konex Award 
in the “Business and Community” category 
in September 2018.PROPYMES INDICATORS
The value chain: ProPymes programTernium | Sustainability Report 2017 37
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017Our community program reflects the values 
and heritage of our corporate family , the 
Techint Group, whose industrial history 
spans seventy years of activity . 
The underlying premise for our community 
work is that the long-term success of an 
industrial project depends on the support it 
receives from the community around it 
and on its ability to grow together with 
its neighbors. 
Our programs seek to promote a culture of 
effort, diversity and social mobility , and over 
the years, we have focused our community 
work on two key areas: education and 
culture. Since 2011, we have designed and 
implemented eight global programs in these 
areas, which we have replicated at all the 
locations where we operate, adapting to 
local particularities when necessary . 
Our total investment in community 
programs has totaled over USD 54 million 
over the last five years. In 2017, we invested 
USD 12.4 million, 64% of the total, in 
education. Our flagship educational project 
is the Roberto Rocca Technical School 
(ETRR, for its acronym in Spanish), a 
network of technical schools sponsored by 
the Techint Group; we have invested USD 30 
million in the project since its inauguration 
in Pesquería, Mexico, in 2014.
Our technical school
Our education programs span the entire 
school cycle, from elementary to higher 
education, in the knowledge that the 
steel manufacturing industry seeks to 
employ skilled employees who need a solid 
education all the way through to tertiary 
level. 
Latin America is one of the world’s most 
unequal regions and access to quality 
education is extremely limited in many 
areas. This landscape of economic and social inequality is exemplified in the 
lack of technicians and professionals 
capable of responding to industry needs. 
Manufacturing today demands experts 
with increasingly more sophisticated skills 
and knowledge, all part of a process of 
technological transformation known as 
Industry 4.0.
In 2016, we opened the Roberto Rocca 
Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico. 
Our sister company in the Techint Group, 
Tenaris, had opened the first Roberto Rocca 
school in Campana, Argentina, in 2013.  
These modern schools are the spearhead 
of an international educational network 
geared towards providing a high-quality 
technical education which enshrines our 
industrial values of progress, quality , merit, 
and effort. 
By December 2017, 248 young people 
were studying at the Pesquería school, 
which is reaching full capacity in 2018 
with an intake of 384 students. Offering 
two specializations, Mechatronics and 
Electromechanics, the school’s first cohort 
will graduate by mid-2019 after three 
years of study . Every student in the school 
is there thanks to a scholarship which 
covers from 50% to 100% of their tuition 
fees, according to their socio-economic 
background. We have invited other 
companies in the state of Nuevo León to 
join efforts to fund scholarships for current 
and future students. The list of sponsor 
companies already includes Kia Motors, 
Corporativo Alfa (and its affiliates Nemak, 
Sigma, Alpek, Axtel and Newpek), Festo 
and Techgen. 
The Pesquería Roberto Rocca Technical 
School is fully equipped with state-of-the-
art laboratories and classrooms, and the 
building itself was issued with the gold 
category of the LEED environmental 
certification awarded by the US Green 
Building Council. 39The schools aim to help students 
acquire the tools needed to succeed in an 
increasingly competitive international 
labor and academic environment. In order 
to help them achieve their goals, we are 
implementing a Project Based Learning 
methodology in technical classes as an 
innovative way of learning and developing 
teamwork and leadership skills.
The first two academic years of the 
Pesquería school yielded good academic 
and attendance results. In 2017, students 
attended on average 96% of the classes and 
70% of the students passed all their subjects 
without any retakes. 
The ETRRs hold standardized testing for 
math, reading and socio-emotional skills 
which include items from the Programme 
for International Student Assessment 
(PISA) Math and Reading tests. The ETRR 
students performed better in terms of the 
overall percentage of correct answers than 
the average for Mexico, and in math they 
scored higher on average than their peers in 
OECD countries. Three students from the 
Pesquería school were recognized for their 
outstanding performance in the Olympics 
of Knowledge and received an award from 
the President of Mexico. Our students also 
participated in the national competition 
which is part of the World Educational 
Robot Contest.
At Ternium, we have developed another 
flagship program designed to support 
technical education. The Technical Gene 
program seeks to narrow the gap between 
the technical skills required by industry 
and the national school curriculum by 
supporting several state-run technical 
schools near our facilities.
The program provides training to students 
and teachers at the schools and technical 
internships at the mills. We also provide 
technical training for teachers and support for school management. During 2017, the 
program provided 360 training hours to 
teachers, 6,330 training hours to students, 
and 138 students performed 27,600 hours 
of internships in our mills. Through 
the program, we are funding plans for 
infrastructure expansion and improvements, 
and helping schools to purchase new 
equipment or upgrade existing materials. 
Education at all levels
Although our focus is on technical 
education, we also support education 
at elementary and higher levels.
After school program
The After School program offers three extra 
hours of non-formal education, four days 
a week, in addition to the four hours of 
daily formal schooling most children 
receive. During 2017, 252 children attended 
our programs in Monterrey , Mexico, 
and San Nicolás/Ramallo in Argentina. 
Children have to attend at least 70 percent 
of the classes in the program in order to 
qualify as regular students, and following a 
drive to improve attendance rates, these rose 
from 31% in 2014 to 84% in 2017.
Merit awards
The Merit Awards were founded in 1976 
by the Techint Group in Argentina, making 
this the company’s longest-lasting program. 
Initially designed to benefit the children of 
our employees, it was opened in 2007 to the 
entire community and focuses on fostering 
academic excellence at high-school level. 
In 2017, we awarded over 400 scholarships 
as part of the program, based on its 
original criteria of academic performance, 
attendance and commitment to the 
educational process through good behavior.
 
Community  STEEL UNITING COMMUNITIES 
Toni Rüttiman has literally been 
bridging the gap in the lives of more 
than one million people in Latin 
America and Southeast Asia for over 
three decades. He builds suspension 
bridges in remote locations with 
the collaboration and work of the 
local community benefiting from 
the initiative, using steel and pipes 
donated by Ternium and Tenaris.
Beat Anton Rüttiman, known as Toni, 
is a Swiss national who launched his 
bridge-building mission after visiting 
Ecuador in the aftermath of the 
1987 earthquake that left dozens of 
villages stranded and cut-off. Since 
then, he has not only erected 308 
bridges in this mountainous country, 
but also expanded his mission to 
help communities in the rest of Latin 
America and also in Southeast Asia. 
To-date, he has built more than 779 
bridges in 13 different countries. 
"Over the years, the quality of the 
bridges has also improved substantially 
as a result of the good condition of the 
materials donated,” Mr. Rüttiman says. 
In 2017 Ternium continued supporting 
Toni’s mission with the donation of 
101 tons of steel from the Savio plant 
in Argentina. Some 20% of the bridges 
he has built over the years are made 
with steel plates provided by Ternium.Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017Roberto Rocca Education Program 
We also continued to award fellowships 
and scholarships under the Roberto Rocca 
Education Program, which started in 
2005 and seeks to promote the study of 
engineering and the applied sciences at 
undergraduate and graduate level in the 
countries where we have a major presence. 
In 2017, the program funded 18 fellowships 
for students pursuing PhDs and 239 
scholarships for undergraduate students.
Volunteers in action
The company’s volunteer program is a vital 
part of the long-term relationship it seeks 
to build with the communities where it 
lives and works. Employees are encouraged 
to become involved in activities ranging 
from painting and repairing schools, to 
cleaning and improving public spaces and 
mentoring school children. V olunteers 
help schools or other institutions to 
improve their infrastructure, as well as 
furnishings and paint work, in addition 
to other community tasks. In 2017, a total 
of 289 employees and 968 members of the 
Ternium communities (a total of 1,257) 
gave 9,709 hours of their time to work on 
16 volunteering actions organized by the 
company . In 2018, we will be undertaking 
our first volunteering activities in Brazil 
following the integration of the company’s 
new plant in Rio de Janeiro.
We have also coordinated help for crisis 
situations in our communities. 
In January 2017, after the neighborhood 
of La Emilia near our Savio Plant in 
Argentina was affected by severe flooding, 
Ternium coordinated immediate help 
for the victims. In September 2017, 
the company organized a fund-raising 
collection and matched the funds raised 
by employees to provide much-needed 
assistance in the wake of the two 
earthquakes in southern Mexico. Arts and culture for diversity 
and integration
Ternium’s Art and Culture programs, 
which are in line with those of the Techint 
Group, aim to bring the company’s diverse 
cultures together as well reinforce the 
identity of each community .
T wo key Ternium cultural initiatives are 
the Film Festival and the Photo Library .
The Film Festival introduces employees 
and the community to movies made by 
independent filmmakers from the countries 
where we have a presence. In 2017, we held 
four film festivals at locations in Argentina 
and Mexico, attended in total by over 
15,000 people. En San Nicolás, Argentina, 
Ternium also sponsors and organizes along 
with the PROA Foundation the “Ternium 
Cultural program” at the local Rafael 
de Aguiar theater.
The Photo Library is a way of honoring the 
history and tradition of the communities 
by preserving and sharing their visual 
memoirs. In a joint effort with community 
organizations, our curators source and 
compile historic photos into digital 
archives, painting a unique portrait of the 
past and present of these communities. As 
of 2017, the Photo Libraries in the cities 
of San Nicolás, Argentina, and Monterrey , 
Mexico, had digitalized over 20,000 images.
Sports and a healthy lifestyle
As part of our drive to promote a healthy 
lifestyle, Ternium organizes annual 10k 
runs in its main locations. In 2017, more 
than 4,000 people participated in the 13th 
annual edition of the Ternium 10k race in 
San Nicolás, Argentina; 5,000 in the 9th 
annual edition of the race in Monterrey , 
Mexico; and over 1,500 in Colima, Mexico, 
where we have our mining operations. 
The proceedings from the San Nicolás race 
(plus a matching fund from the company) 
are donated to a local hospital. 41
TECHNICAL GENE - TEACHERS TRAINED
250
50100200
0150
Ensenada/Berisso
San Nicolas/Ramallo
Monterrey
149
767671
88
‘16 ‘17 ‘15
88
44
7676
TECHNICAL GENE - STUDENTS TRAINED
2500
50010002000
01500
Ensenada/Berisso
San Nicolas/Ramallo
Monterrey
623
388932 707
‘16 ‘17 ‘15
1818
8971144
2525
2121AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM - STUDENTS
San Nicolas/Ramallo
Monterrey1271209498
69
‘16 ‘17 ‘15154Students attending the program regularlyCOMMUNITY INDICATORS
INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY PROJECTS
25.0
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘175.010.020.0
0.00 M15.0
‘13
Investment
in ETRR
Pesquerí aRegular
investment3.34.45.24.87.32.43.018.9
5.3In million USDINVESTMENT IN EDUCATION PROJECT
25.0
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘175.010.020.0
0.00 M15.0
‘13
Investment
in ETRR
Pesquerí aRegular
investment2.12.73.1 3.34.72.43.018.9
5.3
* In 2016 a significant portion of our investment 
went to the construction and inauguration 
of the Roberto Rocca Technical School 
in Pesquería, Mexico. In million USD
CommunityIn Monterrey , Mexico, Ternium also 
manages the Nova clinical center. 
For over a decade, the company has joined 
with local authorities to organize in 
Monterrey and in other locations where 
it has operations annual health fairs to 
raise awareness among its employees, 
their families and the entire community 
about the importance of leading a healthy 
lifestyle. More than 4,000 people attended 
the 2017 edition of the Monterrey fair. 
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017 43
Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017Ternium S.A. was formed as a public 
limited liability company (société 
anonyme), subject to the laws of 
the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. 
The Company holds a controlling interest 
in steel companies operating in Latin 
America and the southern United States. 
San Faustín S.A., the holding company 
of the Techint Group, an international 
group of companies, has a 62% stake in 
Ternium. San Faustín also has controlling 
interests in Tenaris, a global supplier of 
steel pipes providing related services mainly 
for the energy industry which itself holds 
an additional 11% interest in Ternium; 
Tecpetrol, an oil and gas company; Techint, 
an engineering and construction company; 
Tenova, which supplies equipment and 
technology for the metals and mining 
industries; and Humanitas, a network 
of hospitals in Italy . 
The Company has an authorized share 
capital of a single class of 3.5 billion 
shares with a nominal value of USD 1.00 
per share. The general extraordinary 
meeting of shareholders held on May 
6, 2015, renewed the validity of the 
Company’s authorized share capital until 
2020. As of December 31, 2017, there 
were 2,004,743,442 shares issued and 
outstanding, of which 41,666,666 are held 
in the Company’s treasury . The Company’s 
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) are 
listed on the New Y ork Stock Exchange. 
Each ADS represents ten shares. 
The Company’s board of directors is 
currently comprised of eight directors, 
of whom three are independent according 
to the articles of association and SEC 
regulations applicable to foreign private 
issuers. The board of directors has an  
audit committee consisting of three 
independent members. 
Its charter defines the audit committee’s 
purpose and duties, which include 
the responsibility to review material transactions with related parties to 
determine whether their terms are 
consistent with market conditions or 
are otherwise fair to the Company and/
or its subsidiaries. In addition, the audit 
committee reports to the board of directors 
concerning the adequacy of internal 
controls over financial reporting. 
Commitment to transparency
Ternium has adopted a Code of Conduct 
incorporating guidelines and standards 
of integrity and transparency applicable
to all directors, officers and employees. 
In addition, it has adopted a Code of Ethics 
for Senior Financial Officers, a Business 
Conduct Policy , a Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers, a Securities T rading Policy 
and a Human Rights Policy . 
Ternium‘s internal audit area reports  
both to the Chairman of the Board 
of Directors and to the Audit Committee 
as regards internal control over financial 
reporting. The internal audit area  
evaluates and confirms the effectiveness  
of control processes, risk management  
and governance. Ternium has also 
established a web-based anonymous 
Compliance Line for employees, suppliers 
and third parties to report any situations 
contrary to the Code of Conduct.  
The Compliance Line operates according 
to the procedures designed by the internal 
audit area. 
Reporting to the CEO, Ternium’s Internal 
Control and Business Conduct Compliance 
Officer is responsible for identifying and 
mitigating corruption risks and fostering a 
culture of ethical and transparent conduct. 
These duties also include developing norms 
in line with national and international laws 
against corruption and bribery . 
Ternium purchases most of its supplies 
through Exiros, a specialized procurement  45firm whose ownership is shared with 
Tenaris, another Techint Group company . 
Ternium’s suppliers undergo a rigorous 
selection process to ensure they operate 
according to acceptable governance 
standards, and applicable laws and 
regulations, as well as follow the group’s 
Health and Safety and Environmental 
policies and Code of Conduct. Ternium’s 
Code of Conduct for Suppliers establishes 
rules for ethical behavior and compliance 
with the law , and sets standards for health, 
safety and environmental care. 
Our economic performance
Ternium reports our its financial results 
in detail in our in its Annual Report 
(available here: http://www .ternium.
com/en/centro-de-inversores/). In this 
Sustainability Report we have included 
our main economic indicators and the 
distribution of the economic 
value generated.
Ternium is Latin America’s leading flat 
steel producer. The company operates 
through subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, 
Mexico, Colombia, the southern United 
States and Central America, with its own 
regional manufacturing, service center 
and distribution networks. 
Our customers range from small businesses 
to large global companies across the
Americas, and we supply a broad range of 
high value- added steel products and have 
advanced customer integration systems.
Ternium has a consolidated presence in 
the region’s main markets, enjoying solid 
business partnerships with suppliers and 
customers which strengthen the steel value 
chain (see also the chapter on ProPymes 
of this report). It has 17 production 
facilities and 39 service centers throughout 
the continent.The company’s business strategy seeks to 
enhance its position as a competitive steel 
producer by developing key drivers such as 
high-margin value-added products, strategic 
growth opportunities, implementing best 
practices and maximizing the benefits 
of a broad distribution network.
Ternium’s main markets performed well 
in 2017. The Mexican steel market, of 
late the most attractive in Latin America, 
has continued to grow , and flat steel 
consumption in Mexico is now 50% 
higher than in was in 2011. The market has 
also recovered in Argentina, where after 
a 20% decline in 2016 steel consumption 
increased 17% in 2017, driven by the 
construction, automotive and housing 
appliance industries, as well as the oil 
and gas sector. 
In this context, net sales reached USD 9.7 
billion in 2017, a year-on-year increase 
of 34%. The incorporation of the new steel 
slab operations in Brazil last September 
boosted sales and shipments in the second 
part of the year. 
Shipments have grown consistently over the 
last five years, from 9 million tons in 2013 to 
11.6 million tons in 2017. EBITDA rose 25% 
to USD 1.9 billion while margins remained at 
an industry-leading level. Net income for the 
year amounted to USD 886.2 million, or 
USD 4.51 per ADS, a 49% increase over 
the previous year.
In 2017, the company’s capital expenditure 
reached USD 409.4 million, down from 
434.5 million in 2016. Its investment program 
is slated to grow in the next few years with 
the construction of a new hot rolling mill 
and new galvanizing and painting lines 
at the Pesqueria industrial center in 
Nuevo Leon, Mexico, in addition to a 
new bar reinforcing facility in Colombia. 
These investments are expected to be in
excess of USD 1.4 billion through 2020.
Governance & economic indicatorsCommunity
investments
$12.5 M
Research &
Development
$9.8 M
Capital
providers
$341 MTaxes
$437 MCapex
$409 MEmployees
$877 MSuppliers
$6.4 B
Economic
value
generated
$8.8 BECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (2017, IN USD)ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED
AND DISTRIBUTED 
(2017, IN USD)
6007008009001000
500
400
100
-200300In USD MillionCAPITAL EXPENDITURE (201 3-201 7) 
‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘13883.3
443.5466.6
435.5409.4Ternium | Sustainability Report 2017 47www.ternium.com facebook.com/ternium @ternium