Contents
Ternium S.A. (the “Company”) is a Luxembourg company 
and its American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, are listed 
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: TX). We refer 
to Ternium S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries as 
“we,” “our” or “Ternium.”
The financial and operational information contained 
in this report is based on Ternium’s operational data 
and on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, 
which were prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC 
interpretations as issued by the IASB and adopted by 
the European Union and presented in U.S. dollars ($) 
and metric tons.4Chairman’s
Letter
8Ternium’s Approach
to Sustainability
20Comprehensive
Value Creation Strategy
22. The Company_ 24. Improving Our Safety Performance_ 36. Minimizing 
Ternium’s Environmental Footprint_ 54. Realizing Our People’s Full Potential_ 
64. Helping Our Communities Thrive_ 74. Strengthening Ternium’s Value 
Chain_ 82. Delivering Ternium’s Business Strategy_ 92. Consolidating our 
market position in the USMCA region_ 94. Economic & Financial Performance
98Commitment
to Integrity
106  Annexes
107. 1: GRI Material Topics, SASB & TCFD Index_ 114. 2: UN Sustainable 
Development Goals_ 116. 3: Historical DataThe geopolitical turmoil caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the 
accompanying humanitarian crisis in Europe is changing the world in many ways 
and the steel industry is being deeply impacted. Ternium, having completed an 
extraordinary 2021, is adapting its commercial and industrial strategies to take 
account of increased market uncertainty and supply chain disruption in critical 
supplies. At the same time, we are working with our Ukrainian suppliers to support 
the people displaced by the war.
The speed of the recovery in global demand for durable goods following the 
pandemic lockdowns and governmental stimulus measures of 2020 combined 
with ongoing disruption in supply chains provided an auspicious environment 
for the steel industry in the Americas in 2021, reflected in record prices for many 
steel products.
Ternium had a record year for its operational and financial results. EBITDA and 
net income rose to $5.9 billion and $4.4 billion respectively on sales of $16.1 billion. 
Free cash flow rose to $2.2 billion, even with a working capital build, and we ended 
the year with a net cash position of $1.2 billion. With these results, we increased 
our dividend for the 2021 year to $2.6 per ADS, and this now stands at double its 
pre-pandemic level.
The start-up in mid-2021 of our new hot rolling mill in Pesquería, Mexico, is a 
milestone in the integration of a production system focused on industrial and 
technological excellence. The mill is fed by slabs from our advanced steelmaking 
facilities in Brazil. The hot coils are further processed in our cold rolling, 
galvanizing and painting lines to provide a wide array of high value products 
that substitute imports for the automotive, white goods, HVAC and engineering 
sectors. We are now investing in further downstream processing facilities and 
have installed an advanced R&D center that will further expand the range and 
value of our products.
In Pesquería, Ternium is part of a thriving industrial community with a growing 
youthful population. At the heart of this community sits the Ternium-sponsored 
Roberto Rocca Technical School which, since its inauguration in 2016, has offered 
excellence in technical education and opened doors for secondary-level students. 
In 2021, the school resumed in-person classes and offered remedial workshops for 
its 371 students, each of whom receive funding for some or all of their tuition costs. 
100 final year students are completing their studies with internships at local 
companies. The school also provides online math reinforcement classes to aspiring 
students throughout the community, and will offer teacher training and technical 
certifications for students at other technical schools in the region.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of our ProPymes program, designed to 
strengthen the competitiveness of small and medium companies in our value chain 
with knowledge sharing, management training and financial and export assistance 
5. Sustainability Report 2021programs. The program started in 2002 with 26 participating companies and has 
now grown to include 1,800 SMEs in Argentina and Mexico. This growth is 
testimony to the success of the program in strengthening the industrial sector 
in both countries.
To strengthen the sustainability of its industrial operations, Ternium has an intense 
agenda focused on health and safety in the workplace and minimizing the 
environment impact on the surrounding communities. To address climate change, 
we added our medium-term program targeting a 20% reduction in the carbon 
emissions intensity of our operations by 2030 compared to 2018. We have started 
work on this program with a series of investments aimed at improving energy 
efficiency, increasing scrap usage and capturing carbon emissions from our 
operations for use by third parties. We are also looking at alternatives for 
increasing our use of renewable energy. We will see the results of these efforts 
in the coming years.
Our work on safety during 2021 was recognized by worldsteel with particular 
reference to our management of forklift operations in which the number of 
accidents in our operations have declined substantially over the past two years. 
Air quality is a constant focus for our environmental management: after installing 
new baghouse dust collections systems at our plant located in Monterrey city, we 
are now installing silos and constructing a large dome at our material handling yard 
to contain dust emissions. The dome will become a notable landmark in a city with 
a strong industrial tradition.
Throughout Ternium’s industrial system, we are investing extensively in Industry 
4.0 technologies to enhance operational productivity and create a safer and more 
attractive workplace requiring a more advanced skillset for shop floor employees. 
Our new rolling mill in Pesquería, for example, employs extensive digital and 
automation technologies allowing for an enhanced visual perspective of its 
operation from the control room and is an excellent example of a modern 
steelmaking operation.
Just as we are transforming the physical environment and working regime at our 
industrial facilities through technology, we are working actively to promote 
diversity, equity and inclusion in our management team and a new way of working 
that promotes flexibility and teamwork. With a post-pandemic vision, we are 
updating all our training and management development programs and adjusting 
our HR processes to further this vision. We are encouraged that we have broadened 
our base of young female professionals who are helping us to drive change from 
below and that human rights organizations are recognizing the company as a good 
place to work.CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
6. TerniumThroughout the Americas, Ternium is working to strengthen the industrial sector 
as a supplier of high quality steel products and services with an agenda focused 
on growth and sustainability. In a highly uncertain world where there is a 
need to strengthen regional supply chains, Ternium, with its solid financial 
and competitive industrial and commercial positioning, is well placed for the 
challenges ahead.
Our employees are at the center of our efforts and our achievements. I would like 
to give a special thanks to them and to our medical staff for their outstanding 
performance and commitment through the disruptions caused by the pandemic. 
They have shown great resilience and determination as they bore the brunt of the 
impact in their working environment and on their families over the past two years. 
I would also like to thank our customers, suppliers and shareholders for their 
continued support.
June 15, 2022
Paolo Rocca
Chairman 
7. Sustainability Report 2021Ternium’s value proposition aims 
to achieve profitable operations 
on a sustainable basis, through 
a management approach that 
comprehends the interests of all 
its stakeholders.APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
10. Ternium“At Ternium, we are committed to managing operations that protect our planet 
and have a positive impact on our communities. We are continuing to 
implement our decarbonization roadmap with numerous projects being 
deployed as planned, all with the goal of doing our part to mitigate the impact 
of climate change. We also are evaluating additional strategies to reduce even 
more of our CO 2 emissions in the future, as we expect new technologies and 
green infrastructure to be developed and adopted by companies and 
governments worldwide. During 2021, we also strengthened the educational 
aspects of our community engagement program, enabling greater access to 
high-quality technical education through innovative equipment and tools as 
well as improvements to local schools’ infrastructure. Finally, I am deeply proud 
of the important work being done to advance our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
programs with the aim of fostering a diverse workforce and equitable working 
environment throughout our organization.”
MÁXIMO VEDOYA
CEO
Ternium is a leading steel company in Latin America. 
Ternium’s facilities are located in Mexico, Brazil, 
Argentina, Colombia, the southern United States and 
Central America. In addition, the company participates 
in the control group of Usiminas, a leading flat steel 
company in the Brazilian market.
We have an integral management approach that 
includes the interests of shareholders, employees, 
customers and suppliers, as well as those of the 
community. We aim to be an equal opportunity and 
equal treatment organization that foster a culture of 
industrial and technological excellence. We operate 
with a strong focus on environmental excellence as we 
advance Ternium’s climate change agenda and sponsor 
biodiversity protection initiatives. We have long-
standing relationships with communities near our operations and have been fostering the development of 
small and medium-sized customers and suppliers for the 
last 20 years.
Ternium offers a broad range of value-added 
products and services to customers mainly from the 
automotive, home appliances, heat, ventilation and 
air conditioning (HVAC), construction, capital 
goods, container, food and energy industries through 
its manufacturing facilities, service center and 
distribution networks, and advanced customer 
integration systems. As core components of the 
company’s business strategy, we strive to offer 
differentiated products and services, operate with 
excellence, and attract and develop talent.
11. Sustainability Report 2021Environment, occupational health and safety
We have standardized environment and occupational 
health and safety (EHS) management systems and 
devote significant resources to EHS projects. Our 
evaluation of risks and management of EHS are 
integrated in our business process and reflected in our 
EHS policies.
Ternium is committed to protecting the health and 
safety of its employees, contractors and communities 
where it operates. We engage our employees as well as 
our customers and suppliers to embrace our vision and 
objectives.
Social 
The talent and determination of the company’s 
employees are the cornerstone of Ternium’s market 
leadership. Through Ternium University, the company 
offers a wide array of training programs to support our 
teams’ efforts in their quest for innovation, continuous 
improvement and performance excellence. 
We work together with local institutions to enhance our 
communities’ education and welfare. We realize that, to 
be successful, industrial projects must thrive along with 
surrounding communities. We built and operate a 
technical school. We provide scholarships, internships, 
teachers’ training and infrastructure funding to local 
schools and health centers. We also organize and fund 
volunteering programs and health prevention 
campaigns, and we sponsor sports, social events and 
arts exhibitions.
Through ProPymes, we have been supporting small and 
medium-sized enterprises in the steel value chain for the 
last 20 years, strengthening the industrial network by 
enhancing our customers and suppliers’ 
competitiveness.
Governance
Integrity is key to Ternium’s long term sustainability. 
The company has appointed a Business Conduct Compliance Officer who reports to the CEO. Ternium 
has mandatory training programs on the company's 
Policy on Business Conduct. The company has 
established several policies, codes and procedures to 
ensure transparency and ethic behavior. In addition, the 
company has put in place a Compliance Line to report 
any violation to its code of conduct and principles.
Ternium has a compliance department that oversees 
SOX certifications and related party transactions. The 
board of directors has an audit committee solely 
composed of independent directors. The internal audit 
department, which meets organizational independence 
and objectivity standards, reports to the chairman of 
the board and, with respect to internal control over 
financial reporting, to the audit committee.
Sustainability reporting
This report discusses Ternium’s progress towards 
achieving its objectives in a sustainable way. It has been 
prepared taking into account the guidelines established 
by worldsteel, the UN Global Compact, GRI (Global 
Reporting Initiative, standards' Core option), SASB 
(Sustainability Accounting Standards Board), TCFD 
(Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) 
and the New York Stock Exchange.
The company also reports to international agencies 
about its management approach and performance 
metrics on different Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) issues. In 2021, Ecovadis, a 
provider of business sustainability ratings, ranked 
Ternium within the 90th percentile in the 
"Manufacture of basic iron and steel" industry based 
on our policies, procedures, and actions related to 
environmental and labor practices, sustainable 
procurement and ethics. We also report to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP), an international non-profit 
organization that runs a global environmental 
disclosure system, on specific climate-change-related 
issues and attained a B rating in 2021.
In addition, as part of the UN Global Compact 
Initiative, Ternium engages in collaborative projects to 
advance the broader development goals of the UN.APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
12. TerniumThriving along with surrounding communities.
Climate change
Ternium has an active role in the world’s efforts to 
tackle climate change. As a steel company, we are 
searching for ways to reduce the carbon footprint of our 
operations and of the steel value chain. We partner with 
suppliers and other companies and associations to foster 
the development of low carbon dioxide emitting 
technologies, as a swift and successful energy transition 
will be key to achieve these goals.
We intend to develop new measures to continue 
decarbonizing Ternium’s operations in the longer term. 
The main factors that will determine our success to do 
so are related to the further development of emerging 
steel-making technologies, prospects for the availability 
of raw materials, renewable energy and required 
infrastructure, and the enactment of appropriate 
government regulations to promote fair trade, among 
others. As a company focused on supplying advanced steel 
products, Ternium is well positioned to contribute 
to the world’s energy transition process. We believe 
the company will have significant opportunities for 
the development of innovative products required for 
renewable energy applications, emerging electric 
vehicles technologies and green construction 
strategies, as countries seek to meet their emission 
commitments.
 
In 2021, worldsteel distinguished Ternium under its 
Climate Action Recognition Program for the 
company’s support and contributions to 
worldsteel’s initiatives to reduce carbon dioxide 
emissions.
13. Sustainability Report 2021The company is moving forward with the 
roadmap presented in February 2021 to 
reduce its emission intensity at the 
steelmaking sites.OUR GOAL
 -20%
 C0 2 emission
 intensity scopes
 1 and 2 by 2030
Progress overview
Expanded carbon dioxide capture 
capacity in the DRI process
– 34% increase of CO 2 capture &
   usage capacity compared to 2018  
   base line & launched 2nd phase at
   Guerrero facility in Mexico
– Expected total CO 2 capture & usage
   capacity of over 400 thousand tons
   per yearFurther development of Ternium’s
Energy Efficiency Program
$14.4 million invested in 2021
– Heat recovery optimization at  Brazil’s
   coke oven plant
– Improvements made to the EAF  burners 
   in Apodaca, Mexico
– Solar panels installed  to supply 
   Universidad’s corporate building in 
   Mexico with renewable energyHigher participation of renewable
sources in the energy mix
Studying the replacement of purchased 
energy with wind power in Argentina
Increased participation of scrap
in the metallic mix
Project launched in our slab facility 
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
to improve the scrapyard processing
capacity and increase the scrap
rate in the metallic mixPartnership with raw material
suppliers to reduce process
emissions
MoU signed with Vale, to jointly study the
use of iron ore briquettes developed
under Vale’s technology at our BF and the 
economic feasibility of investing in an iron 
ore briquetting plant located at Ternium’s 
Brazil facilityPartial substitution of
metallurgical coal with biomass
Working with local partners for the use
of biomass as a substitute for
mineral carbon in the steelmaking
process at Argentina and Brazil
sitesDecarbonization Roadmap
14. TerniumREPORTINGQUARTERLY
BoD supervision
of Ternium’s climate
change strategy  
Industry challenges
 
Availability of scrap for 
recyclingExploring 
opportunities
         
       
Sufficient availability of 
renewable energy Storage & usage of CO 2
captured from the steelmaking
process and energy production
Currently working on finding alternative 
uses for the CO 2 captured and
the development of storage solutions.
Development of new low CO 2
emission steelmaking 
technologies
Use of green hydrogen as a
reduction agent
The company is technologically 
prepared to use green hydrogen at 
our DRI/EAF route in Mexico
as a replacement for natural gas
when commercially available.
Regulatory framework 
fostering the transition to CO 2 
free technologies and capture 
and storage solutions
15. Sustainability Report 2021The company aims at building a work environment where everyone’s
thoughts, ideas and perspectives matter. Ensuring that all
individuals have access to the same opportunities and that they have
fair treatment are central pillars of our policies and procedures.
Setting the rules
for a better working
environmentStrengthening
our internal procedures
Designing specific compliance mechanisms
The compliance line ensures a secure institutional 
channel to report incidents of discrimination or 
harassment. A committee integrated by the human 
resources and the internal audit departments carries out 
the investigation.             
Diversity and Work Environment
Free of Harassment Policy
The company aims to foster a workplace 
environment that attracts and develops talents 
across all genders, nationalities, generations, 
cultures, religions and backgrounds, respecting 
and valuing individual differences.
Using technology to avoid cognitive bias at the
recruiting stage
We use an automated system to pre-assess candidates 
based on attributes like attention, decision-making, 
effort, emotion, and fairness with the aim at reducing 
bias in the selection process.
             
Granting work opportunities based on merit
The Opportunities Committee allows any employee
to apply for a job position and the applications are
assessed on the basis of competence.Human Rights Policy
We are committed to conducting our operations 
consistent with the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and expect our business 
partners to act under the same principles.Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
16. TerniumTraining our people Endorsement with 
international human 
rights associations
88%
of Ternium’s workforce 
received at least one training 
course on discrimination and 
human rights
  
Women’s Empowerment
Principles of United Nations
Women
In 2021, the company committed
to the WEPs. These set of
principles guide companies to
promote gender equality and
women’s empowerment in the
workplace and the community.
Diversity+ Program
Lean In Circles
Launched in 2019 as part of the Diversity+
Program, it involves discussion groups to 
raise awareness on topics like gender 
identity, unconscious biases, global 
perspectives, and intercultural leadership.
Supporting our employees at every stage
 
The Maternity Mentoring program offers 
tools to plan teamwork previously, during and 
after the pregnancy of our female employees. 
The objective is to foster the continuity of 
their careers at the company.
Human Rights Campaign 
Recognition
The company was recognized
as one of the best places to work
for the LGBTQ+ community
in Mexico for the second
consecutive year. We are the only
steel company to be recognized
in the country.Sharing our vision
We have increased the internal and external
communication on these topics and expect to
incentivize our stakeholders to be proactive 
on the matter.
17. Sustainability Report 2021Prevent all work-related 
injuries and illnesses, and 
maintain zero fatalities in 
the years to come.Reduce 20% CO 2 emission
intensity, scopes 1 and 2, 
by 2030 (2018 baseline).Shape an appealing 
working environment. 
Be an equal 
opportunity and 
equal treatment 
organization.Use natural resources 
responsibly.Promote healthy and 
safe operations in 
the steel industry 
value chain.Pursue excellence in 
environmental 
performance.
Protect biodiversity.
    
     
    
   
Sustainable Development Goals
"We reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact Initiative and to continue integrating its 
principles into the company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations." – Máximo Vedoya, CEO.
18. Ternium    
Foster education. Improve the 
competitiveness of our 
value chain with a focus on 
productivity.Focus on sophisticated 
steel products.
Support initiatives 
that strengthen 
communities near 
our operations.Pursuit of strategic 
growth opportunities.
Foster import substitution 
and strengthen the export 
capacity of SMEs.Enhancement of 
Ternium’s competitive 
position.
Promote a collaborative 
network in the steel value 
chain to foster performance 
excellence.
    
                                                  
    
    
     
  
   
   
19. Sustainability Report 2021This chapter presents an integral 
discussion of Ternium’s strategy to create 
value for its stakeholders, with an 
analysis of the company’s goals and
actions related to occupational health 
and safety, environment, human 
resources, communities, the value chain 
and the steel business.Ternium is a leading flat steel company in Latin America, 
vertically integrated and with industrial facilities in Mexico, 
Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, USA and Central America.
12
MILLION TONS
Steel Shipments$16
BILLION
Net Sales (2021) +20,000
EMPLOYEES
9
COUNTRIES6
INTEGRATED 
FACILITIES12
DOWNSTREAM 
FACILITIES
 
22
SERVICE 
CENTERS25
DISTRIBUTION 
CENTERSThe Company
22. Ternium23. Sustainability Report 2021Improving 
Our Safety
Performance
Advancing our agenda,
with special focus
on the development of 
Ternium's OH&S culture 
and the elimination of
risk precursors.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
  
The safety and well-being of our employees is our top 
priority and key to our success as a sustainable 
organization over time. Ternium strives to create and 
sustain a safety culture aimed at safeguarding our 
employees' well-being. Under this premise, safety 
conditions are the first element that any person must 
consider when initiating and executing any activity. At 
the same time, managers are responsible for the 
occupational health and safety of every person working 
in their assigned area.
Health and safety corporate strategy
We design strategies to align our culture to our safety 
vision with the aim of preventing accidents, safely 
managing our production processes and engaging our 
employees, customers and suppliers through effective 
communication, so that they embrace our vision and 
goals. Since the institution of our “Safety First” 
program, safe behaviors have been incorporated as a 
cornerstone of our culture. 
Risk assessment and management of our people’s 
Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) are 
integrated into all our business processes and reflected 
in Ternium’s OH&S policy. Management is 
responsible and accountable for OH&S performance, 
as part of a broader set of goals, and the senior 
managers leads every strategy to achieve our Safety 
Vision.
In addition to Occupational Safety Management, since 
2020, we have been working on strengthening our 
Process Safety Management. Steel manufacturing 
involves processes with intrinsic hazards that need to 
be considered with a broader approach, including the 
possible impact on people, the environment, 
surrounding communities and assets. To that end, the 
company created a dedicated Safety Management 
Team that evaluates the company's facilities and 
processes and designs contingency plans to mitigate 
risks.
 
 COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
24. TerniumGoals
 Actions
Prevent all work-related injuries and illnesses, and 
maintain zero fatalities in the years to come –
 
–
 
–
 
–
 
 –
 
–Setting of a medium-term target reduction of 50% in IFR 
and LTIFR by 2025, compared to 2020
Deployment of new investment projects to bring our 
facilities in line with the strictest operating standards 
Identification and elimination of personnel exposure to risk 
factors at critical processes
Identification and elimination of risk precursors through 
critical control verifications
Promotion of a safety culture through several programs 
and activities led by Ternium’s management team
Engagement of employees through effective 
communication and participation in safety activities
Promote healthy and safe operations in the steel 
industry value chain  –
–
–
–
–Code of conduct for suppliers
Safe supplier program
Safety training of third-party employees
Active participation of suppliers in managing non-
compliance risks
Evaluate suppliers’ occupational health and safety policies 
and performance
Occupational health and safety management system
Ternium relies on an OH&S management system 
grounded in the company’s policy and local and 
national laws and regulations. We periodically audit 
the company’s processes and procedures in order to 
find new opportunities to improve our safety 
management system and ensure compliance with our 
policy.
During 2021, we successfully completed the transition 
of the health and safety management system 
certification from OHSAS 18001 to the ISO 45001 
standard. The number of employees and contractors 
working at a facility with a certified management 
system has increased to 70% and we expect it to 
continue improving, as our certification plan moves forward with our steelmaking and steel processing 
facilities in Brazil and the US.
To record environmental, health and safety (EHS) 
information  in a standardized way across all our 
locations, including the results of preventive and 
corrective tasks, we use a platform called SIASSO (by 
its acronym in Spanish). The information reported by 
users is then processed and presented into several EHS 
indicators to track performance, define corrective 
measures and make decisions. 
Aligning our culture to our safety vision
In 2019, the company launched its long-term safety 
vision with strategies aimed at establishing a safety 
culture focused on people’s behavior and requiring 
hands-on involvement of leaders at all levels.
25. Sustainability Report 2021 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
26. TerniumWorldsteel Safety and Health Excellence Recognition 2021
In 2021, Ternium received worldsteel’s Safety 
and Health Excellence Recognition in the 
category of “Occupational Safety 
Management”. The case-study presented was 
aimed at reducing events with potentially 
severe consequences during forklift operation, 
and standardizing safe practices for employees 
and contractors alike.
The key elements of this project were the 
setting up of a multi-disciplinary team 
focusing on direct communication with the 
operators, the review of the training programs 
in collaboration with Ternium University and the use of automation to minimize human 
dependence. This endeavor has also resulted in 
a new in-house Heavy Vehicles Operators 
Certification program, as part of a broader 
program seeking to improve our company’s 
safety performance. 
SHARP DECREASE 
IN SEVERE  
INCIDENTS
Forklift incidents in Mexico 
were reduced from 36 in 2019 
to 3 in 2021.
“Safety first” program
The Safety First program seeks to foster a pro-active 
approach to safety issues to prevent incidents and 
accidents.
One of the program’s main tools is the Safety and 
Environment Hour initiative, in which middle and 
senior managers tour operating areas for an hour, three 
times a week, to identify safe behaviors worth 
replicating at other facilities as well as unsafe acts or 
situations to be addressed through an open dialogue 
with employees.
This initiative helps identify potential risks and enables 
a fluid and constructive response to adopt effective 
preventive measures. In 2021, our Safety and 
Environment Hour sessions involved the regular 
participation of over 2,000 employees and contractors. With the same purpose, management performs safety  
audits at the facilities to ensure that our operations are 
in compliance with applicable OH&S policies, 
procedures and practices. Last year, we held more than 
184 thousands environmental, health and safety audits.
Involving our leaders
In 2021, we continued with the implementation of our 
leaders’ transformation program launched in 2020. The 
first stage was the preparation of a “playbook” for 
managers with expected behaviors and decision-
making processes under diverse scenarios. The design 
of this tool was based on the experience of over 300 
directors and managers across the company. During 
2021, several virtual and on-site sessions were carried 
out to communicate these concepts to a wider group of 
leaders. In addition, a website with implementation 
activities was designed to support the execution 
27. Sustainability Report 2021Ternium University safety 
certification program
We are developing a certification program 
focused on activities that entail higher 
risks, with the aim at ensuring that only 
specifically trained personnel performs the 
required tasks. 
  
The program includes medical checkups, 
specific courses, on-the-job training and a 
final evaluation authorizing the employee to 
perform the tasks. 
It will be mandatory for locomotive 
operators, forklift operators, crane operators 
and for maintenance tasks, works-at-
heights and in confined spaces, electrical 
risk and lockout/tagout procedures.    
The certification process has already started 
across all of Ternium’s facilities, with 
significant progress in the certification of 
crane operators. 
THE PROCESS INCLUDES
1. Medical check-ups 2. Specific courses 3. Evaluationsprocess. We are currently working on extending these 
best practices to supervisors and hourly employees and 
expect to reach contractors in the coming years. 
Preventive measures
Ten life-saving rules
Ternium has established Ten Life-Saving Rules, a list 
of actions to be followed to protect one’s life and those 
of co-workers. These rules incorporate worldsteel’s 
guidance, the contribution of focus groups and studies 
performed to detect the main causes of risks at our 
facilities, and are backed by practices and routines that 
must be strictly followed. Our Ten Life-Saving Rules, 
which follow applicable regulations, have been 
extensively communicated throughout Ternium’s 
operations to foster employees, customers and 
suppliers awareness, and are audited to ensure their 
observance.
Training programs
Management is committed to training Ternium’s 
employees, customers and suppliers on the appropriate 
use of the company’s OH&S management systems and 
on raising awareness of risks in performing their tasks. 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we strengthened on-
line training activities by developing twenty videos 
available through Ternium University's platform. In 
2021, over 15 thousand employees and contractors 
received an average of 17 hours of training on safety-
related issues focused on preventive measures and 
Ternium’s OH&S programs.
Task rejection
This tool strengthens people’s determination not to 
start or, if started, to suspend a task determined to be 
unsafe  under certain conditions. Task Rejection helps 
prevent injuries resulting from lack of effective control 
of identified safety risks. 
The company encourages the use of this tool and has 
started recognizing workers when their analysis of 
OH&S prevents the occurrence of a high-risk event. In 
2021, more than 23,400 alerts were recorded, 8% of 
which involved potentially serious injuries or even 
potential fatalities.
 COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
28. TerniumIn the context of the maintenance plan for Mexican facilities to 2025, we conducted customized safety sessions to improve safety performance at these 
activities.  
Prevention of potential severe injuries or fatalities
It has been noted that, over time, the downward trend 
in fatal accidents has not been as steep as the 
downward trend in non-fatal accidents, mainly due to 
causality differences. Based upon this evidence, the 
company has increased its efforts to identify precursors 
of severe injuries or fatalities, meaning situations where 
there are no control measures, the control measures 
introduced are not effective or people do not comply 
with them. 
We have identified non-controlled repeating precursors 
through interviews with employees on a procedure 
called critical control verification. During 2021, 661 
employees performed 7,968 critical control 
verifications, which resulted in approximately 4,000 
new continuous improvement projects.Integrating new technologies in the safety 
management system
The company incorporated advanced technologies to 
improve risk assessment, event analysis and 
educational practices related to occupational health 
and safety. Video analytics, drones to perform 
inspection routines, remote assistance by experts on 
maintenance activities, simulations of high-risk events 
and virtual reality are some of the new tools currently 
used. 
Through automated video analytics, images from our
operating activities are captured 24x7 and then 
crosschecked with normal specifications. If the 
situation differs from the established normal 
parameters, visual, audible or mechanical alerts are 
29. Sustainability Report 2021triggered and information about the safety breach is 
automatically uploaded on the SIASSO platform.  
Technology is also useful to review past events and 
learn from them. Events classified as high-risk, are 
analyzed with 3D technology. We create simulations of 
this kind of events to expose their causes and 
implement measures to minimized the possibility of 
recurrence. 
Furthermore, we use training with virtual reality for 
operations or maintenance activities classified as 
highly risky for our employees. Currently, we use 
this tool in training activities involving mobile equipment such as forklifts and railway engines, 
and in training sessions related to the manufacturing 
process.  
Our performance: accidents and incidents
In 2021, Ternium recorded an Injuries Frequency Rate 
(IFR) of 2.6 injuries per million hours worked and a 
Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of 0.8 day-
loss time injuries per million hours worked. These rates 
have improved compared to 2020, as our programs to 
increase awareness about safe working behavior 
consolidate. 
Video Analytics: how it works
STAGES
MONITORING
Cameras capture
images of our operating
activities 24 x7OBSERVATION
AND ANALYTICS
Images are compared 
automatically  with 
established values 
to detect and identify 
deviationsON-SITE ALERT
In the presence of 
risks, visual audible 
and mechanical
alerts are activatedRECORDING
The information is 
automatically loaded on 
the management system 
and supervisors are 
alertedFOLLOW-UP
Corrective actions and 
additional safeguards are 
established. The company 
monitors the  execution of 
the safety plan 
 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
30. TerniumThe company will continue working on the reduction 
and avoidance of accidents and incidents on a long-
term basis, with a medium-term target reduction of 
50% in  IFR and LTIFR by 2025.
Analysis of Accidents and Incidents
Ternium’s management follows specific protocols 
when an accident or incident occurs at the workplace, 
regardless of the severity of the damage or injury 
caused by such event. Data collection and fact analysis 
are conducted by multidisciplinary teams, with the 
participation of the manager who has direct 
responsibilities in the area involved.Events are analyzed through a causal factor tree 
methodology and management uses all available 
resources that could contribute to the understanding 
of the event. Once the causes are fully understood, the 
company implements an action plan structured in 
hierarchy of controls. Three months after the event 
and the action plan are presented to the 
Environmental and Safety Committee, an audit is 
conducted to determine the effectiveness of the 
proposed action plan in eliminating the cause of the 
situation or event that compromises safety. This 
methodology has been incorporated into the 
company’s OH&S system and continues to be 
improved under Ternium’s safety vision. 
 
Critical Control Verification Procedure
Critical control verification is an internal 
procedure to detect risk precursors, that is, 
situations in which safety measures are absent,ineffective or not followed by people. The 
objective is to avoid the occurrence of severe or 
fatal injuries.
STAGES
1. PLANNING
The head of the area
analyzes past events with
the potential of resulting in
severe or fatal injuries, and
mandatory safety measures2. OBSERVATION
Each task is observed in real
time to check if safety 
measures are appropriately set. 
Interviews with the
employees are scheduled.3. FEEDBACK
The results of the analysis are
shared with employees. In case 
of deviations, the head of the 
area offers its views regarding
improvement opportunities.  4. COMMITMENT
  Improvement measures are
  defined in a joint work
  plan and recorded in SIASSO
  
  
    
  
31. Sustainability Report 2021 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
32. TerniumEngaging employees through effective communication
Over the years, Ternium has increased the visibility of 
safety issues through its communication platforms. Our 
agenda includes videos, articles and events, with the 
Safety Day at the center of our communication strategy. 
The Ternium's Safety Day event is an opportunity to 
strengthen our commitment to improving OH&S and 
reinforce risk awareness. During the event, we organize 
meetings and panel discussions on OH&S management 
to review our performance in the preceding year and 
agree on new actions to continue improving OH&S in 
each facility. The event is chaired by Ternium's CEO and 
top management of each business unit. In 2021, several 
on-line meetings took place between July 19 and July 22, 
with the participation of 7,113 employees. During the 
event, the production lines are stopped as part of the 
company's commitment towards industrial safety. 
We have also implemented the Five-Minute Safety Talks, 
an open-dialogue instance for plant supervisors and their 
teams to analyze OH&S issues selected every week by 
senior management. Under this program, during 2021 the 
company delivered 47 safety briefings to 3,435 
employees.
Engaging customers and suppliers’ managers and 
employees
We seek that all of our contractors’ employees embrace 
our safety vision and goals. With this purpose, we have 
launched various initiatives, including working meetings 
with our contractors’ top managers and the participation 
of their employees at Ternium’s OH&S workshops. In 
addition, the company has implemented an OH&S 
improvement plan for contractors. This plan has been 
developed based on contractors’ best practices, identified 
through a benchmark of their operations at the 
company’s facilities in various locations and countries.
In 2021, Ternium audited the OH&S programs of 171 
contractors in four countries, of which 50 were 
recognized for the improvements achieved during the 
year.Applying the highest standards of occupational health
Ternium’s comprehensive occupational health program 
evidences the company’s commitment to provide a 
healthy workplace, with equipment and technology that 
ensures the well-being of its workforce. The company's 
health management system includes periodic workplace 
monitoring and risk analysis to evaluate and control a 
range of activity-related factors that could potentially 
affect employees’ health, including chemical, biological, 
physical, ergonomic and psychological effects.
Our procedures and guidelines on the level of indoor air 
quality, noise and vibrations apply stricter threshold 
levels than those required by the most rigorous 
international standards. Some of our facilities, like the 
Ternium Industrial Center in Pesquería, were designed 
using the best-available technologies for this purpose. In 
other facilities, we are consistently adopting the best-
available technologies as part of our efforts to 
continuously improve our sites’ air quality. 
Safety at our mining operations
Tailings dams reinforcement
Ternium has equity interests in two iron ore mining 
companies in Mexico: a 100% interest in Las Encinas 
and a 50% interest in Consorcio Peña Colorada. These 
mining companies carry out extractive, processing and 
logistical operations.
In late 2019 and early 2020, third-party consultants 
concluded new stability studies for certain of Las 
Encinas’ and Consorcio Peña Colorada’s tailings dams 
which are undergoing closing procedures or are on 
stand-by. Following these studies, new reinforcements 
were recommended in order to reduce risks of collapse 
under the strictest international seismic standards.
During 2021, we completed the recommended 
reinforcements under the Las Encinas’ project. Consorcio 
Peña Colorada is currently seeking the required 
environmental permits for its project. For more 
information regarding mining at Ternium please refer to 
our company’s 20-F report. 
33. Sustainability Report 2021INVESTMENT IN HEALTH AND SAFETY 
$ MILLION
354950
2738
2017 2018 2019 2020 202101224364860
LOST TIME INJURIES FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) 
# DAY-LOSS PER MILLION HOURS WORKED
0.700.670.84 0.840.79
2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.00.20.40.60.81.0INJURIES FREQUENCY RATE (IFR)
# PER MILLION HOURS WORKED
3.4
3.02.8 2.7 2.6
2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.01.02.03.04.05.0Key Figures
34. Ternium–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–Ternium, an integrated steel company, along with its subsidiaries is committed to the occupational safety and 
health of its personnel, customers, contractors, and suppliers. The company’s occupational health and safety 
policy is the baseline for sustainable development across all its operations.
Policy adherence, dissemination, and compliance apply and are to be promoted throughout Ternium and its 
subsidiaries.
Looking out for the occupational health and safety of every person who works for the company or is inside its 
facilities is an essential value.
To that end, we promote our commitment through the following principles:
All work-related injuries and illnesses can and should be prevented.
Compliance with all applicable legal and other regulations to which Ternium voluntarily agrees.
Continuous improvement of all processes related to staff's health and safety.
Occupational health and safety must be integrated into all company processes.
No emergency situation, production process or results justify putting people’s occupational health or safety at 
risk.
Commitment from and training of the entire staff is essential.
Working safely is an employment condition.
Every person is responsible for looking after his/her own safety and the safety of others.
In each company, everyone is responsible for occupational health and safety:
The company provides the means and resources for activities to be carried out safely so as to preserve everyone's 
physical integrity and occupational health.
Managers are in charge of the occupational health and safety of everyone who works for them or is in their area.
All other workers must comply with regulations and instructions, and work with their managers to detect, 
control, and resolve any dangerous situations.
Contractor companies and their staff must comply with the Safety Regulations in force at the facilities where 
they provide services.
People who enter the facility must comply with the applicable Safety Regulations.
Health and safety staff must take preventive measures through support, advising and auditing.
At Ternium and its subsidiaries, these principles are shared throughout the entire value chain and in all the 
communities where it operates in order to promote people's healthcare and safety.
March 2018 
Máximo Vedoya
CEO
Ternium Occupational Health and Safety Policy
35. Sustainability Report 2021Minimizing
Ternium’s
Environmental
Footprint
Ternium has been
advancing its
medium-term 
environmental
investment program 
according to plan
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
    
The protection of the environment is a fundamental 
value for Ternium. The company’s Environmental and 
Energy Policy expresses our commitment to the 
preservation of the environment.
Ternium’s steel and mining operations are subject to 
laws and regulations to protect the environment, 
including the use of land, air emissions, wastewater 
treatment and discharge, the use, handling and disposal 
of hazardous or toxic materials, and the handling and 
disposal of waste. Ternium’s corporate environmental 
and energy policy requires that each of its business 
units comply with applicable environmental laws and 
regulations aimed at achieving the highest standards of 
environmental performance as a basis to ensure a 
sustainable development, and encourages Ternium’s 
supply chain to act under the same principles. 
The company’s environmental performance leans 
on an environmental and energy management 
system encompassing every production unit. On a 
regular basis, the company audits and certifies its 
systems and procedures resulting in updates to the 
company’s environmental management processes as 
well as helping to identify improvement 
opportunities. Currently, our steel production 
facilities' environmental and energy management 
system is certified under ISO 14001, ISO’s 
environmental management standard. In addition, 
Ternium’s top energy consuming operations  are in 
the process of certifying their energy management 
system under ISO 50001, ISO’s energy management 
standard. At this stage, the Rio de Janeiro unit in 
Brazil, the steel shop and the hot rolling mill at the 
San Nicolás unit in Argentina and the Pesquería unit 
in Mexico have completed ISO 50001 certifications. 
The steel shop at the Guerrero unit in Mexico is 
currently undergoing ISO 50001 certification as part 
of a more comprehensive plan to be deployed over 
the next five years.  
Another element for ensuring the preservation of the 
environment in our operations is management’s 
supervision. Monthly, the Industrial, Environmental, COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
36. TerniumGoals
 Actions
Reduce 20% CO 2 emission intensity, scopes 1 and 2,  by 
2030 (2018 baseline) –
 
–
 
–
–Increase participation of renewable sources in the energy 
mix to 40% and intensify our energy efficiency program  
Increase participation of scrap in the metallic mix and 
partially substitute coal with biomass, mainly charcoal
Increase CO 2 capture and usage capacity at our DRI 
facilities
Prioritize lower specific-emission steelmaking technologies 
when expanding capacity
Use natural resources responsibly –
–
–Reduce the share of fresh water intake  
Increase co-products recycling
Adopt sustainable building solutions at new projects
Pursue excellence in environmental performance 
Minimize particulate matter emission
Preserve water discharge quality
Assess and report the life cycle of steel products –
–
–
–Environmental and energy management through a certified 
system
$430 million medium-term environmental 
investment plan
Participation at worldsteel’s Life Cycle Assessment 
initiatives
Issuance of environmental product declarations
Protect biodiversity –
–
–Support to Sepetiba Bay and Iberá Wetlands initiatives
Reforestation works at decommissioned iron ore mines
Field works at greenfield projects to protect native species
Health and Safety Management Committee, led by the 
Chief Executive Officer, gathers to review and discuss 
environmental and safety performance.
In the last five years until 2021, the company invested 
$292 million in environmental projects and $38 million 
in energy efficiency programs. We expect to continue improving in energy 
efficiency, air quality and water quality control at the 
primary areas of the company’s operations in 
Mexico, Brazil and Argentina as we deployed our 
seven years investment program of approximately 
$430 million.
37. Sustainability Report 2021 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
38. TerniumTernium’s strategy towards climate change 
Abundant iron ore resources, endless recyclability and 
unparalleled performance make steel the material of 
choice in a low-carbon circular economy. We rely on 
steel for our housing, transport, food and water supply, 
energy production, tools and healthcare. Almost 
everything around us is either made of steel or 
manufactured by equipment made of steel. Steel is a 
highly versatile metal, offering a wide space for the 
development of advanced products. Innovation is 
leading to more sophisticated ferrous castings, enabling 
a new generation of stronger and lighter structures, 
with lower carbon footprint, that are essential inputs 
for the automotive, engineering, energy and transport 
industries.
Over the years, steel scrap has been growing as an 
alternative raw material for steel production. Its 
magnetic properties enable efficient separation 
technologies, its recyclability represents a solution to 
our society's waste disposal challenge, and its use 
reduces direct carbon emissions from the steelmaking 
process. However, scrap recycling depends on its 
availability. Developing economies have relatively 
young infrastructure stocks and therefore limited 
amounts of obsolete steel scrap to use in steelmaking. 
As developing economies advance and infrastructure 
enters the replacement phase, availability of obsolete 
scrap will increase, supporting a shift from steelmaking 
technologies based on iron ore to those relying more 
heavily on steel scrap. Over time, this shift will have a 
significant impact on iron ore and steel scrap 
consumption trends globally.
Currently, the steel industry accounts for around 7% of 
the world’s direct carbon emissions, approximately 2.6 
gigatonnes of carbon dioxide (Gt CO2) per year, 
according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).  
The industry is a large energy consumer and its 
management is a key component to reduce overall 
emissions. Therefore, reduction of emission intensity 
rate and improvement of energy efficiency in our 
operations are top priorities in Ternium’s climate 
change agenda.Decarbonization target and Ternium’s roadmap
In 2021, Ternium announced a medium-term target of 
a 20% reduction in its CO2  emission intensity rate at its 
steelmaking sites by 2030, considering scopes 1 and 2 
emissions, compared to 2018 levels. 
To achieve this goal, the company is working to 
increase the participation of renewable sources in its 
energy mix and of scrap in its metallic mix, expand the 
carbon dioxide capture capacity at its DRI facilities, 
partially replace metallurgical coal with biomass, 
further develop its energy efficiency program, and 
prioritize organic investments with lower specific-
emission steelmaking technologies. 
For the longer term, the company is analyzing 
additional strategies to decarbonize its operations 
based upon current and developing iron and 
steelmaking technologies, and the availability of 
renewable energy and steel scrap. Tenova, a supplier of 
equipment and technology for iron mining and steel, is 
assisting Ternium in the development of carbon 
capture equipment and hydrogen based burners. 
Tecpetrol’s Energy Transition Business Unit is assisting 
the company in the development of green hydrogen 
infrastructure and carbon capture and storage facilities. 
Both Tenova and Tecpetrol are Ternium’s affiliates. 
Furthermore, the technology used at the DRI/EAF 
route in Mexico is prepared for the substitution of 
natural gas for green hydrogen when feasible.
Decarbonization is an objective that depends on major 
changes being introduced in our global society.  A more 
widespread adoption of green energy must be 
encouraged and improvements must be made in energy 
infrastructure to ensure supply. Disruptive low carbon 
technologies and carbon capture and storage solutions 
should move forward fast and be commercially 
available for the industry. Regulations should promote 
emission intensity reduction by ensuring a level-playing 
field for all actors and financial assistance should focus 
on investment projects that contribute to this end. 
Aware of this, the company has set strategic alliances 
along its supply chain and promotes joint efforts to 
achieve its decarbonization goals.
39. Sustainability Report 2021Engagement in the supply chain 
Ternium believes that its responsibility to reduce the 
environmental impact is also an opportunity to 
embrace innovation and technological progress, 
engaging its partners in the value chain to put together 
their efforts to build a greener future. 
In August 2021, we signed a memorandum of 
understanding (MoU) with Vale, our main iron ore 
supplier, to jointly study the use of iron ore briquettes 
at our blast furnaces, and the economic feasibility of 
investing in an iron ore briquetting plant with Vale's 
technology at Ternium’s Brazil facility. We are also 
working with partners for the use of biomass as a 
substitute for metallurgical coal in our steelmaking 
sites in Brazil and Argentina. 
To improve our sustainable procurement practices, we 
are working with Exiros, a specialized procurement 
company owned 50% by Ternium and 50% by 
Tenaris, on gathering information about the emission 
intensity of Ternium’s raw material purchases. This 
should help us improve our assessment of the 
company’s scope 3 emissions. The supplier information 
gathering target is at least 80% of the dollar value of 
Ternium’s raw materials purchased in 2021.  
We also collaborate with small and medium-sized 
suppliers for improving their assessment of their 
product footprint and identifying opportunities to 
reduce emissions and achieve energy efficiency in their 
processes (For more information please refer to 
“Strengthening Ternium's Value Chain” Chapter).
Institutional support to decarbonization
Ternium is an active member of the World Steel 
Association (worldsteel) and has signed the new 
Worldsteel’s Sustainable Charter to reaffirm its 
commitment to worldsteel’s sustainability principles. 
Within worldsteel, Ternium participates in several 
initiatives to measure and reduce carbon dioxide 
emissions (Climate Action program and Step Up 
program) and reports on its sustainability performance. 
In recognition of the company’s support and 
contributions, worldsteel has distinguished Ternium as 
Sustainability Champion for the fourth consecutive 
year.Last year, the company participated in the Technical 
Working Group (TWG) of The Net-Zero Steel 
Pathway Methodology Project. This private sector 
initiative was aimed at setting a feasible 
decarbonization pathway for the steel industry based 
on current technologies and common expectations. 
The result was a report presented to the Science 
Based Target initiative identifying the particular 
features of the sector and common principles for a 
consistent assessment of the companies’ CO2 
emission reduction targets in line with the 
contribution needed from the sector.  
Finally, the company promotes a regulatory framework 
to ensure a level playing field in its steel markets during 
the transition to carbon-free technologies through the 
participation in national steel and industrial 
associations like Alacero.
Testing our strategy resilience 
When designing its decarbonization roadmap to 
achieve its 2030 target, the company considered the IEA 
Current Policy and the Sustainable Development 
scenarios published in October 2020, and the 
declarations contained in the Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs) of each country where Ternium 
has steelmaking facilities. General commitments made 
by each country were assessed to have a high 
probability of materializing and therefore constitute a 
base scenario for planning. For example, within 
Mexico’s NDCs commitments, there is a pledge to 
accomplish 30% participation of renewable energy by 
2050.  Ternium’s Decarbonization Roadmap is more 
ambitious and considers an increase in the use of 
renewable energy at its Mexican steelmaking 
operations of 37% by 2030.
Other scenarios designed by international institutions 
are also considered in Ternium’s climate change 
strategy, specially when assessing climate change risks. 
The physical scenarios published by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
particularly business as usual scenario and IPCC COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
40. TerniumClimate change governance       
Representatives Concentration Pathway (RCP) of 4.5 
Celsius degrees (intermediate scenario), and RCP 8.5 
Celsius degree (extreme scenario) were used in a third 
party assessment to determine the vulnerability to 
climate change effects of Ternium’s operational sites. 
The study, focused on Ternium’s operations in 
Mexico, was concluded in 2021 and we expect to 
extend it to the rest of Ternium’s facilities during the 
coming years.
Identifying and assessing climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Under Ternium’s Risk Management Policy, climate- 
related risks are identified and assessed at a local level 
with the participation of the environmental, industrial 
and planning sectors. All detected risks are classified into a risk matrix considering both the economic and 
reputational impacts, and the probability of 
occurrence. The risks classified as critical are analyzed 
by a special committee led by the CEO where 
mitigation plans are presented to manage the 
company’s risk exposure. 
In connection with the transitional climate-related 
risks, the company regularly assesses the impact of 
changes in GHG emission policies. Government 
initiatives to reduce GHG emissions, such as the 
introduction of a carbon tax or carbon-pricing systems, 
the adoption of “cap-and-trade” systems or other 
measures to induce the replacement of fossil fuels by 
renewable energy sources are increasing worldwide as 
nations work to comply with their environmental 
commitments. The current policies in force in the 
countries where Ternium has industrial facilities do not 
41. Sustainability Report 2021 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
42. Terniumrequire Ternium to pay carbon taxes. However, future 
regulatory changes could eventually increase the 
company’s operating costs. As an example, the 2017 
tax reform in Argentina introduced a tax on certain 
fossil fuels. Natural gas, considered the transitional 
fossil fuel to decarbonization, was excluded and 
metallurgical coal and petrochemical coke were 
exempted as long as they are used as part of an 
industrial process other than for energy generation. 
Similarly, in 2013, Mexico approved carbon taxing 
rules applicable to fossil fuels and set a zero tax on 
natural gas.
The company also monitors the economic impact of 
natural disaster scenarios, such as hurricanes, cyclones, 
droughts, floods and fires or extreme weather 
conditions. For example, in 2020 and 2021, iron ore 
supplies to our operations in Argentina from Brazil’s 
mines in the Pantanal Region (Mato Grosso do Sul 
state), which are barged down the Paraguay and 
Paraná rivers, were disrupted as this waterway 
recorded very low levels. To avoid operational 
disruptions, the company has worked on improving its 
management of iron ore inventories including new river 
transportation strategies and the development of new 
supply agreements to secure alternative sources. 
As extreme weather events become more frequent all 
over the world, the company is strengthening the 
analysis of their possible implications and the 
probability of their occurrence. For more information 
about risk factors, please refer to Ternium’s 20-F Form 
for 2021.
Product development roadmap
We are working in the company’s new product 
development roadmap, aimed at increasing our offering 
of sophisticated, resistant and lightweight steel 
products for low-carbon economy applications as part 
of Ternium’s strategy to take advantage of energy 
transition opportunities.
In the field of renewable energy, through close 
partnership with plate producers, we developed  high 
quality structural steels for windmill towers and 
supplied galvanized steel to manufacturers of solar 
panel supporting racks in Mexico and Argentina. Increasing our CO 2 capture & 
usage capacity in Mexico
In 2021, we concluded the first phase of our 
project to increase the CO 2 capture and 
usage capacity at our Guerrero and Puebla 
facilities in Mexico. As a result, the annual 
CO2 capture and usage capacity went up to 
284 thousand tons. 
We expect to continue increasing capacity 
as we deploy the second phase of this 
project in the next two years.
34%
INCREASE IN CO 2 
CAPTURE AND USAGE 
CAPACITY IN 2021
from 2018 baseline
Our new hot-rolling mill at Ternium’s industrial center 
in Pesquería in Mexico has the technology required for 
the production of steel suitable for the manufacturing 
of electric vehicles, supporting the automotive 
industry’s efforts to increase its participation in the US 
annual sales volume by 2030. For the construction 
sector, we are designing a new family of sustainable 
coil coated steels combining eco-friendly components 
and energy saving solutions. 
Finally, as solutions for reducing carbon emissions 
worldwide  advanced, we find new opportunities in 
developing new grades of steel for CO2 storage 
facilities and hydrogen conduction pipelines.
43. Sustainability Report 2021Ternium’s carbon footprint
In 2021, Ternium’s direct CO2 emission intensity, 
scopes 1 and 2, was 1.7 tons of CO2 per ton of crude 
steel production, relatively in line with previous years. 
The company’s CO2 emission intensity rate continues 
to be lower than the average of the steel industry, and 
we expect it to start showing improvement once the 
ongoing decarbonization projects are fully operational 
in 2025.
During 2021, we concluded the first phase of our CO2 
capture and usage project at the Guerrero and Puebla 
facilities in Mexico. Since then, we have launched the 
second phase at the Guerrero unit. When completed, 
this will result in a total CO2 capture & usage capacity 
of approximately 400 thousand tons per year. 
We have also launched a project at our slab facility in 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to increase the scrapyard 
processing capacity and the scrap rate  in the metallic 
mix, with the aim at reducing the CO2 emissions rate 
from steelmaking operations in this location. 
To better assess our carbon footprint and the impact of 
our programs, we systematized the monthly monitoring 
of CO2 emissions of the steelmaking sites. We are 
currently working on extending the boundaries for CO2 
emissions metrics under the GHG methodology and 
obtaining a third-party verification.
  
Energy management
As part of its environmental and energy management 
system, Ternium continuously seeks for improvements 
in the use of energy at its facilities. Energy supply is 
managed with the aim at achieving a circular economy 
and reducing CO2 emissions.
Depending on the technology, our power plants in 
Brazil and Argentina use recovered residual fuel gases from iron and steel production processes like Blast 
Furnace gas (BFg), Basic Oxygen Furnace gas (BOFg) 
and Coke Oven Gas (COg) and residual heat from coke 
making heat recovery systems.The power plant at our 
Rio de Janeiro facility supplies energy to the 
steelmaking process and sells surpluses to the Brazilian 
national grid. 
Also in Brazil, we are reducing natural gas 
consumption by using biomethane obtained from solid 
urban waste. The biomethane substitution rate from 
fossil natural gas was approximately 13% in 2021, 
turning it into a flexible and renewable energy source. 
In Mexico, our main electricity supplier is Techgen, a 
combined cycle power station owned in association 
with Tenaris and Tecpetrol. Electricity generated by 
this power station commands a reduction in Ternium’s 
scope 2 emissions of approximately 6% compared to 
the utilization of electricity from the national grid. In 
2021, Ternium purchased, through Techgen, clean 
energy certificates representing 11% of total electricity 
consumption from that supplier. 
Considering the electricity supply configuration for all 
of Ternium’s steelmaking sites, in 2021 20% of the 
electricity purchased by the company came from green 
energy sources, according to a market-based approach 
calculation. We expect to consume 40% of renewable 
energy by 2030. 
Committed to continuous improvement
In 2014, the company set up an energy efficiency 
program with the aim at identifying opportunities for 
energy savings and developing projects to reduce 
energy consumption, including technological upgrades 
and energy recovery. 
Under this program, the company has already 
implemented 475 projects with an investment of $38.4 
million that resulted in an annual reduction of 
approximately 430 thousand tons of CO2. COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
44. Ternium 2021 Ternium’s steelmaking routes
MAIN PRODUCTION 
INPUTSCRUDE STEEL 
PRODUCTION
1. Iron ore 
2. Coking coal
3. Pulverized Injection 
Coal (PCI)
4. Natural Gas
 
BF
Blast 
furnace
BOF
Basic oxigen 
furnace
 
CC
Slab 
continuous 
caster 63% 
 
1. Iron ore pellets
2. Natural gas
3. Electricity
 
DRI
Direct 
reduction
iron plant
EAF
Electric
arc furnace
CC
Slab and billet 
continuous 
caster 30% 
1. Scrap
2. Electricity
EAF
Electric
arc furnace
CC
Billet 
continuous 
caster 7% 
In 2021, we optimized the heat recovery process in our 
blast furnaces in Brazil, made improvements to the EAF 
burners in Apodaca, Mexico, and recently installed 
solar panels for the corporate building at the 
Universidad facility in Mexico. 
Moreover, the company has recently signed in Mexico 
an agreement with the National Commission for 
Efficient Energy Use (CONUEE, its acronym in 
Spanish) for the execution in the next three years of several projects to improve energy efficiency at the 
Guerrero facility. The Energy Efficiency Program 
contemplates energy savings for up to 84,237 MWh and 
CO2 emissions reductions of more than 19 thousand 
tons per year. 
The company expects to continue working in new 
opportunities to improve energy consumption and to 
extend the ISO 50.001 certification to its Mexican 
steelmaking sites and finishing facilities. 
45. Sustainability Report 2021Re-use of waste waters 
Ternium constantly looks for new ways to 
reduce freshwater use in sites where water 
is scarce. 
According to the World Resources Institute’s 
aqueduct software, our Mexican facilities 
are in extremely high water stress areas. To 
reduce environmental impact and support 
the community, the company uses third-
party treated water, mainly sewage water, 
when feasible.
This principle is embedded in the design 
of our facilities: Pesquería greenfield 
facility uses sewage water for 96% of its 
water needs. 
The water received from third-party is 
treated at the company's water plants to 
improve its conditions and then used for 
cooling purposes and at different stages 
in the production process.
46%
OF THIRD-PARTY 
WATER INTAKE
in 2021 
(mainly sewage water)Water management
Ternium’s water management strategy is designed on a 
case-by-case basis according to the specific water 
supply criticality at each site where it operates. The 
company continuously incorporates state-of-the-art 
technologies to improve water management and water 
discharge monitoring systems. 
Proper use of water, as a key resource, is carefully 
considered when designing every new facility. For 
example, our industrial center in Palmar de Varela, 
Colombia, inaugurated in February 2021, was designed 
with a 100% closed circuit: the facility’s water intake is 
used only for replenishing purposes due to evaporation 
and is sourced from third-party. 
Water withdrawal and the availability of surface and 
groundwater supply is different in each country where 
Ternium operates. Based on the company’s assessment 
of overall water-related risks, according to the water 
risk atlas of the World Resource Institute (WRI), our 
steel facilities in Mexico are located in a water stressed 
area. 
Over the years, Ternium has developed specific 
strategies to minimize water usage at its Mexican 
steelmaking facilities, where it has achieved a water 
withdrawal intensity of just 3.2 cubic meters per ton of 
steel produced in 2021. 
We have also consistently increased the use of third-
party water mostly sewage water. As a result, the 
participation of third-party water in Mexican facilities’ 
water intake reached 46% in 2021 and only 1% was 
considered potable. 
Ternium’s total water intake is mostly use for steam 
generation and cooling purpose. Around 94% of 
total water withdrawal is cleaned, cooled and 
returned to source so, the company's consumption, 
defined using worldsteel’s methodology as the 
difference between water intake and water discharge, 
is really low.        COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
46. TerniumWastewater discharge
The company permanently monitors wastewater 
discharges in compliance with local environmental 
regulations. All facilities measure water quality 
considering numerous physicochemical and 
bacteriological parameters. 
Over the years, we have incorporated state-of-the-art 
technologies and monitoring systems that improve the 
quality of, and reduce, water discharges. In 2021, we 
continued improving the water treatment plant that 
separates particulate matter resulting from cleaning of 
BOF process gases in the San Nicolás facility in 
Argentina. The system was updated to achieve higher 
efficiency and extract higher quality slugs at early 
stages. During 2022, we expect to incorporate new filters with 
the aim of increasing the slug capture. The sludge 
derived from the wastewater treatment is used in-house 
in the sintering process or sold to the cement industry 
transforming a waste material in an useful input for 
both industries. 
In addition, we will continue to strengthen the entire 
effluents treatment and control system at our Rio de 
Janeiro unit in Brazil with a direct continuous 
measurement system and enhancing the re-used of 
treated water. 
The company continuously incorporates state-of-the-art technologies to improve water management and water discharge monitoring systems.
47. Sustainability Report 2021 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
48. TerniumMaterial efficiency
In Ternium, we continuously develop strategies to 
maximize the use of co-products and reduce the 
production of waste. Co-products mainly include blast 
furnace and steel shop slag, iron oxide and chemical 
substances. We believe that the recovery and proper use 
of co-products is central to the application of circular 
economy concepts in the steel industry’s value chain.
The use of co-products reduces the consumption of raw 
materials and energy, with a positive effect on carbon 
dioxide emissions and waste generation. All the steel 
scrap generated in Ternium’s facilities is recycled. 
In addition, the company purchases steel scrap 
generated by other steel processors in its value-chain,  
as well as steel scrap gathered by recyclers. In 2021, 
Ternium recycled 3.1 million tons of steel scrap to 
produce new steel with all its properties, representing 
29% of its total crude steel production.
The granulated slag generated in the blast furnaces is 
sold to the cement industry. The re-use of granulated 
slag as a substitute for clinker enabled carbon dioxide 
emission savings in the cement production process of 
970 thousand tons in 2021. The slag generated in the 
steel shop is also used to consolidate roads and as soil 
enrichment. In March of 2022, the company delivered 
40 thousand tons of recycled aggregate slag to pave the 
Santa Cruz industrial district main access roads in Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.
In addition, Ternium has sinter and briquetting 
facilities that allow it to recycle different materials 
captured by its air and water cleaning equipment, 
including iron ore fines, coal, lime and dolomite.
The dust generated by the electric-arc furnaces at 
Ternium’s Guerrero and Puebla units, Mexico, is 
transformed into Mix Rock®, an innovative co-
product developed and registered by Ternium. Mix 
Rock® enables the re-use of EAF dust and slag as a 
substitute for iron ore in the clinker production process 
at the cement industry. In 2021, Ternium sold 128 
thousand tons of Mix Rock®.The processing of metallurgical coal for the 
steelmaking production process yields significant 
volumes of residual gases. In Argentina, the company 
uses gases stemmed from the distillation process in the 
coking batteries to obtain chemical products like tar 
and benzol and sells them to third parties.   
All these processes have enabled Ternium to achieve a 
material efficiency rate of 99% at its steel operations in 
2021, with 4.8 million tons of co-products generated 
and 130 thousand tons of waste sent to landfill.
Air quality
We are currently enhancing our air quality monitoring 
systems and continuously investing to improve 
environmental performance.  
In 2021, the company undertook a series of 
infrastructure projects at the Guerrero unit in Mexico 
to suppress dust emissions as a consequence of different 
materials handling: silos for collection and storage of 
DRI and the construction of a dome in the iron ore 
yard. Ternium is also advancing a project at its steel 
shop in the San Nicolás unit in Argentina to further 
enhance its environmental performance by 
incorporating cameras and monitoring systems to 
strengthen their environmental management and 
operational control.
The company is applying the latest technology 
available for real time air quality monitoring. LiDAR 
(Light Detection and Ranging) technology is currently 
being tested at the San Nicolás unit in Argentina and at 
the Rio de Janeiro unit in Brazil, to assess site 
emissions with greater accuracy and flexibility using 
laser technology and setting virtual monitoring stations 
that allow the company to have real-time information 
about air quality. 
Life cycle and environmental product declarations
Ternium assesses the life cycle of its steel products and 
participates in worldsteel’s life cycle assessment (LCA) 
initiatives to help document and improve steel 
49. Sustainability Report 2021product’s environmental footprint. A steel LCA 
involves, among other indicators,  a thorough 
inventory of the energy and materials that are required 
across the industry value chain, according to ISO 14040 
and 14044 standards, to determine the greenhouse gas 
emission impact of steel products. As of year-end 2021, 
Ternium’s LCA inventory reporting encompassed 92% 
of our crude steel production.
Certain customers required the assessment of the 
environmental impact of steel products. As a result, the 
company has developed environmental product 
declarations (EPDs) of eight products families. More 
information on Ternium’s EPDs is available on our 
website (https://mx.ternium.com/es/sustentabilidad/
epd).
Biodiversity care
Sepetiba bay
Ternium’s Rio de Janeiro unit is located near a 
coastline area at the Sepetiba bay in Brazil, where it has 
its own port. The company has a broad strategy to 
protect the fauna and flora of the bay, including 160 
hectares of mangroves. Of note among other initiatives, 
Ternium promotes and sponsors a project, carried out 
by the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and the 
Instituto Boto Cinza, to study a dolphin specie that 
inhabits the bay, the boto cinza, considered essential to 
the ecosystem balance. Through an innovative tracking 
and tracing system, scientists asses the specimens health 
status and learn more about their behavior, to act on 
the preservation of this species.  
Iberá wetlands
Ternium collaborates with the projects of the 
Rewilding Argentina Foundation at the Iberá wetlands, 
a protected area located at the northeast of Argentina. 
These projects have been incorporated into National 
Geographic Society’s Last Wild Places initiative. They 
seek to reintroduce in the area species that are 
considered endangered, such as the yaguareté, a kind of 
jaguar, and the giant otter. In 2021, the company 
contributed with steel products to build a new 
shoreline pen for the second couple of giant otters and 
we are currently awaiting approval from the National Parks Administration for an expansion plan of the 
yaguareté pen. In addition, Ternium participates in the 
Entrepreneurs by Nature project aimed at improving 
food security and promoting local entrepreneurship 
through family agricultural production. The objective 
is that families can be self-sustaining and that, in the 
future, they can generate enterprises linked to tourism.
Increasing green areas at our facilities
As part of its restoration works at decommissioned 
mines, in the last five years Ternium has planted 
approximately 400,000 trees. Reforestation works have 
taken place at former mining operations in the 
Mexican states of Colima, Jalisco and Michoacán, and 
involved more than 20 species that are native to the low 
rain forest.
In August 2021, the company initiated a reforestation 
project at the Guerrero unit in Mexico. Old structures 
where demolished creating the opportunity of 
increasing the green areas at the site.  
Ternium’s preservation works
Ternium performs field works aimed at preserving 
local biodiversity before starting the construction of 
new facilities and carries out a continuous control and 
surveillance program in areas intended for conservation 
in its steel and mining operations. The company defines 
various areas of ecological connectivity between its 
terrain and the natural ecosystems, develops rescue 
programs to release wildlife in those areas and install 
wildlife connectivity gates for reptiles, amphibians and 
small mammals.
 
 
In 2021, worldsteel recognized Ternium for four consecutive year as a 
Sustainability Champion. The company was also distinguished for its 
support and contributions to worldsteel’s initiatives to reduce carbon 
dioxide emissions under the Climate Action Recognition Program.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
50. Ternium 
51. Sustainability Report 2021EMISSION INTENSITY (SCOPES 1+2)(1)
TONS OF CO 2 EMITTED PER TON OF CRUDE STEEL PRODUCED
1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7
Scope 1: direct emissions
Scope 2: indirect emissions related to electricity2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.00.51.01.52.02.5
TERNIUM’S MEXICAN FACILITIES WATER INTAKE (2)
MILLION CUBIC METERS
3.5 3.4 3.43.2 3.2
Groundwater
Third party
Water intake intensity (m3 / ton of crude steel) for steelmaking sites2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.05.010.015.020.0
0.02.04.06.0
(1) Energy and emissions figures include only Ternium’s steelmaking sites 
and are based on worldsteel’s sectoral approach methodology, according 
to ISO 14404 and GHG protocol. Scope 2 emissions were calculated using 
local-based (Tier 2) and market based (Tier 3) emission factors when 
applicable but without considering the volume of clean energy 
certificates purchased by Techgen that would have reduced 8% 
Ternium’s scope 2 emissions. Scope 1 and 3 emissions were calculated 
using Tier 3 emissions factors calculated from specific site measures for 
main raw materials as well as upstream emission factors providedENERGY INTENSITY(1)
GIGAJOULES CONSUMED PER TON OF CRUDE STEEL PRODUCED
21.821.322.1 22.023.9
2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.05.010.015.020.025.0
INVESTMENTS IN ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY
$ MILLION  
70.873.170.7
37.379.8
2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.025.050.075.0100.0
by suppliers. The percentage of gross global Scope 1 CO 2 emissions that are 
covered by GHG emissions regulation or program for 2021 was 39%. 
Ternium’s carbon footprint includes only CO 2 emissions, as the emission of 
other greenhouse gases is negligible.
(2) Ternium’s Mexican facilities water intake corresponds to the steel 
segment while water intake intensity is calculated only for steelmaking 
sites.Key Figures
52. Ternium–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–Ternium is an integrated steel company committed on preserving the environment.
Its goal is to achieve the highest standards in environmental and energy performance as a basis for sustainable 
development throughout its operations in regards to company employees, the community and future 
generations. The company has committed to develop a high-quality performance, integrated and eco-efficient 
production system based on continuous improvement.
Caring for the environment is a fundamental value, and its principles are the following:
Compliance with the applicable legislation, as well as any voluntary agreements in relation to environmental 
protection and energy use, consumption and efficiency.
All levels in each area, throughout the company, are responsible for the results of environmental protection.
The commitment of all our personnel is essential, as is the training provided.
Environmental protection and energy efficiency are responsibilities of Ternium’s staff as well as of its 
subsidiaries, suppliers and contractor personnel.
Environmental and energy dimensions are an integral part of the company's management processes.
Continuous improvement in environmental and energy performance is actively promoted throughout the 
company, in addition to all the efforts necessary to achieve the objectives and established goals.
Pollution must be prevented at the source, controlling the most significant environmental aspects of our 
operations and minimizing their impacts and risks.
Promoting the acquisition of energy efficient products, technologies, services and implementing projects 
that enhance our energy performance.
Use energy and natural resources efficiently.
Encourage the use of best technologies and practices, as well as renewable energies, when feasible.
In each company, everyone is responsible for environmental and energy management:
The company supplies the means and resources to enable compliance with this policy, thereby supporting 
the sustainability of all operations, depending on the operations context.
All persons entering company facilities, such as own personnel, suppliers, contractors and customers, 
must comply with this policy.
The company seeks to share these principles throughout its value chain and across the communities where 
it operates, to promote the protection of the environment, encourage the efficient use and consumption of energy 
resources and foster an open dialogue with stakeholders.
This Policy applies to Ternium and its subsidiaries. It will be actively disseminated with a view to ensuring 
compliance throughout the organization.
June 2018
Máximo Vedoya
CEO
Ternium Environment and Energy Policy
53. Sustainability Report 2021Realizing our 
People’s 
Full Potential
We aim to be an equal 
opportunity and equal 
treatment organization
that promotes industrial
and technological 
excellence.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
   
Ternium has become a leading flat steel producer in 
Latin America by virtue of its main asset: a team of 
committed, innovative, industrious, diverse and highly 
qualified individuals. We rely on the talent and 
determination of our people to shape our company in 
the years to come. 
Transforming the way we work
Over the last few years, the company has adapted to 
changing working trends by incorporating more 
flexibility in working schemes and promoting greater 
interaction between employees from different regions. 
The basis set by our long-time flexible working 
program allowed us to rapidly adapt to the restrictive 
measures set as a consequence of the COVID-19 
outbreak and to carry out our business in all locations 
without affecting our high performance levels. 
Ternium made technological upgrades to its servers 
and home office equipment to ensure suitable 
conditions for remote work. 
The disruption and uncertainty brought by the 
pandemic continue to affect the way we think about 
face-to-face interactions, work-life balance, and the 
impact on people’s performance. As a result, in 2021 
we launched the New Way of Working program based 
on a new work-life paradigm supported by hybrid 
work and learning opportunities. The key concept of 
this work modality is responsible autonomy, focusing 
on achieving objectives and productivity rather than on 
physical location and leaving to our people the decision 
on the best way to execute a task, whether at the office 
or at home.
Commensurate with the change in how people work is 
the transformation of the workplace itself, as people 
return to the office with new health and safety 
protocols in place. As part of the program, we are 
rethinking our workspaces to become more appealing 
for teamwork and group activities. We have already 
introduced changes at our corporate building at the 
Universidad facility in Mexico and a pilot project is 
currently under execution in some of our corporate 
offices in Buenos Aires, Argentina.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
54. TerniumGoals
 Actions
Shape an appealing working environment
Enhance employees’ skills 
Promote a culture of industrial and technological 
excellence 
Foster innovation
Implement succession plans for key positions–
   
–
–
–Development of a new working culture combining the 
positive aspects of traditional onsite work and new remote 
work alternatives
Reshaping our organizational structure with a focus on 
high added-value tasks
Adoption of new career development plans to ensure that 
adequately skilled employees achieve key positions 
Reassessment of Ternium University’s training programs, 
based on career requirements, to achieve an up-to-date 
and more effective offering
Be an equal opportunity and equal treatment 
organization
Increase diversity at Ternium’s management positions 
and Board of Directors
Engage the communities and the supply chain under a 
concerted strategy to empower women –
–
–Endorsement of United Nations Women’s Empowerment 
Principles (WEPs)
Long-term plan to increase women participation at 
management positions
Consolidation of the corporate programs: Lean In Together 
initiative and Maternity Mentoring
Global working trends and technological 
breakthroughs have also had an impact on how we 
pursue people’s engagement to the company, the way 
we execute daily chores and the quest for reshaping our 
talent management into higher value-added tasks. With 
a new Global Shared Service area, we are currently 
working on four projects: the introduction of IT 
solutions in our communication devices, allowing real-
time responses on different human resources concerns, 
a standardized onboarding-off boarding process 
throughout our locations, the use of analytics based on 
past events, and Robotics Process Automation (RPA). 
We are at the pilot stages of a chatbot tool 
incorporated into our internal corporate 
chat software to improve our employee's assistance. 
The chatbot is programmed to respond to over 80 
different situations in Spanish and Portuguese, connects 
with Ternium’s human resources department systems, and incorporates personalized settings in line with our 
Diversity and Work Environment Free of Harassment 
policy. Once operative, we expect to extend the 
implementation of this tool to cellphone devices and 
increase the response range to over 400 different 
inquiries. 
We are also considering using data analysis across our 
processes to better assess possible outcomes based on 
people’s past behavior and design effective strategies. 
The intention is to ensure people’s safety, anticipate 
career development needs, and focus on training 
requirements.
We expect the implementation of these solutions to 
speed progress during the coming years, leading to a 
better working environment and enhancing the overall 
performance of our people.
55. Sustainability Report 2021Promoting Ternium’s industrial and technological 
excellence
Ternium’s long-term performance relies on the 
development of specific competencies and skills for 
each position by existing and new employees and by 
carefully planning a succession and continuity 
process. The definition of the training activities and 
contents across our locations, the management of 
partnerships with universities and educational 
institutions, and the development of joint projects 
within the company are currently centralized under 
Ternium University. 
Due to the pandemic, we redesigned most of our 
contents into an online format and replaced face-to-
face experiences with synchronous and asynchronous 
activities. In addition, we completed the development 
of an easy-to-use online TU platform, allowing 
employees to follow up on their educational path and choose from a broad offer of in-house and external 
courses. During 2021, more than 15,000 employees 
interacted at least once and over 8,000 people 
interacted monthly with Ternium University’s 
platform. The tool was well received by our employees 
and the average satisfaction rate on the courses 
delivered reached 80/100 points.
As on-site courses became less common, difficulties in 
reaching the same audience as in the past were higher. 
To counter this trend, the company set the Weekly 
Training Hour program for salaried employees, 
ensuring the achievement of training goals for each 
function through effective management of the time 
allocated to training activities. 
In addition, Ternium has strengthened its career 
development program by introducing a competencies 
model with a three-way approach: aptitudes related 
with Ternium’s culture (“I am Ternium”), features 
associated with leadership (“I am a Leader”) and 
 
 
     Ternium partners with universities and offers purpose, training and a strong corporate culture.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
56. Terniumspecific technical knowledge needed for a given role 
(“ I am an Expert”). As an integrated strategy, this 
competencies model is the cornerstone of the 
managerial and technological career pathways within 
the company.
Redesigning Ternium’s training program for global 
trainees and global professionals
Based on the new competencies model, we have divided 
our Young Professional Program into a Global 
Trainees and a Global Professional program. In these 
programs, each participant receives customized 
training activities, with online and on-site formats as 
well as networking activities. Participants are assigned 
to specific positions aimed at helping them develop 
expertise in desired fields. The programs also include a 
mentoring system with group and individual 
interactions, and an upward feedback system. Focused 
on attracting young talent, we have reduced the 
duration of these programs from six to four years and 
the networking activities include more visits to the 
industrial facilities across regions and international 
experiences.
Other training programs
The company is constantly working on developing the 
necessary and expected skills for managerial positions. 
To achieve this goal, we launched the Global Leaders 
Executive Program for top management in partnership 
with Wharton Business School (University of 
Pennsylvania) and expect to deploy a Leadership 
Development Program addressed to middle 
management in the second half of 2022. We also work 
with recognized universities in the different countries 
where we operate to offer our employees specialized 
second-cycle degrees applied to the steel industry. 
In addition, our senior employees with more than 4 
years of experience participate in the Senior 
Development Program, which includes topics like 
industry 4.0, diversity and inclusion as well as 
management tools. Over 300 employees have 
completed this training.
Besides custom-made programs, all salaried employees 
have the opportunity to participate in open training 
courses on trending topics like design thinking, 
business analytics, agile workshop and storytelling. Ternium University, key to the 
development of our people
The company continually seeks new ways of 
strengthening its employees’ skills and 
building up a shared vision on key topics 
across its business units.
Within Ternium University’s platform, we 
address four pillars of the company’s long-
term sustainability: health and safety, quality 
and R&D, environment and diversity, equity 
and inclusion.
Users find explanatory videos on the 
company’s policies and procedures, courses on 
regulations and international standards, and 
training sessions where the participants share 
their knowledge and experience. 
Since we are present across the Americas, the 
material is available in Spanish, Portuguese, 
and English.
98%
OF TOTAL WORKFORCE
received training on 
environmental topics at 
least once
98%
OF TOTAL WORKFORCE
received career- or skills- 
related training in 202188%
OF TOTAL WORKFORCE
received training on 
preventing discrimination 
and human rights 
violations
57. Sustainability Report 2021COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
58. TerniumWe also offer English, Spanish and Portuguese  language 
courses guided by instructors or online training.
Fostering performance improvement
The individual performance of salaried employees and 
management is assessed annually through a formal 
performance assessment process. The results of the 
evaluation process drive different aspects of the 
career, such as compensation and career development, 
training requirements and performance improvement 
opportunities. A performance assessment process 
based on a measurable set of objectives aims at 
helping our employees have a positive working 
experience and relationship with their leaders. 
Ternium’s performance assessment process is 
integrated to the company’s human resources IT 
system, which includes each employee’s objectives 
under a 360-degree approach. This is a key component 
of the process ensuring that everyone’s goals are in 
line with the company’s objectives and guarantees 
transparency and fairness in the assessment of each 
employee’s work throughout the year.
The performance assessment process is addressed 
through a combination of different views: the 
employee’s own opinion, assessment committees and 
feedback meetings, as well as mid-year reviews. The 
system offers employees additional options to provide 
and receive comments, including the chance of 
submitting client-supplier opinions related to specific 
objectives and an upward feedback tool for management 
positions accessible to the manager’s leader. 
Growing from engagement and feedback of our people
The company holds regular engagement, feedback, and 
communications instances creating the spaces for 
expressing the company’s strategy and the impact on 
people’s jobs. CEO live talks and Area Manager talks, 
online town hall meetings, and Safe Hour meetings at 
the company’s facilities are some of the mechanisms to 
get closer to our employees and obtain their views on 
different matters.In addition, Ternium periodically commissions 
confidential surveys to monitor employees’ views on 
their working experience and the company’s 
management, leadership and culture. In 2021, the survey 
went deeper into people’s ideas, beliefs, and feelings 
with the introduction of an engagement score that tries 
to encompass their sense of belonging and pride in the 
company. There was a response rate of 90% among 
professionals who answered eighteen questions, 
showing an engagement score of 76 points.
Action plans based on the results of each topic and more 
than 4,500 comments received will be developed in the 
next years to improve employees’ experience and overall 
labor climate.
Building an equal opportunity and equal treatment 
organization
Ternium has adopted policies on Human Rights and 
Diversity and Work Environment Free of Harassment, 
which guide our efforts in managing talent and 
attracting and retaining motivated employees. Ternium 
is an equal opportunity employer and aims to foster a 
workplace environment that attracts and develops 
talents across all genders, nationalities, generations, 
cultures, religions and backgrounds, respecting and 
valuing individual differences. This principle is 
incorporated as from the early stages of recruitment. For 
example, to ensure equal treatment in the selection 
process, the company uses a gaming software that 
assesses logical and technical knowledge and reduces 
human bias. Furthermore, the company has set a Code 
of Conduct that forbids unlawful discrimination in 
employment relations and ensures that any person has 
the right to be considered for a new position strictly 
based on the skills required for it. 
Over the years, Ternium has grown increasingly diverse. 
Argentines, Brazilians, Colombians and Mexicans 
comprise the largest share of the company’s team 
members, yet a total of 27 nationalities are represented
59. Sustainability Report 2021Taking action in gender equality
In Ternium we are committed to increasing 
female participation in all our clusters. We are 
actively working at the base of our 
organizational structure to increase the number 
of female candidates for managerial positions.
Our talent recruiting procedure has been reviewed to get closer to female students and increase 
their presence in our global trainee programs. 
In addition, we are strengthening women’s career 
development with programs that improve the 
balance between work and personal life.
40%
FEMALE SALARIED 
EMPLOYEES
under 30 years old  
(2021)
22%
OF FEMALE PARTICIPATION
at Board of Directors 
(2022)
in Ternium’s staff. In 2021, 57% of the company’s local 
management positions throughout the organization 
were held by nationals.
Through the years, we have been trying to identify best   
practices in fostering equity and inclusion and 
incorporated them into our policies and our human 
resources programs. In 2021, the Human Rights 
Campaign foundation recognized Ternium for the 
second time as one of the best places to work in Mexico 
for the LGBT community. The Human Rights 
Campaign certification in the private sector evaluates on 
an annual basis the company’s commitment to equality 
through its actions and the policies and procedures set in 
place in favor of equity and gender identity, sexual 
orientation and inclusion.
In May 2021, Ternium embraced the Women’s 
Empowerment Principles (WEPs) of United Nations. 
The company aims to raise female participation in its management positions on a long-term basis. To achieve 
this, we are working on increasing women participation 
at young professional recruitment stages, supporting our 
female employees throughout maternity to reconcile 
personal and professional objectives, and increasing 
female participation at board level. In 2021, our female 
employees under 30 years in our salaried cluster 
increased 24% and female in managerial positions raised 
19% compared to 2020. In addition, as part of its 
commitments under the WEPs, Ternium promotes 
business practices that empower women among other 
stakeholders, including those in the steel industry value 
chain and the communities near our facilities. 
Maternity mentoring program
In 2019, the company launched a Maternity Mentoring 
program as part of its initiatives to accelerate the 
reduction of the gender gap and foster the participation 
of women in managerial positions. Focused on 
strengthening women’s career development andCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
60. TerniumMost of Ternium University’s courses and contents are available online, under synchronous and asynchronous activities.
reducing the rate of female employees that leave the 
company following pregnancy or maternity, the program 
assists employees and their leaders in planning and 
managing the transition before, during and after 
maternity leave. Following a pilot test during 2020, the 
program has been implemented in Mexico, Argentina, 
Brazil and Guatemala, with the assistance of a specialized 
consultancy firm. 
Lean In Together program
Under the company’s Diversity+ program, in 2019, 
Ternium launched the Lean In Together initiative. The 
project aims to raise awareness of contemporary issues 
and debate about inclusion and diversity-related topics 
such as unconscious biases, sexual diversity and gender 
identity, and the importance of intercultural and 
inclusive leadership. The Lean In circles are a space for 
dialogue where attendees from different regions, gender, 
professional background, and expertise can express 
themselves freely and promote a reflective dialog about 
these issues. In 2021, we launched the third generation of Lean In circles where the community grew to 440 
participants and extended to all our locations. In 
addition, last year, we reinforced the discussion on two 
specific topics, gender equality and generational 
interaction, with participants from previous stages of the 
program.
We are convinced that a safe and inclusive workplace 
environment will result in a stronger performance of our 
people and that our people's diversity will result in better 
and more creative solutions to face modern challenges. 
Accordingly, all of these initiatives will continue to be a 
relevant part of our agenda.
Best place to work in Mexico for LGBT
61. Sustainability Report 2021HEADCOUNT
# OF EMPLOYEES
21,35320,66019,863 20,173 20,142
Hourly employees Plant supervisors
Salaried employees Management2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
EMPLOYEES TRAINING 
AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR AND EMPLOYEE
36
2337
725 2774
39 41
Salaried employees &
managementPlant supervisors
Hourly employees2019 2020 2021020406080
Figures for hourly employees and plant supervisors do not include on-site coaching 
according to the 404.1 GRI standard methodology.
In 2019 with the start-up of Ternium University, we migrated our internal 
management system to SAP’s SuccessFactor.HEADCOUNT BY NATIONALITY
DECEMBER 2021
Mexican
44%Argentine
27%
Brazilian
19%
Colombian
6%
Other
3%
PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
% SALARIED AND MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES
979397 9693 949194 95 96
Performance review (M&S) Upward feedback2017 2018 2019 2020 2021020406080100Key Figures
62. TerniumHEADCOUNT BY GENDER 
%, DECEMBER 2021
Male FemaleManagement
(all ages)
Salaried employees
(all ages)
(under 30)
Hourly employees &
Plant supervisors
(all ages)
(under 30)
0 20 40 60 80 100HEADCOUNT BY AGE 
%, DECEMBER 2021
Less than 30 years Between 30 and 50 years
More than 50 yearsHourly employees
Plant supervisors
Salaried
employees
Management
0 20 40 60 80 100
63. Sustainability Report 2021Helping Our
Communities 
Thrive
Ternium has long-
standing support
programs adapted to
the specific agenda of
each community where
its facilities are located.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
    
 
We believe that an industrial project like Ternium’s can 
only be sustainable if the communities where we 
operate grow alongside the company. This is the 
principle guiding our community programs, which 
focus on four main fields: technical education, culture, 
volunteer work and health assistance. 
In 2021, Ternium directly invested $17.3 million in its 
community programs and received a donation of $4.1 
million from our controlling shareholder group to 
revitalize our education programs, as we transition to a 
post-pandemic environment. Out of a total of $21.4 
million, over 40% was invested in our educational 
programs.  
Education as a driving force for change
We are convinced that education is key to achieving 
prosperous community growth and changing people’s 
lives by enabling new opportunities.
Over the years, the company has developed educational 
programs covering the entire school cycle, from 
elementary to post-graduate, helping children and 
youngsters fulfill their potential and become active 
contributors to society. Our educational efforts 
encompass the Roberto Rocca Technical School 
(ETRR in Spanish), the Technical Gene program, the 
AfterSchool program and the Roberto Rocca 
Scholarships, which comprise various scholarships at 
different formal educational levels.
During 2021, we strengthened our online presence, 
worked on redesigning existing educational programs 
and improved technological tools and infrastructure 
conditions at our Technical School, as well as at local 
educational institutions.
Developing high standards of technical education
Ternium inaugurated its technical school in 2016 at 
Pesquería in the state of Nuevo León, Mexico, with 
capacity for 384 students and an investment of $32.6 
million. COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
64. TerniumGoals
 Actions
Foster education
Promote excellence in STEM education (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics)
Support schools and outstanding students –
–
 –
 
–Construction and operation of a technical school in 
Pesquería, Mexico
Reinforcement of technical high schools, including math, 
technical training and technical internships and projects
Financial awards for academic performance to students 
(high-school, undergraduate and graduate)
Implementation of STEM education program in primary 
schools
Support initiatives that strengthen communities near 
our operations
Improve health care systems
Sponsor volunteering activities
Promote cultural activities and sports –
–
–
–
–Funding of health care infrastructure and equipment, 
including a special fund to face the COVID-19 pandemic in 
2020.
Construction and operation of a field hospital (COVID-19) 
in Monterrey, Mexico.
Maintenance and refurbishing of community schools.
Support to vulnerable families in Argentina, Brazil and 
Mexico.
Sponsorship of diverse cultural exhibitions and events, as 
well as city races and other sporting activities.
Named after one of the company’s founders and 
promoter of industrial culture and technical education, 
the Roberto Rocca Technical School was launched to 
educate high school students from our communities, 
using innovative teaching methods and the latest 
technology in both, classroom and laboratory. In 
addition, all the students receive scholarships 
depending on their needs.
During 2020 and until mid-2021, the ETRR adapted its 
admission process, its curricular content and the 
internship experience to online formats, to tackle the 
greatest challenge posed by lockdowns and social 
distancing measures to traditional teaching methods. Since then, face-to-face lessons gradually resumed on 
an alternating basis with online teaching. 
In July 2021, 118 students graduated as part of the third 
generation of our technical school. On average, our 
students received a 94% scholarship, and six graduates 
received the Roberto Rocca University Scholarship to 
continue their education. 
The ETRR completion rate of 92% reflects the high 
level of engagement that the company and the 
community have towards achieving high standards of 
technical education. 
65. Sustainability Report 2021Supporting education at all levels
Technical education is an essential part of our 
community programs. Our focus is to enable the 
access to education at all levels and to improve 
the resources and the technology available for 
learning activities. We believe that the tools received and the skills 
learned in technical schools improve young 
people’s employment opportunities and therefore 
benefit local communities. 
$33
MILLION
Invested in our technical
school in Pesquería,
Mexico (2014-2018).42%
OF COMMUNITY FUNDS
destined to educational
programs in 2021.47%
INCREASE IN SCHOLARSHIPS
For high-school,
undergraduate and phd
students (2017-2021).
In 2021, we continued to reinforce the Project Based 
Learning methodology for the development of our 
ETRR students’ Industry 4.0 skills. The project 
incentivizes the students  to think outside the box and 
fosters innovation and teamwork, in addition to 
communication skills. As a result, students presented 
293 STEM projects (Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Math) at the student’s 2021 science fair and two 
teams from our ETRR earned a place in the national 
stages at the “2021 World Educational Robot Contest 
(WER)”. 
The ETRR also acts as a link between students and 
industry. Currently, 98 final-year students are carrying 
out internships in eleven companies in the region, 
taking their first steps in the working world, of whom, 
35 are assigned to internships related to technological 
innovation.
In 2021, for the first time, 19 trainees from our ETRR 
and 22 students from the Tecnológico de Monterrey school (ITESM) participated in the “I 
week” (Innovation, Imagination and Immersion) where 
they presented proposals for improvement and 
innovative solutions to operational challenges at 
Ternium’s facilities. 
Ternium believes that teachers are the cornerstone of 
the success of the ETRR. During 2021, 24 teachers 
received 4,105 hours of training on the use of digital 
platforms and hybrid teaching methods. Teachers’ 
performance assessment was also redefined through 
setting a school committee that weights student 
surveys, field classroom observations, teacher’s 
conduct and discipline, and their teaching portfolio.
The company continues consolidating the ETRR as an 
integral part of the community's educational system, 
offering support not only to students, but also to the 
community at large. Last year, we introduced an online 
program delivered by our ETRR teachers to improve 
math skills at Pesquería’s middle school students. COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
66. Ternium 
67. Sustainability Report 2021Supporting students in 
international competitions
In 2021, we promoted the participation of 
students from TEC University in Monterrey in 
the international Steel E-Motive competition 
organized by World Auto Steel. The goal was 
to design the exterior of the vehicles of the 
future. The company supported local 
contestants by sharing its knowledge about 
steel properties and its applications in the 
automotive industry. The resulting project 
won first place.  
1st
IN STEEL E-MOTIVE
Students from TEC 
university coached by 
Ternium won the 
competition
More than 167 students from various middle schools 
attended on a regular basis. In addition, we continued 
with our School for Parents program on children 
educational issues. Looking forward, we pursue to 
become a certificated technical training center open to 
the community. The main concept is to extend 
technical education to young people outside our ETRR 
that desire to improve their skills and strengthen their 
employability.Strengthening technical education community-wide 
The Technical Gene program provides schools with 
infrastructure and equipment, as well as teacher 
training and on-the-job training internships for high-
school students, leveraging the teaching and learning 
practices and concepts developed in the Roberto Rocca 
Technical School.
During 2021, we reinforced the support to technical 
schools, based on three pillars: modernizing their 
infrastructure by building new workshops and tech-
classrooms, providing additional math training courses 
to teachers and students and enhancing the offer of 
industry 4.0 courses to students by extending strategic 
alliances with industrial automation companies.
Regarding infrastructure, four schools were 
modernized with technology and new learning spaces 
in Argentina. These included a new tech-classroom 
with computers and audiovisual equipment, facilitating 
hybrid-teaching methods, and general infrastructure 
improvements covering more than 3,000 square meters.
In addition, in Argentina we reinforced the technical 
school’s labs with simulators to enable virtual reality in 
technical education, robotics and industrial automation 
and in Brazil a microscope laboratory was revamped. 
During the year, we celebrated a new edition of the 
Technical Gene Makers competition: with the 
participation of 51 students from different technical 
schools in San Nicolás, Argentina, and teachers and 
professionals from Ternium and related companies, 18 
projects were presented. The community selected the 
“ECO-Ramp” project as the winner, which consisted in 
the production of access ramps using 3D printers. 
We also made an alliance with FESTO company to 
provide last year high-school students with training 
and certifications in pneumatics, electropneumatics and 
PLCs (programmable logic controller). Twenty 
teachers from UTN University and technical schools 
from Argentina and Brazil, qualified to run the 
certification workshops. 
To strengthen math contents, we have developed a 
math training program for teachers. The first pilot wasCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
68. TerniumIn October 2021, the company launched the program in the Japão school in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, offering STEM-oriented supplemental education for children.
carried out in 2021,  and attended by 53 math teachers
from Argentina, 6 teachers from Brazil and 9 teachers 
from Mexico.
Quality education for the communities
Launched in 2009, the After School program, 
designed for underprivileged communities,  offers 
non-formal education for children aged six to twelve 
years-old. The program takes place at the school, 
after regular school hours, four days a week. The 
activities have an experiential learning approach to 
Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) 
contents and encourage children to commit to 
learning and further their personal development in 
the longer term. With approximately 300 students 
enrolled every year, the program is being currently 
run at three schools of Ternium’s communities in 
Mexico and Argentina and it has been recently 
launched in Brazil.  In order to share knowledge with other elementary 
schools from our communities, three international 
workshops on “Best practices in active learning for 
primary education” were delivered by experts in 
education to more than 600 educators from 
Argentina,  Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Uruguay.
The After School program had a high satisfaction rate 
among parents. Both in Argentina and Mexico, the 
average rate resulted in 4.6 points, 5 being the highest 
possible rate. The parents highlighted the program 
continuance during the social isolation measures 
related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the emotional 
support, and the efforts to preserve the interests of 
young children in learning.
Encouraging excellence among students 
Launched in 1976 in Argentina, the Roberto Rocca 
Scholarships program was initially designed to benefit 
69. Sustainability Report 2021the children of Ternium’s employees. Later on, we 
extended the offer to other students living in 
communities near our facilities. 
The focus of the program is to stimulate academic 
performance and commitment among high-school 
students and to promote the study of applied science 
and engineering among undergraduate and graduate 
students. In 2021, we awarded 804 scholarships to 
distinguished high-school students, 369 scholarships to 
undergraduate students and 10 fellowships to students 
pursuing their PhDs.
Last year, we improved high-school and undergraduate 
student’s scholarship selection process by incorporating 
socio-economic factors. The objective is to focus our 
efforts on students with economic challenges, with the 
aim at fostering social mobility.
Culture and tradition to foster diversity and integration
For Ternium, art and culture are a source of innovation 
as well as a means of celebrating diversity and 
exploring humanity. We manage our arts programs in 
the areas of film and photography in a partnership with 
the PROA Foundation, which in addition to its 
activities in the community in Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
provides us with invaluable expertise and experience to 
guide us in the selection and development of content in 
our arts programs. 
In 2021, Ternium invested $1.1 million in cultural 
activities and an additional $2.2 million through 
Rouanet legislation in Brazil. This national law allows 
companies to apply part of their income tax to fund 
arts.
During the year, we organized two film festivals in San 
Nicolás in Argentina. Under the "Ternium from home” 
program, two concerts were streamed: the Camerata 
Ducale concert and the Orquesta de Cámara y Ballet by 
the Asociación Cultural Rumbo, with over 85 thousand 
views. We also organized a Master Class and a concert 
called “Postales Argentinas” (Argentine landscapes). 
Our traditional December choral concert was moved to  an open-air stage, with the performance of 82 
musicians and an audience of more than 400 people. 
The company also fosters expression through art 
installations. In collaboration with the PROA 
Foundation, last year the company brought the 
Whirligig installation to the Modern Art Museum of 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
At our photo libraries in San Nicolás, Argentina and 
Monterrey, Mexico, we collect and preserve 
photographic data recording the history of our 
locations and communities. During 2021, we 
redesigned the San Nicolás photo library to offer users 
a better experience and encourage people to review the 
material on display.
Going further with our communities
Volunteering
We are committed to making a difference and 
strengthening a sense of pride in belonging to the 
communities where we operate. Ternium employees 
and their families regularly volunteer to improve local 
school infrastructure, joining students, their relatives, 
schoolteachers and neighbors in communal efforts. In 
2021, although the pandemic severely restricted 
volunteering activities, 262 volunteers served in 3 
communities, complying with applicable health and 
safety protocols.
In Brazil, due to the COVID-19 sanitary restrictions, 
volunteer works at municipal school Adalgisa Nery, in 
Santa Cruz, finished in early 2022. The project included 
structural remodeling and equipment for the 
educational establishment, benefiting over 560 
students. 
Sports and a healthy lifestyle
As part of our drive to promote a healthy lifestyle, it is 
a tradition in our company to organize the 10K 
Ternium annual local race, together with  local 
institutions. We do so in San Nicolás, Argentina,  
Monterrey and Colima, Mexico, Rio de Janeiro, BrazilCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
70. Ternium 
71. Sustainability Report 2021Under its 3, 5 and 10-kilometer modes, runners accumulated kilometers near its place of residence by their own or in small gatherings.
and Villa Nueva, Guatemala. In 2021, we organized the 
annual race on virtual or hybrid format, according to 
local restrictions due to the pandemic. Among Mexico, 
Argentina and Guatemala, over 3,800 people 
participated in the race and $56 thousand were raised 
and donated to local institutions.
Health and humanitarian assistance
At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Ternium took 
prompt action to mitigate its impact on its employees 
and the communities where we operate. 
In 2021, the company’s special fund to help our 
communities face the COVID-19 pandemic was $8.1 
million. Our field hospital in Mexico continued to 
provide assistance to the community as long as it was 
needed. In addition, we supported the Mexican State 
efforts to accelerate the inoculation of the general population by hosting 21 vaccination campaigns at our 
medical facilities (NOVA) and reaching over 250 
thousand people.
We have  also continued to strengthen medical 
response capabilities in our communities mainly 
focusing on the supply of medical equipment and 
personal protection gear to health centers. In 
Argentina, we donated a tomograph to the San Felipe 
Hospital and medical equipment to the Gomendio 
Hospital for intensive care rooms and COVID-19 
special unit. In Brazil, the company renovated the 
Familia Ernani Braga clinic, which operates as first aid 
center for over 9.6 thousand people per month. The 
furnished areas were used to control COVID-19 
patients and as a vaccination center for the Santa Cruz 
community. COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
72. TerniumINVESTMENTS IN COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
$ MILLION
12.6
9.5
6.611.117.3
Regular programs (includes COVID-19 special funding in 2021 and 2020)
Construction of Roberto Rocca Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico2017 2018 2019 2020 20210510152025
   
TECHNICAL GENE PROGRAM
# OF PARTICIPANTS
2,215
1,5782,077
4354,498
Students Teachers2017 2018 2019 2020(*) 202101,0002,0003,0004,0005,000
(*) Technical Gene operates at public technical schools, which saw their 
activity affected in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 ROBERTO ROCCA SCHOLARSHIPS PROGRAM
# OF SCHOLARSHIPS
8031,0001,0791,1331,183
High-school students Undergraduate + PhD students2017 2018 2019 2020 202102505007501,0001,250
   
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM PARTICIPATION
# OF STUDENTS
252266 270307 312
2017 2018 2019 2020 20210100200300400Key Figures
73. Sustainability Report 2021Strengthening
Ternium’s
Value Chain
20 years of uninterrupted 
support to Ternium’s
small and medium-
sized customers and 
suppliers.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
   
Ternium offers support to small and medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs) through a program called 
ProPymes (by its acronym in Spanish) with the aim at 
strengthening the industry’s value chain and 
enhancing competitiveness of suppliers and 
customers.
ProPymes works on building strong bonds of trust, 
essential to create an integrated ecosystem, with 
companies that are committed to their own growth 
and that of their communities. In Argentina, 
ProPymes started its work in 2002 with twenty-six 
participating companies. The program was launched 
as result of a deep economic crisis in that country, 
that severely affected several companies in the steel 
value chain. Twenty years later, it has enrolled over 
1,800 SMEs from different sectors throughout 
Argentina and Mexico. The program promotes links 
for the exchange of industrial knowledge and 
management skills, in order  to develop a solid and 
sustainable network between large companies and 
SMEs. ProPymes seeks to improve the 
competitiveness of the value chain with a focus on 
productivity, modernization of industrial facilities 
and development of new markets for SMEs products.
Ternium considers that strengthening the value chain 
is part of its role as a large industrial company. 
ProPymes helps SMEs in reaching their potential 
through a wide variety of services, including training, 
industrial assistance, institutional assistance, 
commercial support, financial assistance, export 
assistance, and the promotion of actions to improve 
their environmental performance. Better 
professional, managerial and financial capacity 
provides a platform for SMEs to participate 
competitively in both local and foreign markets. A 
strengthened value chain encourages, ultimately, the 
development of industrial infrastructure in Ternium’s 
main markets, with an increase in steel demand and 
an improvement in competitiveness.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
74. TerniumGoals
 Actions
Improve the competitiveness of our value chain with a 
focus on productivity–
–
–  
–
 Training programs for managers and employees
Assistance in the development of industrial projects and 
management tools
Support to obtain commercial banks’ financing of 
industrial projects
Promotion of productive investment by financing SMEs 
working capital requirements. 
Foster import substitution and strengthen the export 
capacity of SMEs –
   
–Assistance in the development of commercial relationships 
to enhance business opportunities
Broad spectrum assistance program for export-led SMEs 
Promote a collaborative network in the steel value 
chain to foster performance excellence–       
–
–Engagement of universities, business schools and 
industrial chambers to collaborate with the program’s 
initiatives
ProPymes conferences to coordinate the sector’s agenda, 
and strengthen ties and networking
New program focused on extending best practices on 
environmental and climate change related subjects
ProPymes assistance services
Training
ProPymes designs and implements an annual training 
agenda. Course content is continuously updated in 
order to offer customers and suppliers the best 
management tools and practices for their employees at 
different levels. Each year, the program adds new 
topics to the curriculum to meet an increasingly 
sophisticated range of needs as SMEs move up the 
learning curve. Training activities include programs, 
workshops and seminars led by consultants and 
professors from the most renowned universities in the region. 
In 2021, ProPymes sponsored online training courses 
for over 4,900 attendants who spent an aggregate of 
95,800 hours in class. Training activities are designed 
according the specific needs for every cluster in SMEs' 
workforce: management, salaried, and blue collar 
employees.
Industrial management
The ProPymes industrial assistance service focuses on 
reciprocal learning and the exchange of experiences on 
the industry’s best practices in a wide variety of
75. Sustainability Report 2021 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
76. Terniumdisciplines, such as automation technology, 
optimization of production facilities, innovation and 
industry 4.0, quality certifications, development of 
environmental and safety protocols, human resources 
management and selection of management systems.
Financial assistance
The financial assistance service is structured in two 
working lines, direct assistance for investments to 
enhance productivity and increase SMEs’ installed 
capacity and coordination with banks and financial 
institutions to extend financial solutions to SMEs.  
The scope of ProPymes’ direct assistance includes the 
analysis and development of the project and the 
granting of a working capital loan.
In 2021, Ternium’s SME customers received $19.3 
million in financial assistance, mostly as a result of the 
company’s support for obtaining financing and 
guarantees from commercial banks or government-
sponsored low-cost financing instruments.
Commercial support
ProPymes assists suppliers in the development and 
certification of new products for Ternium and/or any 
of its affiliated companies. In addition, it assists SMEs 
in the process required to become a supplier of large 
companies, in order to attract new customers from the 
automotive, oil & gas and other industrial sectors. 
ProPymes also offers SMEs the possibility of leveraging 
on the Techint Group’s global network of commercial 
offices in order to enhance their exports market reach.
Institutional initiatives
The ProPymes institutional assistance program helps 
SMEs develop an agenda that deepens ties with 
governmental bodies and communities, and addresses 
common concerns. Initiatives under this program 
include strategies aimed at ensuring a level playing field 
in the local market given the potential threat of unfairly 
traded imports, those intended for the setting of 
industry chambers and the development of technical 
standards for industrial products, and those aimed at 
enhancing SMEs competitiveness. In addition, we help 
SMEs set their own corporate social programs through 
the implementation of a support program for technical 
educational institutes.Fostering the design of logistic 
solutions for the market
Through the ProPymes program, the 
company participated in the development of 
a special coil transportation platform 
created by the Automotive Cluster of Nuevo 
León (CLAUT, its acronym in Spanish) and 
two logistic services companies.
The new trailer model, called Big Coil, 
allows more efficient transportation since it 
can support heavier coils produced in the 
new hot rolling mill in Pesquería, reducing 
the number of journeys and consequently 
producing lower CO 2 emissions.
35 tons
COIL WEIGHT
Technical Gene
At the beginning of 2013, one of our community’s 
program, the Technical Gene, was extended to our 
value chain through ProPymes, in order to inspire 
customers and suppliers to replicate the technical 
schools assistance model in their nearby communities.
The Technical Gene program works under the premise 
that industrial companies have a key role in promoting 
quality technical education and a long-term industrial 
culture, being the bridge between youngsters and 
employment in the industry. In this sense, it focuses on 
training teachers and promoting student internships in 
77. Sustainability Report 202120 Years Adding Value
 
In twenty years of the program, we developed 
innovative solutions to our value chain needs while 
adapting to the different circumstances of the 
economic context2002 2003
112PARTICIPATING 
SMEs 165PARTICIPATING 
SMEs
LAUNCHING
ProPymes was created 
initially with the 
participation of 26 
companies in the value 
chain.SYSTEMATIZATION
4 lines of action:
 - Industrial
 - Financial
 - Commercial
 - Institutional
  
   
IMPROVEMENT OF 
COMPETITIVENESSPROMOTION OF 
INDUSTRIAL 
INVESTMENTINCREASE IN 
EXPORTATION
2004 2008 2011 2013
250PARTICIPATING 
SMEs 416PARTICIPATING 
SMEs 762PARTICIPATING 
SMEs 824PARTICIPATING 
SMEs
FIRST ASSISTANCE
First industrial assistance 
is provided and first 
ProPymes’ loans are 
granted.TRAINING
Training programs for 
SMEs’ personnel are 
incorporated.SUCCESSION WORKSHOP
On its 10th anniversary, the 
program incorporates a 
workshop on Protocol and 
Succession for family 
businesses.TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
The Technical Gene Program 
is incorporated to improve 
students’ education and 
bring them closer to the 
industrial labor market.
2015 2017 2018 2021
1199PARTICIPATING 
SMEs 1526PARTICIPATING 
SMEs 1600PARTICIPATING 
SMEs 1823PARTICIPATING 
SMEs
PROPYMES LOANS 
MILESTONE
The milestone of $50 
million in loans granted to 
Ternium Argentina’s clients 
is reached.NEW BUSINESSES
ProPymes develops 
suppliers and promotes 
business diversification 
within the development of 
unconventional hydrocarbon 
formation in Vaca Muerta, 
Argentina.PROPYMES EXPORTA
ProPymes incorporates a 
comprehensive support 
program aimed at SMEs with 
export potential.PROPYMES ENVIRONMENT
ProPymes launches a 
program to support SMEs in 
improving their industrial 
processes, reducing the 
impact on the environment 
and achieving a sustainable 
growth. COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
78. Ternium 
79. Sustainability Report 2021SMEs. The initiative also seeks to improve the 
educational infrastructure and equipment of technical 
schools in the area of influence of SMEs. At the end of 
2021, the program had the participation of 45 technical 
schools from 43 locations, and received support from 
58 companies.
Special program for export-led companies
Under the ProPymes Exporta program, launched in 
2018, we encourage export-led SMEs to expand their 
businesses abroad by leveraging on their export 
potential. Selected companies in the steel industry value 
chain in Argentina are invited to participate according 
to their export profile. The program aims at increasing 
their medium-term export capabilities through a broad 
industrial, commercial and institutional support 
programs. In addition, the company finances SMEs' 
purchases of steel used in the manufacture of export 
products.  
ProPymes environmental program
ProPymes Environment is a new program that aims for 
the companies in our value chain to implement 
environmental transformation actions at its production 
set up to comply with future demand expectations.
The training program is based on the understanding of 
global commitments and the current regulatory and 
quality framework, the identification of key 
management indicators and the promotion of 
environmentally friendlier products and processes. The 
purpose of this program is to work with SMEs to raise 
awareness of the importance of applying greener 
operating schemes, and to provide assistance based on 
the needs of each SME in order to achieve 
environmental improvements.
ProPymes Environment is integrated into the actions of 
the company in pursuit of a reduction in the intensity 
of CO2 emissions in steel production.
ProPymes industry by industry
This new ProPymes program aims at working on the 
challenges faced by companies in the value chain when 
they plan to open up new markets and incorporate 
technology (mainly Industry 4.0).Organized as a workshop among colleagues, the 
proposal includes a sector analysis aimed at defining 
shared problems and the business situation, with 
presentations on the political and economic scenario, 
sector trends, challenges and opportunities. 
Additionally, ProPymes assists SMEs in the analysis 
and implementation of customized solutions.
Developing the SMEs agenda
The ProPymes program plays an important role in 
advancing the SMEs policy agenda in Mexico and 
Argentina. Ternium organizes major events under the 
auspices of the ProPymes initiative, bringing SMEs’ 
representatives together with government officials, 
economists and journalists to discuss the sector’s 
economic context and outlook. In Mexico, the 
ProPymes biannual event showcases awards for SMEs 
excelling in diverse areas, including occupational health 
and safety, logistic services and raw material handling. 
The occasion also includes a Supplier of the Year 
award. In Argentina, the event features panels and 
interviews designed to allow SMEs’ executives share 
their experiences and lessons learned and in 2021, the 
event migrated to a mixed format with face-to-face and 
online guests.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
80. TerniumSPONSORED TRAINING COURSES FOR SMEs
# OF ATTENDANTS AND TRAINING HOURS /PER YEAR
86,04792,00087,400
72,90995,851
4,2644,7005,3005,257
4,925
Total training hours per year # Attendants2017 2018 2019 2020 20214,0004,8005,6006,400
040,00080,000120,000
PROPYMES ’ SPONSORED INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
# OF PROJECTS
376408451
297399
Argentina Mexico2017 2018 2019 2020(*) 20210100200300400500
(*) Activity in 2020 was affected by restrictions related to the COVID-19 
pandemic.
 PROPYMES ’ SPONSORED TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
# OF SCHOOLS
2432414345
2017 2018 2019 2020 202101020304050
PROPYMES ’ FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
$ MILLION
6.4 6.6 6.019.2 19.3
Financial assistance - direct
Financial assistance - as link with banking institutions2017 2018 2019 2020 20210510152025Key Figures
81. Sustainability Report 2021Delivering 
Ternium’s 
Business 
Strategy
In 2021, Ternium
completed its latest 
expansion program and 
achieved record levels of
profitability.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
  
Three main drivers compose Ternium’s business 
strategy: a focus on sophisticated value-added 
products, the pursuit of strategic growth opportunities 
and a relentless quest for competitive industrial 
operations.
Ternium aims to enhance stakeholder value by further 
consolidating the company’s position as a leading steel 
producer in Latin America and a strong player in the 
Americas, while increasing its differentiation and 
strengthening its competitiveness.
We believe Ternium has built competitive advantages 
in its main steel markets. The company’s industrial 
presence and its network of distribution centers and 
commercial offices increase Ternium’s ability to offer 
differentiated logistics and stock management services. 
In addition, our integrated connectivity platform 
covering the entire customer relationship process 
allows the company to provide a better and faster 
response to our customer’s needs. 
Ternium works together with small and medium-sized 
customers and suppliers in Argentina and Mexico, 
through the ProPymes program, to help them grow. 
The prosperity of SMEs and the development of a 
collaborative industrial network have strengthened the 
company’s value chain. This effort has led to a virtuous 
cycle of improved competitiveness, increased exports 
and substitution of imports by new locally 
manufactured products. 
Ternium’s differentiation initiatives have also included 
investments in state-of-the-art technologies. As part of 
this strategy the company has built its Pesquería 
Industrial Center in Mexico, which currently comprises 
a recently added hot rolling mill, a cold-rolling mill, 
two galvanizing facilities and a painting line. To 
increase its high-added-value product offering, the 
company has announced new investments at this center 
comprised of  in a cold-rolling mill, a hot-dip 
galvanizing line, a push pull pickling line and new 
finishing lines, with a start-up date in 2024.
Complementing its processing technology upgrade, the 
company has increased its product research and 
development capabilities to broaden its product range, COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
82. TerniumElements of strategy
 Actions
Focus on sophisticated steel products  –
 
 –Launching of new value adding project in our state-of-the-
art center in Pesquería, Mexico
New R&D center in Mexico to further expand Ternium’s 
capabilities
Pursue of strategic growth opportunities –
–Start-up of new hot-rolling mill in Pesquería
Launching of a second coil coating paint line in Louisiana, 
USA
Enhancement of Ternium’s competitive position 
Full product range offering
Operational excellence
Differentiated services through a strong distribution 
network
Attracting and training of talented employees –
–
–Incorporation of state-of-the-art equipment through 
Ternium’s new investment projects
Coordinated deployment of new technologies and cross 
implementation of Ternium’s best practices
Offering of just-in-time and short notice supply agreements 
with consistent quality and delivery compliance
Human resources management measures (see “Realizing 
Our People’s Full Potential”)
particularly in the high-end steel segment, to better 
serve its industrial customers. 
We believe that Ternium has additional growth 
opportunities in the USMCA region. In Mexico, 
increased steel consumption over the last decades gave 
way to an attractive steel market with significant 
demand for advanced steel products.
Mexican steel producers cover approximately half of 
flat steel demand in the country. We believe that 
Ternium is well positioned to compete with foreignproducers and gradually substitute imports, as the 
company has built a solid differentiation strategy, 
supported by its unique industrial presence, as well as 
by its market competitiveness.
The Mexican industrial sector has access to the US and 
Canadian markets through the USMCA, and to other 
major economic regions and trade blocks through other 
free trade agreements. Mexico has privileged 
conditions to host a competitive and innovative 
manufacturing sector and its favorable geographic 
location provides a competitive logistics base to reach 
every major market.
83. Sustainability Report 2021 
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
84. TerniumThe company also has a direct presence in the U.S. 
market. Our Shreveport facility in Louisiana is 
currently equipped with a painting and a 
galvanizing line and the company intends to 
improve its products offering by adding a new 
painting line with annual capacity of 120 thousand 
tons to start up in 2024.
Ternium has a significant presence in the Argentine 
steel market, the third largest in Latin America. The 
country’s manufacturing customers account for 
approximately half of the local flat steel consumption, 
providing ample opportunities for the offering of value-
added products and services. Ternium is in an 
unparalleled position to compete with foreign 
producers in the Argentine market, with a solid 
differentiation strategy built on its industrial 
integration in the country that allows it to offer 
customized products and value-added services.
In Colombia, the fourth largest steel market in Latin 
America, the company has expanded its capacity, 
adding a greenfield reinforcing bar facility in Palmar de 
Varela in 2020. Other facilities with finishing lines and 
service centers in Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua 
and Costa Rica allow the company to have a vast 
presence in the region.
Focus on sophisticated steel products
The incorporation of new technologies, the 
development of new advanced steel products and the 
integration of our industrial system are elements of a 
strategy aimed at increasing the participation of higher 
margin value-added products in the company’s sales 
mix. 
Ternium’s industrial center in Pesquería strengthened 
our positioning in the high-end market sector, expected 
to give way to a gradual substitution of imported steel 
in key industrial segments. The start-up of our new 
hot-rolling mill in 2021 represents a technological leap 
forward in Mexico’s steel production capacity. TheExpanding our product offering    
in Mexico
We launched new downstream investments 
in Mexico and the U.S. to increase our 
product range and better serve our 
industrial customers. These include a cold-
roll mill, a hot-dip galvanizing line and 
several finishing lines at the Pesquería 
industrial center in Mexico and a painting 
line in the US. The startup of these lines is 
scheduled for 2024 and will represent an 
improvement of Ternium’s sales mix in these 
markets.
34%
INCREASE
in the participation 
of high value-added
products in Mexico
announced investments in this industrial center will 
expand the facility’s advanced high-strength and ultra-
high-strength steel production capabilities for the 
automotive, transport and heavy machinery industries. 
Our efforts are also focused on developing new 
products for the oil and gas industry, like steel with 
improved toughness for high pressure pipelines.
We are also progressing in the development of steel 
products that fulfill the requirements of the new 
USMCA rules of origin and a product development
roadmap aimed at increasing our offering of resistant 
and lightweight steel products for low carbon 
85. Sustainability Report 2021New R&D center in Pesquería, Mexico
The new R&D Center in Pesquería, Mexico, 
includes physical modeling and simulation of 
industrial processes, robotized testing and full-
scale welding process. This center focuses on 
the research and development of new productsand functionalities, mainly for the design of new 
microstructures, welding, toughness, fatigue 
and corrosion for sectors such as the 
automotive, household appliances and other 
manufacturing industries.
$8.5
MILLION
Investment in new 
technologies
    and equipment
 THERMAL AND MECHANICAL 
SIMULATIONADVANCED CHARACTERIZATION OF STEEL 
MICROSTRUCTURE, MODELING & 
SIMULATION SOFTWARE   ROBOTIZED 
WELDING AND TESTING
 
economy applications.The development of substrates 
for galvanized exposed parts with very high 
drawability requirements is one of the milestones 
achieved during the first months of operation of our 
new hot rolling mill.
To broaden our product range, we have strengthened 
our product R&D capabilities. The company’s research 
facilities include laboratories in Mexico, Brazil and 
Argentina, where we test product performance and 
simulate production processes. We have reinforced our 
research infrastructure with the incorporation of a new 
coking pilot plant in Argentina, the upgrade of a steel 
corrosion-testing laboratory and the new R&D center 
in Mexico with the latest equipment and infrastructure 
to test product performance.In 2021, we intensified our product development 
activities to further broaden Ternium’s high-end 
product portfolio for customers in the automotive, 
metal-mechanic, home appliance, energy and electric 
motors industries. We introduced new features to our 
pre-printed products, providing new coating types 
according to our customers’ needs, like the resemblance 
to stainless steel. During the year, we obtained 72 new 
product certifications for the automotive industry and 
we expect this to continue increasing in the coming 
years.
The company also provides technical assistance to its 
customers through its product R&D area, maximizing 
the performance of our steel products and the efficiency 
of the manufacturing processes downstream in the steel 
industry value chain.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
86. TerniumThe new R&D center in Pesquería, Mexico, enabled us to speed up the design of high-end steel products.
Ternium’s new steel bar and coil mill in Palmar de 
Varela, Colombia is able to offer leading anti-seismic 
steel products for the Colombian construction sector, 
with improved resistance and toughness compared to 
those currently available in the market.
Exchanging and building knowledge with different 
stakeholders
Our in-house research efforts are complemented with 
the participation in a broad-based international 
network of industry consortia, universities and research 
centers.
Ternium is a member of WorldAutoSteel, an 
organization comprising some of the world’s major 
steel producers. We participate actively in the 
engineering core team of the Steel E-Motive project 
sponsored by the WorldAutoSteel. The objective is to design two fully autonomous and connected electric 
vehicles that result in cost-effectiveness, safety, and 
sustainable transportation solutions, made possible by 
state-of-the-art engineering and Advanced High-
Strength Steel technologies.
We have identified synergies in collaborating with our’s 
customers in the early stages of their  projects. Being 
able to anticipate the markets’ requirements through 
joint product development projects with leading 
industrial companies is key to build strong customer 
relationships and plan new processes and the 
incorporation of new equipment and technology.
Ternium also promotes the participation of university 
researchers and students from some of the world’s most 
prestigious institutions in projects’ early stages. We 
engage universities in our research efforts in order to 
87. Sustainability Report 2021expand and further diversify the company’s research 
network and capabilities. These research initiatives 
span the entire production cycle, from primary steel 
making and metallurgy, to rolling and coating. 
Pursuit of strategic growth opportunities
We have a history of strategically growing our 
businesses through acquisitions and organic growth. 
We intend to continue identifying and actively pursuing 
growth-enhancing strategic opportunities to 
consolidate Ternium’s presence in its main markets and 
expand it to the rest of the Americas. We also intend to 
increase our industrial system integration, broaden our 
offerings of value-added products, and enhance our 
production and distribution capabilities.In 2017, Ternium acquired a steel slab producer with 
facilities located in the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 
renamed Ternium Brasil. The plant has an annual 
production capacity of 5.0 million tons of high-end 
steel slabs, a deep-water harbor and a 490 MW 
combined-cycle power plant. With this acquisition, 
total crude steel production capacity of Ternium’s 
industrial system increased to 12.4 million tons, or by 
approximately 70%.
The addition of the Rio de Janeiro facility to Ternium’s 
industrial system triggered the second wave of projects 
in Pesquería, Mexico. The new hot-rolling mill, which 
has an annual production capacity of 4.4 million tons 
and the new downstream lines combined with the steel-
making facility in Rio de Janeiro, will enable Ternium 
to continue increasing its market share in Mexico.
Through its investment projects, Ternium has been consistently incorporating state-of-the-art technology that has strengthened its industrial system.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
88. TerniumEnhancement of Ternium’s competitive position
In addition to developing a full range of steel products 
and delivering differentiated services to Ternium’s 
customer base, we aim to enhance the company’s 
competitive position by seeking excellence in 
operational performance.
Our quest for operational excellence relies on the cross 
implementation of Ternium’s managerial, commercial 
and production best practices. Ternium has a 
centralized industrial engineering, automation, OH&S 
and environmental management area. Focused on 
capacity utilization, quality and maintenance, this area 
facilitates the improvement of production processes 
through best practices, a coordinated deployment of  
new technologies and access to strong internal 
technical support.
Ternium’s broad range of value-added products, just-
in-time delivery, inventory management and other 
services offered to customers in major steel markets are 
supported by the company’s service center, 
distribution, sales and marketing networks. The 
company regularly assesses customer satisfaction 
through client surveys in its main markets. In 2021 
average customer satisfaction was 84% in Mexico, 
92% in Argentina, and 95% in Colombia.
As Ternium’s industrial system runs on a unified IT 
platform, our ample range of products and services can 
be offered to our customer base in a coordinated way. 
The company has integrated its processes with those of 
its customers and suppliers through “WebService”, the 
company’s digital marketplace. Most of our customers’ 
orders are placed through this platform, which helps 
them improve their management processes. WebService 
has also proved its value during the COVID-19 
outbreak, as its functionalities enabled customers to 
operate without the need of personal interaction.
In the medium-term, Ternium intends to further 
develop its digital platform capabilities, with the 
incorporation of a new tool able to anticipate 
customers’ needs based on the utilization of artificial 
intelligence.Close to our customers
Ternium sponsors local organizations and 
events as a way to promote technological 
breakthroughs and encourage the 
development of sustainable production 
schemes in its end markets. 
As it does every year, the company recently 
hosted the ExpoAgro award in Argentina 
for projects with an innovative approach 
to increase productivity and operate under 
sustainable principles. 
The award was part of the ExpoAgro event 
organized by the agribusiness sector. This 
sector has an important participation in 
the country’s GDP and represented 9% of 
Ternium's 2021 shipments in Argentina. 
100
THOUSAND
people attended the 
event
70
PROJECTS
competed for 
    the award
89. Sustainability Report 2021Digital solutions to improve our customer service
The company continuously reinforces its online 
and digital customer service solutions. In 2021, 
we developed a commercial chatbot to respond 
to our clients’ information requirements. The 
tool uses cognitive artificial intelligence and 
synchronizes in real-time with the company’soperating systems. It is currently prepared to 
report on Ternium’s production cycles, 
customers' orders, logistics details, and 
account status through our Webservice in 
Mexico. We expect to extend its implementation 
to other markets in the coming years.
 +19
THOUSAND REAL
CONVERSATIONS
used to define the 
chatbot functionalities21
CUSTOMER
EXPERIENCES
Interactions available
in the tool ALL
TYPES OF TERNIUM’S 
CUSTOMERS
and sales schemes
covered
 
Sustainable procurement
Over the years, Ternium has developed differentiated 
purchasing strategies focused on reducing procurement 
costs. While slabs procurement is directly managed by 
the company, purchases of raw materials and services 
for industrial processes have been centralized in a 
company called Exiros. 
Created together with our affiliate Tenaris, Exiros 
combines the purchasing power of both companies. In 
December 2021, Exiros had nearly 44,000 registered 
suppliers, of which more than 15,000 were active 
during the year, with 7,250 supplying Ternium. Exiros 
procurement services are certified under ISO 9001 
standard, ensuring a high level of quality.
When assessing a supplier, we require all our business 
partners to observe the same high standards we follow 
internally governing ethical behavior, legal compliance, 
and health, safety and environmental responsibilities. Our supplier selection process intends to ensure that all 
suppliers meet the standards set out  in Ternium’s Code 
of Conduct, and comply with local laws and 
regulations. Ternium’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers 
encompasses these principles and their acceptance is 
mandatory to become a supplier of the company. 
In addition to the contractual requirements, Exiros 
conducts Supplier Health and Safety audits as a 
prerequisite for the award or renewal of service 
contracts and works with its suppliers to manage long-
term risks.
As of December 2021, Exiros has audited and 
certified 85% of its active service suppliers classified 
as high Health, Safety or Environmental risk. The 
audit is based on Ternium’s standard self-assessment 
process designed specifically for suppliers seeking 
to provide services. In 2021, 421 new audits were 
performed.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
90. TerniumCompetitiveness agenda: SMART factory
SMART is the acronym for Social, Mobile, Analytics, 
Robotics and (internet of) Things. Ternium is making 
progress in the deployment of new digital technologies 
that are leading to step improvements in its operating 
performance. These new solutions are based on the 
processing and analysis of a constant stream of 
information and knowledge from its industrial 
operations (data and events provided by meters, 
cameras and drones). 
In order to support Ternium’s analytics needs across all 
business functions, we have implemented a Data Lake, 
a single technological platform that meets all our big 
data and analytics requirements. 
SMART factory applications include a wide array of 
company functions such as order management, 
administration, human resources, maintenance, 
quality, and occupational health and safety. Solutions 
encompass mobile and remote work; remote assistance 
(augmented reality); personnel training (virtual reality 
simulation); the execution of automated administrative 
processes and tasks (robots); and the real-time 
autonomous detection of unsafe conducts or situations, 
the autonomous assessment of difficult-to-access 
building structures and equipment, and the appraisal of 
bulk material (automatic image interpretation through 
artificial intelligence).
SMART factory applications also include the 
automated handling of steel products in the yards 
(RFID and WMS), and the prediction of failures in 
maintenance management (predictive analytics and 
data correlation). Ternium’s RFID system has been 
installed at several stockpile yards for identifying and 
tracking each coil from the moment it reaches the yards 
until shipment, facilitating inspection procedures, 
improving inspectors’ safety and reducing operations 
lead times.
Ternium has thousands of cameras tracking operations 
in our facilities, as part of an early safety alarm system. 
Hundreds of those cameras are able to assess distances 
from suspended loads, moving vehicles and entrapment 
areas, verify the observance of marked pathways and social distancing, and monitor the use of safety 
helmets, vests and facemasks. The social distancing and 
facemask functionalities were implemented soon after 
the new COVID-19 related protocols were designed. 
The slab continuous casters at the company’s Brazilian, 
Mexican and Argentine facilities use analytics and data 
correlation technology for maintenance purposes. We 
plan to apply this technology to the company’s main 
flat steel hot-rolling, cold-rolling and galvanizing lines 
to shield strategic equipment and reduce interruptions, 
thus increasing the reliability of operations and 
reducing costs.
For training purposes, Ternium has developed virtual 
reality software on risk perception, crane and 
secondary metallurgy operations and firefighting. The 
company expects to incorporate new training subjects 
to gradually broaden its virtual educational program. 
To enhance productivity, the company has developed 
digital replicas of physical assets, processes, people, 
sites, systems and devices that can be used for various 
purposes.
Ternium also uses administrative robots running 
automated processes and tasks in the areas of accounts 
payable, accounts receivable, sales back office and 
industrial engineering administration, reducing 
repetitive tasks formerly performed by employees.
91. Sustainability Report 2021  Ternium’s strategy focuses on offering 
sophisticated steel products, pursuing 
of strategic growth opportunities and 
enhancing Ternium’s competitive position
Mexico: our main
steel market
 
Over the last decades, the country’s
apparent steel use has increased,
driven by a dynamic manufacturing
industry, and is expected to continue
growing20%
INCREASE OF APPARENT 
STEEL USE IN MEXICO 
from 2012 to 202154%
OF TERNIUM’S STEEL
SHIPMENTS 
destined to Mexico 
in 2021
Growing 
opportunities 
Significant opportunity to grow in
the Mexican market based on 
nearshoring of customers’ supply 
chains and import substitution 69%
OF INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
PARTICIPATION 
in the country’s apparent flat 
steel use (2021)52%
OF NET IMPORTS 
PARTICIPATION
in the country’s apparent flat 
steel use (2021)Consolidating our market position
in the USMCA region
92. TerniumPesquería: Creating a state-of-the-art industrial center
We envisage the Pesquería industrial project 
with a long-term sustainability approach.  Over 
the years, this industrial center has enabled 
the company to diversify and improve its 
offering of more sophisticated steel products.As we advance on implementing innovative 
technology at every stage of the production 
process, we are confident in our capabilities to 
fulfill the requirements of an increasingly 
demanding industry.
2013 2019 2021
     
Greenfield industrial center
in Pesquería with cold-rolling
and galvanizing linesAddition of hot-dipped
galvanizing and painting
lines with the most
advanced painting
technology in the countryIncorporation of a hot-rolling
mill with the latest
available technology.Advanced R&D center
to develop new steel
products
Looking forward
We continue to expand our industrial center
with the recently announced downstream
investment program with the aim at
broadening our value-added product portfolio
and better serving our customers.This includes a cold-rolling mill, a hot-dip
galvanizing line, a push-pull pickling line and
finishing lines. The expansion entails 
advanced high-strength and ultra-high-
strength steels production capabilities for 
industrial customers’ needs.
93. Sustainability Report 2021Outstanding performance in an out-of-the-ordinary 
steel business environment
In fiscal year 2021, Ternium achieved a record level of 
profitability and generated significant cash from 
operations.  Net sales were $16.1 billion, including steel 
products net sales of $15.8 billion on steel shipments of 
12.1 million tons, other products net sales of $248.3 
million and iron ore products net sales of $526.3 
million on iron ore shipments of 3.8 million tons. The 
majority of the iron ore production was consumed in 
our operations. Steel revenue per ton was $1,309, 
significantly higher than in 2020 as a result of a global 
recovery in steel prices that started in the second half of 
2020 and continued during most of 2021. 
During 2021, shipments in the Mexican market were 
6.5 million tons, an increase of 10% compared to 2020, 
representing 54% of Ternium’s total steel shipments. 
Shipments in the Southern Region reached 2.5 million 
tons, or 21% of Ternium’s consolidated shipments in 
the steel segment, most of which were destined to the 
Argentine market.  Shipments in the Other Markets region were 3.0 million tons in 2021, or 25% of 
Ternium’s consolidated shipments in the steel segment. 
Our major shipment destinations in the Other Markets 
region are usually the United States, Brazil, Colombia 
and Central America. 
Operating income hit a record high of $5.3 billion, with 
EBITDA of $5.9 billion. EBITDA per ton reached 
$485.9 in 2021, increasing $351.7 year-over-year on 
higher steel prices, partially offset by higher costs of 
raw materials and purchased slabs.  The company’s net 
income in 2021 was $4.4 billion. Equity holders’ net 
income in 2021 was $3.8 billion, equivalent to earnings 
per ADS of $19.49.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.7 
billion, including a working capital increase of $2.6 
billion. In 2021, Ternium’s capital expenditures were 
$523.6 million, $36.4 million lower than in 2020. Of 
note during the year were the investments made in 
Ternium’s new hot rolling mill at the Pesquería 
industrial center in Mexico. With free cash flow of $2.2 
billion in 2021, Ternium reached a net cash position of 
$1.2 billion at the end of December 2021.    
$940
MILLION
Employees$524
MILLION
CAPEX$1.8
BILLION
Taxes
$16.7
BILLION
Economic value 
generated in 2021$9.1
BILLION
Suppliers$596
MILLION
Capital providers
$10
MILLION
Research & 
Development$17
MILLION
Community2021 Economic & Financial Performance
94. Ternium2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
STEEL SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS)
Mexico  6,534  5,913  6,305  6,545  6,623 
Southern Region  2,503  1,924  1,938  2,301  2,456 
Other Markets  3,028  3,523  4,268  4,105  2,518 
Total  12,065  11,360  12,511  12,951  11,597 
IRON ORE SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS)  3,809.0  3,796.8  3,575.9  3,616.3  3,551.1 
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS ($ MILLION)
Net sales  16,090.7  8,735.4  10,192.8  11,453.4  9,700.3 
Operating income  5,271.1  1,079.5  864.6  2,108.4  1,456.8 
EBITDA  5,862.9  1,524.5  1,525.7  2,697.7  1,931.1 
Profit for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Parent  3,825.1  778.5  564.3  1,506.6  886.2 
Non-controlling interest  542.1  89.4  65.8  155.5  136.7 
Profit for the year  4,367.2  867.9  630.0  1,662.1  1,022.9 
Capital expenditures      523.6  560.0  1,052.3  520.3  409.4 
Free cash flow  2,153.7  1,201.2  595.4  1,219.0  (25.5) 
BALANCE SHEET ($ MILLION)
Total assets  17,097.9  12,856.2  12,935.5  12,547.9  12,122.6 
Total liabilities  4,862.9  4,413.1  5,220.6  5,063.3  6,269.8 
 Financial debt  1,479.0  1,722.9  2,188.7  2,037.0  3,221.9 
Net (cash)  financial debt  (1,155.1)  371.5  1,453.4  1,734.9  2,748.3 
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the parent  10,535.0  7,286.1  6,611.7  6,393.3  5,010.4 
Non-controlling interest  1,700.0  1,157.0  1,103.2  1,091.3  842.3 
STOCK DATA ($)
Basic earnings per ADS  19.49  3.97  2.87  7.67  4.51 
Proposed dividend per ADS  2.60  2.10  —  1.20  1.10 
Alternative performance measures
Non-IFRS measures should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, 
measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. Non-IFRS measures do 
not have a standardized meaning under IFRS and, therefore, may not correspond to 
similar non-IFRS financial measures reported by other companies.
EBITDA:  equals operating income of $1.4 billion adjusted to exclude depreciation and 
amortization of $146 million in 2021.
Free cash flow:  Free cash flow equals net cash provided by operating activities of 
$1.1 billion less capital expenditures of $122 million in 2021.
Net (cash) debt:  equals borrowings of $1.5 billion less the consolidated position of 
cash and cash equivalents and other investments of $2.7 billion in 2021.Direct Economic Value Generated:  equals net sales plus interest income, proceeds 
from the sale of property, plant & equipment, other operating income, equity in 
earnings of associated companies and inflation adjustment results, less other 
financial losses. “Employees” equals labor costs. “Taxes” equals current income tax 
expense plus cost of sales and SG&A taxes, less the effect of changes in tax law. 
“Suppliers” equals cost of sales plus SG&A, less labor costs, depreciation of property, 
plant and equipment, amortization of intangible assets, allowance for obsolescence, 
cost of sales and SG&A taxes, R&D expenditures and community investments. 
“Capital Providers” equals dividends paid in cash to company’s shareholders and 
non-controlling interest, plus interest expense.
95. Sustainability Report 2021STEEL SHIPMENTS
MILLION TONS
11.613.012.5
11.412.1
Steel Slabs2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.02.55.07.510.012.515.0
TERNIUM’S STEEL SHIPMENTS BY COUNTRY
2021
Mexico
54%Argentina
20%
Brazil
10%
US
8%
Colombia
5%Other
3%EBITDA
$ BILLION
1.9 2.7 1.5 1.5 5.920%24%
15%17%36%
EBITDA EBITDA Margin2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.02.55.07.5
—%15%30%45%Key Figures
96. Ternium 
97. Sustainability Report 2021Integrity is key to Ternium’s long-
term sustainability. With ethical 
behavior and compliance with law 
as a core company value, we 
continuously work on building a 
corporate culture of transparency. Ternium’s Policy on 
Business Conduct
has been widely 
disseminated among 
eligible employees.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Ternium S.A. is organized as a public limited liability 
company (société anonyme) under the laws of the Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg, and its American Depositary 
Shares, or ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE: TX). The Company holds controlling 
stakes in steel companies operating in the Americas. San 
Faustin S.A. has a 65% indirect controlling interest in 
Ternium.
San Faustin also has controlling interests in Tenaris, a 
global supplier of steel pipes and related services mainly 
for the energy industry, which holds an additional 11% 
interest in Ternium. In addition, San Faustin controls 
Tecpetrol, an oil and gas company, Techint, an 
engineering and construction company, Tenova, a 
supplier of equipment and technology for iron mining and 
steel and Humanitas, a network of hospitals in Italy.
Ternium’s shares and American Depositary receipts
The company has an authorized share capital of a single 
class of 3.5 billion shares with a nominal value of $1.00 
per share entitling one vote each. As of December 31, 
2021, there were 2,004,743,442 shares issued and 
outstanding, of which 41,666,666 were held in treasury.
Each ADS represents ten shares. Holders of ADSs only 
have those rights that are expressly granted to them in the 
deposit agreement dated January 31, 2006, among the 
Company, The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The 
Bank of New York), as depositary, and owners and 
beneficial owners from time to time of ADSs of the 
Company.
ADS holders may not attend or directly exercise voting 
rights in shareholders’ meetings, but may instruct voting 
to the depositary bank. Holders of ADSs maintaining non-
certificated positions must follow instructions given by 
their broker or custodian bank.
Shareholders’ meetings
Our articles of association provide that our annual general 
shareholders’ meetings take place in  Luxembourg (or in a 
foreign country if circumstances of force majeure so 
require), within six months from the end of the previous 
financial year. There are no limitations currently imposed COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY
100. Terniumby Luxembourg law on the rights of non-resident 
shareholders to hold or vote the Company’s shares.
Board of directors and audit committee
The Company’s board of directors is currently comprised 
of nine directors. Four directors are independent under the 
company’s articles of association and applicable SEC 
regulations. The board of directors has an audit 
committee composed of three independent members.
The charter of the audit committee sets forth, among 
other issues, the audit committee’s purpose and 
responsibilities. These include, with respect to the 
company’s external auditors, to recommend 
appointments, re-appointments and removals, to oversee 
their independence and performance, and to review and 
approve their fees. In addition, the audit committee 
reports to the board of directors on the adequacy of the 
systems of internal control over financial reporting.
Ternium has an Internal Audit area that reports to the 
chairman of the board of directors and, with respect
to internal control over financial reporting, to the audit
committee. The Internal Audit area evaluates and 
reassures the effectiveness of internal control processes, 
risk management and governance.
Our corporate values
Ternium has adopted a Code of Conduct incorporating 
guidelines and standards of integrity and transparency 
that apply to all directors, officers and employees. As far 
as the nature of each relation permits, the principles 
described in the Code of Conduct also apply to relations 
with our contractors, subcontractors, suppliers and 
associated persons.
The company’s Code of Conduct also includes guidelines 
related to the promotion of a healthy and safe workplace 
environment, respect for human and labor rights, the 
protection of the environment, our commitment to
fair, honest and transparent competition, and the 
protection of data privacy of our employees and third 
parties with whom we conduct business.The company has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior 
Financial Officers to supplement its Code of Conduct, 
which applies specifically to the chief executive officer, the 
chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer or 
controller, or other persons performing similar functions. 
In addition, the company has adopted a Transparency 
Policy governing relationships with third parties, a Policy 
on Business Conduct, a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, an 
Anti-fraud Policy, a Policy on Securities Trading, a Policy 
on Financial and Accounting Controls, and a Policy on 
Personal Data Protection.
As a condition of employment, eligible employees 
(salaried employees and managers, excluding plant 
supervisors), must acknowledge and commit to comply 
with Ternium’s Code of Conduct and Policy on Business 
Conduct.
Business conduct compliance program
Ternium has developed a Business Conduct Compliance 
Program with the objective of preventing bribery and 
mitigating corruption risks. The Compliance Program is 
aimed at promoting the implementation of business 
conduct best practices, both internally and when 
interacting with customers, suppliers, state-controlled 
entities and other third parties.
Ternium has appointed a Business Conduct Compliance 
Officer reporting to the CEO and the Audit Committee, 
who has responsibility for identifying and preventing 
possible corruption risks and promoting a culture of 
ethical and transparent conduct, and for designing, 
implementing and supervising the Compliance Program, 
aligned with the requirements of applicable national and 
international laws against corruption and bribery, such as 
the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the 1997 OECD 
Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public 
Officials.
The Business Conduct Compliance Program is focused on 
ten core preventive measures: risk assessment, normative 
framework, communication, advisory, training, 
acknowledgement, monitoring and auditing, third party 
due diligence and monitoring, disciplinary actions and 
remediation, and benchmarking.
Activities are implemented based on a periodic risk 
assessment analysis that enables us to identify key factors 
101. Sustainability Report 2021to be stressed on, particularly at training and risk 
prevention sessions, based on exposure to conflicting 
situations.
Ternium’s Code of Conduct and its Policy on Business 
Conduct clearly state that any illegal payment is strictly 
prohibited and will not be tolerated. They also include 
specific guidelines regarding due diligence when hiring 
third-parties that act on behalf of Ternium. Charitable 
contributions, as well as hospitality expenses to third 
parties (meals, gifts and business trips) are regulated by 
internal procedures. Facilitating payments are 
forbidden.
Communication is essential to build an ethical culture. 
Ternium maintains regular communications with its 
directors, senior managers and employees in order to raise 
their awareness about possible risks of non-compliance, 
and to remind them of the applicable principles and 
regulations. This program includes top-down messages, 
management meetings, newsletters, articles and 
announcements on the company’s intranet. The company 
encourages active participation of all areas, emphasizing 
the importance of asking for guidance in case of red flags 
or ambiguous situations.
Ternium has defined specific procedures for hiring 
professional services providers that act on behalf of or 
otherwise represent the company before governmental 
entities, including those retained to assist in obtaining 
permits or licenses, customs agents, advisers and law 
firms. These procedures include a due diligence process, 
internal authorizations and contract provisions to ensure 
third-party’s commitment to Ternium’s anti-bribery 
policies. 
Monitoring procedures and audits are carried out 
regularly to validate the effective implementation of the 
Compliance Program and the investigation of any 
conduct contrary to the Policy on Business Conduct or its 
principles.
Training on anti-bribery policies and procedures
Ternium has implemented an extensive training program 
on anti-bribery policies and procedures. This program 
aims at training Ternium’s employees on the company’s 
ethical commitment and a clear set of guidelines and 
values. Eligible employees have to complete a mandatory e-learning course that includes the resolution of practical 
cases and a final evaluation and, according to their level of 
exposure, participate in an on-site or live training 
workshops as well. 
99% of Ternium’s eligible employees have completed the 
mandatory training course on the company’s Policy on 
Business Conduct in e-learning format. In 2021, Ternium 
delivered 67 live training sessions to 524 employees. On-
site training has been suspended due to COVID-19 related 
restrictions.
Our anti-bribery training program also reaches third 
parties that represent or act on behalf of Ternium. 752 
third-party’s employees have completed Ternium’s 
mandatory training program on corruption prevention, 
which has been implemented in e-learning format.
Code of conduct for suppliers
Ternium purchases most of its supplies through Exiros, a 
specialized procurement company owned 50%/50% with 
Tenaris. Ternium’s suppliers undergo, through Exiros, a 
rigorous selection process to ensure adequate governance 
standards are in place, in compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations and in line with our Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers, which includes, among other items, ethical 
behavior, compliance with the law, and health, safety, 
human rights and environmental management 
commitments.
Compliance Line
Ternium established and encourages the use of its 
Compliance Line. This confidential channel is available 
to all employees, suppliers, customers and other 
stakeholders who wish to report any type of alleged 
breaches of the Code of Conduct and its principles. 
Ternium’s Compliance Line is available in Spanish, 
Portuguese and English.
The identity of the reporting person and the reported 
fact itself remain confidential as long as it is so 
permitted by applicable laws and regulations. Ternium 
takes action, as necessary, to avoid retaliation against 
those who use the Compliance Line in good faith. 
Anonymous reports are also allowed. The Internal 
Audit area, which is independent of the operating 
areas, analyses all reports. COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY
102. TerniumSelect Codes Policies Procedures
 
Code of Conduct
–––
Code of Conduct 
for Suppliers
–––
Code of Ethics for Senior 
Financial Officers 
Business Conduct
–––
Transparency
–––
Anti-Fraud
–––
Securities Trading
–––
Financial and Accounting Controls
–––
Personal Data Protection 
Disclosure Procedure 
(relevant information)
–––
Transactions Between 
Related Parties
In 2021, 52% of analyzed complaints were verified and 
resulted in corrective actions, including dismissals and 
termination of commercial relationships.
This reporting system has also helped to improve the 
company’s internal control environment. Although 
complaints can be anonymous, 67% of the reporting 
persons have identified themselves.
Shareholders’ compliance line
In addition, Ternium has a web-based confidential 
channel for investors to communicate their concerns 
directly to the company’s Audit Committee, which 
regularly reviews the status of all reports received 
through this line with the assistance of our Internal 
Audit Director.
Risk management
Ternium has established a Critical Risks Committee 
(CRC), which reports to the company’s CEO. While 
management is responsible for identifying and managing 
risks, the CRC facilitates the identification and assessment  of critical risks, the development of mitigating actions and 
the monitoring of action plans. Critical risks are escalated 
through the usual reporting lines and decision-making is 
the responsibility of managers.
Ternium has categorized risks according to the potential 
area impacted, the likelihood of their occurrence and the 
severity of a potential impact. The main identified risks 
include threats to the proper operation of machinery 
and processes, cybersecurity and environmental issues. 
The CRC also assesses climate change risks and 
mitigation plans are defined as needed (For more 
information about Climate Change risks, please refer to 
Ternium's 20F).
   
103. Sustainability Report 2021Board of Directors Senior Management
Chairman Paolo Rocca Chief Executive Officer Máximo Vedoya
Vice-Chairman Daniel A. Novegil Chief Financial Officer Pablo D. Brizzio
Roberto Bonatti Ternium Mexico César A. Jiménez
Carlos A. Condorelli President Flores
Vincent R. Gilles Decalf (*)
Gioia M. Ghezzi (*)Ternium Argentina Martín A. Berardi
Adrián R. Lajous Vargas (*)President
Lorenza Martinez Trigueros(*)
Gianfelice M. Rocca Ternium Brasil Marcelo R. Chara
President
Secretary Arturo Sporleder
International Business Unit Héctor Obeso
President Zunzunegui
Audit Committee Chief Planning Officer Oscar Montero
Martínez
Chairman Vincent R. Gilles Decalf (*)
Gioia M. Ghezzi (*)Chief Industrial and Pablo H. Bassi
Adrián R. Lajous Vargas (*)Engineering Officer
(*) Independent Directors Chief Technology Officer Rubén Herrera
Chief Information Officer Roberto Demidchuk
Chief Human Resources Rodrigo Piña
OfficerBoard of Directors and Senior Management
104. TerniumGlobal Investor Relations and 
Compliance Senior Director IR Inquiries
Sebastián  Martí TERNIUM Investor Relations
smarti@ternium.com ir@ternium.com
Phone: +54 11 4018 8389
U.S. toll free: 866 890 0443
Luxembourg Office ADS Depositary Bank
26, Boulevard Royal - 4th floor Bank of New York Mellon
L2449 - Luxembourg BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
Luxembourg P.O. Box 505000
Phone: +352 2668 3152 Louisville, KY 40233-5000
Fax: +352 2659 8349
Stock Information
New York Stock Exchange (TX)
CUSIP Number: 880890108
Internet
www.ternium.comInvestor Information
105. Sustainability Report 2021Annex 1: 
GRI, SASB & TCFD IndexIn this section, Ternium presents the economic, 
environmental and social topics that were defined as a 
priority to include in our Sustainability Report. They 
are informed according to Global Reporting Initiative’s 
(GRI) Standard core option of the reporting levels 
throughout the document and indexed herein in order 
to facilitate browsing.
The contents of Ternium’s sustainability report are 
aligned with the GRI principles of Stakeholder 
Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and 
Completeness. 
Ternium’s Materiality Analysis follows GRI’s four-step 
process. In this regard, key economic, social and 
environmental topics were identified through a 
combination of industry research and benchmarking, 
international standards and priority subjects(Identification), and then prioritized through a 
consultation process among employees, suppliers, 
customers, community organizations, business 
associations, investors, press, and academic institutions 
(Prioritization).
To conclude the selection of material topics, the results 
were examined considering the company’s long-term 
strategy and the programs implemented. The result of 
this analysis depicts a materiality matrix that ranks 
relevant economic, environmental and social topics 
according to their influence on stakeholders’ 
assessments and decisions, and according to their 
significance to the company (Validation).
The Materiality Matrix has been included in the 
company’s sustainability report for the year 2019, on 
page 90.
General Disclosure
Organization Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 98
GRI 102-2Activities, brands, products, and services
  We do not sell products that are banned in certain markets or that 
   were the subject of stakeholder questions or public debate.8-22
See 20-F 2021 
Pag 28
GRI 102-3Location of headquarters
Principal executive offices98
GRI 102-4 Location of operations8-22
See 20-F 2021 
Pag 35
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form98
See 20-F 2021 
Pag 96
GRI 102-6 Markets served 8-82
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 8-22
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 54-119
GRI 102-9 Supply chain8-74-82
See 20-F 2021 
Pag 31
GRI 102-10Significant changes to the organization and its supply 
chain82 See
20-F 2021
Pag 96Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic PagesGRI Material Topics
108. TerniumGRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 8
GRI 102-12 External initiatives 8
GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations 8
Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 4-8
Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 8-18-98
Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 8-98-104
Stakeholder 
engagementGRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groupsSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 119
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholdersSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagementSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raisedSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
Reporting Practices GRI 102-45Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsSee 20-F 2021 
Pag F-13
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundariesSee SR 2019 
Pag 4
GRI 102-47 List of material topicsSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information
GRI 102-49Changes in reporting
There were no significant changes from previous reporting 
periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries
GRI 102-50 Reporting period: Year 2021
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report: 2021-06-24
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle: Annual
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 105
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting according to the GRI Standards 8-108
GRI 102-55 GRI content index 108
GRI 102-56External assurance
At the time of the report, external assurance is not mandatory
Material Subjects
Economic GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 94
GRI 202-2Proportion of senior management hired from the local 
community54-121Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Pages
109. Sustainability Report 2021GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 64-122
Ethic and integrity GRI 205-2Communication and training about anticorruption 
policies and procedures98-123
Environmental GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 36-118
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 36-116
GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 36-117
GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 36-117
GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 36-117
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 36-116
GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 36-118
GRI 307-1Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations36
Social GRI 401-2Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employees54-119
GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 24-122
GRI 403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigation24-122
GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 24-122
GRI 403-4Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety24-122
GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 24-122
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health 24-64-122
GRI 403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 
safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships24-122
GRI 403-8Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management system24-122
GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 54-121
GRI 404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs54-121
GRI 404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews54-121
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 54-119
GRI 413-1Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programs64-122Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic PagesGRI MATERIAL TOPICS INDEX
110. TerniumGreenhouse Gas 
EmissionsGross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered 
under emissions-limiting regulationsEM-IS-110a.1 36-116-117
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or 
plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions 
reduction targets, and an analysis of performance 
against those targetsEM-IS-110a.2 36
Air Emissions Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) CO, 
(2) NOx (excluding N2O), (3) particulate matter 
(PM10)EM-IS-120a.1 36-116-117
Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid 
electricity, (3) percentage renewableEM-IS-130a.1 36-116
(1) Total fuel consumed (excluding feedstock and 
electricity), (2) percentage coal, (3) percentage 
natural gas, (4) percentage renewableEM-IS-130a.2 36-116
Water Management (1) Total fresh water withdrawn,                           (2) 
percentage in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water StressEM-IS-140a.1 36-117-118
Waste Management Amount of waste generated, percentage hazardous, 
percentage recycledEM-IS-150a.1 118
Workforce Health & 
Safety (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) 
fatality rate, and (3) near miss frequency rate 
(NMFR) for (a) full-time employees and (b) 
contract employees EM-IS-320a.1 24-122
Supply Chain
ManagementDiscussion of the process for managing iron ore 
and/or coking coal sourcing risks arising from 
environmental and social issuesEM-IS-430a.1 See 20-F 2021 
pag 14Topic Accounting Metric Code Pages
Activity Metric Code Page
Raw steel production, percentage from: (1) basic oxygen furnace processes, 
(2) electric arc furnace processesEM-IS-000.A 45
Total iron ore production (1) EM-IS-000.B
Total coking coal production (2) EM-IS-000.C N/A
(1) 3.9 million tons in 2021 
(2) Coking coal and other metallurgical coals are externally supplied. SASB Iron & Steel Producers
Content Index
111. Sustainability Report 2021Governance a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and 
opportunities.36-98
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities. 36-98 See 20-F 
2021 Pag 9
Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the short, medium and long term.14-36
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.14-36 See 20-F 
2021 Pag 9
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking 
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 
2˚C or lower scenario.36
Risk Management a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.36-98
b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-
related risks.36-98
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management.36-98
Metrics and Targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.36-116-117
b) Disclose Scope 1, 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG 
emissions, and the related risks.36-116-117
c) Describe targets used by the organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.14-36Disclosure PagesTCFD Content Index
112. TerniumAnnex 2: 
UN Sustainable Development 
Goals Index• • 24, 48 Topics
1
Improving Our Safety 
Performance
–––
2
Minimizing Ternium’s 
Environmental Footprint
–––
3
Realizing People’s Full 
Potential
–––
4
Helping Our 
Communities Thrive
–––
5
Strengthening Ternium’s 
Value Chain
–––
6
Delivering Ternium’s 
Business Strategy
–––
7
Commitment to
Integrity
••• 42, 48, 54
• 42
• 32
• •• • 24, 42, 48, 58
••• 48, 54, 58
••• 42, 48, 54
• 48
• 32
• 32
• 32
• 32
• • 24, 74
••• 48, 54, 58SD Goal Topics Pages
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Since 2019 Ternium has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate 
responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the 
environment and anti-corruption.Sustainable Development Goals IndexAnnex 3: 
Historical DataHistorical Data
In this section, Ternium has compiled the historical 
data and additional information related to the selected 
environmental and social topics for its 2021 
Sustainability Report, according to the materiality 
matrix. Historical data related to the selected economic 
topics has been compiled in the table on page 95. Also, 
the company has compiled in this section additional 
data that it deemed relevant to disclose.The financial  and operational information contained in this report is 
based on Ternium’s operational data and on the 
Company’s consolidated financial statements, which 
were prepared according to IFRS and IFRIC 
interpretations as issued by the IASB and adopted by 
the European Union and presented in U.S. dollars ($) 
and metric tons.
Environmental and Energy Management Systems
% of employees and contractors working in 
registered production facilities 98 %  98 %  97 %
% of steel produced under ISO 14001 
certificated facilities 100 %  100 %  100 %
% of steel produced under ISO 50001 
certificated facilities 63 %  63 %  63 %
Mining operations certified with ISO 140011% operations  100 %  100 %  100 %
Investment in environment and energy $ million 70.7 37.3  79.8 
1Mining Operations certified with ISO 14001 scope includes: Aquila mine, Tecoman Transference station and Alzada Pelletizing Plant..
Energy and Emissions
Energy intensity GJ/ton crude steel 22.1 22.0 23.9
Total energy consumed TJ 254,472
% of  grid electricity  62 %
Total Fuel Consumed TJ 225,383
Coal  64 %
Natural Gas  26 %
Others  10 %
Emission intensity - scopes 1, 2 and 3CO2 ton /ton 
crude steel1.82 1.76 1.80
Direct emission intensity- scope 1CO2 ton /ton 
crude steel1.62 1.57 1.62
Indirect emissions intensity related to 
electricity - scope 2CO2 ton /ton 
crude steel0.11 0.12 0.11
Indirect emissions intensity related to raw 
materials - scope 3CO2 ton /ton 
crude steel0.09 0.08 0.07ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2019 2020 2021
116. TerniumDirect emission - scope 1 CO2 million tons 16.7 15.3 17.2
Indirect emissions related to electricity - scope 
2CO2 million tons 1.1 1.2 1.2
Indirect emissions related to raw materials - 
scope 3CO2 million tons 0.9 0.8 0.8
CO2 Capture and usage CO2 million tons 0.2 0.2 0.2
Energy and emissions figures include only Ternium’s steelmaking facilities and are based on worldsteel’s sectoral approach methodology, according to ISO 14404 and GHG protocol. 
Scope 2 emissions were calculated using local-based (Tier 2) and market based (Tier 3) emission factors when applicable but without considering the volume of clean energy 
certificates purchased by Techgen that would have reduced 8% Ternium´s scope 2 emissions. Scope 1 and 3 emissions were calculated using Tier 3 emissions factors calculated from 
specific site measures for main raw materials as well as upstream emission factors provided by suppliers. The percentage of gross global Scope 1 CO2 emissions that are covered by 
GHG emissions regulation or program for 2021 was 39%.
Energy intensity ratio and total energy consumption were calculated considering all energy from feedstock, fuels and electricity.
Dust emissions - Particulate matter Kg/ton crude steel 0.20 0.22 0.22
Oxides of nitrogen (NOx) Kg/ton crude steel 0.70 0.74 1.21
Air emissions indicators correspond to steelmaking facilities excluding power plants. They consider local legal requirements for monitoring and reporting emissions from all process 
stacks. Ternium integrated value reflects the company's steelmaking route: BF-BOF 63%; DRI-EAF 30%; scrap-EAF  7%. 
Air emissions figures for Mexican steelmaking facilities in 2021  were estimated using 2020 average figures since second semester 2021 information is not available.
Dust emissions refer to Total Particular Mater that includes PM10.
Water
Ternium water intake (excluding power plants) million m3 198.6 178.6 157.0
surface water  91 %  90 %  88 %
groundwater  5 %  6 %  6 %
third-party water  4 %  4 %  6 %
% of water withdrawn in regions with high or 
extremely high baseline water stress 11 %
Ternium estimated water consumed (excluding 
power plants)millions m3 44.1
% of water consumed in locations with high or 
extremely high baseline water stress 27 %
Ternium water intake for steelmaking sites millions m3 149.6
Ternium water intake intensity for steelmaking 
sitesm3/ ton crude steel 17.8 17.6 14.1
Ternium's water intake, including power plants, was 767 million cubic meters in 2021, representing an intensity of 72 cubic meters by crude steel ton. 
Ternium's estimated water consumption, including power plants, was approximately 50 million cubic meters in 2021.
Mexican facilities water intake million m3 16.8 15.7 17.2
groundwater  56 %  55 %  54 %
third-party water  44 %  45 %  46 %
Mexican facilities internal treated and recycled 
watermillion m3 1.4 1.8 1.6
Third-party water is mainly sewage water from external wastewater treatment plants or directly sourced from the city's drainage. In 2021, only 1% of the Mexican facility's water 
intake from third parties was potable water. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2019 2020 2021
117. Sustainability Report 2021Mexican water intake intensity for steelmaking 
sitesm3/ ton crude steel 3.4 3.2 3.2
Fresh water million m3 13.0 11.7 11.8
Other water million m3 5.2 5.9 5.4
Ternium's water management strategy is designed on a case-by-case basis. Ternium's facilities in Mexico and Guatemala are located in water-stressed areas while steelmaking 
facilities in Argentina and Brazil have high surface water availability. Guatemala water intake is only 0.012% of Ternium’s water intake without power plants.
Mexican water intake intensity for steelmaking sites includes as an intake internal treated water that is reused.
All water management figures are defined for Ternium’s steel business excluding mining operations. 
Materials and waste
Material Efficiency  99.6 %  99.6 %  99.2 %
Steel scrap recycled million tons 2.7 2.6 3.1
Co-products generation million tons 4.8 4.7 4.8
Recycled input materials used (steel scrap/new 
steel) 26 %  27 %  29 %
Blast Furnace slag to cement industry million tons 1.7 1.7 1.9
MixRock® to cement industry thousand tons 86.0 99.0 128.4
Annual weight of tailings waste (mining)* million tons  4.5  5.7 6.1
Accumulated total weight of tailings waste 
(mining)*million tons 79.9 85.6 91.7
Hazardous and non hazardous waste sent to 
landfillthousand tons 58.3 65.6 129.9
Hazardous and non hazardous waste sent to 
co-processingthousand tons 2.1 1.4 1.9
Total hazardous waste thousand tons 52.3 24.9 21.2
Total non hazardous waste thousand tons 89.5 98.0 153.5
The information about materials and waste refers to Ternium's steelmaking facilities unless otherwise indicated.
*The information regarding mining  includes 50% of Consorcio Minero Benito Juárez Peña Colorada S.A. de C.V.ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2019 2020 2021HISTORICAL DATA
118. TerniumHeadcount
Management # of People 494 484 493
Salaried # of People 3,401 3,125 3,180
Hourly # of People 14,611 15,059 14,927
Plant supervisors # of People 1,357 1,505 1,542
Total employees (full-time) # of People 19,863 20,173 20,142
Trainees (part-time) # of People 295 306 438
External employees (includes contractors and 
externals from headcount)# of People 19,239 15,107 15,929
Full time employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreements 74 %  75 %  74 %
GRI 401-2 The company has operating facilities throughout Latin America and complies with national regulations regarding labor benefits such as paid leave, life and disability 
insurance, medical assistance and pension systems. In addition, Ternium introduced several programs focused on improving their employees’ the quality of life, such as clinical 
exams, disease prevention campaigns, sports and addiction control, scholarship and recreational programs for employees’ children, and loan programs for home improvements and 
special situations. The company also has an internal outplacement program for retiring employees, which includes personalized consultancy and support services.
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Management by gender, age and nationality
Male  92 %  91 %  90 %
Female  8 %  9 %  10 %
30-50 years old  62 %  63 %  61 %
over 50 years old  38 %  37 %  39 %
Argentine  42 %  41 %  42 %
Brazilian  12 %  12 %  12 %
Colombian  3 %  3 %  3 %
Mexican  35 %  37 %  37 %
Other Nationality  8 %  7 %  7 %
Salaried by gender, age and nationality
Male  69 %  68 %  67 %
Female  31 %  32 %  33 %
under 30 years old  18 %  17 %  19 %SOCIAL DATA 2019 2020 2021
119. Sustainability Report 202130-50 years old  63 %  65 %  62 %
over 50 years old  19 %  18 %  19 %
Argentine  19 %  20 %  19 %
Brazilian  19 %  18 %  17 %
Colombian  7 %  7 %  7 %
Mexican  47 %  48 %  50 %
Other Nationality  7 %  7 %  7 %
Hourly by gender, age and nationality
Male  98 %  98 %  97 %
Female  2 %  2 %  3 %
under 30 years old  22 %  23 %  21 %
30-50 years old  61 %  60 %  62 %
over 50 years old  17 %  17 %  17 %
Argentine  27 %  30 %  28 %
Brazilian  20 %  20 %  20 %
Colombian  7 %  6 %  6 %
Mexican  44 %  41 %  43 %
Other Nationality  2 %  2 %  2 %
Plant supervisors by gender, age and 
nationality
Male  98 %  97 %  97 %
Female  2 %  3 %  3 %
under 30 years old  6 %  5 %  5 %
30-50 years old  62 %  61 %  62 %
over 50 years old  32 %  33 %  33 %
Argentine  26 %  33 %  32 %SOCIAL DATA 2019 2020 2021HISTORICAL DATA
120. TerniumBrazilian  11 %  11 %  10 %
Colombian  6 %  6 %  5 %
Mexican  54 %  47 %  48 %
Other Nationality  4 %  4 %  4 %
GRI 405.1- At December 2021. the Board of Directors was composed by 8 members, 7 men and 1 woman, all of them over 50 years old. The distribution by nationality is the following: 
3 of them are Italian citizens, 2 of them are Argentine citizens, 1 is a British & Italian citizen, 1 is a French and Luxembourg citizen and 1 is a Mexican citizen. The Senior Management 
is composed by 11 members, all of them are male. In the distribution by age 1 of them is in the range between 30 and 49 years old and the rest are over 50  years old. The composition 
by nationality is the following: 9 of them are Argentine citizens and 2 of them are Mexican citizens.
Proportion of top management hired from the local community
Country
Argentina  100 %  100 %  100 %
Brazil  62 %  58 %  55 %
Colombia  50 %  33 %  33 %
Mexico  41 %  41 %  40 %
Average hours of training per year per employee
Management Hs/per year  36  15  29 
Salaried Hs/per year  36  25  38 
Hourly Hs/per year  74  39  41 
Plant supervisors Hs/per year  7  25  27 
Total Hs/per year  62  36  39 
Male Hs/per year  64  36  39 
Female Hs/per year  40  29  41 
During 2021 the company delivered 10,150 hours of training to some external workers and average of 96 hours of training per person.
Performance and career development reviews
Management & Salaried (M&S)  97 %  96 %  93 %
Hourly  54 %  36 %  33 %
Plant supervisors  98 %  97 %  93 %
Upwardfeedback (M&S)  94 %  95 %  96 %
Employees' satisfaction rate (M&S)  82 %  85 % 76 ptSOCIAL DATA 2019 2020 2021
121. Sustainability Report 2021Health and Safety
Injuries frequency rate (IFR)# injuries with and 
without lost days  x 
1Million/Hours worked2.75 2.71 2.63
Employees 2.46 2.61 2.83
Contractors 2.99 2.80 2.45
Lost time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR)# injuries with lost 
days  x 1Million/Hours 
worked0.84 0.84 0.79
Employees 0.69 0.89 0.80
Contractors 0.95 0.78 0.78
Fatalities # 0 0 0
Fatality frequency rate (FFR)# fatalities x1Million/
Hours worked0 0 0
Near Miss Frequency Rate# High Risk incidents 
x 1Milllion/Hours 
worked9 9 8
Employees 15 13 12
Contractors 4 5 4
Safety training hours # hours per year 487,649 112,001 260,488
Safety training hours participation# of employees and 
contractors15,666 10,060 14,745
Safety hours program walks # of sessions 147,187 142,269 139,085
Safety hours program participation# of employees and 
contractors1,638 1,891 2,017
Ten Life-Saving Rules compliance audits # per year 42,770 26,778 23,177
Health and Safety audits # per year 199,667 184,653 184,631
Positive approaches # per year 106,756 100,236  115,950 
H&S System Coverage% of employees 
and contractors 100 %  100 %  100 %
H&S System Coverage (internally audited)% of employees 
and contractors 100 %  100 %  100 %
H&S System Coverage (externally certified)% of employees 
and contractors 67 %  68 %  70 %
Investment in Health and Safety $ million 50 27 38
Total hours worked were 99,907,954; 87,230,980 and 112,446,989  for 2021, 2020 an 2019 respectively. 
Community
Internship Hours hours/Per year 63,800 19,040 28,195
Community Investments* $ million 6.6 11.1 17.3SOCIAL DATA 2019 2020 2021HISTORICAL DATA
122. TerniumEducation Investments $ million 4.6 2.9 4.8
Technical Gene program - Teachers # of Participants 148 116 66
Technical Gene program - Students # of Participants 1,929 319 4,432
After school program participation # of Students 270 307 312
Roberto Rocca Education Program (high school) # of Scholarships 759 763 804
Roberto Rocca Education Program 
(undergraduate)# of Scholarships 305 361 369
Roberto Rocca Education Program (PhDs) # of Scholarships 15 9 10
Volunteering Program # of volunteers 1,878 218 262
Volunteering Program hours/Per year 16,611 3,352 1,256
*Community investments in 2021 and 2020 include a special fund of $8.1 million and $6.4 million respectively to face the COVID-19 pandemic.
Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Program (ProPymes)
Small and medium-sized enterprises 
participation# SMEs 1,780 1,821 1,823
Sponsored training courses # attendants 5,300 5,257 4,925
Sponsored training courseshours in class /per 
year87,400 72,909 95,851
Propymes sponsored technical schools # of Schools 41 43 45
Propymes sponsored industrial projects # of Projects 451 297 399
Financial assistance - direct $ million 6.0 5.7 0.5
Financial assistance - as link with banking 
institutions$ million n/d 13.5 18.8
Integrity
Training sessions on Ternium's policy on 
business conduct # sessions 64 93 68
Training sessions on Ternium's policy on 
business conduct # participants 878 786 524
Acknowledgment and commitment to abide 
Ternium's Code of Conduct and Policy on 
Business Conduct% eligible 
employees 99.7 %  99.8 %  99.5 %
Training course on the company's Policy on 
Business Conduct (e-learning)% eligible 
employees 98.2 %  99.1 %  99.0 %
Compliance Line's substantiation rate  46 %  53 %  52 %SOCIAL DATA 2019 2020 2021
123. Sustainability Report 2021Forward Looking Statements
This sustainability report contains “forward-
looking statements”, including with respect to 
certain of our plans and current goals and 
expectations relating to Ternium’s future 
financial condition and performance, which 
are provided to allow potential investors the 
opportunity to understand management’s 
beliefs and opinions in respect of the future so 
that they may use such beliefs and opinions as 
one factor in evaluating an investment in 
Ternium’s securities.
All forward-looking statements are based on 
management’s present expectations of future events 
and are subject to a number of factors and 
uncertainties that cause actual results, performance or 
events to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by those statements.
These risks include but are not limited to risks relating 
to the steel industry and mining activities, risks relating 
to countries in which we operate, risks relating to our 
business, including uncertainties as to gross domestic 
product, related market demand, global production 
capacity, tariffs, cyclicality in the industries that 
purchase steel products, risks relating to the company’s 
structure and regulatory risks, as well as other factors 
beyond Ternium’s control.Risk factors
For a detailed description of Ternium’s main risk 
factors, please see the section "Risk Factors" included 
in the Company’s annual report on form 20-F for the 
year ended December 31, 2021.
By their nature, certain disclosures relating to these and 
other risks are only estimates and could be materially 
different from what actually occurs in the future. As a 
result, actual future gains or losses that may affect 
Ternium’s financial condition and results of operations 
could differ materially from those that have been 
estimated.
You should not place undue reliance on the forward-
looking statements, which speak only as of the date of 
this sustainability report. Except as required by law, we 
are not under any obligation, and expressly disclaim 
any obligation, to update or alter any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of changes of 
circumstances or management’s estimates or opinions, 
new information, future events or otherwise.
124. Terniumwww.ternium.com