4The Company
8Chairman's Letter
10Economic & Financial Highlights
14Innovation
20Health & Safety
24Environment
32Human Resources
36Value Chain
40Communities
46GovernanceCONTENTS
3. Sustainability Report 2018TERNIUM  is Latin America’s leading flat steel producer. We
run manufacturing facilities, service center and distribution
networks in several countries in the region and the southern
United States, serving customers from various industries. 
THE COMPANY
4. TerniumABOUT TERNIUM
Ternium is Latin America’s leading flat steel producer
with an annual crude steel production capacity of 12.4
million tons. We operate in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina,
Colombia, the southern United States and Central
America through regional manufacturing facilities, service
center and distribution networks. In addition, Ternium
participates in the control group of Usiminas, a leading
flat steel company in the Brazilian market. 
Our customers range from small businesses to large global
companies in the automotive, home appliances, HV AC
(heat, ventilation and air conditioning), construction,
capital goods, container, food and energy industries
across the Americas. We aim to build close relationships
with our customers and recognize that our success is
closely linked with theirs.
OUR OPERATIONS
The company’s industrial system has varied production
technologies that provide a diversified cost structure,
based on different types of raw material and energy
sources, and a flexible production configuration. The
industrial system includes proprietary iron ore mines,
steelmaking facilities, finishing facilities, service centers
and a broad distribution network to offer slabs, hot-rolled
products, cold-rolled products, galvanized and electro-
galvanized sheets, pre-painted sheets, tinplate, welded
pipes, rebars and wire rods as well as slit and cut-to-
length products.
Our broad range of high value added steel products and
advanced customer integration systems enable us to 
A COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT APPROACH
• Proactive approach to environment, 
  energy , health and safety management
• Focus on differentiation through 
   sophisticated products and services
• Deep ties with our communities
• Commitment to integrity
• Recruitment, training, and retention 
   of talent
• Quest for excellence in industrial 
   management and technology
• Fostering of steel value chain
differentiate from our competitors through the offering of
sophisticated products and services. Ternium's innovative
culture, industrial expertise and long-term view enable the
company to continuously achieve new breakthroughs in
industrial excellence, competitiveness and customer
service.
We operate with a broad and long-term perspective, and
we work towards improving the quality of life of our
employees, their families and the local communities where
we operate.
Ternium S.A. (the “Company”) is a Luxembourg company  and its American
Depositary Shares,  or ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:
TX). We refer to Ternium S.A. and its consolidated  subsidiaries  as “we,” “our”
or “Ternium.”
The financial and operational information contained in this annual report is
based on Ternium’s operational data and on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements, which were prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC
interpretations as issued by the IASB and adopted by the European Union and
presented in U.S. dollars ($) and metric tons.
Some of the statements contained  in this annual report are “forward-looking
statements”. Forward-looking statements are based  on management’s current
views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks that could cause
actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or
implied by those statements. These risks include but are not limited to risks
arising from uncertainties as to gross domestic product, related market demand,
global production capacity, tariffs, cyclicality in the industries that purchase steel
products  and other factors beyond Ternium’s control.Ternium’s results are subject to risks related, among other factors, to changes in
steel demand, prices, input costs and financial conditions. For further
information see the chapter "Risk Factors" included in this annual report.
5. Sustainability Report 2018STRONG COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY
We devote significant resources to environment, health
and safety (EHS), as we believe they are key to our long-
term sustainability . We have standardized environment,
health and safety management systems. We also have an
energy savings management system in our Brazilian steel
mill and we are advancing the implementation of similar
systems in other facilities. Our employees are extensively
trained in EHS and our management is accountable for
their EHS performance. Ternium's health and safety
system is certified under OHSAS 18001, our environment
system is certified under ISO 14001 and our energy
savings system is certified under ISO 50001. We invest in
the best available technologies to reduce our
environmental footprint and safety risk.
COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY THROUGH STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We believe integrity is key to our long term
sustainability . We have an audit committee solely
composed of independent directors and an Internal
Audit Department reporting to the Chairman of the
Board and the Audit Committee, which strengthens its
independence. We have a Business Conduct Compliance
Officer reporting to the CEO and a compliance
department that oversees SOX certifications and related
party transactions. Our employees are trained and
accountable for ensuring a transparent behavior. We
have established different policies, codes and procedures
for this purpose. In addition, we have confidential
channels to report non-compliant behavior. 
FOSTERING THE STEEL INDUSTRY VALUE CHAIN IN MEXICO AND ARGENTINA
We support 1,600 small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs), customers and suppliers, through our ProPymes
program. ProPymes provides training, industrial projects
and business consultancy , institutional assistance,
commercial support and financial aid. The program plays
an active role at universities, business schools, government
agencies and industrial associations. ProPymes has helped
create an industrial network that encourages the
professionalization and quest for excellence of SMEs.
OUR PEOPLE.  A program for recently-graduated professionals is at the core of a strategy 
to recruit and retain talent.
DEEP TIES WITH OUR COMMUNITIES
We believe that having deep ties with our communities
is also fundamental to the company's long- term
sustainability . We are having a significant positive
impact on our communities, both from a human
perspective as well as in terms of economic
development. We work together with local institutions
to enhance their education and welfare. We provide
scholarships, internships, teachers' training and
infrastructure funding. We also organize and fund
volunteering programs and health prevention
campaigns, and sponsor sports, social and arts events.THE COMPANY
6. Ternium7. Sustainability Report 2018Culiacán
Las Encimas
Occidente
NortePetén
San Salvador Managua Barranquilla
Bogotá
CaliMedellín
Bucaramanga
RosarioRío de Janeiro
San NicolásMontería
Itagüi
ManizalesSan JoséMéxicoNorteSan LuisBC
Guadalajara
Peña Colorada Veracruz
Villa Nueva*TuxtlaMérida
PueblaChihuahuaMonclovaGuerrero*ShreveportUNITED STATES
MEXICO
GUATEMALA
EL SALVADOR
NICARAGUA
COSTA RICA
COLOMBIA
BRAZIL
ARGENTINAPesquería
UniversidadChurubusco*Apodaca (20F)
Juventud*
Edificios Metálicos
Apodaca Industrial
Apodaca Comercial
Serviacero III
Sidercrom
Service or distribution centersSteel production and processing
Iron ore mining and processing
*Includes service centersFACILITIESEnsenadaFlorencia Varela*Haedo*
Canning*2018 was a very good year for Ternium. Shipments rose 12% to a record 13 million tons as we incorporated
a full year of sales from our new slab producing facility in Brazil. EBITDA rose 40% to a record $2.7 billion
reflecting favorable market pricing conditions as well as the increase in shipments. Net income rose to $1.7
billion, representing 14.5% of net sales. This included the results of our investment in Usiminas, which
had another good year as it continued to improve its profitability and balance sheet. Our financial position
was strengthened with net debt reduced to $1.7 billion ahead of our planned increase in capital expenditures
to fund our organic expansion strategy . And we are pleased to propose a further increase in the annual
dividend to $1.20 per ADS.
In a presidential election year in Mexico, with additional uncertainty generated by the ongoing negotiations
and ratification of the new USMCA agreement, Ternium’s sales in the country remained stable, thanks to
its strong positioning in the high value automotive and industrial sectors. Demand was more affected in
the construction and infrastructure development sectors reflecting a decline in public and private investment
activity . In these conditions, we focused on improving our customer service and strengthening our product
capabilities, as well as designing and preparing for the installation of our planned hot-rolling mill in
Pesquería. Our investment program over the next two years will focus on building this new mill, which will
integrate high quality slabs from our facility in Brazil and enable us to broaden our range of high-end
products. During 2019, we will also start-up new galvanizing and painting lines in Pesquería to expand our
product offering for the industrial steel markets.
The Roberto Rocca Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico, continues to strengthen its role at the heart of
a growing community and open opportunities for young students.  Now , in its third year, the school has
an almost full complement of 374 students. We have invited other industrial companies in Nuevo León to
join us in sponsoring students and offering internships in their operations and have received a strong
response. We are proud that a team from the school was invited to the final of the World Educational Robot
Contest in Shanghai where it placed 18th out of the 200 finalists from around the world. 
The Argentine economy in 2018 was hit by its worst drought in more than 50 years, a tightening of global
credit conditions, which drastically reduced the availability of foreign credit, and continued lack of growth
in the neighboring Brazilian economy . This resulted in the onset of a deep recession in the second part of
the year with a steep currency devaluation and very high interest rates and inflation. Although shipments
held up well in the first half of the year, overall shipments declined 8% year on year with recovery not
expected before the second half of 2019. 
In this respect, in November 2018 ProPymes launched in Argentina a new program to help our small and
medium-sized customers boost exports to offset weakening local sales. Through our constant support of
ProPymes, we are working to strengthen the industry value chain in Argentina and Mexico, by supporting
smaller suppliers and customers build operations that can be globally competitive and giving them access
to resources through our financial strength, global positioning and focus on training and education. We
support 1,600 small and medium enterprises through this program and this year, with the economic situation
in Argentina, our support has been particularly relevant. 
In Brazil, we completed what has been a highly successful integration of the CSA slab mill with the rest of
the Ternium industrial system, accompanied by a deep interchange of best practices. Production of steel
slabs rose to a record 4.6 million tons as we focused on increasing equipment availability and reliability ,
improving labor productivity and reducing costs. The further integration with our production system in
Mexico will bring additional opportunities for efficiencies and improving our product offer in the comingCHAIRMAN'S LETTER
8. Terniumyears. In addition, we completed the certification of our Rio de Janeiro’s environmental management
system under ISO 14001. This achievement has enabled us to reach a 97% certification rate based on total
employees and contractors working in our steel making and steel processing facilities throughout Ternium.
We have updated Ternium’s environmental and energy policy to incorporate additional elements on energy
efficiency management in line with ISO 50001, an energy efficiency management standard under which
our Rio de Janeiro unit is already certified. We also participated in the launch of a new program, led by
worldsteel and the International Energy Agency , to identify the best available technologies to reduce the
industry’s carbon emissions.
In Colombia, we advanced with our investment plan to install a rebar mill with annual capacity of 520,000
tons, which is expected to start up in the second half of 2019. This investment will enable us to reduce
imports and increase our participation in the dynamic Colombian construction sector. We performed
preliminary work on the field to preserve wildlife before starting the construction of the new facilities in
a drive to reduce our footprint as much as we can. We continuously seek the highest standards of
environmental and energy performance as a basis for sustainable development for our employees, our
communities and future generations.
Our safety indicators continue to improve. We are absolutely committed to improving all aspects of our
safety performance. We pursue this through implementing the most rigorous international standards
throughout our operations, constantly working to improve risk awareness and align employee behavior
patterns with these fundamental values, and investing to modernize our facilities.  
We have a rich agenda in front of us with the planned transformation of our industrial system and product
development capabilities through our expansion project in Mexico and implementation of Industry 4.0
manufacturing technologies. As a leading industrial company in Latin America, we aim to set new standards
in industrial and technological excellence, customer service and competitive differentiation.
Our performance over the past years together with our highly motivated team of professionals position us
well for the challenges in front of us. Looking ahead, I would like to stress the high levels of uncertainty
in the political and economic environment we are facing in our main markets, as well as the impact of the
recent Vale tailings dam accident in Brazil on the pricing and logistics of iron ore supply for the steel
industry . In our mining operations in Mexico, while we had already introduced stricter standards to the
stability studies and as a result carried out reinforcements in certain areas of Peña Colorada´s tailings dams,
we will continue to review the stability and enhance the monitoring of our dams.
I would like to thank our employees for their efforts and achievements during the past year. I would also
like to thank our customers, suppliers and shareholders for their continuing support and confidence in
our company .
March 18, 2019
Paolo Rocca
Chairman  
9. Sustainability Report 2018RECORD RESULTS IN 2018
Ternium produces flat and/or long steel products in
Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, the United States, Colombia
and Guatemala. We report steel shipments under three
geographical regions: Mexico, the Southern Region
(encompassing the steel markets of Argentina, Bolivia,
Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay)and Brazil and Other
Markets (referred to in this document as Other Markets).
During 2018, shipments in the Mexican market were 6.5
million tons, representing 51% of Ternium’s total steel
shipments. The Mexican manufacturing sector performed
well in 2018, yet the country's construction market
remained weak reflecting low public and private
investment. Shipments in the Southern Region reached 2.3
million tons in 2018, or 18% of Ternium’s consolidated
shipments in the steel segment. Most of Ternium’s
shipments in the region are destined for the Argentine
market. Activity levels in Argentina's manufacturing and
construction sectors have declined since September 2018,
following a solid performance during the first half of the
year. By year-end 2018, activity levels were significantly
lower than those recorded in December 2017. Shipments
in the Other Markets region reached 4.1 million tons in
2018, or 32% of Ternium’s consolidated shipments in the
steel segment. Our major shipment destinations in the
Other Markets region are the United States, Brazil,
Colombia and Central America. 
Net sales of steel products in 2018 increased 18%
compared to net sales in 2017, reflecting a 1.4-million-ton
increase in shipments and a $47 increase in steel revenue
per ton. Shipments have increased mainly as a result of
the consolidation of Ternium Brasil since September 2017,
partially offset by lower demand for steel products in the
Southern Region, and slightly lower shipments in Mexico.
Revenue per ton in 2018 was higher than in 2017 as a
result of higher steel prices in Mexico and in Other
Markets.
EBITDA rose 40% to $2.7 billion in 2018. EBITDA
margin reached 24%, remaining at an industry-leading
level. Net income attributable to Ternium's equity owners
was $1.5 billion, or $7.67 per ADS, a 70% increase year-
over-year. In 2018, the company’s capital expenditures
were $520.3 million, $110.8 million higher than in 2017,
including the effect of the consolidation of Ternium Brasil
since September 2017. The main investments carried out
during the period included those made in new hot-rolling,
hot-dipped galvanizing and pre-painting production
capacity in the company's Pesquería industrial center inMexico, improvement of environmental and safety
conditions at certain facilities, the upgrade and expansion
of two hot strip mills, the expansion of connectivity and
equipment automation, and those made in Peña
Colorada's iron ore operations.
STEEL SHIPMENTS (2018)
Mexico:51%
Argentina:16%USA:15%Brazil:9%Colombia:4% Others:5%
ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (2018)
Research&
Development
$8.9MCommunity
investments
$9.5MEmployees
$941M
Economic
value
generated
$11.5BSuppliers
$7.7B
Capital
providers
$368MTaxes
$713MCapex
$520MECONOMIC & FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
10. Ternium2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
STEEL SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS)
Mexico 6,544.8 6,622.8 6,405.2 5,933.4 5,632.2
Southern Region 2,301.1 2,456.0 2,220.8 2,552.2 2,510.9
Other Markets 4,105.2 2,517.7 1,138.1 1,114.6 1,238.5
Total 12,951.1 11,596.6 9,764.0 9,600.3 9,381.5
FINANCIAL INDICATORS ($ MILLION)
Net sales 11,453.4 9,700.3 7,224.0 7,877.4 8,726.1
Operating income 2,108.4 1,456.8 1,141.7 639.3 1,056.2
EBITDA (1)2,697.7 1,931.1 1,548.6 1,073.1 1,471.0
Equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated companies  (2)102.8 68.1 14.6 (272.8 ) (751.8 )
Profit before income tax expense 2,031.6 1,359.8 1,118.5 267.1 234.9
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Parent 1,506.6 886.2 595.6 8.1 (198.8 )
Non-controlling interest 155.5 136.7 111.3 51.7 94.6
Profit (loss) for the year 1,662.1 1,022.9 706.9 59.8 (104.2 )
Capital expenditures 520.3 409.4 435.5 466.6 443.5
Free cash flow (3)1,219.0 (25.5 ) 664.1 856.8 62.4
BALANCE SHEET ($ MILLION)
Total assets 12,547.9 12,122.6 8,322.9 8,062.6 9,690.2
Financial debt 2,037.0 3,221.9 1,218.6 1,521.0 2,164.8
Net financial debt (4)1,734.9 2,748.3 884.3 1,132.3 1,801.5
Total liabilities 5,063.3 6,269.8 3,156.3 3,259.6 4,055.5
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the parent 6,393.3 5,010.4 4,391.3 4,033.1 4,697.2
Non-controlling interest 1,091.3 842.3 775.3 769.8 937.5
STOCK DATA ($ PER SHARE/ADS(5))
Basic earnings (losses) per share 0.77 0.45 0.30 0.00 (0.10 )
Basic earnings (losses) per ADS 7.67 4.51 3.03 0.04 (1.01 )
Proposed dividend per ADS 1.20 1.10 1.00 0.90 0.90
Weighted average number of shares outstanding(6) 
(million shares) 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1
(1) EBITDA is operating income adjusted to exclude depreciation and amortization.(2) Equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated companies includes in 2014 and 2015 impairment charges
on the Usiminas investment of $739.8 million and $191.9 million, respectively. No impairment was registered
in 2016, 2017 and 2018.(3) Free cash flow equals net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.(4) Net financial debt equals total financial debt less cash and cash equivalents plus other investments.(5) Each ADS represents 10 shares.(6) Shares outstanding were 1,963,076,776 as of December 31 of each year.
11. Sustainability Report 2018CONSOLIDATING OUR LEADERSHIP IN THE MEXICAN FLAT STEEL
MARKET.  A new hot-dipped galvanizing facility and a new
painting line that includes the most advanced painting
technology in Mexico for high-end steel products.
350,000TONS
Annual hot-dipped
galvanizing capacity.120,000TONS
Annual painting 
capacity.$280MILLION
Total 
investment.2019EXPECTED START UP
WE FOSTER  and reward breakthrough initiatives in our quest
for excellence and improvement. Our teams are at the helm
of our efforts to transform our industrial systems and
business models in this high-speed change era.
INNOVATION
14. TerniumWe strive to run safe operations, creating value for our
customers, increasing productivity , enhancing the value
chain's competitiveness, achieving a highly efficient and
sustainable industrial base and establishing a long-term
presence in thriving communities. These tasks require
our commitment to a continuous quest for excellence
and improvement, and a culture of innovation
throughout our organization. We believe that a fresh
approach to old and new challenges and staying up-to-
date with the fast-paced changes in technology are key
elements required to achieve step changes in our
activities, including health and safety management,
environmental stewardship, energy efficiency , product
and process development, training design and
community improvement.
The "Ternium Innovates" program is a contest that
encourages our employees to team up to develop new
ideas. This program is one of many initiatives that seek
to foster a spirit of innovation. In this contest, we
choose winners according to their ability to improve the
way the company does things in four main areas:
quality , workplace climate, productivity and safety . A
committee reviews the ideas presented by the different
teams, many of which are selected for implementation.
ADVANCING OUR DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROCESS
Since Ternium's origins in 1969, with the inauguration of
the Ensenada manufacturing unit in Argentina, our
company has acquired various steelmaking and steel
processing facilities in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina,
Colombia, the United States and Central America.  The
implementation of Ternium's business model, a
coordinated industrial system able to offer a wide range
of products and differentiated services to its customer
base, required a significant digital transformation effort.
The start was a set of diverse information technology (IT)
systems inherited from each of the acquired companies.
For example, the acquisition of Hylsamex and Grupo
Imsa in Mexico, in 2005 and 2007, respectively , required
the consolidation of 28 different information technology
systems into one single system. With that target in mind,
within a couple of years, we brought our company online
in real time with a single unified information technology
system spanning all of our facilities. Once this process
was over, Ternium extended its digital tools to its
customers and suppliers, enabling the integration of ourprocesses with theirs. We developed and launched a digital
marketplace called "WebService". T oday , approximately
80% of Ternium’s commercial customers use this tool to
achieve an efficient interaction with us.
In May 2017, after a two-year preparation process, our
company certified its IT system under the ISO 20,000
standard. This standard describes the best practices in the
management of an organization's IT processes and
services. This certification process has helped the
company to optimize costs, resources and processes,
enhance customer satisfaction, strengthen the
performance assessment of our information technology
system, increase compliance with multiple regulations,
and increase overall business competitiveness. All of these
technologies need to be protected by appropriate
cybersecurity controls. Cybersecurity is one of the
cornerstones of Ternium’s digital transformation. In
addition to extending the connectivity of our
manufacturing processes within the processing plants, we
are connecting devices to the Internet (internet of things)
and performing big data analytics on the enormous
INSPECTION AT HEIGHT.  The drone technology replaces manual inspection, thus eliminating
complex tasks.
15. Sustainability Report 2018WEBSERVICE, AN INNOVATIVE 
DIGITAL PLATFORM
Webservice has transformed the way in
which many customers interact with
Ternium, offering differentiated
services to strengthen our partnership. 
It has 75 functions covering the entire
customer relationship process, such as:
• mobile product catalogs
• order placement (end-to-end orders, 
   sale from stock, or bidding 
   and auction)
• production monitoring
• inventory monitoring
• transportation tracking
• on line payment (direct connection 
   with banks)
IN-HOUSE MONITORING.  Ternium runs its own 24/7 monitoring center to oversee all
operations and services.amount of data generated by our production lines.
All these new technologies require to be adequately
protected against unauthorized access.
Currently , we are moving towards the construction of a
SMAR T factory , the acronym for Social, Mobile,
Analytics, Robotics and (internet of) Things. This
concept, supported by Ternium’s information technology
platform, ensures a constant stream of knowledge and
information (data and events) that will lead our facilities
to a more productive and efficient evolutionary stage.
Users achieve a more efficient performance by interacting
from any location (offices, facilities or elsewhere) through
different kinds of devices. Over 1,000 employees working
in our industrial and commercial areas are equipped with
mobile devices that enable them to perform all their tasks
from anywhere with a remarkable increase in productivity .
Analytics and data correlation detect patterns for
various applications to increase safety and efficiency ,
and to reduce costs. Through video-feed analysis
(machine learning), new applications include real-time
detection and reporting of unsafe situations or behavior
within the facilities to prevent accidents and, using
drone technology , the identification of potential
damages in either tall structures or confined spaces,
whether internal and external, as well as the assessment
of bulk material stockpiles. 
Drone technology replaces human inspection at
height and minimizes the risks inherent to this type of
task.  We are implementing a project consisting of the
installation of 600 cameras for tracking operations in
our Argentine and Mexican facilities through video
analytics allowing the implementation of an early
alarm system. The ultimate objective is to be able to
react based on the early detection of deviations from
protocols and to prevent accidents.
In addition, radio frequency identification (RFID)
technology enables the automated handling of steel
products in the yards, speeding up logistic
operations and increasing safety . The aim of
Ternium’s RFID project is to identify and track
each coil from the moment it reaches the yards until
shipment, making inspections easier, improving
inspectors' safety and reducing operationsINNOVATION
16. Terniumtimeframes. The tracking system has already been
implemented in five stockpile yards in Mexico and
is being implemented in another twelve yards in
Mexico and Argentina. In May 2018, Ternium
received an RFID project award granted by U.S.
RFID Journal in the Best Logistics/Supply Chain
RFID Implementation category . 
In the maintenance area, analytics and data correlation
technology has proved its potential with the prediction of
failures two to three weeks in advance. Our objective for
2019 is to apply this technology to shield the strategic
equipment of our continuous casters and other
continuous mills, significantly reducing non-operational
interruptions and, therefore, the impact on the production
process. In order to support Ternium's analytics needs
across all business functions, we are building a single
technological platform, known as "Data Lake" platform,
that meets all our big data and analytics requirements.
Other projects aimed at improving safety and productivity
are the use of virtual reality software for training
purposes, the use of augmented reality for expertsproviding remote assistance to operators, 3D printing and
the use of 3D scanning for several applications. We have
also developed virtual reality software to train employees
on risk perception. This software simulates risky
situations in 3D, depicting potential sequences that could
end up in fatal accidents. In addition, we have successfully
finished the proof-of-concept stage for replacing on-site
crane training exercises with VR training facilities,
simulating the cabins of the three types of cranes used by
Ternium: magnetic crane, hook crane and dump.
Moreover, we have developed a virtual reality software to
train our personnel on specific operating procedures
performed in the secondary metallurgy area of our steel
shop in Argentina. We are also developing a project in
Mexico to train employees in water leakage protocols and
in projects to improve productivity using digital twin
technology . This technology generates a digital replica of
physical assets, processes, people, places, systems and
devices that can be used for various purposes. 
Ternium has two administrative robots in operation,
running automated processes and tasks in the areas of
VR TRAINING. Virtual reality offers a safe environment to train employees and avoid operational interruptions.
17. Sustainability Report 2018accounts payable, accounts receivable, sales back office
and industrial engineering administration. We are
advancing projects to gain productivity in accounts
payable tasks in Mexico and Argentina, where more than
50% of all suppliers' invoices are expected to be loaded in
our systems using robots.
A COLLABORATIVE APPROACH TO RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
Steel is a highly versatile metal, offering a wide space for
product innovation. For example, over 70% of the
structural steel parts used to build a car today involve
solutions that simply did not exist 20 years ago. Ternium’s
production strategy is based on offering a complete range
of value-added, high-end products, with an emphasis on
creating and manufacturing increasingly sophisticated
steel products for new applications and industries.
The properties of the steel products required by our
customers are usually the result of a combination of their
metal composition and the way metal gets processed into
finished steel products. Ternium has identified synergies in
collaborating with its customers in the early stages of
their projects. Anticipating our customers' upcoming steel
product requirements, through our participation in joint
development projects, is key not only to build customer 
AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CERTIFICATIONS
Number of certifications approved
500
400
300
200
100
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018131286363397413relationships but also to plan and develop new processes,
which may sometimes require the incorporation of new
equipment and technology .
At Ternium, we carry out applied research efforts in
different ways. We develop steel products through in-
house programs, joint projects with leading industrial
customers, joint efforts together with recognized
universities or research centers, or through our
participation in international consortia.
Ternium’s research programs are open to a broad-based
international network of industry consortia. Over 50
universities and research laboratories from both the
public and private sectors collaborate with us. The goal
is to find and develop the best solutions to support an
agenda aimed at achieving better and more sustainable
steel. The research spans the entire production cycle,
from primary steelmaking and metallurgy , to rolling
and galvanizing. In 2017, Ternium joined
WorldAutoSteel, an organization comprising 22 of the
world’s major steel producers. Under the auspices of
worldsteel, the group regularly updates the automotive
industry on upcoming new steel capabilities available to
meet their design and manufacturing requirements.
INVESTMENT IN PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
$ million
12.5
10.0
7.5
5.0
2.5
0.0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20188.0
6.29.29.8
8.9INNOVATION
18. TerniumNEW LABORATORY.  
During 2018, we
inaugurated a new
laboratory in
Pesquería, Mexico,
to strengthen our
product research
capabilities for
high-end industrial
requirements.
140NEW PRODUCTS / YEAR
Developed through joint
projects with customers
and institutions.
Over the last five years, Ternium has achieved an average
of 100 product development projects per year in
partnership with industrial customers, and a total of 40
research projects involving university researchers and
students from some of the world’s most prestigious
institutions. We have been increasingly engaging
universities in our research efforts in order to expand and
further diversify Ternium’s research network and
capabilities. This initiative fosters the development of
fundamental knowledge and know-how at participating
universities while enabling the optimization of Ternium’s
in-house research resources. In 2018, approximately
twenty undergraduate and postgraduate students
pursuing degrees in engineering, materials science and
metallurgy took part in the program.
INVESTING TO INCORPORATE NEW EQUIPMENT AND TECHNOLOGIES
The inauguration of the Ternium Industrial Center in
Pesquería, Mexico, in 2013, gave way to an intensive product development period. We widened our
product range offering to include sophisticated high-
end steel products required by the manufacturing
industry , particularly automotive manufacturers.
These developments were made possible with the
incorporation of new production technologies to our
industrial system through the new Pesquería unit.
Furthermore, the installation in 2015 of state-of-the-
art cooling technology in our hot strip mill in our
Churubusco unit, Mexico, has allowed developing
and processing new advanced high-strength steel
grades, including dual phase, ferrite-bainite,
martensitic and complex phase grades. Based on these
new capabilities, we have further widened our high-
end product portfolio for customers in the
automotive, metal-mechanic, home appliance, oil &
gas and electric motors industries.
19. Sustainability Report 2018SAFETY FIRST  (primero seguridad) , two words and a
statement to convey a primary value for the company . 
Our employees have a mandate to observe this value and
promote and share our policies with our communities.
HEALTH & SAFETY
20. TerniumTernium has a policy guiding its efforts to achieve
excellence in occupational health and safety . According to
this policy , the assessment of risks and management of
our people's health and safety must be integrated in all
our business processes. Management is responsible and
accountable for achieving excellence in health and safety
performance as part of a comprehensive set of goals.
Ternium ranks occupational health and safety
performance as its top priority with the conviction that all
injuries and work-related illnesses can and must be
prevented. Each of our employees' and contractors' health
and safety is our top concern, and nothing justifies
putting people at risk.
Ternium has a unified health and safety management
system to oversee its production units. The company
periodically certifies its procedures, which helps us find
new opportunities to improve our safety management
systems and ensure their compliance with our policy .
Ternium’s steelmaking and steel processing facilities in
Mexico, Argentina, Colombia and Guatemala are
certified under the Occupational Health and Safety
Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 standard, a
concerted effort by leading national standards bodies,
certification bodies and specialist consultancies to
develop high quality management systems. 
Our new facility in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is implementing
new health and safety tools within its management
systems, leveraging on the experience we gained in other
facilities. During 2019, this new management system will
undergo ISO 45001 certification. While ISO 45001 draws
on OHSAS 18001, it is a new and distinct standard due to
be phased in gradually over the next three years. In
addition, we are working on the certification process of
our mining facilities in Mexico.
Management strives to foster a corporate culture
embodying values centered on safety as an integral part of
its everyday life, as unsafe behavior is the main cause of
safety incidents and accidents in our plants. We are
committed to training all our employees and contractors
on the appropriate application of the company’s health
and safety management systems in performing their tasks,
and to raising awareness of risks. In 2018, the
company delivered 564,341 safety training hours to
18,609 employees and contractors. 
ON THE RIGHT PATH.  Ternium’s safety
indicators have improved over the
course of the years concomitant with 
our relentless quest for zero incidents 
and accidents.
LOST TIME INJURIES FREQUENCY RATE
Quantity of day-loss injuries per million hours worked
1.5
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.3
0.0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20181.1 1.11.0
0.80.7
INJURY FREQUENCY RATE
Total quantity of injuries per million hours worked
5
4
3
2
1
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20183.33.4
3.03.33.0
21. Sustainability Report 2018SAFETY FIRST
Our Safety First program shows a number of initiatives
to foster a more comprehensive safety culture to prevent
incidents and accidents. Under the Safety Hour
program, middle and senior managers tour operating
areas for an hour, three times a week, talking to
employees about safety conditions in their working
environment. This exchange helps identify potential
risks and enables a fluid and constructive feedback to
implement effective preventive measures. In 2018, the
company held a total of 116,347 Safety Hour sessions,
with the regular participation of 1,016 employees and
contractors, which helped to detect, record and correct
87,112 deviations. 
TEN LIFE-SAVING RULES
Ten Life-Saving Rules is a document that consolidates the
main principles of Ternium's safety program. It lists ten
basic actions that all employees must follow in order to
protect their own lives and those of their colleagues. The
rules are the result of a process that included the
contribution of focus groups together with different
stages of analysis to detect the main causes of risks in our
operations. These rules also reflect the scope of safety
regulations in the countries where our company operates,
and are backed by specific behavioral procedures and
routines that must be followed. The Ten Life-Saving rules
have been extensively communicated throughout
Ternium’s operations to foster employees' and
contractors' awareness, and are in addition audited to
ensure their observance. In 2018, we held 63,774 Ten Life-
Saving Rules compliance audits.
SAFETY MANAGEMENT OF CRITICAL FACILITIES AND PROCESSES
Iron ore mining, steelmaking and steel processing
activities include potentially hazardous processes. With
the assistance of DuPont, a renowned authority in
industrial safety , we performed a diagnosis and
identification of process hazards at critical processes in
our facilities in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and Colombia,
and developed safety management tools for those critical
processes. We are now working on the sustainability of
the prevention system to continue consolidating a safe
administration of our critical processes.
In addition, in 2018 we adopted stricter standards to
assess tailings dams, and as a result the dams of our joint 
TERNIUM'S ANNUAL SAFETY DAY.
Since 2014, every July 22nd we have
been holding our Annual Safety Day , 
a special occasion to prompt a renewed
commitment to improving safety and
increasing risk awareness, in the belief
that every accident can and must be
prevented.
During this event, we hold safety
management meetings and discussions
to review our performance in the past
year and agree on concrete action to
improve safety in every facility .
venture with ArcelorMittal are being reinforced.
Following the collapse in January 2019 of a tailings dam
at a mine operated by Vale S.A., or Vale, in Brumadinho,
Brazil, we decided to conduct new studies on the stability
of our dams and on the dams of our joint venture with
ArcelorMittal. T ogether with this, we are reanalyzing all
operating and emergency protocols in connection with
our mining activities.HEALTH & SAFETY
22. TerniumOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY
Ternium, an integrated steel company , along with its subsidiaries is committed to the occupational safety 
and health of its personnel, clients, contractors, and suppliers.
The company’s occupational safety and health policy is the baseline for sustainable development across 
all its operations.
Policy adherence, dissemination, and compliance apply and are to be promoted throughout Ternium and 
its subsidiaries.
Looking out for the occupational safety and health of every person who works for the company or is inside 
its facilities is an essential value.
T o that end, we promote our commitment through the following principles:
All work-related injuries and illnesses can and should be prevented.
Compliance with all applicable legal and other regulations to which Ternium voluntarily agrees.
Continuous improvement of all processes related to staff's health and safety .
Occupational safety and health must be integrated into all company processes.
No emergency situation, production process or results justify putting people’s occupational safety or health 
at risk.
Commitment from and training of the entire staff is essential.
Working safely is an employment condition.
Every person is responsible for looking after his/her own safety and the safety of others.
In each company , everyone is responsible for occupational health and safety:
The company provides the means and resources for activities to be carried out safely so as to preserve everyone's
physical integrity and occupational health.
Managers are in charge of the occupational health and safety of everyone who works for them or is in their area.
All other workers must comply with regulations and instructions, and work with their managers to detect,
control, and resolve any dangerous situations.
Contractor companies and their staff must comply with the Safety Regulations in force at the facilities where
they provide services.
People who enter the facility must comply with the applicable Safety Regulations.
Health and Safety staff must take preventive measures through support, advising and auditing.
At Ternium and its subsidiaries, these principles are shared throughout the entire value chain and in all the
communities where it operates in order to promote people's healthcare and safety .
March 2018
Máximo V edoya
CEO
Ternium
23. Sustainability Report 2018WE GROW  our business to meet the demand for more and
better steel products. In doing so, we take care of our
footprint through continuous progress in environmental
performance and the use of best available technologies.
ENVIRONMENT
24. TerniumThe protection of the environment is a fundamental
value for Ternium. Our goal is to reach the highest
standards of environmental performance in order to
minimize the environmental footprint of our operations.
T o achieve this, we are continuously working on the
improvement of our integrated production system. Our
Environmental and Energy Policy , approved in 2014 and
updated in 2018, states our views regarding the
preservation of the environment. 
As stated in our policy , the monitoring of our activities
leans on a unified environmental management system
throughout all our production units. We periodically audit
and certify our systems and procedures. This process helps
us to identify improvement opportunities, update our
environmental management processes and make sure we
comply with the latest legal regulations.
Our environmental management system is certified under
ISO 14001. This standard was created by the International
Organization for Standardization, a network of national
standardization institutes that work together with
governments, the industry and consumer representatives
with the purpose of supporting the implementation of an
environment management plan in public and private
organizations. In 2018, we completed the certification of
our new facility in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This
achievement has enabled us to reach a 97% certification
rate based on total employees and contractors working in
our steel making and steel processing facilities. 
Our Rio de Janeiro unit has, in addition, an energy
efficiency management system certified under ISO
50001. The aforementioned update of Ternium's
Environmental and Energy Policy in 2018 formally
integrates energy efficiency concepts and establishes the
principles for the implementation of energy efficiency
management systems in all our production units. During
2018 we started implementing a newly developed energy
efficiency system in our steel making facilities, which we
expect will help us maximize our efforts to reduce
carbon emissions. These efforts are in line with those of
the countries in which we have operations and
contribute to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement
of the UN's climate change conference.EMISSION INTENSITY
Carbon dioxide emissions per ton of steel produced.  Year-end.
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20181.5 1.51.41.81.7
ENERGY INTENSITY
Gigajoules per ton of steel produced. Year-end.
25
20
15
10
5
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 201821.6 21.2 21.021.7 21.1
25. Sustainability Report 2018ENERGY AND CLIMATE
The steel industry is energy intensive. There are two main
technologies for producing steel: the blast furnace / basic
oxygen furnace (BF/BOF) route, which consumes mainly
iron ore and uses metallurgical coal as its main energy
source; and the electric arc furnace (EAF) route, which
consumes mainly steel scrap and/or direct reduced iron
and uses electricity as its main energy input. Direct
reduced iron is produced out of iron ore and uses natural
gas as its energy source. According to worldsteel, the
world average carbon dioxide emission per ton of liquid
steel, which depends on the efficiency of the facilities and
the mix of steel production technologies, reached 1.8 tons
in 2018.
In 2018, Ternium’s steel production technologies
included the BF/BOF route with a 63% participation,
the EAF route with direct reduced iron feed and steel
scrap with a 30% participation, and the EAF route with
full steel scrap feed with a 7% participation. Ternium's
average carbon dioxide emission per ton of liquid steel,
including direct and upstream energy and other
emissions, was 1.7 tons in 2018. The incorporation of
our Rio de Janeiro steel mill (BF/BOF) increased our
emissions rate since 2017, due to a higher share of BF/
BOF route in steel production. 
The steel industry has a strong commitment towards
the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
According to worldsteel, in the last 50 years the steel
industry reduced its energy consumption per ton of
steel produced by 60%. In addition, the
development of new steel product designs has
enabled the use of lighter structures with improved
resistance and performance. Y et, steel production
accounts for approximately 8% of all human-made
GHG emissions.
As members of worldsteel, we are signatory of its
sustainability policy and join its efforts, through our
participation in several programs, to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions. As a participating member, we
submit to worldsteel our performance indicators to
contribute to its statistics and databases, which enable
steelmaking companies to benchmark performance,
share best practices and ultimately set improvement
plans for their industrial processes.In 2008, worldsteel launched its Climate Action
Recognition Program. Since then, Ternium has been
collecting and reporting its carbon dioxide emissions to
worldsteel. In 2018 we participated in the launch of a new
program, led by worldsteel and the International Energy
Agency , with the purpose of creating a technology
roadmap for iron and steel. This new initiative will help
identify the best available technologies to reduce the
industry's carbon dioxide emissions. 
As part of our initiatives to reduce GHG emissions, in
2014 we launched an energy efficiency program aimed at
identifying opportunities and implementing energy savings
solutions at our production facilities on a continuous
basis. Under this program we have completed 265 projects
that, in the aggregate, have reduced our yearly carbon
dioxide emissions by approximately 123,000 tons.
AIR QUALITY
The steelmaking process, under the main production
routes, is intensive in the generation of particulate
material, nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides. Some of our
facilities, like the Ternium Industrial Center in Pesquería,
adopted the best-available technologies from the design
phase. In other facilities, particularly those we acquired,
we are consistently adopting the best-available
technologies as part of our drive to continuously improve
our environmental performance.
These improvement plans require significant investments
in new equipment, such as de-dusting systems, material
and scrap- handling facilities or briquetting facilities to
clean and recycle material recovered from air emissions.
Over the last four years, we have made investments of over
$90 million to improve the capture and treatment of air
emissions, especially in our Guerrero and Apodaca mills in
Mexico, and our Manizales mill in Colombia. In 2018, we
advanced our projects for a new de-dusting system at our
steel shop in the Puebla unit in Mexico, which we expect
to start up during 2019. In addition, we developed an
investment plan consisting in the installation of several
stations equipped with advanced monitoring technology .
This new technology enables the immediate detection and
alert of air quality indicators, in order to implement
timely preventive actions.ENVIRONMENT
26. TerniumENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS
LEED.  We design our facilities
considering the best available building
solutions. In Pesquería, Mexico, our
technical school and the industrial
buildings of our production facilities
were certified under the Leadership in
Energy and Environment Design
Certification standards of the U.S.
Green Building Council. 
Clean Industry.  In Mexico, most of
Ternium's steel and in-use mining
facilities have Clean Industry
certificates issued by the local
environmental authorities. The
standard of this program was created
by the Mexican government and ema,
a technical rating and standardization
institute.
WATER MANAGEMENT
Water is a scarce resource and we are committed to using
it responsibly . We design our water management strategy
on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the specific
situation at each of our operating sites. Over the last few
years, we carried out a series of investments to incorporate
best available technologies in the management of water.
We have implemented a zero discharge treatment plant
from the design stage in our Pesquería unit in Mexico, and
we have incorporated treatment plants for sewage water in
our Churubusco and Pesquería units in Mexico.
In addition, in our San Nicolás unit in Argentina we
invested in new equipment to close the gas scrubbing
circuit of a blast furnace, and we developed new runoff
water capturing systems for the raw material yards. 
MATERIAL EFFICIENCY
In Ternium we continuously develop strategies to
maximize the use of co-products and reduce the
production of waste. We believe that the recovery and
proper use of co-products is central to the application
of circular economy concepts in the steel industry's
value chain. The use of co-products reduces the
consumption of raw materials and energy , with a
positive effect on carbon dioxide emissions and waste
generation.
All the steel scrap generated in our facilities is recycled.
In addition, we purchase steel scrap generated by other
steel processors in our value-chain and by the recycling
of steel waste. In 2018, we recycled 2 million tons of
steel scrap, including scrap generated in our facilities, to
produce new steel with all its properties. 
All granulated slag generated in the blast furnaces is sold
to the cement industry . The re-use of slag enables yearly
carbon dioxide emission savings of 1.0 million tons in the
cement production process. Likewise, the slag generated in
the steel shop is used to consolidate roads.
In addition, we have sinter and briquetting facilities that
enable us to recycle different materials captured by our air
and water cleaning equipment, including fines of iron ore,
coal, lime and dolomite.
 
27. Sustainability Report 2018CO-PRODUCTS (T)
Million tons of co-products Million tons of CS production
7.5
6.0
4.5
3.0
1.5
0.012.5
10.0
7.5
5.0
2.5
0.0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20182.3 2.3
1.82.85.0
n Co-products  
l Crude steel (CS)
CARBON DIOXIDE RECYCLING. Our steel
shops in Puebla and Guerrero,
Mexico, capture carbon dioxide. The
purpose of this innovative solution is
to deliver carbon dioxide to the
beverage industry for preparing soft
drinks. The delivery of recycled
carbon dioxide from our facilities
enables yearly emission savings of up
to 210,000 tons.
The preparation of metallurgical coal for the steelmaking
production process yields significant co-product gas
volumes. Those gases stem from the distillation process in
the coking batteries. We clean those coking battery gases
and obtain chemical products that we sell in the market,
including tar, benzol and hydrated lime. In addition, the
gases obtained from the coking batteries, blast furnaces
and, in the case of the Rio de Janeiro unit, the steel shop,
once cleaned, are used to provide heat to certain
equipment and to produce steam for the generation of
electricity . All these processes have enabled us to achieve a
material efficiency rate of 99.7%.
BIODIVERSITY CARE
Our Rio de Janeiro unit is located near a coastline area
rich in mangroves in the Sepetiba bay in Brazil, where we
have our own port. We perform our operations while
maintaining and protecting the fauna and flora of 600
hectares of mangroves. Likewise in Palmar de Varela,
Colombia, before starting the construction of a new steel
bar processing facility , we performed preliminary work on
the field to preserve the local biodiversity . We defined
different areas of ecological connectivity between our
terrain and the natural ecosystems. We developed a
program to rescue and release wildlife in those areas and
we installed wildlife connectivity gates for reptiles,
amphibians and small mammals.
INNOVATION AND RECYCLING - Mix Rock®
Mix Rock® is an innovative product developed by
Ternium in Mexico. The product is obtained through the
processing of our steel shops’ dust and slag. With this
development, we can transform 100% of our EAF dust
into a valuable raw material for the cement industry while
enabling lower carbon dioxide emission in the cement
production process. This project was shortlisted for
worldsteel's 2018 steelie awards.
ENVIRONMENT
28. TerniumENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY POLICY
Ternium is an integrated steel company committed on preserving the environment.
Its goal is to achieve the highest standards in environmental and energy performance as a basis for sustainable
development throughout its operations in regards to company employees, the community and future
generations. The company has committed to develop a high-quality performance integrated and eco-efficient
production system based on continuous improvement.
Caring for the environment is a fundamental value, and its principles are the following:
Compliance with the applicable legislation, as well as any voluntary agreements in relation to environmental
protection and energy use, consumption and efficiency .
All levels in each area, throughout the company , are responsible for the results of 
environmental protection.
The commitment of all our personnel is essential, as is the training provided.
Environmental protection and energy efficiency are responsibilities of Ternium’s staff as well as its subsidiaries,
suppliers and contractor personnel.
Environmental and energy components are an integral part of the company's management processes.
Continuous improvement in environmental and energy performance is actively promoted through the company ,
in addition to all the efforts necessary to achieve the objectives and established goals.
Pollution must be prevented at the source, controlling the most significant environmental aspects of our
operations and minimizing their impacts and risks.
Promoting the acquisition of energy efficient products, technologies, services and implementing projects 
that enhance our energy performance.
Use energy and natural resources efficiently .
Encourage the use of best technologies and practices, as well as renewable energies, when feasible.
In each company , everyone is responsible for environmental and energy management:
The company supplies the means and resources to enable compliance with this policy , thereby supporting 
the sustainability of all operations, depending on the operations context.
All persons entering company facilities, such as own personnel, suppliers, contractors and customers, 
must comply with this policy .
The company seeks to share these principles throughout its value chain and across the communities where 
it operates, to promote the protection of the environment, encourage the efficient use and consumption of
energy resources and foster an open dialogue with stakeholders.
This Policy applies to Ternium and its subsidiaries. It will be actively disseminated with a view to ensuring
compliance throughout the organization.
June 2018
Máximo V edoya
CEO
Ternium
29. Sustainability Report 2018GROWTH OPPORTUNITY IN COLOMBIAN LONG STEEL MARKET.  A
new reinforcing bar facility to expand our participation
in the construction sector in the north/northwest of
Colombia, a region with no local steel bar production.
520,000TONS
Annual hot-rolling 
capacity.$90MILLION
Total
investment.180EMPLOYEES
To work in the
new facilities.2019EXPECTED START UP
WE FEEL STRENGTHENED  as we grow and achieve an
increasingly diverse employee base across the Americas.
We work on long-term strategies to maximize their
potential leaning on development and training.
HUMAN RESOURCES
32. TerniumOver the last decade, Ternium has become a leading flat
steel producer in the region by virtue of its main asset: a
team of committed, innovative, industrious, diverse and
highly qualified individuals. In 2018, Ternium's team was
composed of approximately 20,500 persons, the majority
of whom are distributed throughout our facilities and
offices in the Americas. As Ternium embarks on a new
phase of growth for the coming years, we rely on the
talent and determination of our people to successfully
shape our company in this new stage. 
Ternium has a Human Resources policy guiding our
efforts in managing talent and attracting, retaining and
helping motivated professionals to develop their careers.
Ternium is an equal opportunity employer that embraces
diversity in its different forms, including age, gender,
nationality , race, ethnicity and creed. We believe that the
coexistence of diverse perspectives and angles helps our
teams achieve rational solutions to challenges and more
effectively accomplish their goals. 
Over the years, we have grown increasingly diverse and we
will continue to welcome and adopt new and different
viewpoints. Mexicans, Argentinians, Brazilians,
Colombians, Guatemalans and Americans account for the
largest share of our team members, yet a total of 31
nationalities are represented among our staff. We have
recently launched a Diversity Policy to strengthen our
commitment and formalize our initiatives in this field. In
addition, our Code of Conduct forbids unlawful
discrimination in employment relations and grants all
persons the right to apply for a position in the company
or to be considered for a new position based on the skills
required.
Since 2006, we periodically commission international
consultancy agencies to conduct confidential surveys
among our employees. The company develops corporate
and regional action plans based on the results of those
surveys, and tackles areas of opportunity to improve
overall labor climate. In 2018 we completed a new poll
covering 16,700 employees across our operations,
including salaried and hourly employees. 
WORK CLIMATE.  We look for ways to
improve our employees’ working
experience. Innovative programs, such
as alternative offices with remote
connection and flexible days every
month, all year-round, were well
received.
96%OVERALL SATISFACTION
Surveyed hourly
employees, on working
at Ternium.87%OVERALL SATISFACTION
Surveyed salaried
employees, on working
at Ternium.
HEADCOUNT
# of people
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 201816,91916,73916,72521,33520,660
33. Sustainability Report 2018SALARIED EMPLOYEES BY GENDER
# of people
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20183,274 3,201 3,1494,031 3,956
n Men
n Women     
SALARIED EMPLOYEES BY NATIONALITY
December 2018
Mexico:44%
Argentina:27%Brazil:19%Colombia:7% Guatemala:1%
Others:2%The overall participation rate reached 88% of targeted
employees. The findings from the analysis of the poll
included the following: 
•Hourly employees.  96% of surveyed participants
indicated overall satisfaction in their responses; 97%
stated that they felt proud of working at Ternium.
•Salaried employees.  87% of surveyed participants
indicated overall satisfaction in their responses; 95%
stated that they felt proud of working at Ternium.
In 2018, Ternium's resignation rate was 3%.
DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
Ternium's constant pursuit of excellence in our operations
requires our teams to consolidate and progress in their
quest for continuous improvement and innovation. We
believe training is a key tool to achieve this goal. Over the
last five years, each salaried employee has received an
average of 44 hours per year of training and each hourly
employee has received an average of 108 hours per year of
training, including on-the-job classes.
Ternium's program for professionals spans a person’s
entire career, from his initial level as a young
professional to management levels. Our program for
supervisors includes a 40-hour course discussing the
components of the supervisory role. This course has
received the Excellence in Practice Award from the
Association for Talent Development. A total of
approximately 1,100 supervisors have completed the
course since its launch in 2015. During 2018, our
supervisors received an average of 90 hours of training. 
The Leaders’ Development Program provides dedicated
training for the company’s current and future leaders. The
course is designed to enhance middle management
leadership skills, as they advance their careers.
Approximately half of the company’s middle-level
managers have taken part in the program. The leadership
course is a joint effort with the EGADE Business School
of Monterrey , Mexico, and the T orcuato Di Tella
University of Buenos Aires, Argentina. As of year-end
2018, the program involved 61 participants. 
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
The individual performance of each of Ternium's salaried
employees is assessed annually through a formal
performance assessment process. There is a link between HUMAN RESOURCES
34. Terniumthe feedback and the final instances provided by the
evaluation process, and the different aspects of an
employee's corporate life, such as compensation and
career development, performance improvement
opportunities and training requirements.
Ternium has an IT system to manage its performance
assessment processes. The system includes a set of
measurable objectives for each employee. This is a key
component of the process as it ensures that everyone’s
goals are in line with the company’s objectives and
guarantees transparency and fairness in the
assessment of each employee’s work throughout the
year. The set of objectives is assessed through a
combination of different sources: the employee
himself, internal customers, assessment committees
and feedback meetings, as well as mid-year reviews. 
In addition, the system includes an upward feedback
tool for management positions accessible to the
manager’s supervisor. Although this tool is not 
EMPLOYEES TRAINING
Average hours of training per year and employee
125
100
75
50
25
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20183753
42
3352111 112120
94105
4876
67119
90
n Supervisors    
n Hourly Employees
n Salaried Employees     mandatory , 74% of our employees provided upward
feedback in 2018's performance assessments, which is
an indication of the credibility achieved by Ternium´s
procedures. 
A performance assessment process based on a measurable
set of objectives is an important aspect of our Human
Resources Policy . It aims at improving our employees’
working experience throughout their careers and their
relationship with their supervisors. 
During 2018, the company introduced new features to
enhance its performance assessment systems, which
enabled the consolidation of a 360-degree approach to
the process. The new features offer employees
additional options to provide and receive assessments,
including the possibility of submitting spontaneous
client-supplier opinions related to specific objectives,
and the introduction of more clearly-worded
descriptions for the upward feedback review stage.
UPWARD FEEDBACK
%
100
80
60
40
20
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20186472
6477 7485938994 91
n Employees that evaluated their supervisor    
n Supervisors with at least one evaluation
35. Sustainability Report 2018WE SUPPORT  the deve lopment of our small and medium-sized
customers and suppliers under a long-term commitment. 
We understand that the future of our industrial project is
connected to that of our communities and value chain. 
VALUE CHAIN
36. TerniumTernium offers support to small and medium sized
enterprises (SMEs) through a program that provides a
variety of services, including training, industrial
assistance, institutional assistance, commercial support
and financial aid. With the participation of approximately
1,600 companies, our program, called ProPymes , fosters
the industrial value chain in Mexico and Argentina.
ProPymes  has helped create an industrial network that
encourages the professionalization and quest for
excellence of SMEs, which, based on knowledge sharing,
reciprocal learning and exchange of experiences, aims at
the implementation along the whole value chain of the
best practices utilized in the industry .
ProPymes  designs and implements an annual training
agenda, among other initiatives. The course contents are
continuously updated to keep pace with the new
requirements of managers and their salaried and hourly
employees. Every year the program incorporates
additional subjects to the curriculum to meet SMEs´
increasingly sophisticated range of needs, as they advance
their learning curves. T raining activities are performed in-
house or at universities or business schools. During 2018,
ProPymes  has sponsored training courses for 4,700
attendants, who spent an aggregate 92,000 hours in class. 
PROPYMES' SPONSORED INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
# of projects
450
375
300
225
150
75
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018232316 307376408
n Mexico
n ArgentinaProPymes ' industrial assistance programs focus on a
broad array of issues from the use of automation
technology and the optimization of production
facilities, to the development of environment,
health and safety protocols and human resources
management. During 2018, ProPymes  delivered over
400 industrial projects.
The institutional assistance program helps SMEs
develop strategies aimed at ensuring a level playing field
in the local market, given the potential threat of
increased unfairly traded imports. Assistance efforts
included those for the setting of industry chambers, the
development of technical standards for industrial
products and institutional initiatives aimed at improving
SMEs competitiveness. In addition, we help SMEs set
their own corporate social programs through the
implementation of a support program for technical
educational institutes.
PROPYMES AND INNOVATION.  Under
ProPymes  sponsorship, a trailer
manufacturer, a transportation
company , a development center and
Ternium set up a team to develop
high-performance trailers. In 2018,
Mexico’s Automotive Industry
Cluster granted this project its 2018
Award in "Innovation".
37. Sustainability Report 2018TECHNICAL GENE.  In 2013,
ProPymes incorporated
Ternium's Technical
Gene initiative to its
programs. 
Aimed at enhancing 
the quality of technical
education, Technical
Gene coordinates the
efforts of SMEs and
their communities to
improve technical
educational institutes,
and train their teachers 
and students.
Commercial support initiatives include the promotion
of commercial ties between SMEs and potential
customers in the automotive sector and other industries
in our value chain, and assistance in the development
process required to become a supplier of a large
company . In addition, we offer SMEs to leverage on the
Techint Group's global network of commercial offices
in order to enhance their market reach.
The financial assistance program aims at fostering
investments to enhance productivity and increase
installed capacity , taking advantage of government-
sponsored low-cost financing instruments. Since its
creation through to year-end 2018, the program has
financed investment projects of Ternium's customers 
for an amount in excess of $100 million.WHY AN SME WOULD NEED ASSISTANCE?
From time to time, Mexico and Argentina suffer periods
of economic volatility . One of the consequences of these
difficult times is that some industrial companies have no
choice but to resize their operations to be able to
withstand short-term challenges arising during such
conditions. On the path to overcoming a short-term
critical situation, their long-term growth strategies
suffer. Consequently , their development plans are
postponed, they fall behind their learning curves and
are unable to reach their growth potential. Ternium
believes that its role as a large industrial project is to
work with SMEs to help them reach their potential,
enhancing their professional, management and financial
capabilities, and helping them participate competitively
in both domestic and foreign markets. VALUE CHAIN
38. TerniumThe ProPymes program was first launched in
Argentina in 2002, named after the acronym PYME,
which in Spanish stands for SME. In Mexico, the
program was introduced four years later. ProPymes
institutionalizes the cooperation between Ternium
and the company’s small and medium-sized
customers and suppliers.
ADVANCING THE SMEs AGENDA
SMEs making up Ternium’s value chain are key
players for the social integration of their
communities, as they generate a substantial share of
total industrial jobs. The ProPymes  program plays an
important role in advancing the SME policy agenda in
Mexico and Argentina. 
Ternium organizes major events under the auspices of
the ProPymes  initiative, bringing SME´s representatives
together with government officials, economists and
journalists to discuss the sector’s economic context and
outlook. In Mexico, the ProPymes biannual event
showcases awards for SMEs excelling in areas such as
industrial safety , logistics services, delivery , raw material
handling and other services. The occasion also includes
a Supplier of the Y ear award. In Argentina, the event is
held every year and features several panels designed to
allow SME executives share their experiences and
lessons learned. 
Since 2017, the Argentine government sponsors the
Ecosistema Pyme  program, or SME Ecosystem, which
considers the ProPymes  program a model to be
replicated by other large companies in the support of
their value chains. In Argentina, the stories of SMEs
that are part of Ternium’s ProPymes  program
appeared in video-narrations published in the web
platform of one of the country’s largest media groups
and have been widely circulated on social media.
Different companies founders and owners were
featured sharing how their enterprises started and
grew , the difficulties they had to overcome, and the
potential they envisage for the future.PROPYMES SPONSORED TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
# of Schools
35
28
21
14
7
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20181019222432
39. Sustainability Report 2018OUR COMMUNITY  programs reflect the values and heritage 
of our corporate history , emphasizing education as a 
source of personal and social development, with a special
focus on technical schooling.
COMMUNITIES
40. TerniumWith more than seventy years of industrial
experience, Ternium´s corporate history has
inspired our work with our communities along
these years, which is guided by an underlying
premise: We believe that the long-term success of an
industrial project depends on the support it receives
from the community around it and on its ability to
grow together with its neighbors.
We have developed and carried out several
programs in education, arts and culture, health and
sports, and social integration areas together with
local institutions. We support initiatives that
improve life quality and strengthen institutions that
foster education and welfare, and promote a culture
of hard work, diversity and social mobility .
Access to quality education is limited in several
communities in Latin America, resulting in a lack
of qualified technicians and professionals required
by the industrial sector. On top of this, the industry
is going through a technological transformation
process, known as Industry 4.0, which demands
workers with increasingly sophisticated skills and
knowledge. Among our educational initiatives, we
devote significant efforts to technical schools, in the
knowledge that the steel manufacturing industry
seeks to recruit skilled employees who need a solid
education all the way through to tertiary level. In
2018, our educational programs accounted for 65%
of our total community investment.
THE ROBERTO ROCCA TECHNICAL SCHOOL
In 2016, Ternium inaugurated the Roberto Rocca
Technical School (ETRR) in Pesquería, Mexico. Our
sister company in the Techint Group, Tenaris, opened
the first ETRR in Campana, Argentina, in 2013. These
modern schools are the spearhead of an international
educational network geared towards providing high-
quality technical education. 
The ETRR in Pesquería offers two specializations,
mechatronics and electromechanics. By December 2018,
374 young students were attending classes at the school, a
number that is close to its capacity . All students have
different levels of scholarships, depending on their needs.
The first cohort of students will graduate by mid-2019, following three years of studies. We have invited other
companies in the state of Nuevo León, Mexico, to join
efforts to fund scholarships for current and future
students. The list of sponsor companies already includes
Kia Motors, Corporativo Alfa (and its affiliates Nemak,
Sigma, Alpek, Axtel and Newpek), Festo, Techgen,
Praxair, Dedutel, Denso and Rheem. The school´s
students started their internships in the industrial plants
of these companies.The ETRR in Pesquería is equipped
with state-of-the-art laboratories and classrooms, and the
building itself obtained the gold category of the LEED
environmental certification awarded by the U.S. Green
Building Council. The school uses a Project Based
SUPPORT IN NUMBERS.  We invested $60
million in community programs 
in the last five years, including 
$29 million in our flagship educational
program, the Roberto Rocca Technical
School in Pesquería, Mexico.
COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
$ million
25
20
15
10
5
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20186.88.223.7
12.6
9.5
n Ongoing programs
n ETRR in Pesquería, Mexico
41. Sustainability Report 2018TECHNICAL GENE PROGRAM – TEACHERS TRAINED
# of Teachers
250
200
150
100
50
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 201873228
160 156 152
TECHNICAL GENE PROGRAM – PARTICIPANTS
# of Students
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 20181001,355 1,3412,059
1,426Learning methodology in technical classes, an innovative
way to learn and develop teamwork and leadership skills.
The ETRRs holds standardized testing for math, reading
and socio-emotional skills including items from the
Program for International Student Assessment (PISA)
Math and Reading tests. 
During 2018, five teams from the ETRR in Pesquería
participated in the Mexican national championship of the
World Educational Robot Contest. One of the teams
succeeded to the international final in Shanghai, China,
reaching the 8th place in its category and the 18th place in
the overall score among over 200 teams that took part in
the contest.
SPONSORING PUBLIC TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
At Ternium, we have developed the Technical Gene
program designed to support technical education. Under
this program, we support several state-run technical
schools near our facilities in the Ramallo and Ensenada
industrial areas in Argentina, and the Monterrey
industrial area in Mexico. This endeavor has contributed
to a significant improvement in the training level of
graduates. In addition to Ternium, this program involves
local governments and the Hermanos Agustín y Enrique
Rocca foundation, a non-governmental organization
committed to community development.
The program provides technical internships at workshops
and at operating areas of the company’s industrial
centers. In addition, it organizes technical training
programs in the schools, and an annual innovation contest
targeting pro-community projects. Moreover, the program
offers activities for teachers and managers to strengthen
teaching skills and the management of the schools, funds
the expansion and improvement of school infrastructure,
and provides new technical equipment.
During 2018, we initiated the sponsorship of a new
technical school in Mexico. We will start our activities in
the new school as soon as we get governmental
authorizations. In addition, under this program 146 high-
school students completed their internships in our mills in
Argentina and Mexico. 110 high-school students
participated in the innovation contest in Argentina, in
which we evaluated proposals for community projects. In
addition, one technical school in San Nicolas inauguratedCOMMUNITIES
42. Terniuma new 468 square meters building, housing the new
physical/chemical and electro-mechanics laboratories.
VOLUNTEERING TO IMPROVE BASIC SCHOOLS
Ternium's employees and their families volunteer to
improve local schools infrastructure. Students' relatives,
schoolteachers and neighbors join us in the endeavor.
Ternium and the Hermanos Agustín y Enrique Rocca
foundation, as well as other companies operating in our
value chain, provide organization and funding. So far,
29 schools have been revamped in Mexico, Argentina,
Brazil, Colombia and Guatemala. During 2018, 1,644
volunteers joined efforts to transform nine schools.
Following the integration of the company’s new plant in
Rio de Janeiro, during the year we undertook our first
volunteering activity in Brazil. In 2018, our community
programs in Brazil received the Parceiros da Escola
award from the country's education minister. 
We also coordinate help for communities facing natural
disasters. During 2018, Ternium and other affiliate
companies built 191 houses for families affected by the
September 2017 earthquakes in southern Mexico. The cost of this project was entirely financed by Ternium and
its employees.
QUALITY EDUCATION FOR THE COMMUNITIES
Ternium has different programs aimed at improving skills
and education in developing communities near its
facilities. We organize workshop academies in Pihuamo,
Aquila and Alzada in Mexico. In addition, through the
Afterschool program, we provide support to primary
schools in San Nicolás de los Garza, Mexico, and in
Ramallo, Argentina. The Afterschool program fosters 
the integration and stay of the students in the classrooms,
and seeks to improve the quality of education. The
program was very successful, evidenced by a substantial
increase in student enrollment and the extension of
activities outside school hours. Afterschool also helps
improve the schools' infrastructure. In 2018, the school in
Ramallo inaugurated a new 273 square meters building,
housing three new classrooms and a meeting room. In
addition, we provided the required equipment and
furniture. The enrollment in this school reached 398
students in 2018, representing a 70% increase since the
launch of the initiative.
VOLUNTEERING PROGRAM.  Ternium 's employees and their families volunteered to improve the Japão municipal school in Santa Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
43. Sustainability Report 2018SUPPORT TO HIGH-SCHOOL STUDENTS
Our Merit Awards program was founded in 1976 in
Argentina, making it the longest-lasting program.
Initially designed to benefit the children of our
employees, in 2007 it was opened up to our
communities. The program focuses on fostering
academic excellence for high-school students.
Scholarships are awarded based on academic
performance, attendance and commitment to the
educational process. In 2018, we awarded 712
scholarships.
ROBERTO ROCCA EDUCATION PROGRAM
T ogether with the Hermanos Agustín y Enrique Rocca
foundation, Ternium funds scholarships for high-school 
and university students from local communities in
Mexico, Argentina, Colombia and Guatemala. The
program, called Roberto Rocca Education Program, has
awarded fellowships and scholarships since 2005 to
promote the study of engineering and applied sciences at
undergraduate and graduate level in the countries where
we have a major presence. In 2018, the program funded 12
fellowships for students pursuing PhDs and 276
scholarships for undergraduate students.
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM PARTICIPATION
# of Students
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2015 2016 2017 2018196214252266
n Argentina     
n MexicoMERIT AWARDS
# OF SCHOLARSHIPS
MEXICO
2018 249
2017 135
2016 200
2015 125
ARGENTINA
2018 348
2017 298
2016 317
2015 350
OTHER COUNTRIES
2018 115
2017 111
2016 120
2015 90
ROBERTO ROCCA EDUCATION PROGRAM
# OF SCHOLARSHIPS (2018)
Mexico 92
Argentina 163
Colombia 16
Guatemala 5
Total 276
SPORTS AND A HEALTHY LIFESTYLE
As part of our drive to promote a healthy lifestyle, we
organize the 10K Ternium annual local race in several
locations, together with local institutions. In 2018,
approximately 4,000 runners participated in the 14th
edition of the 10K Ternium in San Nicolás,
Argentina; approximately 5,000 runners participated
in the 10th edition of the race in Monterrey , Mexico,
and over 1,500 runners participated in the 7th edition
of the 10K Ternium race in Colima, Mexico. The
proceedings from the San Nicolás race, together with
matching funds provided by Ternium, are donated to
a local hospital. In addition, we organize sport
leagues involving schools inCOMMUNITIES
44. Terniumneighboring communities with the participation of
thousands of children. On health care initiatives, we
organize health fairs, clinical examinations, and
disease and addiction prevention campaigns, aimed at
increasing the community’s awareness and gaining of
a basic understanding of how to prevent and take care
of various health issues. In addition, the company
supports and funds a basic health care unit in Aquila,
Mexico, and funds improvements in health care
infrastructure in different countries.
ARTS AND CULTURE TO FOSTER DIVERSITY AND INTEGRATION
Ternium’s Art and Culture program aims to bring
the company’s diverse cultures together as well as to
reinforce the identity of each community . Large
audiences enjoy every year´s opera, ballet, concert
and cinema festivals organized by Ternium together
with local institutions.
Ternium's film festivals bring to employees and
the community different movies from Latin
American producers. In 2018, we held five film
festivals in Mexico and Argentina, which were
attended by approximately 10,000 persons. In San
Nicolás, Argentina, Ternium also sponsors and
organizes, along with the PROA Foundation, the
Ternium Cultural Program at a local theater in
San Nicolás, Argentina.
We also sponsor a photo library program, a way of
honoring the history and tradition of the local
communities by preserving and sharing their visual
memoirs. In a joint effort with community
organizations, curators source and compile historic
photos into digital archives, painting a unique
portrait of the past and present of these
communities. As of 2018, the Photo Libraries in the
cities of San Nicolás, Argentina, and Monterrey ,
Mexico, had digitized over 63,000 images.
10K Ternium race.  A drive for a healthy
lifestyle motivates us to organize races
along with local entities. Thousands of
runners dare beat every year the three
and 10-kilometers challenges. The first
10K edition took place in 2008, in San
Nicolás. Later on, we launched the race
in Monterrey , Colima and Santa Cruz
where it also became popular.
11,500RUNNERS
Participated in 
the 2018 edition.14EDITIONS
Since the first race 
in San Nicolás.
45. Sustainability Report 2018INTEGRITY  is key to the long-term sustainability of our
company . With ethical behavior and the observance of law
as a core company value, we continuously work on
building a corporate culture of integrity . 
GOVERNANCE
46. TerniumTernium S.A. is organized as a public limited liability
company (société anonyme) under the laws of the Grand
Duchy of Luxembourg. The Company holds controlling
stakes in steel companies operating in Latin America and
the Southern United States. San Faustin S.A., the holding
company of the Techint Group, an international group of
companies, has a 62% controlling interest in Ternium.
San Faustin also has controlling interests in Tenaris, a
global supplier of steel pipes and related services mainly
for the energy industry which holds an additional 11%
interest in Ternium; Tecpetrol, an oil and gas company;
Techint, an engineering and construction company;
Tenova, a supplier of equipment and technology for iron
mining and steel; and Humanitas, a network of hospitals
in Italy .
The Company has an authorized share capital of a
single class of 3.5 billion shares having a nominal
value of $1.00 per share. The general extraordinary
meeting of shareholders held on May 6, 2015 renewed
the validity of the Company’s authorized share
capital until 2020. As of December 31, 2018, there
were 2,004,743,442 shares issued and outstanding, of
which 41,666,666 are held in the Company’s treasury .
The Company’s ADSs are listed in the New Y ork Stock
Exchange. Each ADS represents ten shares. Holders of
ADSs only have those rights that are expressly granted
to them in the deposit agreement dated January 31,
2006, among the Company , The Bank of New Y ork
Mellon (formerly The Bank of New Y ork), as
depositary , and all owners and beneficial owners from
time to time of ADRs of the Company . ADS holders
may not attend or directly exercise voting rights in
shareholders’ meetings, but may instruct the depositary
how to exercise the voting rights for the shares, which
underlie their ADSs. Holders of ADSs maintaining non-
certificated positions must follow instructions given by
their broker or custodian bank.
Our articles of association provide that our annual
ordinary general shareholders’ meetings shall take place in
Luxembourg, or in a foreign country whenever
circumstances of force majeure take place, within six
months from the end of the previous financial year. 
COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY THROUGH
STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
• Audit committee (three independent 
   directors)
• Internal Audit Department 
   reporting to the Chairman and 
   the Audit Committee
• Business Conduct Compliance 
   Officer reporting to the CEO
•  Compliance department that 
   oversees SOX certifications and 
   related party transactions
• Employee accountability and 
   training to ensure transparent 
   behavior
• Confidential channels to report 
   noncompliant behavior
47. Sustainability Report 2018SELECT CODES POLICIES PROCEDURES
Code of Conduct Transparency Disclosure Procedure (relevant
information)
Business Conduct
Code of Conduct for suppliers Anti-Fraud Transactions Between Related Parties
Securities Trading
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial
OfficersDiversity and Work Environment Free 
of HarassmentConflict Mineral Disclosure
Human Rights
At these meetings, our annual financial statements are
approved and the members of our board of directors
are elected. No attendance quorum is required at annual
ordinary general shareholders’ meetings and resolutions
are adopted by a simple majority vote of the shares
represented at the meeting. There are no limitations
currently imposed by Luxembourg law on the rights of
non-resident shareholders to hold or vote the
Company’s shares.
The Company’s board of directors is currently comprised
of eight directors, of whom three are independent under
the articles of association and SEC regulations applicable
to foreign private issuers. The board of directors has an
audit committee consisting of three independent
members. The charter of the audit committee sets forth,
among other things, the audit committee’s purpose and
responsibilities, which include the responsibility to review
material transactions with related parties to determine
whether their terms are consistent with market conditions
or are otherwise fair to the Company and/or its
subsidiaries. In addition, the audit committee reports to
the board of directors on the adequacy of the systems of
internal control over financial reporting.Ternium has adopted a Code of Conduct
incorporating guidelines and standards of integrity
and transparency that apply to all directors, officers
and employees. In addition, it has adopted a Code of
Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, a T ransparency
Policy governing relationships with third parties, a
Policy on Business Conduct, a Code of Conduct for
Suppliers, an Antifraud Policy , a Policy on Securities
T rading, a Human Rights Policy and a Policy on
Diversity and Work Environment Free of Harassment.
Ternium has an internal audit area that reports to
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and, with
respect to internal control over financial reporting,
to the Audit Committee. The internal audit area
evaluates and reassures the effectiveness of internal
control processes, risk management and governance.
Ternium established and encourages the use of a
web-based anonymous compliance line to report
situations contrary to the Code of Conduct, which
operates according to the procedures designed by the
internal audit area.GOVERNANCE
48. TerniumACKNOWLEDGMENT.  All our white-collar
employees must confirm that they
received and understood our Code of
Conduct (CC) and Policy on Business
Conduct (PBC), a condition for
employment. 
Ternium has a Business Conduct Compliance Officer
reporting to the CEO of the Company , who has
responsibility for identifying and mitigating corruption
risks and fostering a culture of ethical and transparent
conduct, and for designing, implementing and supervising
a Compliance Program aligned with the requirement of
applicable national and international laws against
corruption and bribery . The Business Conduct
Compliance Program is focused on preventive activities
including risk assessment, normative, advising,
communications, training, certifications, third parties,
monitoring and auditing, discipline and remediation, and
benchmarking.
Ternium purchases most of its supplies through Exiros, a
specialized procurement company whose ownership we
share with Tenaris. Ternium’s suppliers undergo a
rigorous process of selection to ensure governance
standards are in place, in line with applicable laws and
regulations and in accordance with our Health and Safety
and Environmental policies and Code of Conduct. Our
Code of Conduct for Suppliers covers ethical behavior,
compliance with law , and health, safety and
environmental stewardship.
49. Sustainability Report 2018BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Chairman Paolo Rocca Chief Executive Officer Máximo Vedoya
Vice-Chairman Daniel Novegil Chief Financial Officer Pablo Brizzio
Directors Ubaldo Aguirre (*)Ternium Mexico César Alejandro Jiménez
Roberto Bonatti President
Carlos Condorelli
Vincent Decalf (*)Ternium Argentina Martín Berardi
Adrián Lajous (*)President
Gianfelice Rocca
Ternium Brasil Marcelo Chara
Secretary Arturo Sporleder President
International Area Héctor Obeso Zunzunegui
President
(*) Independent Directors and Audit Committee Members
Planning and Global Oscar Montero
Business Development
General Director
Engineering, Industrial Pablo Hernán Bassi
Coordination and EHS
Director
Quality and R&D Rubén Herrera
Director
Chief Information Officer Roberto Demidchuck
Human Resources Rodrigo Piña
DirectorBOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
50. TerniumInvestor Relations Director IR Inquiries
Sebastián  Martí TERNIUM Investor Relations
smarti@ternium.com ir@ternium.com
Phone: +54 11 4018 8389
U.S. toll free: 866 890 0443 ADS Depositary Bank
BNY Mellon
Luxembourg Office Proxy services: BNY Mellon Shareowner
29 Avenue de la Porte-Neuve Services
L2227 - Luxembourg P .O. Box 505000
Luxembourg Louisville, KY 40233-5000
Phone: +352 2668 3153
Fax: +352 2659 8349 Toll free number for U.S. calls:
+1 888 269 2377
Stock Information International calls: +1 201 680 6825
New York Stock Exchange (TX)
CUSIP Number: 880890108 shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
www.mybnymdr.com
Internet
www.ternium.comINVESTOR INFORMATION
51. Sustainability Report 2018www.ternium.com