2. Ternium4About Ternium's Reporting
7The Company
14 Chairman's Letter
19 A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
22 Delivering Ternium's Business Strategy
38 Improving Our Safety Performance
46 Minimizing Ternium's Environmental Footprint
56 Realizing People's Full Potential
66 Strengthening of Ternium's Value Chain
70 Helping Our Communities Thrive
79 Commitment to Integrity
89 GRI and UN Global Compact Information
Ternium S.A. (the “Company”) is a Luxembourg company and
its American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, are listed on the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: TX). We refer to Ternium
S.A. and its consolidated  subsidiaries  as “we,” “our”
or “Ternium.”    
    TX
    LISTED
    NYSEThe financial and operational information contained in this
report is based on Ternium’s operational data and on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements, which were
prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations
as issued by the IASB and adopted by the European Union
and presented in U.S. dollars ($) and metric tons.Contents
3. Sustainability Report 2019Ternium's 2019 Sustainability Report
This report intends to be an integral discussion of
Ternium's progress towards achieving its objectives
in a sustainable way. It has been prepared taking
into account the guidelines established by
worldsteel, the UN Global Compact and the Global
Reporting Initiative. 
Ternium's Sources of Corporate Information
Annual Report 
on Form 20-FConsolidated
Management ReportSustainability 
ReportTernium.com
 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines
Ternium's Sustainability Report for the year 2019
follows the GRI standard core option of the reporting
levels.
In order to comply with this standard, Ternium has
assessed its sustainability report in light of the GRI
principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability
Context, Materiality and Completeness. The company has carried out a Materiality Analysis according to the
GRI four-step process. The result of this analysis has
been included on page 90, by means of a materiality
matrix that ranks relevant economic, environmental
and social topics according to their influence on
stakeholders' assessments and decisions, and according
to their significance to Ternium. The GRI standards
that Ternium has selected to fulfill, in accordance with
the reporting requirements of those topics, have been 'About Ternium's Reporting
4. Terniumincluded in the GRI Index on pages 92 to 94 of this
sustainability report. The historical data related to
these standards, as well as other historical data, has
been included on pages 95 to 101 of this sustainability
report.
UN Global Compact Initiative
In 2019, Ternium joined the UN Global Compact
Initiative with a commitment to integrate its principles
into the company's strategy , culture and day-to-day
operations. Ternium has engaged in collaborative
projects to advance the broader development goals of
the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). The company's
contribution to the UN Global Compact SDGs is
reported throughout the document and has been
indexed on page 102 of this sustainability report.
New Ternium.com
In September 2019, Ternium launched a new corporate
website with a new approach to interact with its
stakeholders. The company has established different
goals for this project:
Firstly , to increase the importance of the website as a
go-to resource for current and potential customers,
encouraging them to engage with Ternium’s wide range
of products and solutions. As a company that operates
in various countries, Ternium.com aims to link
customers to its local commercial contacts while
keeping a seamless brand vision, through new relevant
and localized content supported by cutting-edge easy-
to-use navigation tools.
 
Secondly , to improve the navigation experience of the
investor relations section with the addition of new
trends in design and functionality . The new features
facilitate access to corporate messages and reports, and
the new resources enhance interactions with the
company .
Thirdly , as a leading steel manufacturer, Ternium.com
has been conceived as a relevant means of
communication to raise awareness on the role that steel
plays today and will play in the future, as we build an
increasingly sustainable society .Forward looking Statements
This sustainability report contains “forward-looking
statements”, including with respect to certain of our
plans and current goals and expectations relating to
Ternium’s future financial condition and performance,
which are provided to allow potential investors the
opportunity to understand management’s beliefs and
opinions in respect of the future so that they may use
such beliefs and opinions as one factor in evaluating an
investment in Ternium’s securities. All forward-looking
statements are based on management’s present
expectations of future events and are subject to a
number of factors and uncertainties that may cause
actual results, performance or events to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by those
statements. By their nature, certain disclosures relating
to these expectations are only estimates and could be
materially different from what actually occurs in the
future. As a result, actual future gains or losses that
may affect Ternium’s financial condition and results of
operations could differ materially from those that have
been estimated. Y ou should not place undue reliance on
the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of
the date of this sustainability report. Except as required
by law , we are not under any obligation, and expressly
disclaim any obligation, to update or alter any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of changes of
circumstances or management’s estimates or opinions,
new information, future events or otherwise.
Risk factors
For a detailed description of Ternium’s main risk
factors, please see the section "Risk Factors" included
in the Company's annual report on form 20-F for the
year ended December 31, 2019.
These risks include but are not limited to risks relating
to the steel industry and mining activities, risks relating
to countries in which Ternium operates, risks relating
to our business, including uncertainties as to gross
domestic product, related market demand, global
production capacity , tariffs, cyclicality in the industries
that purchase steel products, risks relating to the
Company’s structure and regulatory risks, as well as
other factors beyond Ternium’s control.
5. Sustainability Report 20196. TerniumTernium is Latin America’s leading flat
steel producer. We operate manufacturing
facilities, service centers and distribution
centers in several countries in the region
and the southern United States, serving
customers from various industries. 
$10.2BILLION
ANNUAL NET SALES
OF STEEL AND 
OTHER PRODUCTS.12.5MILLION TONS
OF FINISHED AND 
SEMI-FINISHED
STEEL SHIPMENTS.20,000EMPLOYEES
OF 27 NATIONALITIES.The Company
7. Sustainability Report 2019worldsteel Sustainable Champion.  In 2019, Ternium was honored with this recognition for the second consecutive year for its contribution to sustainability initiatives and
reporting.
Profile
Ternium is Latin America’s leading flat steel producer
with an annual crude steel production capacity of 12.4
million tons. It operates in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina,
Colombia, the southern United States and Central
America through regional manufacturing facilities, service
centers and its own distribution network. In addition,
Ternium participates in the control group of Usiminas, a
leading flat steel company in the Brazilian market. 
The company's customers range from small businesses to
large global companies in the automotive, home
appliances, heat, ventilation and air conditioning
(HV AC), construction, capital goods, container, food and
energy industries across the Americas. Ternium’s
industrial system has various production technologies that
provide a diversified cost structure, based on different
types of raw material and energy sources, and a flexible
production configuration. The industrial system includes
proprietary iron ore mines and processing facilities,
steelmaking facilities, finishing facilities, service centers
and a broad distribution network to offer slabs, billets,
hot-rolled products, cold-rolled products, galvanized and
electro-galvanized sheets, pre-painted sheets, tinplate,
welded pipes, rebars and wire rods as well as slit and cut-
to-length products.Ternium's innovative culture, industrial expertise and
long-term view enable the company to continuously
achieve new breakthroughs in industrial excellence,
competitiveness and customer service. Ternium is the
leading supplier of flat steel products in Mexico and
Argentina, has a significant position as supplier of steel
products in Colombia and in other Latin American
coumtries, and is a competitive player in the international
steel market for steel products.
Through its network of commercial offices in several
countries in Latin America, the United States and
Europe, Ternium maintains an international presence
that allows it to reach customers outside its local
markets, achieves improved effectiveness in the supply
of products and in the procurement of semi-finished
steel, and maintains a fluent commercial relationship
with its customers by providing continuous services and
assistance.
We operate with a broad and long-term perspective, and
we work towards improving the quality of life of our
employees, their families and the company's local
communities.The Company
8. Ternium   A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
• Quest for excellence in industrial management and technology
• Focus on differentiation through sophisticated products 
   and services
• Proactive approach to environment, health and safety 
• Recruitment, training, and retention of talent 
• Fostering of steel value chain 
• Deep ties with our communities 
• Commitment to integrity
Environment, Health and Safety
We devote significant resources to environment, and
occupational health and safety (EHS), as we believe they
are key to our long-term sustainability . We have
standardized EHS management systems. Our employees
are well trained in EHS and our management is
accountable for EHS performance. Ternium's
occupational health and safety system is certified under
OHSAS 18001, and its environment and energy system is
certified under ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. The company
regularly invests in state-of-the-art technologies to reduce
its environmental footprint and minimize safety risks.
Integrity
We believe integrity is key to Ternium's long term
sustainability . The Company’s Board has an Audit
Committee solely composed of independent directors and
an Internal Audit Department, which reports to the
Chairman of the Board and, with respect to internal
control over financial reporting, to the Audit Committee
and meets organizational independence and objectivity
standards. Ternium has a Business Conduct Compliance
Officer reporting to the CEO and a compliance
department that oversees SOX certifications and related
party transactions. The company's employees are trained
and accountable for ensuring a transparent behavior.
Ternium has established different policies, codes and
procedures for this purpose. In addition, it hasconfidential channels to report all types of alleged
breaches of the Code of Conduct and its principles. 
Communities
We believe that having deep ties with Ternium's
communities is also fundamental to the company's long-
term sustainability . We are having a significant positive
impact on Ternium's communities, both from a human
perspective as well as in terms of economic
development. We work together with local institutions
to enhance the communities' education and welfare. We
provide scholarships, internships, teachers' training and
infrastructure funding. We also organize and fund
volunteering programs and health prevention
campaigns, and sponsor sports, social and arts events.
Steel Industry Value Chain 
We support approximately 1,800 small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs), customers and suppliers through our
ProPymes  program to strengthen the steel value chain in
our markets. ProPymes  provides training, industrial and
business consultancy , institutional assistance, commercial
support and financial aid. The program plays an active
role at universities, business schools, government agencies
and industrial associations. ProPymes  has helped create
an industrial network that encourages the
professionalization and quest for excellence of SMEs.
9. Sustainability Report 201910. TerniumTernium's manufacturing facilities, service centers and
distribution centers are located in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina,
Colombia, the southern United States, Guatemala and other
Central American countries. The company's mining operations
are located in Mexico.
01.
02.03.
04.
05.
06.
07.08.
09.
10.
11.
12.13.14.
15.
16.17.18.19.
20.
21.Shrevepor t
Monc lova
Baja Ca lifornia
Chihua hua
Culiacán
Guerr ero*
Pesquería
Universidad
Churub usco*
Apodaca Juventud*
Edificios Metá licos
Apodaca Industria l
Apodaca Comer cial
Norte
San Luis
Guada lajar a
Las EncimasPeña Color ada
León
México22.
23.24.
25.
26.
27.
28.29.
30.
31.
32.
33.34.35.
36.
37.38.39.40.
41.
42.Puebla
Veracruz
Tuxtla
Villahermosa
Mérida
Petén
Teculután
CobánHuehuetenango
Villa Nue va*
Quetza ltenango
Occidente
Norte
Juitapa
San Sa lvador
Mana gua
San J osé
Barr anquilla
Montería
Mede llín43.
44.45.
46.
47.
48.
49.50.
51.
52.
53.
54.55.Bucar amang a
Bogotá
Maniza les
Cali
Río de J aneir o
Rosario
San Nicolás
Serviacer o III
Sider crom
Haedo*Canning*
Florencio V arela*
Ensenada
(*) Inc ludes service or distrib ution centers
   FACILITIES
•  Steel production and pr ocessing
• Service or distrib ution centers
• Iron or e mining and pr ocessing
11. Sustainability Report 2019ItagüíSophisticated steel products and services. The Mexican automotive sector is the largest in Latin America and the seventh largest worldwide.
TERNIUM'S STEEL MARKETS
Ternium's customers range from small businesses to
large global companies in the construction and
industrial sectors. We report steel shipments under
three geographical regions: Mexico, the Southern
Region and Other Markets. 
Mexico
The Mexican steel market is the largest in Latin
America. The industrial sector, which in 2019
accounted for 53% of Ternium’s total shipments in the
country , is the main driver behind an attractive high-
end steel market segment.
Ternium's largest industrial customer in Mexico is
the automotive industry . With 3.8 million vehicles
produced in 2019, the local industrial hub is the
largest in Latin America and ranks seventh in the
world behind China, the US, Japan, Germany , India
and South Korea.
The Mexican manufacturing industry is a fundamental
part of a complex supply chain within the USMCA,
and is prepared to supply highly sophisticated products
for demanding end-user markets. In addition to the automotive industry , the Mexican home appliance,
HV AC and lighting manufacturers have also reached a
high level of sophistication, requiring innovative and
high-end steel products.
Southern Region
The Southern Region encompasses the steel markets of
Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay . The
Argentine steel market, the third largest in Latin
America, accounts for most of Ternium's shipments in
this region.
Ternium's industrial customer base in Argentina
represented approximately 47% of Ternium’s total
shipments in the country in 2019. The Argentine
automotive industry , the third largest in Latin America,
is part of the value chain within the Mercosur, a
customs union encompassing Argentina, Brazil,
Uruguay and Paraguay that has eliminated or
significantly reduced import duties, tariffs and other
trade barriers among member states.
Other relevant industrial sectors in Argentina include
the agro machinery , cans and home appliance
manufactures, and the oil & gas sector.The Company
12. TerniumHigh-end steel.  An attractive market segment.
Other Markets
Ternium’s finished steel customers in the Other
Markets segment are mainly in the construction and
energy-related industries in Colombia, the United
States and Central America. Following the acquisition
of Ternium Brasil in September 2017, Ternium started
shipping steel slabs to third party steel companies
mainly in the United States and Brazil.
A small share of Ternium’s shipments is destined for
steel markets outside the Americas. Sales to Europe,
Asia and Africa are carried out mainly through
Ternium’s commercial office in Spain.TERNIUM'S STEEL SHIPMENTS BY COUNTRY
2019
Mexico:50%U.S.(14%slab):18%Brazil(slab):11%
Colombia:4%
Other:3%
Argentina:14%
ATTRACTIVE HIGH-END STEEL 
MARKET SEGMENTS
53%PARTICIPATION
OF SHIPMENTS TO INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS
IN MEXICO.
47%PARTICIPATION
OF SHIPMENTS TO INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS
IN ARGENTINA.
67MILLION TONS
OF STEEL CONSUMED IN LATIN AMERICA IN 2019,
MAINLY IN MEXICO, BRAZIL, ARGENTINA AND COLOMBIA.
13. Sustainability Report 201914. TerniumOver the past months, the global economy has been deeply affected by the COVID-19
pandemic. The measures taken around the world to contain the spread of the virus have
resulted in a global crisis, whose speed and severity is unprecedented in recent history . Though,
in many parts of the world, businesses are reopening, people are gradually returning to work,
and developed country governments have implemented massive economic stimulus programs,
the pandemic continues to spread and the recovery from the crisis will take time and hasten
change in many fields.
Latin America is particularly affected, as its economies were already under stress and the
number of affected persons continues to rise. We took prompt action to adjust the company
for the crisis and a high level of ongoing uncertainty . 
T o protect our people and assure a safe working environment, we introduced new work
protocols including mandatory use of face masks, temperature checks, strict social distancing
rules and disinfection policies for company transportation, site entry and common working
areas as well as applying work-from-home policies and testing every person showing
compatible symptoms and their close contacts.
T o secure the financial stability of the company , we are making full use of the opportunities we
have for industrial integration to optimize production and overhead costs, reducing inventories
and working capital and quickly adjusting our operations to the reduction in sales. We are
delaying some of our investment projects, pushing out the startups of our new hot rolling mill
in Pesqueria, Mexico, and our new rebar mill in Colombia, and thereby reducing our capital
expenditure commitments for this year to $600 million from the $850 we had originally
planned. We also elected to suspend our annual dividend payment for the 2019 fiscal year. 
T o support our communities, we established and deployed a $5.5 million fund to strengthen
local medical response capabilities, using our global procurement network to provide
ventilators, intensive care equipment and protective gear as well as constructing and operating
a field hospital with 100 beds for the community of Monterrey in Mexico and providing
infrastructure and equipment for intensive care units to other hospitals in Ensenada in
Argentina and in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. Our employees have responded with solidarity and
purpose in joining these initiatives.
At a time like this, the support we provide to our smaller customers and suppliers through the
ProPymes program is particularly relevant and we are reinforcing the financial help we provide
to members of the program with $8.0 million applied among 125 companies, together with
assistance in raising financing from local financial institutions. Our training programs have
been reinforced with more webinars and online workshops reaching over 1,200 persons.
Equally , as the gradual recovery advances, our Webservice digital integration portal, which is
used by our commercial customers to place 80% of their orders, will facilitate safe working
practices.
As we reflect on our achievements during the past year, this crisis is a reminder of the
importance of a long-term management focus that addresses all aspects of the company’s
performance and its relations with customers, suppliers, employees and the communities that
sustain us. T o better report on the actions we carry out on this respect, this year we completelyChairman’s Letter
15. Sustainability Report 2019redesigned our Sustainability Report and strengthened it by using the guidelines established by
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), including consultations with our stakeholders to
determine material topics to cover.
Our operational and financial results in 2019, though down from the outstanding results of the
previous year, were solid, with an EBITDA of $1.5 billion on sales of $10.2 billion. Even after
investments of $1.1 billion in our expansion program, our free cash flow amounted to $595
million and we ended the year with net debt of $1.5 billion, which has declined further in the
year to date. 
We continue to consolidate our position as a leading Latin American steel producer with a
strong focus on serving the industrial and construction sectors. In Mexico, we started up new
galvanizing and painting lines expanding our product range for industrial markets, which
account for over 50% of our sales in the country . With the recent enactment of the new
USMCA agreement confirming a free trade area across North America, the Mexican
automotive and industrial sector is well positioned for a post-pandemic recovery . Although we
have delayed the planned start-up of our new hot rolling mill in Pesquería until 2021, this new
mill will strengthen our competitiveness through further broadening our range of high-end
industrial products and allowing further integration of our industrial system by using high
quality steel slabs from our mill in Brazil. In times when regional supply chains are being
strengthened, the new line will also reinforce our import substitution strategy .
At the center of the growing community in Pesquería, Mexico, lies the Roberto Rocca
Technical School. Last year, the first cohort of students graduated following three years of
study focused on technical education, including industrial apprenticeships. During the annual
worldsteel assembly held in Monterrey in October 2019, Ternium received the Steelie Award
for “Excellence in Education and T raining” based on the achievements of the school and its
pupils. Aside from our response to the pandemic, education at all levels remains the focus of
our community programs, not only in terms of money spent but also in terms of the design
and organization of programs that can contribute to improving the level of education,
particularly technical education, and open educational opportunities at all levels in the
communities where we operate.
Last year marked the 50th anniversary of the origins of the company in the inauguration of a
cold rolling mill at Ensenada in Argentina. The construction and start-up of this greenfield
plant, carried out by a highly motivated team of young professionals, has shaped the culture
and management ethos of the company to this day . Providing a stimulating working
environment and effective opportunities for employee training, education and development is a
constant focus in our management efforts and critical to maintaining high levels of employee
motivation. In August 2019, we inaugurated an in-house corporate university with
responsibility for organizing knowledge and training across the company and developing a
curriculum with participation from outside universities that provide employees the tools for
their own education and development. In 2019, Ternium’s employees had an average of 62
hours of training and 662 employees participated in management development programs. In
our most recent pulse survey on employee satisfaction, with an 87% participation rate, 83% of
the respondents expressed their satisfaction with Ternium as a place to work.Chairman's Letter
16. TerniumSafety and minimizing the environmental impact of our operations are paramount in our
management focus and routines. In total, we invested $120 million during 2019 in projects
aimed at improving our environmental, energy and safety performance by modernizing our
facilities. Major investments include those aimed at reducing particulate emissions at our steel
shops, significantly improving air quality and working conditions, and reducing water
consumption rates in our facilities in Mexico which are located in a region of high water stress.
We also advanced with the certification of our energy intensive operations under the new ISO
50001 standard. Now most of our steelmaking, hot rolling and finishing facilities in Brazil,
Argentina and Mexico are either certified or under certification.
During the year, we revised our health and safety strategy , developing specific practices to
prevent situations where our employees or contractors are exposed to severe injury , and
establishing safety committees to strengthen the consultation and participation of workers and
their representatives on health and safety issues. 
We are active participants in worldsteel’s climate action initiatives, joining the recent Step Up
Program to reduce carbon emissions through benchmarking, and have committed ourselves to
the UN Global Compact and to advance its Sustainable Development Goals. In the past five
years, we have implemented a number of energy savings initiatives which have yielded an
annual reduction of 298,000 tons of carbon emissions. We are also working with industrial
gases companies serving the soft drink bottling industry to recycle carbon emissions captured
in our production system which should yield further annual savings of 60,000 tons. The
challenge of reducing emissions to meet the Paris Agreement commitments is, however, of a
different order of magnitude and will require a coordinated response from our industry
alongside governments, customers and suppliers. Our ambition is to be at the forefront of our
industry’s response to this challenge.
As we prepare for the future, we are confident that the company is well positioned to continue
a path of sustainable growth as a leading supplier of steel products to the industrial sector in
the Americas. Our ongoing investment program, the transformation of our industrial system
using Industry 4.0 technologies, and the long-term focus developed since the origins of the
company 50 years ago will enhance our competitive position and the sustainability of our
operations over the coming years.  
During these difficult times, I would like to give special thanks to our employees, who are
showing exemplary solidarity and resilience. I would also like to thanks our customers,
suppliers and investors for their ongoing support.
July 20, 2020
Paolo Rocca
Chairman  
17. Sustainability Report 201918. TerniumTernium's value proposition aims to 
achieve profitable operations on a
sustainable basis, through a management
approach that comprehends the interests of
shareholders, employees, customers and
suppliers, as well as of the community. 
$10.3BILLION
ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED IN 2019
$827MILLION
EMPLOYEES$1.1BILLION
CAPEX$357MILLION
TAXES
$7.7BILLION
SUPPLIERS$352MILLION
CAPITAL PROVIDERS
$10MILLION
RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT$7MILLION
COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTSA Comprehensive Approach 
to Value Creation
19. Sustainability Report 2019Value Drivers
A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
20. TerniumDelivering Ternium's Business 
Strategy
• Focus on higher margin value-added    
   products.
• Pursue strategic growth opportunities.
• Implement Ternium's best practices.
• Maximize the benefits arising from
Ternium's distribution network.
• Enhance Ternium's position as a
competitive steel producer. 
  SEE PAGE 22
Improving Our
Safety Performance
• Prevent all work-related injuries and
illnesses, and achieve zero accidents
• Promote healthy and safe operations in
the steel industry value chain.
  SEE PAGE 38
Minimizing Ternium's Environmental 
Footprint
• Use natural resources responsibly .
• Pursue excellence in environmental
performance.
• Protect biodiversity .
  SEE PAGE 46Realizing People's
Full Potential
• Attract and retain talented
  employees.
• Promote a culture of excellence
throughout the company .
  SEE PAGE 56
Strengthening 
Ternium's Value Chain
• Promote a collaborative network
  to foster performance excellence.
• Help small and medium-sized
  customers and suppliers grow .
  SEE PAGE 66
Helping Our
Communities Thrive
• Foster education.
• Support initiatives that
  strengthen our communities. 
  SEE PAGE 70
21. Sustainability Report 2019Delivering Ternium's 
Business Strategy
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
 
  
4.4MILLION TON
ANNUAL CAPACITY OF NEW HOT-ROLLING MILL IN MEXICO,
WITH EXPECTED START UP IN 2021.
Elements of strategy Actions
Focus on high-margin value-added products New laboratory , project launch for new research center
Research and development of products and processes
Pursue strategic growth opportunities New galvanizing and painting lines (start-up in 2019)
Progress in the construction of the new hot-rolling mill
Progress in the construction of the new steel bar & coil mill
Implement Ternium's best practicesIntegration and optimization on newly-acquired Rio de
Janeiro unit
Maximize the benefits arising from Ternium's distribution network Full range of products and services
On-line purchasing platform (Webservice)
Just-in-time and short notice supply agreements
Enhance Ternium's position as a competitive steel producer Continuous improvement program
Industry 4.0 initiativesA Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
22. TerniumImplementation of best practices.  Ternium’s managerial, commercial and production experience generates benefits and savings in acquired new businesses.
Ternium's Business Strategy
Ternium's main strategic objective is to enhance
stakeholder value by further consolidating the
company’s position as a leading steel producer in Latin
America and a strong player in the Americas, while
strengthening its competitiveness. The main elements of
this strategy are:
FOCUS ON HIGHER MARGIN VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS
We intend to continue to shift Ternium’s sales mix
toward higher margin value-added products, such as
cold-rolled sheets and coated and tailor-made products,
and services, such as just-in-time delivery and inventory
management. For example, during 2019 Ternium
inaugurated a new hot-dip galvanizing line and a new
painting line, and made progress on the construction of
a new state-of-the-art hot-rolling mill at its facility in
Pesquería, Mexico.
PURSUE STRATEGIC GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
We have a history of strategically growing our
businesses through acquisitions and joint ventures. In
addition to pursuing organic growth, we intend to
continue to identify and actively pursue growth-
enhancing strategic opportunities to consolidate
Ternium’s presence in its main markets and expand it
to the rest of the Americas, increase its integration, Delivering Ternium's 
Business Strategy 
• New state-of-the-art hot-
dipped galvanizing and
painting lines in Mexico. 
• New cutting-edge hot-rolling
mill in Mexico (2021). 
• Integration of the Rio de
Janeiro high-end steel mill. 
• Strengthened product research
and development capabilities. 
• Digital transformation agenda. 
• Continuous improvement plan. 
• Solid financial performance.
23. Sustainability Report 2019TOTAL CRUDE1 AND HOT-ROLLED2 STEEL PRODUCTION CAPACITY
MILLION TONS PER YEAR.
20.0
16.0
12.0
8.0
4.0
0.0
2016 2019 2021f7.312.4 12.4
10.310.815.7
n 1 Crude steel:  flat steel slabs and long steel billets
n 2 Hot-rolled steel: flat steel coils and long steel rods
expand its offerings of value-added products, and
enhance its production and distribution capabilities.
IMPLEMENT TERNIUM’S BEST PRACTICES
We believe that the implementation of Ternium’s
managerial, commercial and production best practices
in acquired and new facilities and businesses should
generate benefits and savings.
MAXIMIZE THE BENEFITS ARISING FROM TERNIUM’S BROAD DISTRIBUTION
NETWORK
We intend to maximize the benefits from Ternium’s
broad distribution, sales and marketing network to
reach customers in major steel markets with a
comprehensive range of value-added products and
services and to continue to expand its customer
base and improve the value of its product mix.
ENHANCE TERNIUM’S POSITION AS A COMPETITIVE STEEL PRODUCER
We are focused on improving utilization levels of our
plants, increasing efficiency and further reducing
production costs from levels that we already consider to
be among the most competitive in the steel industry
through, among other measures, capital investments
and further integration of our facilities. In addition, we
aim at obtaining better purchase conditions and prices 68%SLAB
CAPACITY INCREASE
ON 2017 ACQUISITION.
47%HOT-ROLLED COILS
CAPACITY EXPANSION
IN 2021.
by combining the demand of products and services by
both Ternium and our affiliate Tenaris. We pursue this
goal through Exiros, a purchase and sale agency which
we own 50/50 with Tenaris. Exiros has offices in various
countries and is in charge of the procurement of a
majority of our raw materials and other products and
services.
A Significant Expansion of Ternium’s Industrial Capabilities
In September 2017, the company acquired a state-of-
the-art slab facility in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, with an
annual production capacity of 5 million tons of high-
end steel slabs, a deep-water harbor and a 490 MW
combined cycle power plant. 
With the addition of this mill, total crude steel
production capacity of Ternium's industrial system
increased 5.0 million tons to 12.4 million tons.
The Rio de Janeiro unit has provided Ternium with
new business opportunities, particularly in Mexico.
Following its acquisition, the company started the
construction of new hot-rolling, hot-dipped galvanizing
and painting lines in its Pesquería Industrial Center,
Mexico, and strengthened its product research and A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
24. TerniumSteel production and processing.  A relentless quest for excellence in operating
performance.
development capabilities. In addition, Ternium started the
construction of a greenfield reinforcing bars facility in
Palmar de Varela, Colombia.
The results of this transformation process started in 2018
with the inauguration of a new laboratory in Pesquería,
which increased Ternium's product research capabilities
for high-end industrial requirements. During 2019, the
company started-up its new hot-dip galvanizing and
painting lines in Pesquería, adding 350,000 and 120,000
tons of annual production capacity to Ternium's
industrial system, respectively . These new facilities
incorporated the most advanced painting technology to
the Mexican steel industry , providing high-end value-
added products for the HV AC and automotive industries. 
Ternium's new hot-rolling mill in Mexico will have an
annual production capacity of 4.4 million tons, with an
option to increase capacity in the future by an additional
300,000 tons. With the addition of this new mill,
Ternium's industrial system will increase total flat steel
hot-rolling production capacity by 47% to 13.8 million
tons. In addition, expected synergies between Ternium's
new hot-rolling mill and its cold-rolling mill in Pesquería
will result in an annual production capacity increase ofCONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM 
TO MAXIMIZE EFFICIENCY
44PRODUCTION LINES
ACHIEVED NEW RECORD
OUTPUT IN 2019.
68TEAMS
WORKING TO MAXIMIZE EFFICIENCY, MINIMIZE
COSTS AND IMPROVE ENVIRONMENTAL,
SAFETY AND QUALITY PERFORMANCE.
300,000-tons of cold-rolled coils. Ternium's state-of-the-
art hot-rolling mill in Pesquería will represent a significant
technological leap forward in the country's steel
production capacity . The company’s product range will
encompass a broader dimensional offering with the most
advanced steel grades. In addition, customer service will
be enhanced and the value chain lead-times reduced.
This, combined with the company's service center and
distribution capabilities in the country , will enable
Ternium to expand its footprint in Mexico with cutting-
edge new products and substitute high-value-added steel
imports targeting the demanding and innovative
automotive industry , as well as the home appliance,
machinery , energy and construction sectors. The new hot-
rolling mill will source high-end slabs from our facility in
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and from third parties.
Ternium's new reinforcing bar facility will enable the
expansion of its market share in Colombia's construction
sector by substituting imports. In addition, the company's
new facility will enable the upstream integration of its
operations by replacing current purchases of reinforcing
bars from third parties.
25. Sustainability Report 20192019 Award in "Innovation". Granted by the
Nuevo Leon Automotive Industry Cluster in
Mexico for the design of a new heavy-duty trailer
model. Ternium and one of its customers
developed the new model, which enables a more
efficient transportation of extra-heavy steel coils.
RESCHEDULED INVESTMENT PLAN FOLLOWING COVID-19 OUTBREAK
In order to mitigate the impact of expected lower sales
resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic induced
recession, Ternium has recently reduced its planned
capital expenditures for the year 2020 by an estimated
$250 million, to $600 million. Consequently , the
inauguration of Ternium's new hot-rolling mill in the
Pesquería Industrial Center has been postponed from 2020
to 2021, and the commissioning of the new reinforced bar
facility in Palmar de Varela has been postponed from
March 2020 until the second half of 2020. The final
reduction in Ternium's capital expenditures in 2020 will
depend on the pace of recovery of economic activity and
steel market demand.
Strengthened Product Research and Development Capabilities
Steel is a highly versatile metal, offering a wide space
for product innovation. For example, over 70% of the
structural steel parts used to build a car today involve
solutions that did not exist 20 years ago. 
The properties of the steel products required by Ternium's
customers are usually the result of a combination of their
metal composition and the way metal gets processed into
finished steel products.  Ternium’s business strategy 
is based on offering a complete range of value-added, high-end products, with an emphasis on creating and
manufacturing increasingly sophisticated steel products
for new applications and industries. 
A COLLABORATIVE APPROACH TO PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOMENT
At Ternium, we carry out applied research efforts in
different ways. We develop steel products through in-
house programs, joint projects with leading industrial
customers, joint efforts with recognized universities
or research centers, and through our participation in
international consortia.
Ternium has identified synergies in collaborating with its
customers in the early stages of their projects.
Anticipating our customers' upcoming steel product
requirements through our participation in joint
development projects is key not only to build customer
relationships but also to plan and develop new processes,
which may sometimes require the addition of new
equipment and technology .
Ternium’s research programs are open to a broad-based
international network of industry consortia. Over 50
universities and research laboratories from both the
public and private sectors collaborate with Ternium.
The goal is to find and develop the best solutions to A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
26. TerniumAUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CERTIFICATIONS
NUMBER OF CERTIFICATIONS APPROVED
500
400
300
200
100
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019286363397413432
support an agenda aimed at achieving better and more
sustainable steel. Research spans the entire production
cycle, from primary steel making and metallurgy , to
rolling and galvanizing.
Ternium is a member of WorldAutoSteel, an organization
comprising some of the world’s major steel producers.
Under the auspices of worldsteel, the group regularly
updates the automotive industry on upcoming new steel
capabilities available to meet their design and
manufacturing requirements.
The company is engaged in over 120 ongoing product
development projects in partnership with industrial
customers, and over 50 ongoing research projects
including in-house developments and others involving
university researchers and students from some of the
world’s most prestigious institutions. We have been
increasingly engaging universities in our research efforts in
order to expand and further diversify Ternium’s research
network and capabilities. This initiative fosters the
development of fundamental knowledge and know-how at
participating universities while enabling the optimization
of Ternium’s in-house research resources. In 2019,
approximately thirty undergraduate and postgraduate
students pursuing degrees in engineering, materials
science and metallurgy took part in the program.INVESTMENT IN PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
$ MILLION
12.5
10.0
7.5
5.0
2.5
0.0
2015 2016 2017 2018 20196.29.29.8
8.910.0
INVESTING IN NEW EQUIPMENT AND TECHNOLOGIES FOR HIGH-END STEEL
The inauguration of the Ternium Industrial Center in
Pesquería, Mexico, in 2013, gave way to an intensive
product development period. We broadened our product
range offering to include sophisticated high-end steel
products required by the manufacturing industry ,
particularly automotive manufacturers. These
developments were made possible with the addition of
new production technologies to our industrial system at
the Pesquería unit, such as cold-rolled steel and galvanized
products that provide corrosion resistance to external
vehicle parts. 
Furthermore, the installation in 2015 of state-of-the-
art cooling technology in the hot strip mill of our
Churubusco unit in Mexico, has allowed developing
and processing new advanced high-strength steel
grades, including dual phase, ferrite-bainite,
martensitic and complex phase grades. Based on these
new capabilities, we have further widened our high-
end product portfolio for customers in the
automotive, metalmechanic, home appliance, oil &
gas and electric motors industries.
Advancing Ternium's Digital Transformation
Since Ternium's origins in 1969 with the inauguration of
the Ensenada manufacturing unit in Argentina, the
27. Sustainability Report 2019"Steel to Make", a media campaign in
Argentina aimed at consolidating a seamless
brand recognition to support Ternium's
regional leadership. The campaign
highlighted the use of steel in everyday
life and its importance for our future. 
company has acquired various steelmaking and steel 
processing facilities in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina,
Colombia, the United States and Central America, that
resulted in a myriad of legacy industrial information
technology (IT) systems. Ternium's business model
required a unified industrial system able to offer an ample
range of products and services to its customer base. The
implementation of this unified model implied a significant
effort of digital transformation. For example, after the
acquisition of Hylsamex in 2005 and Grupo Imsa in 2007,
there were 28 different information technology systems
that had to be consolidated into a single one. 
With that target in mind, by 2009 we were able to bring
Ternium on-line in real time with a single, unified
information technology system, spanning all of its
facilities. Once this process was completed, the company
extended its digital tools to its customers and suppliers,
enabling the integration of its processes with theirs.
This integration was implemented through the
development of a digital marketplace called "WebService".
Nowadays, approximately 80% of Ternium’s commercial
orders are placed through this tool, enabling an efficient
business to business interaction. 
CERTIFICATION OF TERNIUM'S INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS
In May 2017, after a two-year preparation process,
Ternium certified its information technology system
under the ISO 20000 standard. This standard describes
the best practices in the management of an organization's
IT processes and services.
This certification process has helped the company to
optimize costs, resources and processes, enhance customer
satisfaction, strengthen the performance assessment of its
IT system, increase compliance with multiple regulations,
and increase overall business competitiveness.
SMART FACTORY
Ternium is making progress in the construction of a
SMAR T factory , the acronym for Social, Mobile,
Analytics, Robotics and (internet of) Things. This
concept, supported by the company’s unified information
technology platform, ensures a constant stream of
knowledge and information (data and events) that will
lead its facilities to a more productive and efficient
evolutionary stage.
Users achieve a more efficient performance by interacting
from any location (offices, facilities or elsewhere) through
different kinds of devices. A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
28. Ternium2,100 cameras to oversee a safe operating environment.  The assessment of
worker distance from suspended loads is one of the functionalities comprising an
early alarm system.
Employees working in Ternium's industrial, commercial
and maintenance areas are equipped with mobile devices
that enable them to perform all their tasks from any
location with a remarkable increase in productivity . 
Analytics and data correlation detect patterns for various
applications to increase safety and efficiency , and to
reduce costs. Through video-feed analysis (machine
learning), new applications include real-time detection
and reporting of unsafe situations or behavior within the
facilities to prevent accidents and, using drone technology ,
the identification of potential damages in either tall
structures or confined spaces, whether internal or
external, as well as the assessment of bulk material
stockpiles. Drones substitute human inspection at height
and minimize the risks inherent to this type of tasks. In
2019, the system autonomously issued 440 maintenance
tickets, removing human inspection at 55 roofs.
We installed 2,100 cameras for tracking operations in our
Mexican, Argentine and Brazilian facilities, enabling the
implementation of an early alarm system.
Through video analytics, 500 of those cameras are able to
assess distances from suspended loads, moving vehicles
and entrapment 
Implementation of mobile monitoring capabilities.  Efficient, real-time analysis of
equipment parameters during maintenance inspections.
areas, verify the observance of marked pathways and
social distancing, and monitor the use of safety helmets,
vests and face masks. Deviations from protocols are
automatically reported to the relevant manager with the
ultimate purpose of preventing accidents based on early
detection.
In addition, radio frequency identification (RFID)
technology enables the automated handling of steel
products in the yards, speeding up logistics and increasing
safety . Ternium’s RFID project is intended to identify and
track each coil from the moment it reaches the yards until
shipment, facilitating inspections procedures, improving
inspectors' safety and reducing operations lead times. The
tracking system has already been implemented in 27
stockpile yards in Mexico and Argentina.
In the maintenance area, analytics and data correlation
technology has proved its potential with the prediction of
failures two to three weeks in advance. During 2019, we
applied this technology to the continuous casters at the
company's Mexican and Argentine facilities.
We plan to apply this technology in the company's most
critical production lines to shield strategic equipment and
significantly reduce non-operational interruptions and, 
29. Sustainability Report 2019Inspection at height. During 2019, the system autonomously issued 440 maintenance tickets, removing human inspection at 55 roofs.
therefore, the impact on the production process. In order
to support Ternium's analytics needs across all business
functions, we have implemented a single technological
platform, known as Data Lake, that meets all our big data
and analytics requirements.
Other projects aimed at improving safety and productivity
are the use of virtual reality software for training
purposes, the use of augmented reality for experts
providing remote assistance to operators, 3D printing and
the use of 3D scanning for several applications. We have
also developed virtual reality software to train employees
on risk perception. This software simulates risky
situations in 3D, depicting potential sequences that could
end up in fatal accidents. 
In addition, we have successfully finished the proof-
of-concept stage for replacing on-site crane training
exercises  with virtual reality training facilities,
simulating the cabins of the three types of cranes used
by Ternium: magnetic crane, hook crane and dump.
We have also developed a virtual reality software to
train our personnel on specific operating procedures
performed in the secondary metallurgy area of our
steel shop in Argentina. In Mexico, we are developingprojects to train employees in water leakage protocols
and in productivity enhancement using digital twin
technology . This technology generates a digital replica
of physical assets, processes, people, sites, systems
and devices that can be used for various purposes.
Ternium has seven administrative robots in operation,
running automated processes and tasks in the areas of
accounts payable, accounts receivable, sales back office
and industrial engineering administration. We are
advancing projects to gain productivity in accounts
payable tasks in Mexico and Argentina, where more
than 50% of all suppliers' invoices are expected to be
loaded in our systems using robots.
CONCERTED RESEARCH EFFORTS IN THE QUEST FOR INNOVATIVE IT SOLUTIONS  
Through cooperation agreements with two universities,
Ternium has engaged 110 students in twenty Industry
4.0 projects. The objective of this new initiative is to
develop innovative IT solutions aimed at improving the
company's operations in the areas of health & safety ,
maintenance, automation, management, commercial,
quality and raw materials.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
30. TerniumVirtual reality training. During 2019, the company
incorporated new VR training modules for the
operation of cranes as well as steel making equipment.
31. Sustainability Report 2019Ternium has recently reinforced its financial profile,
which has been traditionally robust, through a quick
deployment of economic and financial measures to better
face the recession induced by the COVID-19 outbreak.
2019 Economic and Financial Performance
GOOD RESULTS IN A CHALLENGING YEAR
During 2019, shipments in the Mexican market were 6.3
million tons, representing 50% of Ternium’s total steel
shipments. Apparent flat steel use decreased in the year
reflecting a softer commercial market in 2019 and a strong
level of shipments in the first half of 2018 in anticipation
of rising steel prices.
Shipments in the Southern Region reached 1.9 million
tons in 2019, or 15% of Ternium’s consolidated
shipments in the steel segment. Most of Ternium’s
shipments in the region are destined for the Argentine
market. Apparent steel use decreased significantly in
Argentina in 2019, as the country's macroeconomic
situation deteriorated.
Shipments in the Other Markets region reached 4.3
million tons in 2019, or 34% of Ternium’s consolidated
shipments in the steel segment. Our major shipment
destinations in the Other Markets region were the United
States, Brazil, Colombia and Central America.
Net sales in 2019 were $10.2 billion, including net sales of
steel products for $9.9 billion on steel shipments of 12.5
million tons, net sales of other products for $296.1 million
and net sales of iron ore products for $364 million on iron
ore shipments of 3.6 million tons.
Most of the iron ore production was consumed in our
own steel operations. Steel revenue per ton was $790 in 2019. Steel prices declined in North America
during the year, following a strong pricing
environment in 2018.
EBITDA reached $1.5 billion in 2019 with EBITDA
margin of 15%, remaining at an industry-leading level
of profitability .
Net income attributable to Ternium's equity owners was
$564.3 million, or $2.87 per ADS. Free cash flow was
$595.4 million, with a high level of capital expenditures
being partially offset by a $572.7 million reduction in
working capital.
SOUND FINANCIAL POSITION
In 2019, the company’s capital expenditures were $1.1
billion, $532.0 million higher than in 2018, as
Ternium's investment program progressed as planned. 
The main investments during the year included those
made for new hot-rolling, hot-dipped galvanizing and
painting production capacity in the company’s
Pesquería industrial center, a new steel bar and coil
mill in Colombia, the improvement of environmental
and safety conditions at certain facilities, the
expansion of connectivity , integration and
automation of our operations, and those made in the
iron ore mining operations.
Ternium's net debt position reached $1.5 billion at the
end of December 2019, with a net debt to last twelve
months EBITDA ratio of 1.0.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
32. Ternium2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
STEEL SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS)
Mexico 6,305.0 6,544.8 6,622.8 6,405.2 5,933.4
Southern Region 1,938.3 2,301.1 2,456.0 2,220.8 2,552.2
Other Markets 4,268.0 4,105.2 2,517.7 1,138.1 1,114.6
Total 12,511.3 12,951.1 11,596.5 9,764.1 9,600.2
IRON ORE SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS) 3,575.9 3,616.3 3,551.1 3,309.6 3,635.6
FINANCIAL INDICATORS ($ MILLION)
Net sales 10,192.8 11,453.4 9,700.3 7,224.0 7,877.4
Operating income 864.6 2,108.4 1,456.8 1,141.7 639.3
EBITDA(1)1,525.7 2,697.7 1,931.1 1,548.6 1,073.1
EBITDA MARGIN (% OF NET SALES)
EBITDA PER TON ($)(2)
Equity in earnings (losses) of non-consolidated companies 61.0 102.8 68.1 14.6 (272.8 )
Profit before income tax expense 826.6 2,031.6 1,359.8 1,118.5 267.1
Profit for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Parent 564.3 1,506.6 886.2 595.6 8.1
Non-controlling interest 65.8 155.5 136.7 111.3 51.7
Profit for the year 630.0 1,662.1 1,022.9 706.9 59.8
Capital expenditures 1,052.3 520.3 409.4 435.5 466.6
Free cash flow(3)595.4 1,219.0 (25.5 ) 664.1 856.8
BALANCE SHEET ($ MILLION)
Total assets 12,935.5 12,547.9 12,122.6 8,322.9 8,062.6
 Financial debt 2,188.7 2,037.0 3,221.9 1,218.6 1,521.0
Net financial debt(4)1,453.4 1,734.9 2,748.3 884.3 1,132.3
Total liabilities 5,220.6 5,063.3 6,269.8 3,156.3 3,259.6
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the parent 6,611.7 6,393.3 5,010.4 4,391.3 4,033.1
Non-controlling interest 1,103.2 1,091.3 842.3 775.3 769.8
STOCK DATA ($ PER SHARE/ADS(5))
Basic earnings per share 0.29 0.77 0.45 0.30 0.00
Basic earnings per ADS 2.87 7.67 4.51 3.03 0.04
Dividend per ADS paid in the year 1.20 1.10 1.00 0.90 0.90
Weighted average number of shares outstanding(6) 
(million shares) 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1 1,963.1
(1) EBITDA is operating income adjusted to exclude depreciation and amortization.(2) Consolidated EBITDA divided by steel shipments(3) Free cash flow equals net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.(4) Net financial debt equals total financial debt less cash and cash equivalents plus other investments.(5) Each ADS represents 10 shares.(6) Ternium S.A. has an authorized share capital of a single class of 3.5 billion shares having a nominal
value of $1.00 per share. As of December 31, 2019, there were 2,004,743,442 shares issued. All issued
shares are fully paid. In addition, as of December 31, 2019 Ternium S.A. held 41,666,666 shares as
treasury shares, representing 3% of the subscribed capital.Economic and Financial Performance
33. Sustainability Report 2019Why to invest 
in Mexico
The Mexican steel market is
the largest in Latin America.
Steel consumption growth in
Mexico over the last decades
has been mainly driven by a
dynamic manufacturing
industry. The result has been
an attractive steel market 
with a significant demand for
high-end steel products.
TERNIUM HAS A LEADING POSITION IN THE MEXICAN MARKET
8PRODUCTION 
FACILITIES
INTEGRATED AND/OR
DOWNSTREAM7SERVICE CENTERS
DELIVERING CUSTOMIZED
PRODUCTS JUST-IN-TIME 
OR ON SHORT NOTICE
12DISTRIBUTION CENTERS
TOGETHER WITH A BROAD
NETWORK OF REGIONAL
DISTRIBUTORSThe Largest Steel Market in Latin America
SOLID GROWTH FOR A LONG PERIOD
Compound annual growth rate of Mexican steel
consumption during  the last 30 years reached 4.6%,
leading to an average of 192 kilograms of steel
consumed per person by 2019.
The rate of steel consumption achieved by the
Mexican economy was approximately two times
higher than that of other Latin American nations
with a developed industrial sector. With 24.2 million
tons of steel consumed in 2019, Mexico is the largest
steel consumer in the region.
TERNIUM'S LARGEST STEEL MARKET
Ternium's net sales in Mexico accounted for 54%
of the company’s total net sales of steel products
in 2019. The majority of Ternium's flat steel
products are sold to industrial customers, which
usually require more sophisticated services and
high-value-added steel products, with the balance
being sold to construction companies and
distributors.
Mexican Competitive Advantages
Mexico's privileged conditions to home a
competitive and innovative manufacturing sector
have been behind its success story .
LOGISTICS
The country's geographic location provides a
competitive logistics base to reach every major
market.
TRADE AGREEMENTS
The Mexican industrial sector has access to the US
and Canadian markets through the US, Mexico and
Canada Agreement (USMCA), and to other major
economic regions and trade blocks through other
trade agreements in place, including a free trade
agreement with the European Union (FTA EU-MX)
and Japan (a.k.a. Agreement Between Japan and the
United Mexican States for the Strengthening of the
Economic Partnership).Why to Invest in Mexico
34. TerniumTernium's Pesquería unit.  Inaugurated in 2013, the new industrial center has incorporated cold-rolling, galvanizing and painting facilities, and will incorporate a new hot-
rolling mill in 2021.
In addition, Mexico has trade agreements in place with
Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brunei, Colombia, Chile,
Costa Rica, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Malaysia, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway , Peru, Singapore,
Switzerland, Uruguay and Vietnam.
Growth Opportunities
We compete in the Mexican steel market with other
domestic steel producers, and with US and other
foreign steel producers. Local steel producers, including
Ternium, represent a little over half of total apparent
flat steel use in Mexico, with the balance of the
country's flat steel consumption being supplied from
abroad. 
According to Canacero, the Mexican chamber of the
iron and steel industry , imports of finished flat steel
products into Mexico accounted for approximately
8.2 million tons in 2019. 
Ternium believes that it is very well positioned to
compete with foreign producers and substitute
imports in Mexico. The company believes it has builtAPPARENT STEEL USE - MEXICO
MILLION TONS
30.0
25.0
20.0
15.0
10.0
5.0
0.0
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 201924.2Why to Invest in Mexico
35. Sustainability Report 2019"
The new state-of-the-art 
hot-rolling mill at Pesquería
Industrial Center will enable 
us to consolidate our 
leadership in the Mexican 
flat steel market”.
Máximo Vedoya
CEO
TERNIUM'S STEEL SHIPMENTS IN MEXICO BY INDUSTRY
2019
Commercial:47% Homeappliances:
9%Automotive:
26%HVAC/lighting:
8%Otherindustries:
10%a solid differentiation strategy leaning on its unique
industrial presence in the country ,  as well as on its cost
competitiveness.
TERNIUM'S COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AS A LOCAL STEEL PRODUCER
Ternium's industrial presence together with its own
network of distribution centers and commercial offices
enable the company to provide logistics and stock
management services. In addition, Ternium offers its
customers an integrated connectivity platform that has
75 functions covering the entire customer relationship
process. For more information on Ternium's Webservice
Platform, see page 22 "Delivering Ternium's Business
Strategy". 
Ternium's ProPymes  program has been focusing its
efforts on the development of small and medium-sized
customers and suppliers in Mexico. The prosperity of
small and medium-sized companies, and the
development of a collaborative industrial network have
strengthened the country's steel industry value chain. 
The consequent improved competitiveness has led to a
virtuous cycle of increased exports as well as imports
substituted by locally manufactured new products. For
more information on the ProPymes  program, see page
66 "Strengthening Ternium's Value Chain".
In addition, Ternium has further enhanced its
differentiation strategy by investing in state-of-the-art
technologies. This strategy included the inauguration
of its Pesquería Industrial Center in 2013, with new
cold-rolling and galvanizing mills, an expansion of this
industrial center in 2019, with the inauguration of new
galvanizing and painting lines, and a further expansion
expected by 2021, with a new state-of-the-art hot-
rolling mill. 
T ogether with the technological upgrade of its facilities,
Ternium has increased its product research and
development capabilities in the country in order to
broaden its range of product offerings, particularly in
the high-end steel segment, with the aim of fulfilling all
industry requirements.Why to Invest in Mexico
36. TerniumFurthermore, Ternium's product research and
development area has provided technical assistance to
its customers, maximizing the performance of the
company's steel products and the manufacturing
processes downstream in the Mexican steel industry
value chain.
APPARENT FLAT STEEL USE IN MEXICO BY SEGMENT
2019
Commercial:35%Industrial:65%
APPARENT FLAT STEEL USE IN MEXICO BY ORIGIN
2019
Local:46%Imports:54%
Source: CanaceroThe US, Mexico and Canada
free trade agreement, or
USMCA, came into effect on
July 1, 2020. The new
agreement, which resulted from
the renegotiation of NAFTA
between the three member
states, encourages the
production of cars and trucks
within the trade block.
Strengthened research capabilities in Mexico  through the inauguration of a new
laboratory and the construction of a new research center, launched during 2019.Why to Invest in Mexico
37. Sustainability Report 2019Improving Our Safety
Performance
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
 
  
DEC 2019 NEW CORPORATE STRATEGY
ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT
TO ADVANCE OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AGENDA.
Goals Measures
Prevent all work-related injuries and illnesses, and achieve zero
accidentsOccupational health and safety policy
  -Identify and eliminate operational hazardsOccupational health and safety management system
  -Operate in compliance with established protocolsSafety-focused capital expenditure plan
  -Raise people's awareness of non-compliance risksIntegral program for critical steel production processes and
iron ore tailings dams
  -Identify and rectify unsafe acts or situationsPeriodical management tours at the facilities, training
activities, workshops and conferences to raise awareness
Extensive communication to engage and commit Ternium's
and contractor's employees
Promote healthy and safe operations in the steel industry value chain Code of conduct for suppliers
  -Evaluate suppliers' occupational health and safety policies and
    performanceSafe supplier program
  -Raise people's awareness of non-compliance risksSafety training of third-party employees
Participation of suppliers in deviations reportingA Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
38. TerniumFast implementation of COVID-19 mitigation measures. New protocols for on-site working and work-from-home policy whenever possible.
Ternium ranks occupational health and safety (OH&S)
performance as its top priority , with the conviction that
all injuries and work-related illnesses can and must be
prevented. Each of the company's and third-party
employees' OH&S is our top concern.
COVID-19 Outbreak
Ternium is focused on safeguarding the OH&S of its
employees, customers and suppliers based on best
practices that comply with and, in some cases, exceed
local governmental directives. Beyond implementing
work-from-home policies wherever possible, the
company has looked to protect the safety of those
employees working on-site by adopting stringent
social distancing, temperature check and disinfection
policies at all transportation, site admission, working
post and cafeteria locations, among other initiatives.
In addition, Ternium has developed a protocol to
track suspect or positive contagion cases and the
successful reintegration of returning workers.
New Occupational Health and Safety Corporate Strategy
According to Ternium's OH&S policy , the assessment
of risks and management of our people's OH&S must
be integrated into all our business processes.
Management is responsible and accountable forachieving excellence in OH&S performance as part of a
comprehensive set of goals. In December 2019, Ternium
launched a new corporate strategy on OH&S. We are
committed to taking every possible step to protect the
safety and health of our employees and the people of
the communities in which we operate. This vision has
acted as a framework to adjust our strategies and to
adopt new ones, including the alignment of our safety
culture to our vision, the prevention of severe accidents
or fatalities, the achievement of excellence in process
safety management, the engagement of employees
through effective communication and the engagement
of customers' and suppliers' managers and employees to
embrace our vision and goals. In 2019, Ternium invested
$50 million under its safety-focused capital expenditures
plan. 
Occupational Health and Safety Management System
Ternium has an OH&S management system to oversee its
production units, which abides by the company's OH&S
policy , and local and national laws and regulations. The
company periodically audits its processes and procedures,
which helps us find new opportunities to improve our
safety management systems and ensure their compliance
with our policy . Ternium’s steelmaking and steel
processing facilities in Mexico, Argentina, Colombia and
39. Sustainability Report 2019   Improving Health and Safety Performance  
• Proactive approach to occupational health and
safety management 
• Standardized OH&S management system 
• Extensive employee training 
• Management accountable for OH&S performance 
• Certified OH&S management system 
• Capital expenditures program to reduce H&S risks
Guatemala have their OH&S management system
certified under international standards by third party
certification bodies. The company’s facilities in Mexico
have completed the migration process of their OH&S
management system to ISO 45001:2018, and have
obtained the certification in this new standard. Ternium’s
Rio de Janeiro unit in Brazil and its mining facilities in
Mexico are undergoing a migration and certification
process, which is expected to be completed within the
next two years.
Aligning Our Safety Culture to Our Vision
Ternium’s continuous quest for a virtuous safety culture
leans on its top management’s effective leadership. The
company’s senior management has identified measurable,
repeatable, proactive and leading safety attitudes to
deploy along the organization, as part of a strategy to
align people’s safety culture with the company’s vision.
SAFETY FIRST PROGRAM
The Safety First program fosters a pro-active approach to
safety issues to prevent incidents and accidents. One of
the program's main tool is the Safety Hour initiative, in
which middle and senior managers tour operating areas
for an hour, three times a week, to identify safe behaviors
to be consolidated or unsafe acts or situations to beaddressed through an open dialogue with employees. This
exchange helps identify potential risks and enables a fluid
and constructive feedback to implement effective
preventive measures. In 2019, the company held a total of
147,100 Safety Hour sessions, with the regular
participation of 1,600 employees and contractors, that
helped to detect, record and correct 177,500 deviations. In
addition, these sessions helped to recognize 106,800 full-
compliance cases. Furthermore, management performed
safety verification audits (SV As) at the facilities to
evaluate compliance with policies, procedures and
practices in relation to relevant OH&S topics. In 2019, a
new record 200,000 SV As were performed.
TEN LIFE-SAVING RULES
Ternium has established Ten Life-Saving Rules, which lists
the actions that all employees must follow in order to
protect their lives and that of their colleagues. The rules
are the result of a process that included worldsteel's
guidance, and the contribution of focus groups and
studies performed to detect the main causes of risks in
our operations. The rules are backed by practices and
routines to follow and reflect the scope of safety
regulations in the countries where Ternium operates. The
rules have been extensively communicated throughout
Ternium’s operations to foster employees', A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
40. TerniumSafety hour ( hora segura ) at the Villa Nueva unit, Guatemala.  An articulated on-site exchange to implement effective preventive measures.
customers' and suppliers' awareness, and have been
audited to ensure their observance. In 2019, we held
42,800 compliance audits.
TERNIUM’S ANNUAL SAFETY DAY
Since 2014, every July 22nd we have been holding
Ternium's Annual Safety Day , an occasion to prompt a
renewed commitment to improving safety and increasing
risk awareness, in the belief that every accident can and
must be prevented. During this event, we hold safety
management meetings and discussions to review our
performance in the past year and agree on concrete
actions to improve safety in every facility .
TRAINING PROGRAMS
Management is committed to training Ternium's
employees, customers and suppliers on the appropriate
application of the company’s OH&S management
systems in performing their tasks, and to raising
awareness of risks. In 2019, Ternium delivered 487,600
safety training hours to 15,700 employees, customers
and suppliers. 
TASK REJECTION TOOL
This tool aims at strengthening people’s determination
not to start or, if started, to suspend a task under certain
conditions. The Task Rejection tool helps people preventinjuries risks stemming from the lack of effective control
over identified safety risks. 
Prevention of Severe Injuries or Fatalities
A steel industry-wide analysis found out that, over time,
the downward trend in fatal accidents has been slower
than the trend for non-fatal accidents, mainly due to
causality differences. Accordingly , the company has
increased its efforts to identify severe injury or fatality
precursors. In order to do so, we identify non-controlled
repetitive precursors through interviews with
employees, based on critical control and verification
methodologies.
Process Safety Management
Iron ore processing, and steel production and processing
include potentially hazardous processes. Ternium has
identified critical processes in some of its facilities, and
developed specific tools to manage them. In addition,
during 2019 Ternium launched a new program focused on
the identification of risk factors in critical processes and
the development of specific strategies aimed at
eliminating the exposure to severe personal injury .
Engaging Through Effective Communication
Over the years, Ternium has increased the visibility of
safety issues through its communications platforms.
41. Sustainability Report 2019INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (IFR)
TOTAL QUANTITY OF INJURIES PER MILLION HOURS WORKED
5
4
3
2
1
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Our agenda includes videos, articles and the coverage of
selected events. T o engage the company’s employees and
raise awareness on safety issues, we have developed a new
communications system aimed at sharing key messages
with employees operating at every location, including
posts at the company’s communications platforms and
other distribution channels. We have also implemented the
Five-Minutes Safety Talks, an open-dialogue instance for
blue-collar supervisors and their teams to analyze OH&S
issues selected every week by senior management.
Engaging Customers' and Suppliers' Managers and Employees
We aim at having all contractors' employees embrace our
vision and goals. With this purpose, we have launched
several initiatives including working meetings with
contractor’s top managers and the participation of their
employees in Ternium's OH&S workshops. We have
recently launched an OH&S improvement plan for
contractors. This plan has been developed based on
contractors' best practices, which were identified through
a benchmark of contractors' operations at the company's
facilities in different locations and countries.
Accidents and incidents
In 2019, Ternium recorded an injury frequency rate (IFR)
of 2.7 injuries per million of hours worked, compared toLOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) 1
QUANTITY OF DAY-LOSS INJURIES PER MILLION HOURS WORKED
1.5
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.3
0.0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
an IFR of 3.0 in 2018. The lost time injury frequency rate
(LTIFR) was 0.8 day-loss injuries per million hours
worked in 2019, compared to an LTIFR of 0.7 in 2018.
The year-over-year increase in LTIFR in 2019 reflected
mainly the effect of construction works carried out for the
new facilities in Pesquería, Mexico, and Palmar de Varela,
Colombia.
Analysis of Accidents and Incidents
Ternium's management follows specific protocols when a
workplace accident or incident occurs, regardless of the
damage or injury , or lack of, cause by an event. The
research and analysis of an event is conducted by
multidisciplinary teams that include the participation of
the manager with direct responsibilities in the area
involved.
An event is analyzed through a causal factor tree
methodology that has been homologated at Ternium.
Management uses all available resources that could
contribute to the understanding of an event, including the
evidence collected by nearby cameras. Once causes are
fully understood, the company implements a new
preventive action plan structured in hierarchy of controls.
This methodology was incorporated in the company’s
occupational health and safety management system in
2019.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
42. TerniumLas Encinas, Mexico.  Ternium has a proactive approach to safe mining
operations.
Health and Well-being
Ternium’s comprehensive occupational health program
embodies the company’s commitment to providing a
healthy workplace, with equipment and technology that
ensures the well-being of its workforce. The health
management system includes periodic workplace
monitoring and risk analysis to evaluate and control a
range of activity-related factors with the potential to
affect employees’ health, including chemical, biological,
physical, ergonomic and psychological risks. Our
corporate procedures and guidelines in relation to the
level of indoor air quality , noise and vibrations pursue
stricter threshold levels than those defined by the more
rigorous international standards. Some of our facilities,
like the Ternium Industrial Center in Pesquería, built in
2013, adopted the best-available technologies from the
design phase. In other facilities, particularly those we
acquired, we are consistently adopting the best-available
technologies as part of our drive to continuously improve
our sites' air quality . 
Tailings Dams Reinforcement
Ternium has equity interests in two iron ore mining
companies in Mexico: a 100% interest in Las Encinas and
a 50% interest in Consorcio Peña Colorada. The company
operates extractive, processing and logistical operations,STRICTER STABILITY STUDIES FOR TAILINGS DAMS
$19MILLION
INVESTED IN 2019 BY TERNIUM
AND PEÑA COLORADA.
4TAILINGS DAMS
SUBJECT TO ONGOING REINFORCEMENT PLANS,
FOLLOWING NEW STUDIES CARRIED OUT WITH
THIRD PARTY CONSULTANTS.
 
including tailings dams. Over time, Ternium has
conducted stability studies of its tailings dams, with the
help of consultant companies, using increasingly strict
standards for seismic areas and, as a result, has been
carrying out several investment projects to reinforce
certain dams.
In late 2019 and early 2020, Ternium and Consorcio
Peña Colorada concluded new stability studies in
certain of their tailings dams that are closed or stand-
by , in order to proceed to final closure with stricter and
more conservative standards for seismic areas. As a
result of those studies, performed by recognized
consultant companies, and in order to meet those new
stability standards and mitigate risks, Ternium and
Consorcio Peña Colorada are planning to reinforce
certain stand-by and closed tailings dam sections in
Alzada and Guasimas, respectively .
In addition, a new paste plant was started-up in July 2019
near Consorcio Peña Colorada's Arrayanal dam, to
increase the efficiency and speed of water recovery from
the dam tailings. With this initiative, Ternium expects to
increase the solid content of tailings from 45% to 68%,
increasing the stability of the dam and freeing space for
additional tailings.
43. Sustainability Report 2019On the Right Path. Ternium has established safety
committees to formalize the consultation and
participation of workers and their representatives on
occupational health and safety issues.
A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
44. TerniumOccupational Health And Safety Policy
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–Ternium, an integrated steel company , along with its subsidiaries is committed to the occupational safety and
health of its personnel, clients, contractors, and suppliers. The company’s occupational safety and health policy
is the baseline for sustainable development across all its operations.
Policy adherence, dissemination, and compliance apply and are to be promoted throughout Ternium and its
subsidiaries.
Looking out for the occupational safety and health of every person who works for the company or is inside its
facilities is an essential value.
T o that end, we promote our commitment through the following principles:
All work-related injuries and illnesses can and should be prevented.
Compliance with all applicable legal and other regulations to which Ternium voluntarily agrees.
Continuous improvement of all processes related to staff's health and safety .
Occupational safety and health must be integrated into all company processes.
No emergency situation, production process or results justify putting people’s occupational safety or health at
risk.
Commitment from and training of the entire staff is essential.
Working safely is an employment condition.
Every person is responsible for looking after his/her own safety and the safety of others.
In each company , everyone is responsible for occupational health and safety:
The company provides the means and resources for activities to be carried out safely so as to preserve everyone's
physical integrity and occupational health.
Managers are in charge of the occupational health and safety of everyone who works for them or is in their area.
All other workers must comply with regulations and instructions, and work with their managers to detect,
control, and resolve any dangerous situations.
Contractor companies and their staff must comply with the Safety Regulations in force at the facilities where
they provide services.
People who enter the facility must comply with the applicable Safety Regulations.
Health and Safety staff must take preventive measures through support, advising and auditing.
At Ternium and its subsidiaries, these principles are shared throughout the entire value chain and in all the
communities where it operates in order to promote people's healthcare and safety .
March 2018
Máximo V edoya
CEO
Ternium
45. Sustainability Report 2019Minimizing Ternium's
Environmental Footprint
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
 
  
  
 $70 MILLION
INVESTED IN 2019 TO REDUCE
TERNIUM'S ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT.
Goals Measures
Use natural resources responsibly Environment and Energy Policy
-Minimize consumption of raw materials and other inputs Steel scrap recycling (self-generated and from third-parties)
-Minimize waste generation Intake of recycled and treated water (replacing subsurface)
Investment in energy and material efficiency projects
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)
Participation at worldsteel's and Alacero's environmental
committees and worldsteel's Climate Action
Pursue excellence in environmental performance Environment and energy management system
-Preserve water and air quality Investments to control particulate emissions and discharges
-Maximize energy efficiency of Ternium's infrastructure Sustainable building solutions at new facilities
Environmental performance certification
Protect biodiversity Field works at greenfield projects to preserve biodiversity
Support to Sepetiba Bay and Iberá Wetlands initiativesA Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
46. Ternium   Minimizing Ternium's Environmental Footprint  
• Standardized management system certified under
ISO 14001 and 50001 
• Continuous progress in environmental management
performance 
• Management performance accountability 
• Investment in best available technologies
The protection of the environment is a fundamental value
for Ternium. The company seeks to reach the highest
standards of environmental and energy performance in
order to minimize the environmental footprint of its
operations. T o achieve this, we are continuously working
on the improvement of Ternium's production system. The
company's Environmental and Energy Policy states
Ternium's views regarding the preservation of the
environment.
The monitoring of the company's environmental
performance leans on an environmental and energy
management system encompassing all its production units.
Ternium periodically audits and certifies its systems and
procedures. This process helps us identify improvement
opportunities, update the company's environmental
management processes and make sure Ternium complies
with legal regulations.
Ternium’s steel and mining operations are subject to a
broad range of environmental laws and regulations
relating to the protection of the environment, such as land
use; air emissions; wastewater treatment and discharge;
the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic
materials and the handling and disposal of solid wastes.
Ternium’s corporate environmental and energy policy
commits each of its business units to comply with allapplicable environmental laws and regulations, and aims
to achieve the highest standards of environmental
performance as a basis to enhance sustainable
development. Compliance with environmental laws and
regulations and monitoring of regulatory changes are
addressed primarily at national level. Ternium has not
been subject to any material penalty for environmental
violations in 2019.
Ternium's environmental and energy management system
at its steel production facilities is certified under ISO
14001, ISO's environmental management standard. This
standard was created by the International Organization
for Standardization, a network of national standardization
institutes that work together with governments, the
industry and consumer representatives with the purpose of
supporting the implementation of an environment
management plan in public and private organizations. 
In addition, Ternium is certifying the system at its energy
intensive operations under ISO 50001, ISO's energy
management standard. The system has already been
certified at the Rio de Janeiro unit, at the steel shop of the
San Nicolás unit and at the Pesquería unit (downstream
facility), and is undergoing the certification process at the
steel shop of the Guerrero unit and the hot-rolling mill of
47. Sustainability Report 2019Ternium's steel shops in Puebla and Nuevo León, Mexico,
capture carbon dioxide from its production process to deliver
it mostly to the beverage industry, for use in soft drinks
production. The company has recently launched a new
project to increase its carbon dioxide capturing capacity,
which is expected to be completed in 2021. This project will
enable a yearly increase in carbon dioxide emission savings of
up to 60,000 tons, to a total of 270,000 tons.
the San Nicolás unit. Ternium's environmental and energy
management system will help the company maximize its
efforts to reducing carbon emissions. The targets of the
company in this regard are in line with those of the
countries in which Ternium has operations and are
expected to contribute to the achievement of the goals of
the Paris Agreement adopted at the UN climate change
conference. 
A Material at the Heart of a Low-Carbon Economy
Ternium subscribes to worldsteel's position as for the role
of steel in our present and future. Abundant iron ore
resources, endless recyclability and unparalelled
performance make steel the material of choice in a low-
carbon circular economy . We rely on steel for our housing,
transport, food and water supply , energy production, tools
and healthcare. Almost everything around us is either
made of steel or manufactured by equipment made of
steel. Steel is a highly versatile metal, offering a wide space
for the development of new workable and light products.
Innovation is driving to increasingly sophisticated ferrous
castings, enabling a new generation of stronger and lighter
structures, with lower carbon footprint, that are essential
inputs for the automotive, engineering, energy and
transport industries. Iron ore is currently the main raw
material for steel production, a material that ranks amongthe most common in the world. Steel scrap has been
growing as an alternative raw material for steel
production. In addition to keeping the attributes and
performance of steel upon recycling, steel scrap has
magnetic properties that enable feasible separation
technologies. The use of steel scrap reduces carbon
emissions from the steel life cycle. In combination with a
long history of significant efforts to increase recycling
rates, this has resulted in steel leading the recycling
statistics, for example in cars and cans. Furthermore, its
biodegradable nature positions steel as a solution to our
society's waste disposal challenge.
Steel recycling is limited by the availability of scrap, due
to the relatively long life of steel-based products and
infrastructure. Developing economies have relatively
young infrastructure stocks and have, therefore, limited
amounts of obsolete steel scrap to use in steelmaking.
However, as these economies’ climb the development
curve, and infrastructure enters the replacement phase,
availability of obsolete scrap increases, supporting a
shift from steelmaking technologies based on iron ore to
steelmaking technologies relying more heavily on steel
scrap. In time, this shift will have a significant impact on
trends in iron ore and steel scrap consumption globally .A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
48. TerniumEMISSION INTENSITY
CARBON DIOXIDE TONS EMITTED PER TON OF STEEL PRODUCED. YEAR-END.
3.5
2.8
2.1
1.4
0.7
0.0EmissionIntensity(tons/ton)12.0
9.6
7.2
4.8
2.4
0.0
Steelproduction(milliontons)
20152016201720182019
n Scope 1: direct
n Scope 2: energy upstreamn Scope 3: raw materials upstream
•  Steel production
Energy and Climate Action
The steel industry is energy intensive. There are two main
technologies for producing steel: the blast furnace / basic
oxygen furnace (BF/BOF) route, which consumes mainly
iron ore and uses metallurgical coal as its main energy
source; and the electric arc furnace (EAF) route, which
consumes mainly steel scrap and/or direct reduced iron
and uses electricity as its main energy input. Direct
reduced iron is produced out of iron ore and uses natural
gas as a reduction agent. The steel industry has a strong
commitment towards the reduction of greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions, through the development of innovative
steel products for a successful low carbon society and the
improvement of steel production processes. According to
worldsteel, in the last 50 years the steel industry reduced
its energy consumption per ton of crude steel produced by
60%. Y et, steel production accounts for approximately 8%
of all human-made GHG emissions.
As a member of worldsteel, Ternium is signatory of
worldsteel's sustainability policy and joins its efforts,
through the company's participation in several programs,
to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. As a participating
member, Ternium submits to worldsteel its performance
indicators to contribute to its statistics and databases,
which enable steelmaking companies to benchmark ENERGY INTENSITY
GIGAJOULES CONSUMED PER TON OF STEEL PRODUCED. YEAR-END.
25
20
15
10
5
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
performance, share best practices and ultimately set
improvement plans for their industrial processes. In 2008,
worldsteel launched its Climate Action Recognition
Program. Since its launch, Ternium has been recognized by
worldsteel for its compliance with the program's
requirements for carbon dioxide emission reporting. 
In 2019, Ternium joined worldsteel’s Step Up Program.
This initiative supports the steel industry's efforts to
reduce carbon dioxide emissions by means of better
operational models and benchmarking of operating
technologies. Based on the Step Up Program findings,
Ternium seeks to identify opportunities to improve the
efficiency of its operations, mainly related to raw materials
usage, energy input, materials yields and maintenance
models.
Ternium's carbon dioxide emissions totaled 18.5 million
tons in 2019, 3% lower than in 2018. Steel production
totaled 10.3 million tons, decreasing 6% year-over-year.
Average carbon dioxide emissions per ton of crude steel
produced, including scopes 1, 2 and 3, was 1.8 tons in
2019, 2% higher than in 2018 mainly due to a net lower
operating rate. Ternium's average energy consumption per
ton of crude steel produced was 22 gigajoules in 2019, 3%
higher year-over-year for the same reason. Ternium's
49. Sustainability Report 2019Adopting the best-available technologies. In the last five years, Ternium has made investments of approximately $137 million to improve the capture and treatment of
air emissions.
carbon footprint includes only carbon dioxide emissions,
as the incidence of other greenhouse gases is negligible. 
The assessment of the company's energy consumption is
based on worldsteel's sectoral approach methodology in
accordance with ISO 14404.
In 2014, Ternium launched an energy efficiency program,
an initiative aimed at reducing GHG emissions by
identifying opportunities to implement energy savings at
its production facilities. Since 2014, we have completed 366
projects under this program that, in the aggregate, have
reduced Ternium's yearly carbon dioxide emissions by
approximately 298,000 tons, comparable to the yearly
emissions from 117,000 cars.
During 2019, Ternium's Rio de Janeiro unit started
purchasing biomethane from a nearby waste landfill. The
company expects to gradually increase the use of
biomethane to replace natural gas, for up to 30% of its
historical consumption level, with the consequent
avoidance of carbon dioxide emissions in the landfill.  
Air Quality
Some of Ternium's facilities, like the company's Industrial
Center in Pesquería, adopted the best-availabletechnologies from the design phase. In other facilities,
particularly those acquired, Ternium is enhancing its air
quality monitoring systems and is consistently adopting
the best-available technologies as part of its drive to
continuously improve its environmental performance.
Ternium has made investments of approximately $137
million in its facilities in the last five years to improve the
capture and treatment of air emissions. In 2019, the
company concluded the construction of a new bag filter
for the fume and dust capturing system at its steel shop in
the Puebla unit in Mexico, and made progress in the
improvement of the fume and dust capturing system at its
steel shop in the San Nicolás unit in Argentina.
In addition, Ternium concluded works in the electrostatic
precipitator of the sinter facilities at its Rio de Janeiro unit
in Brazil. T o mitigate dust emissions in all its operations,
Ternium implemented specific solutions, such as retaining
walls and live fences at bulk storage yards, washing
systems for truck tires and road pavement.
In 2019, Ternium launched a project to capture and
contain emissions at the iron ore handling equipment and
direct reduction facilities in its Guerrero unit in Mexico. In
addition, the company launched a project to control sulfur A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
50. TerniumWATER INTAKE - MEXICAN STEEL FACILITIES
MILLION CUBIC METERS.
20.0
16.0
12.0
8.0
4.0
0.0
2015 2016 2017 2018 201918.218.619.1 19.319.6
n Subsurface
n Recycledn Third party treated
n Municipaln Sewage
emissions with the addition of new technology at its
pelletizing line in its Alzada unit in Mexico.
Water Management  
In steel manufacturing, in which water plays a major
role, most water is recycled and returned to the source.
Ternium is fully aware of its responsibility for
managing water resources. Its water management
strategy is designed on a case-by-case basis in
accordance with the specific situation at each of its
operating sites.
The company continuously incorporates best available
technologies to improve water management and water
discharge monitoring systems. For example, Ternium
has recently revamped a water treatment facility in the
steel shop of the San Nicolás unit, to improve the
quality of recirculated and discharged water. Ternium
has invested a total of $72 million in the last five years
to improve its water management.
WATER INTAKE AND USE
Many of the company's facilities are located in areas of
low water-stress risk. However, Ternium's Mexican
facilities are placed in water stressed regions. INVESTING TO IMPROVE WATER PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
48%OF WATER INTAKE
IN MEXICO COMES FROM EITHER TREATED,
RECYCLED OR SEWAGE SOURCES.
1.6MILLION CUBIC METERS
DECREASE IN SUBSURFACE WATER
INTAKE IN 2019 COMPARED TO 2015.
Consequently , Ternium has developed specific strategies to
minimize water usage,  reflected in a water consumption
rate of 4.3 cubic meters per ton of crude steel produced in
its steel shops in Mexico.
In this country , Ternium has consistently reduced the
consumption of subsurface water by increasing the usage
of treated or sewage water. As a result, the company's
consumption of subsurface water decreased from 11.0
million cubic meters in 2015 to 9.4 million cubic meters in
2019, or 52% of total water consumption. 
T otal water consumption in 2019 also included a 23%
share of third party treated water, a 17% share of external
sewage water and an 8% share of recycled water.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
Ternium permanently monitors wastewater discharges, in
compliance with local environmental regulations. The
company designs capital expenditure projects to
incorporate best available technologies and monitoring
systems to reduce and improve the quality of water
discharges. During 2019, the company concluded the
construction of a new runoff water pumping station for
the coal and coke yards, the coking batteries sector, the
51. Sustainability Report 2019CO-PRODUCTS 
KILOGRAMS PER TON OF STEEL PRODUCED.
500
400
300
200
100
0
20152016201720182019
co-products facilities and nearby areas at its San Nicolás
unit in Argentina. In addition, it built new infrastructure
to prevent discharges to the Paraná river in the event of
extreme weather conditions.
This investment followed other investments in previous
years like the gas scrubbing circuit-close at a blast furnace
and a new runoff water capturing system at the sinter
yard.
 
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)
Ternium supports worldsteel's efforts and customer
requirements to assess the environmental impact of steel
products. The aim of this program is to document and
improve the overall environmental profile of the company's
offerings.
A steel LCA involves a thorough inventory of the energy
and materials that are required across the industry value
chain, according to ISO 14040 and 14044, to determine the
global warming potential of steel products, among other
indicators. In 2019, Ternium incorporated 63% of its
crude steel production to its LCA inventory reporting,
reaching a total LCA inventory reporting of 92% in the
year. OPTIMIZING MATERIAL EFFICIENCY AT THE GUERRERO UNIT, MEXICO
86,000TONS
OF MIX ROCK® SOLD
TO THE CEMENT INDUSTRY IN 2019.
79%OF DUST
AT THE GUERRERO STEEL SHOP
TURNED INTO VALUABLE CO-PRODUCTS.
In addition, the company has developed environmental
product declarations (EPDs) of eight products, as required
for certain market segments. More information on
Ternium's EPDs are available at our website.
Environmental Certifications
LEED
We design Ternium's new facilities considering the best
available sustainable building solutions. In Pesquería,
Mexico, Ternium's technical school and the industrial
buildings of Ternium's production facilities were certified
under the Leadership in Energy and Environment Design
Certification standards of the U.S. Green Building
Council. In 2019, Ternium received the Green Building
Leadership award, in recognition for reaching
environmental performance excellence in Mexico.
CLEAN INDUSTRY
In Mexico, most of Ternium's steel and in-use mining
facilities have Clean Industry certificates issued by the
local environmental authorities. The standard of this
program was created by the Mexican government and
ema, a technical rating and standardization institute.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
52. TerniumIberá Wetlands, Santiago del Estero, Argentina.  Ternium sponsors the projects of the Rewilding Argentina Foundation in the wetlands, part of the National Geographic
Society's Last Wild Places initiative.
Material Efficiency
In Ternium we continuously develop strategies to
maximize the use of co-products and reduce the
production of waste. We believe that the recovery and
proper use of co-products is central to the application of
circular economy concepts in the steel industry's value
chain.
The use of co-products reduces the consumption of raw
materials and energy , with a positive effect on carbon
dioxide emissions and waste generation. All the steel scrap
generated in Ternium's facilities is recycled. In addition,
the company purchases steel scrap generated by other steel
processors in its value-chain and steel scrap gathered by
recyclers. In 2019, Ternium recycled 2.8 million tons of
steel scrap to produce new steel with all its properties,
representing 27% of its total crude steel production. 
The granulated slag generated in the blast furnaces is
sold to the cement industry . The re-use of granulated
slag as a substitute for clinker enabled carbon dioxide
emission savings in the cement production process of
1.3 million tons in 2019. The slag generated in the
steel shop is also used to consolidate roads. In
addition, Ternium has sinter and briquetting facilities
that enable it to recycle different materials captured byits air and water cleaning equipment, including iron
ore fines, coal, lime and dolomite. Furthermore, the
dust generated by the electric-arc furnaces at
Ternium's Guerrero and Puebla units, Mexico, is
transformed into Mix Rock®, an innovative co-product
developed and registered by Ternium. Mix Rock®
enabled the re-use of dust and slag as a substitute for
iron ore in the clinker production process at the
cement industry . In 2019, Ternium sold 86,000 tons of
Mix Rock®.
The processing of metallurgical coal for the steelmaking
production process yields significant volumes of co-
product gases. These gases stem from the distillation
process in the coking batteries. Ternium cleans coking
battery gases and obtains chemical products like tar,
benzol and hydrated lime that are sold to third parties. In
addition, once the gases obtained from the coking
batteries, blast furnaces and, in the case of the Rio de
Janeiro unit, the steel shop, are cleaned, they are used to
produce steam for the generation of electricity .  
All these processes have enabled Ternium to achieve a
material efficiency rate of 99.6% in 2019, with 4.8 million
tons of co-products generated and 60,300 tons of waste
disposed of. Co-products mainly include blast furnace and 
53. Sustainability Report 2019Sepetiba Bay, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.  Ternium has recently launched, together with local institutions, a project aimed at enhancing the conservation techniques for the boto
cinza , a bay dolphin.
steel shop slag, iron oxide and chemical substances. 
Biodiversity Care
SEPETIBA BAY
Ternium's Rio de Janeiro unit is located near a coastline
area rich in mangroves in the Sepetiba bay in Brazil,
where it has its port. The company protects the fauna
and flora of 600 hectares of mangroves. In addition,
Ternium has recently launched, together with the
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro  and the Instituto
Boto Cinza , a project to study a dolphin that inhabits
the bay , the boto cinza . Under this project, the specimens
will be tagged in order to study their habits and enhance
conservation techniques.
IBERÁ WETLANDS
Ternium sponsors the projects of the Rewilding
Argentina Foundation at the Iberá wetlands, a protected
area located at the northeast of Argentina. These
projects have recently been incorporated to National
Geographic Society's Last Wild Places initiative. They
seek to reintroduce in this area species that are
considered extinct or endangered, such as the giant otterand the yaguareté , a kind of jaguar. Ternium
contributed with steel products to build a new shoreline
pen for a couple of giant otters brought from European
zoos and for the yaguareté  breeding center. This center
now holds the offspring of the first breeding couple of
yaguaretés .
TERNIUM'S PRESERVATION WORKS
Ternium performs field works aimed at preserving
local biodiversity before starting the construction of
new facilities and carries out a continuous control and
surveillance program in areas intended for
conservation in steel and mining operations. The
company defines various areas of ecological
connectivity between its terrain and the natural
ecosystems, and develops rescue programs to release
wildlife in those areas and install wildlife connectivity
gates for reptiles, amphibians and small mammals.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
54. TerniumEnvironment and Energy Policy
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–Ternium is an integrated steel company committed on preserving the environment.
Its goal is to achieve the highest standards in environmental and energy performance as a basis for sustainable
development throughout its operations in regards to company employees, the community and future generations.
The company has committed to develop a high-quality performance, integrated and eco-efficient production
system based on continuous improvement.
Caring for the environment is a fundamental value, and its principles are the following:
Compliance with the applicable legislation, as well as any voluntary agreements in relation to environmental
protection and energy use, consumption and efficiency .
All levels in each area, throughout the company , are responsible for the results of environmental protection.
The commitment of all our personnel is essential, as is the training provided.
Environmental protection and energy efficiency are responsibilities of Ternium’s staff as well as of its
subsidiaries, suppliers and contractor personnel.
Environmental and energy dimensions are an integral part of the company's management processes.
Continuous improvement in environmental and energy performance is actively promoted throughout the
company , in addition to all the efforts necessary to achieve the objectives and established goals.
Pollution must be prevented at the source, controlling the most significant environmental aspects of our
operations and minimizing their impacts and risks.
Promoting the acquisition of energy efficient products, technologies, services and implementing projects 
that enhance our energy performance.
Use energy and natural resources efficiently .
Encourage the use of best technologies and practices, as well as renewable energies, when feasible.
In each company , everyone is responsible for environmental and energy management:
The company supplies the means and resources to enable compliance with this policy , thereby supporting 
the sustainability of all operations, depending on the operations context.
All persons entering company facilities, such as own personnel, suppliers, contractors and customers, 
must comply with this policy .
The company seeks to share these principles throughout its value chain and across the communities where 
it operates, to promote the protection of the environment, encourage the efficient use and consumption of energy
resources and foster an open dialogue with stakeholders.
This Policy applies to Ternium and its subsidiaries. It will be actively disseminated with a view to ensuring
compliance throughout the organization.
June 2018
Máximo V edoya
CEO
Ternium
55. Sustainability Report 2019Realizing Our People's 
Full Potential
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
 
  
  
20,000EMPLOYEES
LOCATED MAINLY IN THE AMERICAS.
Goals Measures
Attract and retain talented employees Code of Conduct
-Be an equal opportunity and equal treatment organization Diversity Policy and diversity acknowledgment activities
-Enable career development in an appealing work environment Health care and other benefits for employees and families
Personal development plan
Mandatory internal job application system (hiring process)
Work climate improvement initiatives
Promote a culture of excellence throughout the company Ternium University (launched in 2019)
-Enhance employees' skills and cultivate the company's values T raining programs
-Develop a world-class management team Performance evaluation systemA Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
56. TerniumNew Diversity Policy. With 27 nationalities represented among Ternium's staff, the company aims at consolidating a culture of inclusion.
Over the last decade, Ternium has become a leading flat
steel producer in Latin America by virtue of its main
asset: a team of committed, innovative, industrious,
diverse and highly qualified individuals. As of December
31, 2019, Ternium's team was composed of 20,061
employees, the majority of whom are distributed
throughout our facilities and offices in the Americas. As
Ternium has embarked on a new phase of growth, we rely
on the talent and determination of our people to
successfully shape our company in this stage.
Ternium has a human resources policy guiding our efforts
in managing talent and attracting and retaining motivated
employees. Ternium is an equal opportunity employer
that embraces diversity in its different forms, including
age, gender, nationality , race, ethnicity and creed. We
believe that the coexistence of diverse perspectives helps
our teams achieve rational solutions to challenges and
more effectively and creatively accomplish their goals. 
Over the years, Ternium has grown increasingly diverse
and we will continue to welcome and adopt new and
different viewpoints. Mexicans, Argentines, Brazilians 83%OVERALL SATISFACTION
ON WORKING AT TERNIUM,
ACCORDING TO A PULSE SURVEY 
OF SALARIED EMPLOYEES.
451NEW INITIATIVES IN 2019
TO ENHANCE EMPLOYEES' 
WORKING EXPERIENCE.
57. Sustainability Report 2019 HEADCOUNT
# OF EMPLOYEES
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 201916,73916,72521,35320,66020,061
n Hourly employees
n Hourly employee supervisorsn Salaried employees
n Management
and Colombians account for the largest share of the
company's team members, yet a total of 27 nationalities
are represented among Ternium's staff. Following the
introduction of its Diversity Policy in 2018, the company
launched a training program and the Lean In Circles
initiative in 2019, to consolidate its culture of inclusion.
Tenium's Code of Conduct forbids unlawful
discrimination in employment relations and grants all
persons the right to apply for a position in the company
or to be considered for a new position based on the skills
required. In 2019, 63% of the company's management
positions throughout the organization, encompassing
senior managers, were held by nationals of the relevant
country .
Labor Benefits and Work Climate
The countries in which Ternium has operations have in
place labor regulations providing for basic labor benefits,
such as life and disability insurance, health assistance,
parental leaves and pension systems. In addition to legal
labor benefits, Ternium has in place several other
programs. The Flexible Working program offers
employees access to on-demand office space located closer
to their homes, aimed at reducing commuting time.HEADCOUNT BY NATIONALITY
DECEMBER 2019
Mexican:44%Argentine:26%
Brazilian:19%
Colombian:8%
Other:3%
The Flexible Schedule program offers employees the
option to accommodate their working schedules every
Monday and Friday , year-round. In addition, the company
has programs focused on clinical examination, disease
prevention campaigns, sports and addictions control,
scholarship and leisure programs for employees’ children,
and loan programs for home improvement and special
situations.
Since 2006, we periodically commission international
consultancy agencies to conduct confidential surveys
among Ternium's employees. We develop corporate and
regional action plans based on the results of these surveys
and tackle areas of opportunity to improve overall labor
climate. In addition, we conduct pulse surveys in order to
evaluate the effectiveness of the new initiatives
implemented to enhance the working experience.
In 2019, we defined 451 new initiatives to improve the
working experience at the company . Our latest poll,
carried out in 2019 in pulse format, included 3,555
salaried employees across our operations and had a
participation rate of 87%. The poll showed overall
satisfaction by 83% of participants.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
58. TerniumTraining  is a key component of Ternium's strategy in its pursuit for performance
excellence.
Development and Training
Our constant pursuit of excellence in Ternium's
operations requires a continuous search for improvement
and innovation from our teams. We believe training is a
key tool to achieve this goal. Over the last five years, each
salaried employee has received an average of 47 hours per
year of training and each hourly employee has received an
average of 107 hours per year of training.
TERNIUM UNIVERSITY
In August 2019, the company inaugurated its corporate
university . With the mission of learning, sharing and
growing, Ternium University provides its employees with
career development activities and programs. In addition,
this project is expected to support the company's business
transformation through its culture, to develop and shape
the company's leadership, and to foster excellence in
technical and functional skills and in the development of
professional networks.
The project, launched in 2018, involved a team of 50
professionals from the Human Resources, Corporate
Communication and Information Technology areas of
the company . Ternium University is expected to be fully
operational during 2021. 
Ternium's corporate university  provides its employees with career development
activities and programs.
Ternium's programs for professionals spans a person’s
entire career, from the initial level as a young professional
to management levels. During 2019, 662 employees
participated in different management academy programs. 
Among these initiatives, the Leaders’ Development
Program provides dedicated training for the company’s
current and future leaders. The course is designed to
enhance middle management leadership skills, as they
advance their careers.
Approximately half of the company’s middle-level
managers have taken part in the program. The leadership
course is a joint effort with the EGADE Business School
of Monterrey , Mexico, and the T orcuato Di Tella
University of Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
Our program for hourly employee supervisors includes a
40-hour course discussing the components of the
supervisory role with a focus on hard and soft skills. This
course has received the Excellence in Practice Award from
the Association for Talent Development. A total of
approximately 1,300 supervisors have completed the
course since its launch in 2015.
59. Sustainability Report 2019HEADCOUNT BY GENDER 
%, DECEMBER 2019
0 20 40 60 80 100Hourly&
Supervisors
Salaried
Management
n Female
n Male     
In addition, Ternium has a program designed for
employees near retirement, and offers outplacement
support to certain managers on a case-by-case basis.
Encouraging Innovative Initiatives
We strive to run safe operations, creating value for our
customers, increasing productivity , enhancing the value
chain's competitiveness, achieving a highly efficient and
sustainable industrial system and establishing a long-term
presence in our thriving communities. These tasks require
our commitment to a continuous quest for excellence and
improvement, and a culture of innovation throughout our
organization. We believe that a fresh approach to old and
new challenges and staying up-to-date with the fast-paced
changes in technology are key elements required to
achieve step changes in our activities, including health and
safety management, environmental stewardship, energy
efficiency , product and process development, training
design and community improvement.
We encourage our employees to team up to develop new
ideas and foster a culture of inclusion and diversity as a
way to facilitate innovative results. During 2019, Ternium
launched, under the company’s Diversity+ program, the
Lean In T ogether initiative. The first stage of the programHEADCOUNT BY AGE 
%, DECEMBER 2019
0 20 40 60 80 100Hourly
Supervisors
Salaried
Management
n More than 50 years
n Between 30 and 50 yearsn Less than 30 years
Training for diversity. 
In 2019, 679 leaders of
diverse nationalities, genders,
cultures and generations were
trained on the value of
diversity in the workplace.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
60. TerniumEMPLOYEES TRAINING 
AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR AND EMPLOYEE.
150
120
90
60
30
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 201961
49
3553
3685
74101
90
7129138
86105
74
n Hourly Employees    
n Hourly employee supervisors
n Salaried employees and management     
included ten pilot networks and 140 participants, with
nine collaborative networks encompassing employees
from the same countries and with different profiles, and
one collaborative network encompassing managers from
different countries. Participants raised their awareness on
identity , unconscious biases, global perspective, cross-
cultural leadership and inclusive spaces, and learned on
the strategic management of differences.
Performance Management
The individual performance of each of Ternium's salaried
employees is assessed annually through a formal
performance assessment process. The results of the
evaluation process drives different aspects of an
employee's corporate life, such as compensation and
career development, training requirements and
performance improvement opportunities.
Ternium relies on a human resources IT system to
manage its performance assessment processes. The
system includes a set of measurable objectives for each
employee under a 360-degree approach to the process.
This is a key component of the performance assessment
process as it ensures that everyone’s goals are in line PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
% OF WHITE COLLAR EMPLOYEES
125
100
75
50
25
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 20198389 87 8782938994 9194
n Upward feedback
n (Internal) client-customer opinion
with the company’s objectives and guarantees
transparency and fairness in the assessment of each
employee’s work throughout the year. 
The evaluation of the accomplishment of objectives is
addressed through a combination of different views: the
actual employee, internal customers, assessment
committees and feedback meetings, as well as mid-year
reviews. The system offers employees additional options
to provide and receive assessments, including the
possibility of submitting client-supplier opinions related
to specific objectives.
In addition, the system includes an upward feedback
tool for management positions accessible to the
manager’s supervisor. Although this tool is not
mandatory , 94% of our managers received feedback in
2019's performance assessments, an indication of the
credibility achieved by Ternium´s procedures. A
performance assessment process based on a measurable
set of objectives is an important aspect of our Human
Resources Policy . It aims at improving our employees’
working experience throughout their careers and their
relationship with their supervisors.
61. Sustainability Report 2019Ternium's 
50th Anniversary
Back in 1969, the company
inaugurated its Ensenada unit
in Argentina, its first facility.
The execution of this greenfield
project and its start-up process,
carried out by a trained and
motivated team of young
professionals, shaped Ternium's
management profile.
THE COMPANY'S FIRST FACILITY
11MONTHS
TOOK THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THE ENSENADA UNIT'S
GREENFIELD FACILITY2,000PEOPLE
WORKING ON THE
FACILITIES'
CONSTRUCTION SITE
3MONTHS
TO GET THE MILL UP
AND RUNNINGA 50 Year Legacy
The startup of a greenfield project constitutes a
memorable milestone for any company . Even more so if
it is the first one.
This is the history of Propulsora Siderúrgica's facility in
Argentina, today the Ensenada unit, which back in 1969
gave shape to the vision and values of Agostino Rocca,
founder of the Techint Group, and the group of young
engineers who decided to embrace a unique industrial
challenge.
Now , as it celebrates its 50th anniversary , its industrial
legacy has expanded around the globe, reflecting the
values and commitment of its founders and the group
of talented engineers who, at a very young age,
embraced the dream of creating an industrial colossus
in what had been an isolated estuary . 
The Challenge
The facilities included a cold-rolling mill and a port
with an annual production capacity of 350,000 tons.
From its inception, Propulsora's plant was envisioned to
become a milestone in the development of the entire
Techint Group.  The development of the project, its
construction and inauguration took 33 months. 
For the company it was not only a complex
technological challenge but a great responsibility , as
Propulsora was expected to meet Argentina’s rapidly
growing demand for steel. But building the mill was not
the only challenge faced by the company at the time.
More importantly , it had to bring together a team of
talented professionals with the skills, passion and
commitment to get it up and running.
The Team
“If you want new things to happen, you need to hire
young people”, said Agostino Rocca at the time. The
company chose to hire young people with little
experience but with optimal development potential,
people with a mental and professional structure prone
to change, flexible, with a strong sense of integration
between personal and business objectives.Ternium's 50th Anniversary
62. TerniumThe company wanted to develop a creative environment
where the weight of all individuals was given by their
specific tasks and responsibilities and not by external
symbols of authority .
Having placed such a huge capital in the hands of
people with great enthusiasm and potential but with
really few developed competencies was definitively not
a minor risk, but it meant a turning point in the
professional profile of the Techint Group.
Training
Even while works at the mill site continued, a group
of close to 120 people traveled to Italy in early 1969
to be trained at an Italsider facility in Novi Ligure.
The experience abroad, in a foreign country , gave
birth to Propulsora’s team spirit, in circumstances
that led people to build stronger ties with their
partners.
Construction of the Facility
The construction of the facilities was completed
within just eleven months by Techint S.A.C.I., which
was responsible for civil works, electrical and
mechanical assembly , with more than 2,000 people
working on the site. 
This was a true EPC (Engineering, Procurement and
Construction) project, which required an integrated
and efficient interaction between the different
functions.
Considering the speed at which decisions had to be
made, observing tight schedules and rigid cost
controls, the organizational autonomy was only
possible thanks to the total harmony between all
different participants.
Start-Up
As the “Novi Ligure team” came back to Ensenada in
September 1969, they were surprised to see that the
mill was already there. However, there was no time to
contemplate the new industrial beauty . 
Ternium's first facility.  50 years later  the company is positioned as Latin
America's leading flat steel producer.
An eleven-month project  built in what used to be an empty marshland.Ternium's 50th Anniversary
63. Sustainability Report 2019Start-up.  By the end of 1969, the Ensenada mill was up and running.
The Ensenada unit.  It took 33 months from project design to the facilities' start-up.Ternium's 50th Anniversary
64. TerniumThe team had now to get it up and running in a
record time of three months. And so they did.
On November 7, 1969, the annealing plant began
operating and the opening of the port took place the
following day . On November 13th, just 26 months after
the main orders were issued, the first steel sheets cut at
the plant began to leave the packing lines.
On December 23, the first coil in the scaling line was
processed and the first cold-rolled coil by Propulsora
was expected to leave the tandem the following day ,
which technically - and symbolically - took place on
Christmas eve.
A few days later, in his year-end wishes to company
employees, Roberto Rocca expressed:
“We have reached the end of this year (1969) with the
satisfaction of having carried out the most important
work of all that we have planned and promoted to date:
Propulsora."
"We focus on it all our capacity , our passion and
professional and entrepreneurial pride to fulfill our
commitment to give the country a modern industrial
plant that contributes to its economic development.”
“Everything has been possible for a unity of efforts,
in which many qualities were combined: vision of the
future, affection for the country , personal drive and
eagerness for progress. Therein lays our success. In
that imponderable predisposition you all have to get
things done.”
"
We have reached the end of
this year (1969) with the
satisfaction of having carried
out the most important work
of all that we have planned
and promoted to date:
Propulsora.”
Roberto Rocca
President of the Techint Group between 1978 and 2001Ternium's 50th Anniversary
65. Sustainability Report 2019Strengthening Ternium's 
Value Chain
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
 
  
  
1,800 SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES
PARTICIPATE IN THIS ENDEVOUR TO STRENGTHEN THEIR
BUSINESSES AND TERNIUM'S VALUE CHAIN.
Goals Measures
Promote a collaborative network to foster excellence performance Engagement of universities and business schools
Engagement of industrial chambers
Engagement of special-purpose governmental agencies
ProPymes  conferences
Help small and medium-sized customers and suppliers grow T raining programs for managers, employees and workers
-Enhance competitiveness and foster capital expendituresAssistance in the development of industrial projects and
management tools
-Identify and pursue business opportunitiesEndorsement of industrial projects before commercial
banks, working capital financing
Assistance in the implementation of institutional projects
Assistance in the development of commercial relationshipsA Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
66. TerniumSmall and medium-sized enterprises in the steel
industry value chain in Argentina are encouraged 
to expand their businesses abroad with the support
of Propymes Exporta . This initiative offers industrial,
commercial and financial support to help
companies achieve their business goals, leveraging
on their export potential.
Ternium offers support to small and medium sized
enterprises (SMEs) through a program that provides a
variety of services, including training, industrial
assistance, institutional assistance, commercial support
and financial aid. With the participation of approximately
1,800 companies, our ProPymes program fosters the
development of the industrial value chain in Mexico and
Argentina. ProPymes  has helped create an industrial
network that encourages the professionalization and quest
for excellence of SMEs, which, based on knowledge
sharing, reciprocal learning and exchange of experiences,
aims at the implementation along the whole value chain
of the best practices utilized in the industry .
Why Should Ternium Help Other Companies?
Ternium believes that its role as a large industrial
company in Latin America is to strengthen its value chain.
The ProPymes  program was first launched in Argentina in
2002, during a deep economic crisis that severely affected
many companies in the steel industry value chain. It has
been named after the acronym PYME, which in Spanish
stands for SME. In Mexico, the program was introduced
four years later.
ProPymes  institutionalizes the cooperation between
Ternium and the company’s small and medium-sized
customers and suppliers. Ternium works with SMEs to help them reach their potential, enhancing their
professional, management and financial capabilities, and
helping them participate competitively in both domestic
and foreign markets. A strengthened value chain fosters, in
turn, the development of industrial infrastructure at
Ternium's main markets, with increased steel demand and
enhanced competitiveness.
ProPymes  Assistance Services
TRAINING
ProPymes  designs and implements an annual training
agenda. The course contents are continuously updated to
offer our customers and suppliers the best available tools
and management practices for their salaried and hourly
employees, as well as for managers. Every year the
program incorporates additional subjects to the
curriculum to meet SMEs' increasingly sophisticated
range of needs, as they advance their learning curves.
T raining activities are performed in-house or at
universities or business schools. During 2019, ProPymes
has sponsored training courses for 5,300 attendants, who
spent an aggregate 87,400 hours in class. 
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
ProPymes ' industrial assistance services focus on a broad
array of issues from the use of automation technology , the  
67. Sustainability Report 2019PROPYMES ' SPONSORED INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
# OF PROJECTS
450
375
300
225
150
75
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019316 307376408451
n Mexico
n Argentina
optimization of production facilities and quality
certifications, to the development of environment, health
and safety protocols and human resources management.
During 2019, ProPymes  assisted 451 SMEs with their
industrial projects.
INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES
ProPymes  institutional assistance helps SMEs develop
strategies aimed at ensuring a level playing field in the
local market, given the potential threat of increased
unfairly traded imports.
Assistance initiatives include those for the setting of
industry chambers, the development of technical
standards for industrial products and those aimed 
at improving SMEs competitiveness. In addition, 
we help SMEs set their own corporate social programs
through the implementation of a support program for
technical educational institutes.
COMMERCIAL SUPPORT
ProPymes  assists suppliers in the development of new
products for Ternium and/or any of its affiliated
companies. In addition, it assists SMEs in the
development process required to become a supplier of
large companies to gain new customers for automotive,PROPYMES  SPONSORED TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
# OF SCHOOLS
50
40
30
20
10
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 20191922243241
 
oil & gas and other industrial sectors.
ProPymes  also offers SMEs the possibility to leveraging on
the Techint Group's global network of commercial offices
in order to enhance their market reach.
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
The financial assistance services aim at fostering
investments to enhance productivity and increase SMEs'
installed capacity . The scope of ProPymes  assistance
includes the development of the project, its budget and
the application for commercial bank financing or
government-sponsored low-cost financing instruments.
Since its creation, the program has helped obtain
financing or financed projects of Ternium's customers
for an amount of $123 million.
Advancing the SMEs Agenda
SMEs making up Ternium’s value chain are key players 
for the social integration of their communities, as they
generate a substantial share of total industrial jobs 
in Latin America. The ProPymes  program plays an
important role in advancing the SME policy agenda 
in Mexico and Argentina.
Ternium organizes major events under the auspices ofA Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
68. TerniumCommunity technical schools are sponsored 
by small and medium-sized enterprises in the
steel industry value chain in Argentina. This
initiative, coordinated by ProPymes  and inspired
by Ternium's Technical Gene community
program, aims at improving the infrastructure of
technical educational institutes, and teachers
and students training activities.
the ProPymes  initiative, bringing SMEs' representatives
together with government officials, economists and
journalists to discuss the sector’s economic context and
outlook. In Mexico, the ProPymes  biannual event
showcases awards for SMEs excelling in areas such as
industrial safety , logistics services, delivery , raw material
handling and other services. The occasion also includes a
Supplier of the Y ear award. In Argentina, the event
features several panels designed to allow SME executives
share their experiences and lessons learned.
ECOSISTEMA PYME
Since 2017, the Argentine government sponsors the
Ecosistema Pyme  program, or SME Ecosystem, 
which considers the ProPymes  program a model to be
replicated by other large companies in the support 
of their sector's value chain.
In Argentina, the stories of SMEs that are part of
Ternium’s ProPymes  program appeared in video-
narrations published in the web platform of one of the
country’s largest media groups and have been widely
circulated on social media. Different companies owners
were featured sharing how their enterprises started and
grew , the difficulties they had to overcome, and the
potential they envision for the future.
18th ProPymes' seminar  in Argentina.
69. Sustainability Report 2019Helping Our
Communities Thrive
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
 
  
  
 
  
$60 MILLION
INVESTED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS 
TO FOSTER EDUCATION AND LIFE QUALITY.
Goals Measures
Foster educationConstruction and operation of a technical school (ETRR in
Pesquería) and sponsorship of other technical schools
-Achieve excellence in technical education Maintenance and refurbishing of community schools
-Support schools and outstanding students Implementation of a special education program for children
Financial support to high-school, undergraduate and
graduate students
Support initiatives that strengthen our communities Funding of health care infrastructure and equipment
-Fund health care infrastructure and humanitarian initiatives Construction and operation of a field hospital (COVID-19)
-Promote cultural activities Building and donation of houses and a school (earthquake)
-Foster sport activities Sponsorship of diverse cultural exhibitions and events
Arrangement of city races and other sport activitiesA Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
70. TerniumRoberto Rocca Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico. In  2019, the first cohort of students graduated from the school after three years of study.
Our community programs reflect over seven decades of
the Techint Group's worldwide industrial tradition. The
principle guiding our work is that an industrial project
like ours can only be sustainable if community and
industry grow together. In recent years, we have
concentrated our community action on four main
areas: education, culture, volunteer work and health.
Our strategic programs were designed to be
implemented at local level, taking into account the
particular circumstances of each community where we
operate. 
We believe that education is the key to prosperous
community growth and have developed educational
programs covering the entire school cycle, from
elementary to higher level, helping all children to fulfill
their potential and become active contributors to
society . In 2019, 70% of our $6,6 million community
relations budget was invested in education.
As a multi-cultural and multi-lingual company , we
enrich and broaden people’s cultural horizons in the
communities where we work, fostering diversity and
inclusion by promoting cultural activities. 
We encourage our employees to volunteer for
community activities aimed at helping those in need, with a special focus on refurbishing schools, as a way of
cultivating pride and integration in our communities.
With the aim of improving people's life quality and
fostering welfare, we support health care initiatives
mainly by funding improvements in the health care
infrastructure of Ternium's communities. More
recently , Ternium launched a special $5.5 million
funding program to strengthen health care
infrastructure to face the COVID-19 outbreak at its
communities in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and
Colombia.
Developing High Standards of Technical Education
The Roberto Rocca Technical Schools program
(ETRR, for its acronym in Spanish), which operates
purpose-built schools, was launched to educate high
school students from our communities using
innovative teaching methods and the latest
technology in both classroom and laboratory . The
schools, named after one of the company’s founders,
is dedicated to promoting technical education and
enterprise, offering students different levels of
scholarships, depending on their needs.
The first school, inaugurated in 2013 in the city of
Campana, Argentina by our sister company Tenaris, 
71. Sustainability Report 2019COMMUNITY PROGRAMS 
$ MILLION
25
20
15
10
5
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 20198.223.7
12.6
9.5
6.6
n Ongoing programs
n Construction of Roberto Rocca Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico
has a capacity of 420 students. In 2016, Ternium
opened a second technical school, which now has 372
students in the town of Pesquería, Nuevo León,
Mexico. 
In 2019, both schools saw their first classes graduate
after three years of study in Mexico and seven years
in Argentina. Many of these students are the first in
their families to finish high school and go on to
university . Like their peers in European countries,
ETRR Pesquería students receive 1,600 hours of
teaching per year, as well as more than 600 hours of
industrial internships.
In order to help students develop Industry 4.0 skills, we
have adapted the Maker project-based-learning
teaching methodology to encourage them to think in
different ways, fostering innovation and teamwork, as
well as other personal abilities including critical
thinking and communication skills. In 2019, we trained
15 teachers to use this methodology; students produced
97 projects they subsequently exhibited, putting some
into practice to benefit their local communities. ETRR
students participated in the World Educational Robot
Contest (WER) with one team participating at the
international finals in Shangai, China.SUPPORT IN NUMBERS
$29MILLION
INVESTED IN OUR FLAGSHIP EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAM, THE ROBERTO ROCCA TECHNICAL
SCHOOL IN PESQUERÍA, MEXICO
1,200SCHOLARSHIPS
FOR HIGH SCHOOL AND UNDERGRADUATE
STUDENTS UNDER SEVERAL PROGRAMS
We believe that academic excellence is fostered by
gifted teachers who are truly committed to both
students and the community . In 2015, the ETRR
pioneered in Argentina a comprehensive teacher
performance assessment system, involving student
surveys, on-the-ground class observation, and school
committee evaluation. The ability to benchmark and
guide improvement is the cornerstone of our teacher
development plan, which rewards performance,
attendance, the use of technology and training.
During 2019, 23 teachers were evaluated and 3,777
training hours were provided in Mexico as part of
their continuous development.
In October 2019, during the annual worldsteel
assembly in Monterrey , Mexico, Ternium received 
the Steelie Award for “Excellence in Education and
T raining” on account of the work done in the
Pesquería ETRR. As creativity and self-expression 
are essential to our students’ all-round development,
we organized the second Literary Contest for the
Roberto Rocca Technical School's network as part 
of our literary activity program. The winning pieces
were presented at the International Book Fair in
Monterrey , Mexico.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
72. TerniumTECHNICAL GENE PROGRAM
# OF PARTICIPANTS
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 20191,5831,5012,215
1,5782,077
n Teachers
n Students
Strengthening Technical Education Community-Wide
The Technical Gene program provides support for
infrastructure and equipment, as well as teacher
training, school management and on-the-job training
internships for high-school students, sharing teaching
and learning practices, and concepts developed in the
Roberto Rocca Technical Schools program.
It provides opportunities for high-school students in
our local communities to develop industry 4.0 skills by
offering them specific tools to guide their learning.
In addition to providing infrastructure and equipment,
the focus of the program is to train students and bring
schools closer to industry , an approach that also
includes on-the-job internships. Furthermore, a project
was launched in San Nicolás and Ramallo to improve
maths teaching skills. 21 teachers at five technical high-
schools participated in the project, causing a direct
impact on 571 students.
The third edition of Technical Gene Makers was held in
San Nicolás and 105 students participated and
brainstormed innovative projects to add value to the
local community .AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM PARTICIPATION
# OF STUDENTS
300
240
180
120
60
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019196214252266 270
Quality Education for the Communities
Ternium has different programs aimed at improving
skills and education in developing communities near
its facilities. We organize workshop academies in
Pihuamo, Aquila and Alzada in Mexico. In addition,
through the AfterSchool program, we provide
support to primary schools in San Nicolás de los
Garza, Mexico, and in Ramallo, Argentina. The
AfterSchool Program was designed for communities
with considerable school dropout rates. Last year, in
the two countries hosting the program, 270 children
aged between six and twelve enrolled in these
activities. 
Focused on STEM subjects (Science, Technology ,
Engineering, Math), the program offers primary
school children extra hours of quality education
four days a week to encourage them to commit to
learning and further their personal development in
the longer term. During 2019, we strengthened the
AfterSchool model with new maths content and
related project-based learning methodologies. After
just one year, the results showed students had
improved their maths skills from those of a low
level at a low-performing school to the
73. Sustainability Report 2019equivalent of a medium level at a mid-performing
school, amounting to the progress of an entire year.
Participants not only improved their maths abilities
but also developed other life skills and a sense of
purpose after attending the program for several years:
84% of students improved their perseverance, 83%
improved critical thinking, and more than 75% are
keen to pursue STEM careers.
Encouraging Excellence Among High-School Students
Launched in 1976 in Argentina, the Merit Awards
program was initially designed to benefit the
children of Ternium's employees but has long since
been extended to the wider community . It focuses on
stimulating academic performance and commitment
among high-school students living in our
communities.
In 2019, we awarded 759 scholarships to outstanding
students in six countries, including Brazil for the
first time. In addition, we launched a pilot project in
Brazil, for eligible students, for the on-line
application to 60 high-school scholarships.Roberto Rocca Education Program
The Roberto Rocca Education Program awards
fellowships and scholarships to promote engineering
and applied sciences studies at undergraduate and
graduate level in countries where we have a major
presence. In 2019, the program funded 15 fellowships
for students pursuing for their PhDs at universities
outside their country , and 305 scholarships for
undergraduate students at universities in their home
countries. In addition, the program was implemented
for the first time in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
We also reinforced our relationships with universities
based in the UK, The Netherlands and Germany ,
with two PhD fellows currently carrying out their
industrial practices at our R&D centers and five visits
from other PhD fellows. In addition, we held three
webinars and are pursuing quarterly follow-up
activities with each university .
Culture and Tradition to Foster Diversity and Integration
For Ternium and its sister companies in the Techint
Group, art and culture are a source of innovation as
well as a means of celebrating diversity and exploring
Improving schools.  300 employees, teachers, graduates and relatives volunteered to enhance the Roberto Coelho municipal school in Santa Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
74. TerniumMERIT AWARDS
# OF SCHOLARSHIPS
800
640
480
320
160
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019565637
544712759
humanity . The cornerstone of our cultural activities is
based on our association with the PROA Foundation,
which in addition to its activities in the community in
Buenos Aires, provides us with invaluable expertise
and experience to guide us in the selection and
development of content in our arts programs. 
In 2019, Ternium earmarked 21% of its community
budget for cultural activities in 3 countries. In 2019,
together with the PROA Foundation, we organized 5
film festivals in Mexico and Argentina, attracting a
total of 11.604 participants to 35 screenings. Also,
under the guidance of the PROA Foundation, we
collect and preserve photographic data recording the
history of the locations and communities where we
operate.
Volunteering: Making a Difference
We are committed to making a difference and
strengthening a sense of pride in belonging to the
communities where we operate. Ternium employees
and their families regularly volunteer to improve local
school infrastructure, joining students, their relatives,
school teachers and neighbors in this effort. In 2019, a
total of 1,878 volunteers in Argentina, Brazil,
Colombia, Guatemala and Mexico joined efforts to
transform schools, putting in 16,611 hours of volunteer ROBERTO ROCCA EDUCATION PROGRAM
# OF SCHOLARSHIPS
300
240
180
120
60
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019282
234239276305
time.  The activities involved Ternium employees
working together with members of the local
community to refurbish school buildings, lead
classroom readings and share vocational talks to 
students in schools in vulnerable areas, not only an
opportunity to improve infrastructure but also to
strengthen personal relationships.
During 2019, 191 houses and a high-school were
delivered in the municipalities of Reforma de
Pineda and Santiago Laollaga in Oaxaca, Mexico.
In 2017, the area was hit by a 7.1-scale earthquake.
This endeavor was funded by Ternium and sister
companies in the Techint Group, as well as by their
employees.
For almost three decades, T oni Ruttiman, who
continues to be a source of inspiration for us at
Ternium, has worked to unite communities. He has
helped to bring together the lives of more than two
million people in Latin America and South East
Asia, by building suspension bridges with
collaboration from those who then benefit from
them. So far, he has built 835 bridges in 13
countries, with support from Ternium, which has
donated 839 tons of material to his singular but
far-sighted mission.
75. Sustainability Report 2019Making the difference. Ternium, its sister
companies in the Techint Group and
employees funded the construction of 191
houses and the rebuilding of a high-school in
Oaxaca, Mexico, an area hit by a 7.1-scale
earthquake in 2017.
Sports and a Healthy Lifestyle
As part of our drive to promote a healthy lifestyle, we
organize the 10K Ternium annual local race in several
locations, together with local institutions. In 2019,
approximately 4,000 runners participated in the 15th
edition of the 10K Ternium in San Nicolás,
Argentina; 5,000 runners participated in the 11th
edition of the race in Monterrey , Mexico; 1,500
runners participated in the 8th edition of the race in
Colima, Mexico; 1,200 runners participated in the
2nd edition of the race in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and
1,200 runners participated in the 2nd edition of the
race in Villa Nueva, Guatemala.
In addition, we organize sport leagues involving
schools in neighboring communities. Regarding
health care initiatives, the company supports and
funds a basic health care unit in Aquila, Mexico, and
funds improvements in health care infrastructure in
different countries. In addition, we organize health
fairs, clinical examinations, and disease and
addiction prevention campaigns. 
SPECIAL FUNDING PROGRAM FOR COVID-19 OUTBREAK
In response to the COVID-19 outbreak at the end of2019, we designed a consistent reinforcement plan
together with the directors of key hospitals in each of
Ternium's  communities. The plan considered the age 
of the local population and the availability of health
care infrastructure, such as intensive care units (ICUs)
and protective gear, among other medical equipment.
In Monterrey , Mexico, Ternium has built in record time
and is operating a field hospital, taking advantage of
the operations of Clínica Nova , the company's local
health care unit. The field hospital has 100 beds and 10
ICUs for people without health insurance.
In Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the company has supplied 25
ICUs and ventilators to two local hospitals, and has
partnered with Senai , a national network of technical
schools, to repair out-of-use ventilators from local
hospitals. In Ensenada, Argentina, Ternium supplied
100 beds to a field hospital. The company also supplied
ICU equipment and protection gear for doctors. All-in-
all, more than 90 ventilators, 1,700 medical equipment
and 170,000 safety kits for health professionals were
donated to 14 hospitals and health care facilities in four
countries.
In addition, Ternium manufactured face masks at its A Comprehensive Approach to Value Creation
76. TerniumField hospital in Monterrey, Mexico.  In the context of the COVID-19 outbreak, Ternium is very actively helping its communities face these difficult times.
 
facilities and in the ETRR for doctors and first
responders. Furthermore, the company offered support
to local entrepreneurs for manufacturing ventilators,
and to hospitals for adapting their facilities.
T o foster the sharing of knowledge on treating
COVID-19, we created a network of medical
professionals alongside our sister company Tenaris.
Seventy doctors from local communities in Mexico,
Argentina and Brazil participated in a virtual
meeting with their colleagues at Humanitas, an
Italian network of hospitals controlled by the
Techint Group. Through this platform, Humanitas'
know-how on dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak
in Italy is available at a public virtual campus. 
Alongside the Fundación Hermanos Agustín y
Enrique Rocca  (Agustín y Enrique Rocca Brothers
Foundation), and Tenaris, Ternium contributed
20,000 boxes of food for vulnerable families through
the #SeamosUno project in Argentina. In addition,
Ternium provided food support for 446 families of
children participating at its education programs in
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and for 44 families of students
at the ETRR in Pesquería, Mexico.FIELD HOSPITAL IN MONTERREY, MEXICO, 
TO FACE THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK
100BEDS
IN A NEW FACILITY BUILT 
AND OPERATED BY TERNIUM 
TO STRENGTHEN THE COMMUNITY'S 
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
10FULLY-EQUIPED ADDITIONAL 
UNITS
FOR INTENSIVE CARE
77. Sustainability Report 201978. TerniumIntegrity is key to Ternium's long-term
sustainability. With ethical behavior and 
the observance of law as a core company
value, we continuously work on building a
corporate culture of transparency.  
64ON-SITE TRAINING SESSIONS
ON TERNIUM'S POLICY ON 
BUSINESS CONDUCT IN 2019.878ON-SITE PARTICIPANTS
FROM MEXICO, ARGENTINA, 
BRAZIL, COLOMBIA AND GUATEMALA.325THIRD-PARTY EMPLOYEES
COMPLETED MANDATORY 
TRAINING ON E-LEARNING.Commitment to Integrity
79. Sustainability Report 2019   Commitment to Integrity through Strong Corporate Governance 
• Audit committee (three independent directors) 
• Internal Audit Department reporting to the Chairman 
   and the Audit Committee 
• Business Conduct Compliance Officer reporting to the CEO 
• Compliance department that oversees SOX certifications,  
   related party transactions and conflict minerals 
• Employee training and accountability to ensure 
   transparent behavior 
• Confidential channels to report non-compliant behavior
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
 
Ternium S.A. is organized as a public limited liability
company (société anonyme) under the laws of the
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The Company holds
controlling stakes in steel companies operating in Latin
America and the Southern United States. San Faustin
S.A., the holding company of the Techint Group, an
international group of companies, has a 62% indirect
controlling interest in Ternium.
San Faustin also has controlling interests in Tenaris, a
global supplier of steel pipes and related services
mainly for the energy industry , which holds an
additional 11% interest in Ternium; Tecpetrol, an oil
and gas company; Techint, an engineering and  
 
construction company; Tenova, a supplier of
equipment and technology for iron mining and steel;
and Humanitas, a network of hospitals in Italy .
The Company has an authorized share capital of a
single class of 3.5 billion shares having a nominal value
of $1.00 per share entitling one vote each. As of
December 31, 2019, there were 2,004,743,442 shares
issued and outstanding, of which 41,666,666 were held
in treasury .
The Company’s ADSs are listed in the New Y ork Stock
Exchange. Each ADS represents ten shares. Holders of
ADSs only have those rights that are expressly granted
to them in the deposit agreement dated January 31,
2006, among the Company , The Bank of New Y ork
Mellon (formerly The Bank of New Y ork), as
depositary , and all owners and beneficial owners from
time to time of ADRs of the Company . ADS holders
may not attend or directly exercise voting rights in
shareholders’ meetings, but may instruct the depositary
how to exercise the voting rights for the shares which
underlie their ADSs. Holders of ADSs maintaining
non-certificated positions must follow instructions
given by their broker or custodian bank.Commitment to Integrity
80. TerniumSelect Codes Policies Procedures
 
Code of Conduct
–––
Code of Conduct 
for Suppliers
–––
Code of Ethics for Senior 
Financial Officers 
Business Conduct
–––
Transparency
–––
Anti-Fraud
–––
Securities Trading
–––
Diversity and Work Environment 
Free of Harassment
–––
Human Rights 
Disclosure Procedure 
(relevant information)
–––
Transactions Between 
Related Parties
–––
Conflict Mineral Disclosure
 
Our articles of association provide that our annual
ordinary general shareholders’ meetings shall take place
in  Luxembourg, or in a foreign country whenever
circumstances of force majeure take place, within six
months from the end of the previous financial year.
There are no limitations currently imposed by
Luxembourg law on the rights of non-resident
shareholders to hold or vote the Company’s shares.
The Company’s Board of Directors is currently
comprised of nine directors (eight male and one
female). Four directors are independent under the
articles of association and SEC regulations applicable
to foreign private issuers. The Board of Directors has
an Audit Committee consisting of three independent
members. The charter of the Audit Committee sets
forth, among other things, the Audit Committee’s
purpose and responsibilities, which include the
responsibility to review material transactions with
related parties to determine whether their terms are
consistent with market conditions or are otherwise fair
to the Company and/or its subsidiaries. In addition, the
Audit Committee reports to the Board of Directors on
the adequacy of the systems of internal control over
financial reporting. 
Ternium has adopted a Code of Conduct incorporating
guidelines and standards of integrity and transparency
that apply to all directors, officers and employees. The
Code of Conduct is periodically reviewed to bring it up
to date with the latest trends and incorporate new
provisions, if applicable.
In addition, the company has adopted a Code of Ethics
for Senior Financial Officers, a T ransparency Policy
governing relationships with third parties, a Policy on
Business Conduct, a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, an
Anti-fraud Policy , a Policy on Securities T rading, a
Human Rights Policy and a Policy on Diversity and
Work Environment Free of Harassment.
All members of Ternium's Board of Directors, all of its
senior managers and 99.7% of its white collar
employees (salaried employees and managers, excluding
hourly employee supervisors) have acknowledged and
committed to abide by its Code of Conduct and Policy
on Business Conduct.
Ternium has an Internal Audit area that reports to the
Chairman of the Board of Directors and, with respect
to internal control over financial reporting, to the Audit 
81. Sustainability Report 2019Committee. The Internal Audit area evaluates and
reassures the effectiveness of internal control processes,
risk management and governance.
Risk Management
Ternium has an established process of risk
identification and management. At the helm is the
company's Critical Risk Committee (CRC), which
assists the CEO on the subject. While management is
responsible for identifying and managing risks, the
CRC facilitates the identification and assessment of
critical risks, the development of mitigating actions and
the monitoring of action plans. Critical risks are
escalated through the usual reporting lines and
decision-making is the responsibility of managers.
The CRC focuses on risks considered critical to the
company’s assets, operations or reputation. Ternium
has categorized risks according to the potential area
impacted, the likelihood of their occurrence and the
severity of an eventual impact. The main identified
risks include major accidents impacting our operations,
cybercrime and environmental accidents. Recently , the CRC has focused its attention on the main actions and 
mitigation plans to tackle the consequences of the
COVID-19 outbreak to ensure business continuity . 
Business Conduct Compliance Program
Ternium has developed a Business Conduct
Compliance Program with the objective to prevent and
mitigate bribery and corruption risks. The Compliance
Program involves white collar employees and is aimed
at promoting the implementation of best practices in
business conduct internally and also regarding the
relations with customers, suppliers, state-controlled
entities and other third parties.
Ternium has appointed a Business Conduct
Compliance Officer reporting to the CEO of the
Company , who has responsibility for identifying and
mitigating corruption risks and fostering a culture of
ethical and transparent conduct, and for designing,
implementing and supervising the Compliance Program
aligned with the requirement of applicable national and
international laws against corruption and bribery , such
as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).
Code of Conduct for Suppliers.  Ensuring that governance standards are in place, including ethics, health, safety, human rights and environmental stewardship
commitments.Commitment to Integrity
82. TerniumAll members of Ternium's Board of Directors, all
of its senior managers and 99.7% of its white
collar employees have acknowledged and
committed to abide by its Code of Conduct and
Policy on Business Conduct as of December 31,
2019.
The Business Conduct Compliance team has local
presence in the main locations where the company
has businesses. The Business Conduct Compliance
Program is focused on preventive measures like risk
assessment, normative design, communication,
advisory , training, certification, monitoring and
auditing, including third parties. The function also
includes disciplinary actions, remediation and
benchmarking. Activities are implemented based on a
periodic risk assessment that enables us to identify
key factors to be stressed on, particularly at training
and risk prevention sessions, based on the employees'
likely exposure to conflicting situations.
Consequently , only white collar employees
participate in the program, while hourly employees
and their supervisors are excluded.
Ternium’s Code of Conduct and Policy on Business
Conduct clearly define that any corrupt payment is
strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated; they also
include specific guidelines regarding due diligence when
hiring third-parties that act on behalf of Ternium.
Charitable and political contributions, as well as
hospitality expenses to third parties (meals, gifts and
business trips) are regulated by internal procedures.
Facilitating payments are forbidden. Communication is
essential to build an ethical culture.Ternium maintains regular communications with its
directors, senior managers and employees in order to
raise their awareness and keep them alert on possible
corruption risks, and to remind them of the applicable
principles and regulations. This program includes top-
down messages, management meetings, newsletters,
articles and announcements on the company's intranet.
The company encourages active participation of all
areas, emphasizing the importance of asking for
guidance in case of red flags or ambiguous situations.
Ternium has defined specific procedures for hiring
professional services providers that act on behalf of or
otherwise represent the company before governmental
entities, including those retained to assist in obtaining
permits or licenses, customs brokers, advisers and law
firms. These procedures include a due diligence process,
internal authorizations and contract provisions to
ensure third-party’s commitment to Ternium’s anti-
bribery policies. 
Monitoring procedures and audits are carried out
regularly to validate the effective implementation of the
Compliance Program and the investigation of any
conduct contrary to the Policy on Business Conduct or
its principles.
83. Sustainability Report 2019Training Program for Third-Party Employees.  Ternium's anti bribery training program also reaches third parties that represent or act on behalf of the company.
Training on Anti-Bribery Policies and Procedures
Ternium has implemented an extensive training
program on anti-bribery policies and procedures for its
white collar employees. This program enables the
company's senior management to engage the
organization behind Ternium's ethical commitment,
with a clear set of guidelines and by sharing their
values. All white collar employees participate in an on-
line mandatory training program and, according to
their level of exposure, in an on-site training program
as well. 98.2% of Ternium's white collar employees
have completed the mandatory training course on the
company's Policy on Business Conduct in e-learning
format. In 2019, Ternium delivered 64 on-site training
sessions to 878 employees in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil,
Colombia and Guatemala.
Our anti-bribery training program also reaches third
parties that represent or act on behalf of Ternium. 325
third-party employees have completed Ternium's
mandatory training program on corruption prevention,
which has been implemented in e-learning format.Code of Conduct for Suppliers
Ternium purchases most of its supplies through Exiros,
a specialized procurement company whose ownership
we share with Tenaris. Ternium’s suppliers undergo,
through Exiros, a rigorous process of selection to
ensure governance standards are in place, in line with
applicable laws and regulations and our Code of
Conduct for Suppliers, which includes, among other
items, ethical behavior, compliance with the law , and
health, safety , human rights and environmental
stewardship commitments.
 
Compliance Line
Ternium established and encourages the use of a web-
based confidential Compliance Line. The company’s
compliance line serves as a channel for confidential
communication and is available to all employees,
suppliers, customers and other stakeholders who wish
to report all types of alleged breaches of the Code of
Conduct and its principles. Ternium's Compliance Line
is available in Spanish, Portuguese and English.Commitment to Integrity
84. TerniumA Transparency Policy  governs the relationships with third parties.
Both the identity of the individual who reports an
issue as well as the issue itself are treated in a
strictly confidential manner, to the extent
permitted by relevant legislation. Anonymous
reporting is also possible. Internal Audit, which is
independent from all operational areas, analyzes
all reports received and is supervised by the Audit
Committee for issues related to financial
reporting.
Ternium implements the necessary actions to
avoid retaliation against those who use the
Compliance Line in good faith. In 2019, 46% of
analyzed complaints ended up in disciplinary
actions, including dismissals and termination of
commercial relationships. The reports have also
helped to improve the company’s internal control
environment. Although complaints can be
anonymous, in 52% of cases the complainants
have identified themselves.COMPLIANCE LINE
46%OF ANALYZED COMPLAINTS
ENDED UP IN DISCIPLINARY
ACTIONS.
24/7ON-LINE ACCESS
IN SPANISH, PORTUGUESE
AND ENGLISH.
Shareholders' Compliance Line
In addition, Ternium has a web-based confidential
channel for investors to communicate their concerns
directly to the company's Audit Committee, which is
composed of independent directors. All
communications received through the Shareholders'
Compliance Line are reviewed by our Internal Audit
Director. The status of all concerns received through
the Shareholders' Compliance Line is reported to the
company's Audit Committee.
85. Sustainability Report 2019Board of Directors Senior Management
Chairman Paolo Rocca Chief Executive Officer Máximo Vedoya
Vice-Chairman Daniel Novegil Chief Financial Officer Pablo Brizzio
Ubaldo Aguirre (*)Ternium Mexico César Alejandro
Roberto Bonatti President Jiménez
Carlos Condorelli
Vincent Decalf (*)Ternium Argentina Martín Berardi
Gioia Ghezzi (*)President
Adrián Lajous (*)
Gianfelice Rocca Ternium Brasil Marcelo Chara
President
Secretary Arturo Sporleder
International Business Unit Héctor Obeso
President Zunzunegui
Audit Committee Planning and Global Oscar Montero
Business Development
Chairman Vincent Decalf (*)General Director
Ubaldo Aguirre (*)
Adrián Lajous (*)Engineering, Industrial Pablo Hernán Bassi
Coordination and EHS
(*) Independent Directors Director
Quality Director Rubén Herrera
Chief Information Officer Roberto Demidchuk
Human Resources Rodrigo Piña
DirectorBoard of Directors and Senior Management
86. TerniumInvestor Relations and Compliance
Director IR Inquiries
Sebastián  Martí TERNIUM Investor Relations
smarti@ternium.com ir@ternium.com
Phone: +54 11 4018 8389
U.S. toll free: 866 890 0443
Luxembourg Office ADS Depositary Bank
26, Boulevard Royal - 4th floor Bank of New Y ork Mellon
L2449 - Luxembourg BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
Luxembourg P .O. Box 505000
Phone: +352 2668 3152 Louisville, KY 40233-5000
Fax: +352 2659 8349
Stock Information
New Y ork Stock Exchange (TX)
CUSIP Number: 880890108
Internet
www .ternium.comInvestor Information
87. Sustainability Report 201988. TerniumGRI and UN Global Compact
Information
89. Sustainability Report 2019Ternium's Sustainability Report for the year 2019 
follows the core option of the reporting levels of the
Global Reporting Initiative standard. 
Materiality Analysis for Ternium's Sustainability Report
Ternium's sustainability report’s content was redefined
according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability
Context, Materiality and Completeness. A Materiality
Analysis was carried out according to the GRI four-step
process that an organization may go through in order
to define the document’s specific content.
Key economic, social and environmental topics were
identified through a combination of industry research
and benchmarking, international standards and
priority subjects (Identification), and then prioritized
through a stakeholder consultation process that
compiled a total of 1256 responses from employees,
suppliers, customers, community organizations,
business associations, investors, press, and academic
institutions (Prioritization). T o conclude the selection
of material topics, the results were examined
considering the company’s long-term strategy and the
programs implemented, resulting in a Materiality
Matrix that combines both perspectives (Validation). 
MATERIALITY MATRIX
The Materiality Matrix in the following page presents
the economic, environmental and social topics that
were defined as a priority to include in our 2019
Sustainability Report. They are informed according to
GRI Standard core option of the reporting levels
throughout the document and, in order to facilitate
access, indexed in the following sections.SIGNIFICANT PARTICIPATION IN TERNIUM'S 
MATERIALITY SURVEY
1,300STAKEHOLDERS
SHARED THEIR PRIORITY
PERCEPTIONS ABOUT
TERNIUM'S BUSINESS.
22TOPICS
RANKED WITHIN THREE 
CATEGORIES:
ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND
ENVIRONMENTAL.Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
90. Ternium––––––––––––––––
• Economic topics
• Environmental topics
• Social topics
91. Sustainability Report 2019GRI Index
Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Page
General
Disclosures
Organization Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 3
GRI 102-2Activities, brands, products, and services
  W e do not sell products that are banned in certain
   markets or that were the subject of  stakeholder
   questions or public debate.7-13
GRI 102-3Location of headquarters
Principal executive offices87
GRI 102-4 Location of operations 10-11
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 79-85
GRI 102-6 Markets served 7-13
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 7-13
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 56-61
GRI 102-9 Supply chain10-11 22-33
See 20-F 2019
GRI 102-10Significant changes to the organization and its supply
chain10-11 22-33
See 20-F 2019
GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 4-5
GRI 102-12 External initiatives 4-5
GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations 22-33
Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 15-17 34-37
Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 79-85
Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 79-85 98-100
Stakeholder
engagementGRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 90
GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 97
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 19-21  90
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 90-91
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 90-91
Reporting Practices GRI 102-45Entities included in the consolidated financial
statementsSee 20-F 2019
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 4-5
GRI 102-47 List of material topics 90-91 92-94Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
92. TerniumGRI Index (cont.)
Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Page
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information See 20-F 2019
GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 4-5
GRI 102-50 Reporting period 4-5
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report: 2019-03-19
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle: Annual
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 87
GRI 102-54Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI
Standards90-91
GRI 102-55 GRI content index 92-94
GRI 102-56External assurance
At the time of  the report, external assurance is not
mandatory
Material Topic
Economic Performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed * 19-21
GRI 202-2Proportion of senior management hired from the
local community56-61
GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 22-33 46-55
Ethics and integrity GRI 205-2Communication and training about anticorruption
policies and procedures79-85
Environmental topics GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 46-55 95-96
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 46-55 95-96
GRI 303-1Interactions with water as a shared resource 46-55
GRI 303-2Management of water discharge-related impacts 46-55
GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 46-55 95-96
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 46-55
GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 46-55 95-96
GRI 307-1Non-compliance with environmental laws and
regulations46-55
Social topics GRI 401-2Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not
provided to temporary or part-time employees56-61
GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 38-45
GRI 403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident
investigation38-45
93. Sustainability Report 2019GRI Index (cont.)
Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Page
GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 38-45
GRI 403-4Worker participation, consultation, and
communication on occupational health and safety38-45
GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 38-45
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health 38-45
GRI 403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and
safety impacts directly linked by business38-45
GRI 403-8Workers covered by an occupational health and safety
management system100
GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 100
GRI 404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
assistance programs.56-61
GRI 404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular
performance and career development reviews100-101
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 97-100
GRI 413-1Operations with local community engagement,
impact assessments, and development programs70-77
*“Direct Economic Value Generated” equals net sales plus interest income, proceeds from the sale of property, plant & equipment, other operating income, equity
in earnings of associated companies and inflation adjustment results, less other financial losses. “Employees” equals labor costs. “Taxes” equals current income
tax expense plus cost of sales and SG&A taxes, less the effect of changes in tax law. “Suppliers” equals cost of sales plus SG&A, less labor costs, depreciation of
property, plant and equipment, amortization of intangible assets, allowance for obsolescence, cost of sales and SG&A taxes, R&D expenditures and community
investments ($6.6 million). “Capital Providers” equals dividends paid in cash to company's shareholders and non-controlling interest, plus interest expense.Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
94. TerniumHistorical Data
In this section, Ternium compiled the historical data
and additional information related to the selected
environmental and social topics for its 2019
Sustainability Report, according to the materiality  matrix. Historical data related to the selected economic
topics has been compiled in the table on page 33. Also,
the company compiled in this section additional data
that it deemed relevant to disclose.
Environmental Topics
2017 2018 2019
Environmental and Energy Management
Systems
% of Employees and Contractors Working in Registered
Production Facilities% 74.5% 97.4% 97.9%
% of steel produced under ISO 14001 certificated
facilities% 58% 100% 100%
% of steel produced under ISO 50001 certificated
facilities% 42% 42% 63%
Mining operations certified with ISO 14001 % operations 50% 50% 100%
Investment in Environment and Energy $ million 70.8 73.1 69.5
Energy and Emissions
Energy intensity[GJ/ton crude
steel]21.8 21.1 21.7
Emission intensity[t CO 2/ton crude
steel]1.8 1.7 1.8
Direct Emission - scope 1[t CO 2/ton crude
steel]1.7 1.6 1.6
Energy upstream emissions - scope 2[t CO 2/ton crude
steel]0.0 0.0 0.1
Other upstream emissions - scope 3[t CO 2/ton crude
steel]0.1 0.1 0.1
Water and Effluents*
Subsurface water intakethousand cubic
meters10,742 10,040           9,439
Provision from third parties treated waterthousand cubic
meters3,683 4,357             4,229
Provision from municipalitythousand cubic
meters59 62             41 
Provision from municipal sewagethousand cubic
meters3,142 3,422           3,093
95. Sustainability Report 2019Environmental Topics (cont.)
2017 2018 2019
Internal recycled waterthousand cubic
meters1,740 1,682 1,390
Water withdrawal intensity for Mexican steel shops[m3/ ton crude
steel]4.4 4.3 4.3
Fresh water millions m38.6 9.5 8.8
Other water millions m310.7 10.0 9.4
*The information regarding water and effluents is only reported for the production facilities in Mexico placed in areas of water-scarce
Materials and waste
Material Efficiency % 99.7% 99.6% 99.6%
Steel scrap recycled million tons 2.5 2.9 2.8
Co Products* million tons 2.8 5.0 4.8
Recycled input materials used (steel scrap/new steel)* % 33% 27% 27%
Blast Furnace slag to cement industry* million tons 1.2 1.9 1.7
MixRock® to cement industry thousands tons 89.8 94.4 86.0
Annual weight of tailings waste (mining) million tons 4.1 4.6 4.5
Accumulated total weight of tailings waste (mining) million tons 61.2 75.4 79.9
Hazardous and Non hazardous Waste sent to Landfill thousands tons 34.5 68.3 60.3
Hazardous and Non hazardous Waste sent 
to co-processingthousands tons 0.1 0.1 0.1
*Blast furnace from Rio de Janeiro unit was incorporated in September 2017
Waste by type and disposal method
The disclosure between hazardous and non hazardous wastes, was not available for all Ternium operations. It will be included in the 2020 Sustainability Report.Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
96. TerniumSocial Topics
2017 2018 2019
Headcount
Management # of People           466             478 494 
Salaried # of People        3,508          3,478 3,402
Hourly # of People      15,977         15,377 14,808
Supervisors # of People        1,402          1,327 1,357
Total # of People      21,353 20,660 20,061
Employees covered by collective bargaining
agreements*% 70% 70% 68%
*Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements for the year 2017 does not consider headcount from Brazil's facility
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Management by gender, age and nationality
Male % 92% 92% 92%
Female % 8% 8% 8%
30-50 years old % 60% 61% 62%
over 50 years old % 40% 39% 38%
Argentine % 30% 29% 29%
Mexican % 45% 48% 49%
Brazilian % 16% 14% 14%
Colombian % 4% 4% 3%
Other Nationality % 5% 5% 5%
Salaried by gender, age and nationality
Male % 69% 69% 69%
Female % 31% 31% 31%
under 30 years old % 19% 19% 18%
97. Sustainability Report 2019Social Topics (cont.)
2017 2018 2019
30-50 years old % 63% 62% 63%
over 50 years old % 18% 19% 19%
Argentine % 19% 20% 18%
Mexican % 45% 47% 49%
Brazilian % 21% 20% 19%
Colombian % 9% 8% 7%
Other Nationality % 6% 6% 6%
Hourly by gender, age and nationality
Male % 98% 98% 98%
Female % 2% 2% 2%
under 30 years old % 25% 24% 22%
30-50 years old % 58% 60% 61%
over 50 years old % 16% 17% 17%
Argentine % 29% 28% 27%
Mexican % 43% 44% 43%
Brazilian % 20% 19% 19%
Colombian % 7% 7% 8%
Other Nationality % 2% 2% 2%
Supervisors by gender, age and nationality
Male % 98% 98% 98%
Female % 2% 2% 2%
under 30 years old % 6% 7% 6%
30-50 years old % 62% 60% 62%Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
98. TerniumSocial Topics (cont.)
2017 2018 2019
over 50 years old % 32% 33% 32%
Argentine % 28% 29% 26%
Mexican % 50% 53% 54%
Brazilian % 15% 9% 11%
Colombian % 5% 6% 6%
Other Nationality % 3% 3% 3%
As of the date of this report, the Board of Directors has 9 members, one of them is a woman. Regarding distribution by age, all of them are over 50 years old.
The distribution by nationality is the following: 4 of them are Italian citizens, 3 of them are Argentine citizens, 1 is a French and Luxembourg citizen and 1 is
a Mexican citizen.
The Senior Management is composed by 11 members, all of them are male. The distribution by age is the following: 3 of them are in the range of 30-50 years
old and 8 of them are over 50 years old. The composition by nationality is the following: 9 of them are Argentine citizens and 2 of them are Mexican citizens.
Proportion of top management hired from the local community
Country
Mexico % 44% 42% 41%
Brazil % 40% 64% 62%
Argentina % 100% 100% 100%
Colombia % 50% 50% 50%
Average hours of training per year per employee
Management Hs/per year 37 53 36 
Salaried Hs/per year 35 53 36 
Hourly Hs/per year 86 105  74
Supervisors Hs/per year 101 90  7
Total Hs/per year 78 94  62
Male Hs/per year 81 97 64
FemaleHs/per year37 51  40
Performance and career development reviews
Management & Salaried (M&S) % 97% 93% 97%
Hourly % 42% 47% 54%
99. Sustainability Report 2019Social Topics (cont.)
2017 2018 2019
Supervisors % 97% 97% 98%
Upwardfeedback (M&S) % 94% 91% 94%
Client-Customer opinion (M&S) % 87% 87% 82%
Health and Safety
Lost time injuries frequency rateday-loss injuries/
per million hours
worked0.7 0.7 0.8
Injuries frequency ratequantity/million
hours worked3.4 3.0 2.7
Safety training hours # hours per year 586,240       564,341 487,649
Safety training hours participation# of employees
and contractors12,116         18,609 15,666
Safety hours program walks # of sessions 128,463 116,347 147,093
Safety hours program participation# of employees
and contractors842          1,016 1,632
Ten Life-Saving Rules compliance audits # per year 17,409 29,907 42,788
Health and Safety audits # per year 132,246 171,410 199,772
Positive approaches* # per year 43,193 57,024 106,704
H&S System Coverage% of employees
and contractors100% 100% 100%
H&S System Coverage (internally audited)% of employees
and contractors100% 100% 100%
H&S System Coverage (externally certified)% of employees
and contractors66% 67% 67%
Investment in Health and Safety $ million 35 49 50
*Positive approach is used with employees to identify safe behaviors to be reinforced 
Promotion of worker health 
Most of Ternium's employees and their families have access to private health care systems managed by their respective unions, affiliate companies or companies
controlled by Ternium. The health care systems are funded through employees' and Ternium's mandatory contributions together with, in certain cases, Ternium's
voluntary contributions. In addition, the company funds and manages health care programs for the broader communities, such as health fairs, clinical examinations,
and disease and addiction prevention campaigns, aimed at increasing the community’s awareness and gaining of a basic understanding of how to prevent and
take care of various health issues. The company supports and funds a basic health care unit in Aquila, Mexico, and funds improvements in health care infrastructure
in different countries. For more information see "Helping our communities thrive - Support to the Public Health Care System" elsewhere in this annual report.Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
100. TerniumSocial Topics (cont.)
2017 2018 2019
Community
Internship Hours hours/Per year 27,600 34,600 63,800
Community Investments $ million 12.6 9.5 6.6
Education Investments $ million 10.0 6.2 4.6
Community Budget for cultural activities % 11% 28% 21%
Technical Gene program - Teachers # of Participants 156 152 148
Technical Gene program - Students # of Participants 2,059 1,426 1,929
After school program participation # of Students 252 266 270
Merit Awards Program # of Scholarships 546 712 759
Roberto Rocca Education Program (undergraduate) # of Scholarships 239 276 305
Roberto Rocca Education Program (PhDs) # of Scholarships 18 12 15
Volunteering Program # of volunteers 1,257 1,644 1,878
Volunteering Program hours / per year 9,709 9,996 16,611
Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Program (ProPymes)
Small and medium-sized enterprises participation # SMEs 1,500 1,600 1,800
Sponsored training courses # attendants 4,264 4,700 5,300
Sponsored training courseshours in class /per
year86,047 92,000 87,400
Propymes sponsored technical schools # of Schools 24 32 41
Propymes sponsored industrial projects # of Projects 376 408 451
Finance assistance $ million 6.4 6.6 6.0
Integrity
Training sessions on Ternium's policy on business
conduct (on-site)# sessions 83 79 64
Training sessions on Ternium's policy on business
conduct (on-site)# participants 916 1,603 878
Acknowledgment and commitment to abide Ternium's
Code of Conduct and Policy on Business Conduct% white-collar
employees99.4% 99.7% 99.7%
Training course on the company's Policy on Business
Conduct (e-learning)% white-collar
employees98.7% 97.0% 98.2%
Compliance Line's substantiation rate % 31% 40% 46%
101. Sustainability Report 2019Ternium's Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals
SD Goal Topics Pages
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
• • 38, 70 Topics
1
Delivering Ternium's
Business Strategy
–––
2
Improving Our Safety
Performance
–––
3
Minimizing Ternium's
Environmental Footprint
–––
4
Realizing People's Full
Potential
–––
5
Strengthening Ternium's
Value Chain
–––
6
Helping Our
Communities Thrive
–––
7
Commitment to
Integrity
• • • 56, 66, 70
• 56
• 46
• • • • 22, 38, 56, 7O
• • • 22, 66, 70
• • • 56, 66, 70
• 70
• 46
• 46
• 46
• 46
• • 38, 79
• • • 22, 66, 70UN Sustainable Development Goals Index
102. Terniumwww.ternium.com