2. TERNIUM4Chairman’s Letter
10Ternium’s Approach to Sustainability
22Comprehensive Value Creation Strategy
24Improving Our Safety Performance
32Minimizing Ternium’s Environmental Footprint
42Realizing Our People’s Full Potential
48Helping Our Communities Thrive
54Strengthening Ternium’s Value Chain
58Delivering Ternium’s Business Strategy
72Commitment to Integrity
80Annex 1: GRI Material Topics Index
84Annex 2: UN Sustainable Development Goals Index
86Annex 3: Historical DataCONTENTS
3. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20204. TERNIUMIn 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic spread across the world affecting the economy and 
multiple aspects of our lives, as well as changing established paradigms. Latin America 
has been particularly affected and, as in many other regions of the world, we are still 
far from overcoming the virus and its devastating effects. Nevertheless, the recovery in 
the global economy over the past months, centered on demand for manufactured 
goods, and Ternium’s position as a major supplier for industrial products within the 
USMCA regional trade area, has fueled demand for its products in Mexico and resulted 
in an exceptional environment for steel prices.
The challenge posed by the pandemic involved every aspect of our business and 
affected all our employees, yet, at the same time, it has been an opportunity to test the 
resilience of our long-term management focus and the sustainability of our company. 
We had to adopt new safety protocols to assure the safety of all persons entering our 
plants and offices, to adjust production while minimizing labor cost inefficiencies as 
demand fell and employees deemed at risk could not come to work, to provide support 
for the medical systems in many of our communities, to find new ways of meeting 
customer commitments, to change the way we work and communicate, all while 
ensuring the financial stability of our company. 
Our focus was on establishing a safe working environment at our plants and offices 
and adapting to an environment where employees could work from home. With the 
pandemic affecting the lives of all our employees and their families, we worked hard to 
maintain good levels of engagement and promote wellbeing, as well as adapting our 
training programs to the changed circumstances. At the same time, despite the 
changing production schedules at our plants, we maintained the improvements we 
made over the past years in our physical safety indicators.
To reinforce the medical systems and infrastructure in our communities, we quickly 
deployed a dedicated $6.4 million fund. Leveraging our global procurement structure, 
we sourced and delivered ventilators, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) equipment units, and 
Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) items to 14 hospitals and health care units where 
we operate. We also built and operated a new field hospital with 100 beds in 
Monterrey, Mexico.
To support the smaller customers and suppliers in our value chain, we reinforced the 
financial help provided by our ProPymes program, with $5.7 million in funds made 
available, and the assistance granted to obtain loans from local financing institutions 
with $13.5 million in funds received. At the same time, we developed new tools and 
online formats to ensure the continuity of advisory and training activities. 
To protect the liquidity and financial position of the company when uncertainty about 
the course of the pandemic was at its peak, we took steps to reduce costs through 
optimizing operations and our fixed cost structure as well as working capital. We 
slowed down some of our capital spending and cancelled last year’s annual dividend 
payment. 
We have since resumed our main industrial expansion projects. This month, we are 
starting operations in our new rolling mill in Pesqueria, Mexico. The new mill, which 
has an annual capacity of 4.4 million tons of hot rolled coils, will not only integrate 
Ternium’s production capabilities at Pesqueria, starting with the supply of high quality CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
5. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020steel from its facility in Brazil, but will transform its capacity to provide the highest 
grades of flat steel products, substituting the need for imports, and serve the most 
sophisticated industrial markets. The new line also forms a platform to supply the 
ultra-high strength steels that will support the development and mass adoption of new 
electric mobility concepts. To accompany this integration process, we are installing a 
new R&D center in Pesqueria with a focus on extending our range of high value-added 
products and looking at expanding our downstream capabilities.
In November, we inaugurated our new steel bar and coil production facility in Palmar 
de Varela, Colombia. The new mill, with an annual capacity of 520,000 tons, will 
provide a boost to the economy along Colombia’s Caribbean coastal region, 
substituting imports and providing local employment opportunities while serving the 
country’s dynamic construction sector. The plant was constructed to the highest 
health, safety and environmental standards, uses hydro power supplied from the grid, 
and has 98% water recovery. To prepare for the construction and start up of 
operations, members of the community received more than 67,000 hours of training, 
organized in partnership with a governmental scheme for technical training, many of 
whom went on to become employees or participate in the construction activities.
The pandemic offered us an opportunity to advance our agenda of digitalization. 
During 2020, the usage of our digital sales Webservice platform increased significantly, 
channeling 77% of commercial customers’ orders. Ternium University quickly adapted 
its training courses to an online environment and developed new offerings focused on 
promoting wellbeing and engagement across our workforce. On the factory floor, we 
strengthened the application and use of digital technologies that make up our SMART 
(Social, Mobile, Analytics, Robotics, Internet of Things) factory concept and 
strengthen our industrial competitiveness.
As the pandemic has worn on, public concern about climate change and other aspects 
of the sustainability agenda has intensified. Decarbonization has become a major issue 
for all the world and, in particular, for our industry. In February, our Board of 
Directors approved a medium-term target to reduce the carbon emissions intensity of 
our steel producing operations by 20% from a 2018 baseline as part of a longer term 
process of decarbonizing our operations. We will continue to add transparency to this 
program, which will be followed on a quarterly basis in our Board.
Moreover, our customers, as they pursue their own decarbonization initiatives, are 
looking more closely at the carbon footprint of their supply chains, particularly for 
steel products. With our new medium-term reduction target, we expect to maintain or 
enhance the competitive differentiation we consider that we have today on this ground. 
We reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact Initiative and to continue 
promoting their principles and sustainable goals among our business network in the 
Americas. To strengthen diversity within our management team, we have introduced a 
short-term target to increase gender diversity. We have also committed to the Women’s 
Empowerment Principles established by the United Nations to promote business 
practices that empower women among our employees, value chain and communities. 
This builds on previous initiatives we have introduced to promote diversity across our 
organization.CHAIRMAN'S LETTER
6. TERNIUMLargely thanks to its performance in the second half, Ternium was able to record an 
EBITDA of $1.5 billion for 2020, in line with the previous year, on revenues of $8.7 
billion, 14% down on last year, and earnings per ADS of $3.97. Free cash flow 
amounted to $1.2 billion and net debt declined below $0.4 billion. These results reflect 
the strength of the ongoing recovery, the actions we took in response to the pandemic 
and the flexibility inherent in our operations during what has been a turbulent year. As 
a result, we were pleased to resume our annual dividend payment with a dividend of 
$2.10 per ADS.
As the world’s economy continues to recover from the worst effects of the pandemic, 
Ternium, with its solid financial and highly competitive industrial and commercial 
position, is well placed for the challenges ahead. I would like to thank our employees 
for their resilience and commitment over the past year, as well as our customers, 
suppliers and shareholders for their continued support.
June 24, 2021
Paolo Rocca
Chairman 
7. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20208. TERNIUMTHE COMPANY
Ternium is Latin America’s leading flat steel producer. It offers 
a broad range of products for the automotive, home 
appliances, HVAC, construction, capital goods, container, food 
and energy industries through its manufacturing facilities, 
service center and distribution networks, and advanced 
customer integration systems. In addition, Ternium 
participates in the control group of Usiminas.
01.
02.
03.
04.
05.
06.
07.
08.
09.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.Shreveport
Monclova
Baja California
Chihuahua
Culiacán
Guerrero*
Pesquería
Universidad
Churubusco*
Apodaca 
Juventud*
Edificios Metálicos
Apodaca Industrial
Apodaca Comercial
Norte
San Luis
Guadalajara
Las Encimas
Peña Colorada20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.León
México
Puebla
Veracruz
Tuxtla
Villahermosa
Mérida
Petén
Villa Nueva*
Cobán
Huehuetenango
Teculután
Quetzaltenango
Occidente
Zona 9
Petapa
Juitapa
San Salvador
Managua39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.San José
Barranquilla
Atlántico
Montería
Medellín
Itagüí
Bucaramanga
Bogotá
Manizales
Cali
Río de Janeiro
Rosario
San Nicolás
Serviacero III
Sidercrom
Haedo*
Canning*
Florencio Varela*
Ensenada
(*) Includes service or distribution centers
   FACILITIES
• Steel production and processing
• Service or distribution centers
• Iron ore mining and processing
9. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202010. TERNIUMTERNIUM’S 
APPROACH TO 
SUSTAINABILITY
Ternium’s value proposition aims to 
achieve profitable operations on a
sustainable basis, through a management 
approach that comprehends the interests of its 
shareholders, employees, customers and 
suppliers, as well as those of the community. 
11. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Ternium operates in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, 
Colombia, the southern United States and Central 
America through regional manufacturing facilities, service 
centers and its own distribution network. The company’s 
customers range from small businesses to large global 
companies in the automotive, home appliances, heat, 
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), construction, 
capital goods, container, food and energy industries 
across the Americas.
Ternium’s innovative culture, industrial expertise and 
long-term view enable it to continuously achieve new 
breakthroughs in industrial excellence, competitiveness 
and customer service.
The company is the leading supplier of flat steel products 
in Mexico and Argentina, has a significant position as 
supplier of steel products in Colombia and in other Latin 
American countries, and is a competitive player in the 
international steel market. In addition, Ternium 
participates in the control group of Usiminas, a leading 
flat steel company in the Brazilian market.
Environment, Health and Safety
We believe that an adequate environment and 
occupational health and safety (EHS) performance is key 
to our long-term sustainability. We have standardized 
EHS management systems and devote significant 
resources to EHS projects. Our employees are well trained 
in EHS and our management is accountable for EHS 
performance.
Ternium’s occupational health and safety system is 
certified under OHSAS 18001, and its environment and 
energy system is certified under ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. 
The company regularly invests in state-of-the-art 
technologies to reduce its environmental footprint and 
minimize safety risks.
Social  
We rely on the talent and determination of our employees 
to successfully shape our company. We provide training 
to our employees, our customers and suppliers, and have 
developed performance assessment tools to ensure 
transparency and fairness. Ternium is an equal 
opportunity employer and aims to foster a workplace 
environment that attracts and develops talents across all 
genders, nationalities, generations, cultures, religions and 
backgrounds, respecting and valuing individual 
differences.We believe that developing and maintaining strong ties 
with our communities is fundamental to the company's 
long-term sustainability. We work together with local 
institutions to enhance communities’ education and 
welfare. We built and operate a technical school. We 
provide scholarships, internships, teachers’ training and 
infrastructure funding to local schools and health centers. 
We also organize and fund volunteering programs and 
health prevention campaigns, and we sponsor sports, 
social events and arts exhibitions.
Governance
Integrity is key to Ternium’s long term sustainability. Our 
board of directors has an audit committee solely 
composed of independent directors. Our internal audit 
department, which meets organizational independence 
and objectivity standards, reports to the chairman of the 
board and, with respect to internal control over financial 
reporting, to the audit committee.
Ternium has appointed a Business Conduct Compliance 
Officer, who reports to the CEO, and has a compliance 
department that oversees SOX certifications and related 
party transactions. Employees are trained and 
accountable for ensuring a transparent behavior. Ternium 
has established several policies, codes and procedures to 
ensure transparency and ethic behavior. In addition, the 
company has put in place a Compliance Line to report 
any violation to its code of conduct and principles.
Sustainability Reporting
This report discusses Ternium’s progress towards 
achieving its objectives in a sustainable way. It has been 
prepared taking into account the guidelines established by 
worldsteel, the UN Global Compact, GRI (Global 
Reporting Initiative) and the New York Stock Exchange.
Ternium’s sustainability report is based on the GRI 
standards’ Core option. In order to comply with it, the 
company has assessed its sustainability report in light of 
the GRI principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, 
Sustainability Context, Materiality and Completeness.
The company is part of the UN Global Compact 
Initiative, with a commitment to integrate its principles 
into the company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day 
operations. Ternium engages in collaborative projects to 
advance the broader development goals of the UN, 
particularly the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).TERNIUM'S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
12. TERNIUM“Caring for the environment is integral to 
Ternium’s sustainability commitments. As 
Latin America’s leading flat steel producer, 
we recognize the positive impact we can have 
on the health of our planet and the benefits 
that being a good environmental steward can 
provide our business. We are proud to 
continue supporting the world’s transition to 
renewable energy, as highlighted by our 
commitment to reduce 20% our carbon 
dioxide emission intensity by 2030 and our 
continued work to decarbonize our operations 
over the long-term”.
 
Máximo Vedoya
CEO
Climate Change
Ternium aims to have an active role on the world’s efforts 
to tackle climate change. As a steel company, we are 
determined to find ways to reduce the carbon footprint of 
our operations and of the steel value chain. We partner 
with different companies and associations to foster the 
development of low carbon dioxide emitting technologies, 
as a swift and successful energy transition will be key to 
achieve these goals.
We recently set a target to reduce 20% the carbon dioxide 
emission intensity of our steelmaking facilities by 2030. 
The main initiatives we plan to carry out to achieve this 
objective are to increase the participation of renewable 
sources in the energy mix and of scrap in the metallic mix, 
to expand our carbon dioxide capture capacity at the DRI 
facilities, to partially replace metallurgical coal with 
biomass, to further develop our energy efficiency program 
and to prioritize lower specific-emission steelmaking 
technologies when planning organic expansions.
We intend to develop new measures to continue 
decarbonizing Ternium’s operations over the longer term. 
The main factors that will determine our success to do so 
are related to the further development of emerging steel-
making technologies, prospects for the availability of raw 
materials, renewable energy and required infrastructure, 
and the enactment of appropriate government regulations 
to promote fair trade, among others. 
As a company focused on supplying advanced steel 
products, Ternium is well positioned to contribute to the 
world’s energy transition process. We believe the 
company will have significant opportunities for the 
development of innovative products required for 
renewable energy applications, emerging electric vehicles 
technologies and green construction strategies, as 
countries seek to meet their commitments under the Paris 
Agreement.
 
 
In 2020, worldsteel distinguished Ternium under its 
Climate Action Recognition Program, for the company’s 
support and contributions to worldsteel’s initiatives to 
reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
13. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020In February 2021, Ternium announced the adoption 
of a new decarbonization strategy with the medium-
term target of reducing the company’s carbon dioxide 
emission intensity rate for steel production by 20% 
in 2030, compared to its 2018 base rate.
TERNIUM'S ROADMAP TO DECARBONIZATION
14. TERNIUM15. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020IMPROVING OUR 
SAFETY 
PERFORMANCEMINIMIZING 
TERNIUM’S 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
FOOTPRINTREALIZING OUR
PEOPLE’S FULL 
POTENTIAL
Prevent all work-related 
injuries and illnesses, 
and maintain zero 
fatalities.Reduce 20% carbon
dioxide emission
intensity by 2030
(2018 baseline).Promote a culture 
of industrial 
and technological 
excellence.
Use natural resources 
responsibly.Be an equal 
opportunity and 
equal treatment 
organization.Promote healthy and 
safe operations in 
the steel industry 
value chain.Promote healthy and 
safe operations in 
the steel industry.
Protect biodiversity.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
    
     
 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
    
   
SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS
16. TERNIUMHELPING OUR
COMMUNITIES
THRIVESTRENGTHENING 
TERNIUM’S VALUE 
CHAINDELIVERING 
TERNIUM’S BUSINESS 
STRATEGY
Foster education.Promote a collaborative 
network in the steel
value chain to 
foster performance 
excellence.Focus on sophisticated 
steel products.Support initiatives 
that strengthen 
communities near 
our operations.Pursuit of strategic 
growth opportunities.
Enhancement of 
Ternium’s competitive 
position.Help small and 
medium-sized 
customers and 
suppliers grow.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
    
COMMITMENT 
TO INTEGRITY
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
    
 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
    
     
 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
  
   
   
17. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020FAST RESPONSE TO
COVID-19 CHALLENGE
New working protocols, 
readjustment of operations and 
strengthened support to SMEs 
in the value chain.
Special funding for community 
hospitals and health care 
centers, and support to 
vulnerable families.
$6.4
MILLION
SPECIAL FUND TO HELP 
COMMUNITIES FACE THE 
CRISIS.10
COMMUNITIES
SUPPORTED IN MEXICO, 
ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, 
COLOMBIA AND 
GUATEMALA.During 2020, the global economy was deeply affected 
by the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures adopted 
worldwide to contain the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 
virus, which resulted in a global crisis with an 
unprecedented speed and severity in recent history. 
Although activity levels around the globe improved 
steadily from the second half of 2020 and into 2021, 
new variants of the virus have been spreading in 
various regions triggering new containment or 
preventive measures. There remains considerable 
uncertainty about the future duration and extent of the 
pandemic, with new and more contagious variants of 
the virus appearing and the vaccination programs yet 
in their early stages in many countries.
At the start of the COVID-19 outbreak, Ternium took 
prompt action to mitigate the impact of the pandemic 
on its business, and adapted its operations on a 
country-by-country basis to comply with applicable 
rules and requirements.
Occupational Health and Safety 
Ternium prioritizes the occupational health and safety 
of its employees, customers and suppliers, and has 
adopted new protocols to ensure a safe working 
environment involving the use of face masks, 
temperature checks, strict social distancing and 
workplace disinfection policies including the company 
transportation, site entry and common working areas. 
In addition, we have implemented remote working 
where possible and procedures to track employees 
showing compatible COVID-19 symptoms and their 
close contacts.
Along the pandemic, Ternium operated all facilities 
under strict sanitary protocols, which included prompt 
testing of all suspicious cases to ensure proactive 
contagion prevention. The company also conducted an 
extensive communications program across its facilities 
to promote health and wellness protocols both onsite 
and at home.
The company’s digital sales portal, Webservice, 
contributed to safe working practices by channeling 
77% of total orders placed by commercial customers in 
2020, with a year-over-year participation increase 
compared to the 70% achieved before the COVID-19 
outbreak.COVID-19
18. TERNIUMNew occupational health and safety protocols to face the COVID-19 pandemic:  face masks, temperature checks, social distancing and workplace disinfection policies 
including the company transportation, site entry and common working areas.
Support to the Community
Ternium deployed a dedicated $6.4 million fund to 
help communities face the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
company constructed and operated a field hospital 
with 100 beds and 10 intensive care units in Monterrey, 
Mexico, and strengthen medical response capabilities 
mainly focusing on the supply of medical equipment 
and personal protection gear to health centers.
Reinforcement plans were designed in cooperation 
with hospital authorities, taking into consideration 
local population age and available healthcare 
infrastructure. Ternium provided infrastructure and 
equipment to 16 hospitals and healthcare facilities in 
four countries, including equipment for intensive care 
units. We provided support to health centers in the 
process of adapting their infrastructure; we produced 
face masks at our facilities and supported local 
entrepreneurs’ initiatives for ventilator manufacturing.
During 2020, we created a network of medical 
professionals together with our affiliate Tenaris.Seventy doctors from local communities in Mexico, 
Argentina and Brazil participated in a virtual meeting 
with their colleagues at Humanitas, an Italian network 
of hospitals controlled by the Techint Group. Through 
this platform, Humanitas made available its know-how 
on dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak at a public 
virtual campus.
Alongside the Fundación Hermanos Agustín y Enrique 
Rocca  and Tenaris, Ternium supplied food to 
vulnerable families through the #SeamosUno  initiative 
in Argentina. In addition, Ternium provided food to 
families of children participating at its educational 
programs in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and to families of 
students at the Roberto Rocca Technical School  in 
Pesquería, Mexico.
Support to the Value Chain 
To support our customers and suppliers, we reinforced 
the financial help provided under the ProPymes  
program and the assistance granted to obtain loansCOVID-19
19. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Special funding program for health care centers , aimed at strengthening their medical response capabilities to face the COVID-19 pandemic.
Prompt development and implementation of new measures  to help protect employees and contractors, and ensure a safe working environment.COVID-19
20. TERNIUMFIELD HOSPITAL 
IN MONTERREY, 
MEXICO, TO FACE 
THE COVID-19 
OUTBREAK100
BEDS
IN A NEW FACILITY BUILT 
AND OPERATED BY TERNIUM 
FOR THE COMMUNITY.10
INTENSIVE CARE UNITS
FULLY EQUIPPED
ADDITIONAL BEDS.450
PATIENTS
TREATED SINCE ITS 
INAUGURATION.
from local financial institutions. In addition, we 
incorporated new tools to ensure the continuity of 
ProPymes  advisory and training activities, on remote 
and online formats.
Economic and Operational Impact
In the first half of 2020, Ternium adjusted its 
operations to continue supplying steel products to 
essential sectors and other customers and, at the same 
time, complying with lockdowns and operating 
restrictions imposed in several jurisdictions. Ternium’s 
training programs were reinforced with webinars and 
online workshops.
During the second half of 2020, the relaxation of 
certain confinement measures and a shift in 
consumption patterns towards durable goods and 
construction materials resulted in a gradual ramp up of 
Ternium’s operations to above pre-pandemic levels. 
Ternium successfully adjusted to this new demand 
scenario, incorporating and training additional 
employees to operate at high utilization rates observing 
the new working protocols.
At the peak of the pandemic-related lockdowns during 
the second quarter of 2020, Ternium took steps to 
ensure the continued strength of its financial position, 
which included the optimization of operations and 
overhead costs, and a reduction in working capital. In 
order to mitigate the impact of then expected lower 
sales, Ternium reduced its capital expenditureStrict sanitary protocols, 
including prompt testing of all 
suspicious cases, and an 
extensive communications 
program to promote health and 
wellness protocols at both work 
and home.
commitments for 2020 by slowing down or postponing 
investment projects.
Moreover, in light of the high uncertainty level at the 
time, on April 28, 2020, Ternium’s board of directors 
withdrew its annual dividend proposal for 2019.
Throughout the rest of 2020, upon relaxation of 
lockdowns and other restrictions, steel demand in 
Ternium’s markets recovered and Ternium’s net debt 
position decreased, reaching $371.5 million at the end 
of December 2020 from $1.5 billion at the end of 
December 2019.COVID-19
21. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202022. TERNIUMCOMPREHENSIVE
VALUE CREATION
STRATEGY
 This chapter presents an integral discussion of 
Ternium’s strategy to create value for its stakeholders, 
with an analysis of the company’s goals and 
actions related to occupational health and safety, 
environment, human resources, communities, 
the value chain and the steel business.
23. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020IMPROVING OUR SAFETY
PERFORMANCE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
  
$27 
MILLION
INVESTED IN OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY RELATED 
PROJECTS IN 2020.
GOALS ACTIONS
Prevent all work-related injuries and illnesses, and maintain zero 
fatalitiesEnactment of a medium-term target reduction of 50% in IFR and LTIFR by 
2025, compared to 2020
–Identify and eliminate operational hazards Deployment of new investment projects to adequate our facilities to the 
strictest operating standards 
–Identify and rectify unsafe acts or situations Identification and elimination of personnel exposure to risk factors at 
critical processes
–Ensure compliance with established protocols Identification and elimination of risk precursors through critical control 
verifications
–Raise our people’s awareness of risk Promotion of a safety culture through several programs and activities led 
by Ternium’s management team
Engagement of employees through effective communication
Promote healthy and safe operations in the steel industry value 
chainCode of conduct for suppliers
–Evaluate suppliers’ occupational health and safety policies
  and performanceSafe supplier program
–Raise our people’s awareness of non-compliance risks Safety training of third-party employees
Participation of suppliers in non-compliance reportingCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
24. TERNIUM  
Ternium's 2020 Safety Day  turned virtual due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Over 3,000 employees participated in this three-day event between July 20 and July 22. 
 
We invest in occupational health and safety (OH&S) 
projects and manage OH&S matters based on the 
certainty that all injuries and work-related illnesses can 
and must be prevented.
Occupational Health and Safety Corporate Strategy
Risk assessment and management of our people’s OH&S 
are integrated into all our business processes and reflected 
in Ternium’s OH&S policy. Management is responsible 
and accountable for OH&S performance as part of a 
broad set of goals.
Ternium is committed to taking every measure to protect 
the safety and health of its employees, contractors and the 
communities where it operates.
We design strategies to align our culture to our safety 
vision with the goal of preventing severe or fatal 
accidents, safely managing our production processes and 
engaging our employees and our customers and suppliers' 
managers and employees, through effective 
communication, so that they embrace our vision and 
goals.
Each of our performance improvement strategies on 
OH&S is led by one of our senior managers.Occupational Health and Safety Management System
Ternium relies on an OH&S management system set 
forth in the company’s OH&S policy and local and 
national laws and regulations. The company periodically 
audits its processes and procedures, to find new 
opportunities to improve our safety management systems 
and ensure compliance with our policy. 
Most of Ternium’s steelmaking and steel processing 
facilities have their OH&S management systems certified 
by third-party certification bodies under international 
standards. As for the rest of the facilities, Ternium’s 
mining operations are undergoing OH&S management 
system certification and the company’s steelmaking 
facilities in Brazil will undergo certification during 2021.
Aligning Our Culture to Our Safety Vision
Ternium’s continuous quest for an effective safety culture 
is a priority to top management. The company’s senior 
management has identified measurable, repeatable, 
proactive and exemplary safety habits to promote 
throughout the organization.
Among the initiatives to strengthen OH&S leadership 
skills, Ternium has recently prepared a guide for 
managers with suggested actions and decision-making 
processes under diverse scenarios. 
25. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Improving occupational health and safety performance
Proactive approach to occupational health and safety 
management
Standardized and certified OH&S management system
Extensive employee training
Management accountable for OH&S performance
Capital expenditures program to reduce OH&S risks
Safety Hour (Hora Segura)  in Manizales, Colombia.  An on-site exchange to implement effective preventive measures.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
26. TERNIUM“SAFETY FIRST” PROGRAM
The Safety First program seeks to foster a pro-active 
approach to safety issues to prevent incidents and 
accidents. One of the program’s main tools is the Safety 
and Environment Hour initiative, in which middle and 
senior managers tour operating areas for an hour, three 
times a week, to identify safe behaviors to be consolidated 
and unsafe acts or situations to be addressed through an 
open dialogue with employees, as well as to verify their 
environmental compliance.
This exchange helps identify potential risks and enables a 
fluid and constructive response to adopt effective 
preventive measures. In 2020, our Safety and Environment 
Hour sessions involved the regular participation of 
approximately 1,900 employees and contractors.
With the same purpose, management performs safety 
verification audits at the facilities to ensure that our 
operations are in compliance with applicable OH&S 
policies, procedures and practices.
We included environmental matters into our safety hour 
tour as one of several other initiatives we intend to 
implement to raise employees and contractors’ awareness 
and commitment with environmental care, including a 
strengthened management system with key indicators and 
new tools to track, record and analyze environmental 
events, and design improvement plans.
TEN LIFE-SAVING RULES
Ternium has established Ten Life-Saving Rules, a list of 
actions to be followed to protect one’s life and that of 
other co-workers. These rules incorporate worldsteel’s 
guidance, the contribution of focus groups and studies 
performed to detect the main causes of risks at our 
facilities, and are backed by practices and routines that 
must be strictly followed. Our Ten Life-Saving Rules, 
which follow applicable regulations, have been 
extensively communicated throughout Ternium’s 
operations to foster employees’, customers’ and suppliers’ 
awareness, and are audited to ensure their observance.
SAFETY DAY
We annually organize the Safety Day event, an 
opportunity to strengthen our commitment to improving 
OH&S and reinforce risks awareness. During the event, 
we organize meetings and panel discussions on OH&S 
management to review ourperformance in the previous year and agree on new 
actions to continue improving OH&S in each facility. In 
2020, due to restrictions adopted in connection with the 
COVID-19 pandemic, this traditional on-site event was 
organized online. Several on-line meetings took place 
between July 20 and July 22, 2020, with the participation 
of over 3,000 employees.
TRAINING PROGRAMS
Management is committed to training Ternium’s 
employees, customers and suppliers on the appropriate 
use of the company’s OH&S management systems and to 
raising awareness of risks in performing their tasks. Due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic, Ternium strengthened its on-
line training initiatives developing 20 OH&S videos 
generally available through Ternium University. Focused 
on preventive measures and Ternium’s OH&S programs, 
in 2020 the new online format allowed us to reach an 
audience of approximately 10,100 employees, customers 
and suppliers. 
TASK REJECTION
This tool strengthens people’s determination not to start 
or, if started, to suspend a task under certain conditions. 
Task Rejection helps prevent injuries resulting from a 
lack of effective control of identified safety risks.
To encourage the use of this tool, during 2020 the 
company started to recognize workers for their analysis 
and detection of OH&S threats in performing their tasks. 
The confidence in this tool and its effectiveness is 
evidenced by the approximately 11,800 alerts that were 
recorded in 2020, 7% of which involved potentially 
serious injuries or potential fatalities.
Prevention of Severe Injuries or Fatalities
A steel industry analysis has determined that, over time, 
the downward trend of fatal accidents has not been as 
steep as the downward trend of non-fatal accidents, 
mainly due to causality differences. Based upon this 
evidence, the company has increased its efforts to identify 
precursors of severe injuries or fatalities.
We have identified non-controlled repeting precursors 
through interviews with employees, based upon critical 
control and verification methodologies. During 2020, over 
400 employees performed more than 2,100 critical control 
verifications, which resulted in approximately 1,100 new 
continuous improvement projects.
27. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020ENGAGING 
CUSTOMERS AND 
SUPPLIERS ON 
OH&S 
CONTINUOUS 
IMPROVEMENT205
AUDITED CONTRACTORS
IN 2020, ON THEIR OH&S 
PROGRAMS.45
RECOGNIZED CONTRACTORS
FOR IMPROVEMENTS ACHIEVED DURING 2020 ON OH&S 
PERFORMANCE.
INJURIES FREQUENCY RATE (IFR)
# PER MILLION HOURS WORKED
2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.01.02.03.04.05.0
Process Safety Management
Ternium has identified potentially hazardous processes at 
its facilities, aimed at developing and implementing 
specific strategies to eliminate the possibility of 
occurrence of events involving severe personal injuries to 
one or more employees. The company has elaborated 
specific tools to manage its critical processes, and has 
developed a program focused on the improvement of 
control barriers for different analyzed scenarios.
Engaging Employees Through Effective Communication
Over the years, Ternium has increased the visibility of 
safety issues through its communications platforms. Our 
agenda includes videos, articles and the coverage ofLOST TIME INJURIES FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) 
# DAY-LOSS PER MILLION HOURS WORKED
2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.30.60.91.21.5
 
selected events. We have developed a communications 
system to engage the company’s employees and raise 
awareness on safety issues, sharing key messages with 
employees operating at every location, including posts on 
the company’s communications platforms and other 
distribution channels.
We have also implemented the Five-Minutes Safety Talks, 
an open-dialogue instance for plant supervisors and their 
teams to analyze OH&S issues selected every week by 
senior management. Under this program, during 2020 the 
company delivered 46 safety briefings to approximately 
3,400 employees.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
28. TERNIUMEngaging Customers’ and Suppliers’ Managers and Employees
We seek that all of our contractors’ employees embrace 
our safety vision and goals. With this goal on sight, we 
have launched various initiatives, including working 
meetings with contractor’s top managers and the 
participation of their employees at Ternium’s OH&S 
workshops. In addition, the company has implemented an 
OH&S improvement plan for contractors. This plan has 
been developed based on contractors’ best practices, 
identified through a benchmark of contractors’ 
operations at the company’s facilities in various locations 
and countries.
In 2020, Ternium audited the OH&S programs of 
approximately 205 contractors in three countries, of 
which 45 were recognized for the improvements achieved 
during the year.
Accidents and incidents
In 2020, Ternium recorded an Injuries Frequency Rate 
(IFR) of 2.7 injuries per million of hours worked and a 
Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of 0.8 day-
loss injuries per million hours worked. These rates were 
similar to those recorded in 2019. Ternium will continue 
working on the reduction and avoidance of accidents and 
incidents resulting from its operations on a long-term 
basis, with a medium-term target reduction of 50% in its 
IFR and LTIFR by 2025.
Analysis of Accidents and Incidents
Ternium’s management follows specific protocols when 
an accident or incident occurs at the workplace, 
regardless of the severity of the damage or injury caused 
by such event. The research and analysis of the facts is 
conducted by multidisciplinary teams that include the 
participation of the manager with direct responsibilities in 
the area involved.
Events are analyzed through a causal factor tree 
methodology that has been approved by Ternium. 
Management uses all available resources that could 
contribute to the understanding of an event. Once the 
causes of the event are fully understood, the company 
implements a new preventive action plan structured in 
hierarchy of controls. This methodology has been 
incorporated into the company’s OH&S system. During 
2020, a new tool was implemented to assess the 
effectiveness of a proposed action plan in eliminating thecause of a situation or event that jeopardizes safety. The 
tool evaluates and ranks both the investigation process 
and suggested corrective measures.
Health and Well-being
Ternium’s comprehensive occupational health program 
evidences the company’s commitment to provide a 
healthy workplace, with equipment and technology that 
ensures the well-being of its workforce. The health 
management system includes periodic workplace 
monitoring and risk analysis to evaluate and control a 
range of activity-related factors with the potential to 
affect employees’ health, including chemical, biological, 
physical, ergonomic and psychological effects.
Our corporate procedures and guidelines in relation to 
the level of indoor air quality, noise and vibrations apply 
stricter threshold levels than those defined by the highest 
international standards. Some of our facilities, like the 
Ternium Industrial Center in Pesquería, were designed 
using the best-available technologies. In other facilities, 
particularly those we acquired, we are consistently 
adopting the best-available technologies as part of our 
drive to continuously improve our sites’ air quality. 
Tailings Dams Reinforcement
Ternium has equity interests in two iron ore mining 
companies in Mexico: a 100% interest in Las Encinas and 
a 50% interest in Consorcio Peña Colorada. These mining 
companies operate extractive, processing and logistical 
operations, including tailings dams.
In late 2019 and early 2020, third-party consultants 
concluded new stability studies for certain of Las Encinas’ 
and Consorcio Peña Colorada’s tailings dams which are 
undergoing closing procedures or are at stand-by. 
Following these studies, new reinforcements were 
recommended in order to reduce risks of collapse under 
the strictest international seismic standards.
Consequently, Las Encinas has launched a project to 
implement the recommended reinforcements, expected to 
be completed during 2021. In addition, Consorcio Peña 
Colorada is planning to carry out the recommended 
reinforcements, the completion of which is expected to 
demand approximately three years, subject to the 
approval of certain permits to be granted by the 
environmental authorities.
29. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020On the right path
Ternium has established safety committees to 
formalize the consultation and participation of 
workers and their representatives on occupational 
health and safety issues.
COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
30. TERNIUMOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–Ternium, an integrated steel company, along with its subsidiaries is committed to the occupational safety and 
health of its personnel, customers, contractors, and suppliers. The company’s occupational health and safety 
policy is the baseline for sustainable development across all its operations.
Policy adherence, dissemination, and compliance apply and are to be promoted throughout Ternium and its 
subsidiaries.
Looking out for the occupational health and safety of every person who works for the company or is inside its 
facilities is an essential value.
To that end, we promote our commitment through the following principles:
All work-related injuries and illnesses can and should be prevented.
Compliance with all applicable legal and other regulations to which Ternium voluntarily agrees.
Continuous improvement of all processes related to staff's health and safety.
Occupational health and safety must be integrated into all company processes.
No emergency situation, production process or results justify putting people’s occupational health or safety at 
risk.
Commitment from and training of the entire staff is essential.
Working safely is an employment condition.
Every person is responsible for looking after his/her own safety and the safety of others.
In each company, everyone is responsible for occupational health and safety:
The company provides the means and resources for activities to be carried out safely so as to preserve everyone's 
physical integrity and occupational health.
Managers are in charge of the occupational health and safety of everyone who works for them or is in their area.
All other workers must comply with regulations and instructions, and work with their managers to detect, 
control, and resolve any dangerous situations.
Contractor companies and their staff must comply with the Safety Regulations in force at the facilities where 
they provide services.
People who enter the facility must comply with the applicable Safety Regulations.
Health and safety staff must take preventive measures through support, advising and auditing.
At Ternium and its subsidiaries, these principles are shared throughout the entire value chain and in all the 
communities where it operates in order to promote people's healthcare and safety.
March 2018 
Máximo Vedoya
CEO
Ternium
31. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020MINIMIZING TERNIUM’S
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
   
 
20%
TARGET REDUCTION
OF CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSION
INTENSITY BY 2030.
GOALS ACTIONS
Reduce 20% carbon dioxide emission intensity by 2030 (2018 
baseline)Increase participation of renewable sources in the energy mix and intensify 
our energy efficiency program
Increase participation of scrap in the metallic mix and partially substitute 
coal with biomass, mainly charcoal
Increase CO 2 capture capacity at our DRI facilities
Prioritize lower specific-emission steelmaking technologies
Use natural resources responsibly Reduce the share of fresh water intake
Increase co-products recycling
Adopt sustainable building solutions at new projects
Pursue excellence in environmental performance Environmental and energy management through a certified system
–Minimize particulate matter emission $460 million medium-term environmental investment plan
–Preserve water discharge quality Participation at worldsteel’s LCA initiatives
–Assess and report the life cycle of steel products Issuance of environmental product declarations
Protect biodiversity Support to Sepetiba Bay and Iberá Wetlands initiatives
Reforestation works at decommissioned iron ore mines
Field works at greenfield projects to protect native speciesCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
32. TERNIUMTernium’ industrial center in Pesquería, Mexico. The protection of the environment is a fundamental value for the company.
The protection of the environment is a fundamental value 
for Ternium. The company’s Environmental and Energy 
Policy expresses our commitment to the preservation of 
the environment.
Ternium’s steel and mining operations are subject to laws 
and regulations to protect the environment, including the 
use of land, air emissions, wastewater treatment and 
discharge, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or 
toxic materials, and the handling and disposal of waste. 
Ternium’s corporate environmental and energy policy 
requires that each of its business units comply with 
applicable environmental laws and regulations, and aims 
to achieve the highest standards of environmental 
performance as a basis to ensure a sustainable 
development. 
The supervision of the company’s environmental 
performance leans on an environmental and energy 
management system encompassing every production unit. 
Ternium's environmental and energy management system 
is one of the key elements for pursuing excellence in 
environmental performance. Ternium periodically audits 
and certifies its systems and procedures. This process 
helps us identify improvement opportunities, update the 
company’s environmental management processes and 
ensure Ternium’s compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. In 2020, the company has not been subject to any material penalty for environmental violations and has 
not identified material violations of applicable 
environmental laws and regulations.
Ternium’s steel production facilities environmental and 
energy management system is certified under ISO 14001, 
ISO’s environmental management standard. In addition, 
Ternium’s most demanding operations in terms of energy 
use are in the process of certifying their energy 
management system under ISO 50001, ISO’s energy 
management standard. The energy management system 
has already been certified at the Rio de Janeiro unit, at 
the steel shop of the San Nicolás unit and at the Pesquería 
unit, and is undergoing the certification process at the 
steel shop of the Guerrero unit and at the hot-rolling mill 
of the San Nicolás unit. 
Ternium has recently adopted a decarbonization 
roadmap to reduce the company’s carbon footprint in the 
medium term, as part of its climate change strategy. In 
addition, the company has announced a $460 million 
environmental investment plan to be deployed mostly 
over the next seven years. Investment projects will focus 
mainly on improvements in emissions control, raw
material management and water quality control at the 
primary areas of the company’s operations in Mexico, 
Brazil and Argentina.
33. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Minimizing Ternium’s environmental footprint
$460 million medium-term investment plan
Standardized management system certified under ISO 14001 
and 50001
Management environmental performance accountability
Steelmaking co-products strategy (99.6% material efficiency)
Steel scrap recycling (2.6 million tons per year)
Ternium’s Climate Change Strategy
In the transition to a low carbon economy, Ternium is 
monitoring and evaluating climate-related risks and 
opportunities.
The company has set a medium-term target reduction of 
its carbon dioxide emission intensity and is analyzing 
additional decarbonization strategies based on the 
development and implementation of emerging 
technologies and the availability of renewable energy 
infrastructure. Ternium’s new initiatives in this regard are 
aligned with the commitments of the countries in which 
the company operates, aimed at contributing to the 
achievement of the goals of the Paris Agreement adopted 
at the UN climate change conference.
In addition, Ternium is designing its product roadmap, 
focused on increasing its offering of steel products for low 
carbon economy applications, and is collaborating with 
customers and suppliers to assess the carbon footprint of 
steel products.
Ternium’s board of directors has nominated its Vice-
Chairman, Mr. Daniel Agustín Novegil, to oversee, on a 
quarterly basis, Ternium’s climate change strategy. ROADMAP TO DECARBONIZATION
In 2020, assessed carbon dioxide emission intensity for 
Ternium’s crude steel production, scopes 1 and 2, was 1.7 
tons of carbon dioxide per ton of steel produced, 2% 
lower than in 2019 mainly reflecting temporary measures 
adopted to face disruptions caused by the COVID-19 
pandemic. Approximately 8% of the electricity purchased 
by Ternium during 2020 was green energy in accordance 
to a market-based approach calculation.
The assessment of the company’s carbon dioxide 
emissions and energy consumption is based on 
worldsteel’s sectoral approach methodology, according to 
ISO 14404, using local scope 2 emission factors rather 
than worldsteel’s average for the steel industry. Ternium’s 
carbon footprint includes only carbon dioxide emissions, 
as the emission of other greenhouse gases from its 
processes is negligible.
The company’s emissions intensity in 2020 reflects a 63% 
participation of the blast furnace / basic oxygen furnace 
(BF/BOF) route, a 30% participation of the electric are 
furnace (EAF) route consuming direct reduced iron (DRI) 
and scrap, and a 7% participation of the EAF route 
consuming scrap.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
34. TERNIUMCONTINUOUS 
INVESTMENTS 
TO IMPROVE 
TERNIUM’S 
PERFORMANCE$460
MILLION
NEW ENVIRONMENTAL 
INVESTMENT PLAN 
APPROVED IN 2021.$37
MILLION
INVESTED IN 2020 TO 
REDUCE TERNIUM’S 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
FOOTPRINT.$142
MILLION
INVESTED IN AIR QUALITY 
RELATED PROJECTS IN THE 
LAST FIVE YEARS.
New environmental monitoring center  at Ternium’s Rio de Janeiro unit in Brazil.
35. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020EMISSION INTENSITY (SCOPES 1+2)
TONS OF CO 2 EMITTED PER TON OF CRUDE STEEL PRODUCED
1.401.68 1.69 1.73 1.68
Scope 1: direct emissions
Scope 2: indirect emissions related to electricity2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.000.501.001.502.002.50
 
Pursuant to the company’s new decarbonization strategy, 
by the year 2030 Ternium intends to reduce carbon 
dioxide emission intensity by 20% compared to its 
performance in 2018 (scopes 1 and 2).
To achieve this goal, the company intends to increase the 
participation of renewable sources in the energy mix and 
of scrap in the metallic mix, expand its carbon dioxide 
capture capacity at its DRI facilities, partially replace 
metallurgical coal with biomass, mainly charcoal, further 
develop its energy efficiency program, and prioritize 
organic investments with lower specific-emission 
steelmaking technologies.
For the longer term, the company is analyzing additional 
strategies to decarbonize its operations based upon 
current and developing iron and steelmaking 
technologies, and the availability of renewable energy and 
steel scrap.
Tenova, a supplier of equipment and technology for iron 
mining and steel, is assisting Ternium in the development 
of carbon capture equipment and hydrogen based 
burners. Tecpetrol’s Energy Transition Business Unit is 
assisting the company in the development of green 
hydrogen infrastructure and carbon capture and storage 
facilities. Both Tenova and Tecpetrol are affiliates of 
Ternium.ENERGY INTENSITY
GIGAJOULES CONSUMED PER TON OF CRUDE STEEL PRODUCED
2016 2017 2018 2019 20200510152025
 
In addition, Ternium encourages the development of a 
green hydrogen economy, which requires significant 
investments in renewable power and safe transportation 
and storage of gases, the scale up of high quality raw 
material production, to reduce process emissions, and 
carbon dioxide capture infrastructure.
On the institutional side, the company promotes a 
regulatory framework to ensure a level playing field for 
competition during the expected transition to carbon-free 
technologies.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT ROADMAP
We are designing Ternium’s new product development 
roadmap, aimed at increasing its offering of sophisticated, 
resistant and lightweight steel products for low carbon 
economy applications as part of the company’s strategy to 
take advantage of energy transition opportunities.
Ternium subscribes to worldsteel’s position on the 
present and future role of steel in the economy. Abundant 
iron ore resources, endless recyclability and unparalleled 
performance make steel the material of choice in a low-
carbon circular economy. We rely on steel for our 
housing, transport, food and water supply, energy 
production, tools and healthcare. Almost everything 
around us is either made of steel or manufactured byCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
36. TERNIUM12% reduction in natural gas consumption
At the Rio de Janeiro unit in Brazil, the company has 
developed a project to replace natural gas with bio methane 
gas generated at a nearby waste landfill. With this 
initiative, Ternium has turned vented gas into a valuable 
product that, by replacing natural gas, has reduced net 
emissions of carbon dioxide.
equipment made of steel. Steel is a highly versatile metal, 
offering a wide space for the development of lighter 
products. Innovation is leading to more sophisticated 
ferrous castings, enabling a new generation of stronger 
and lighter structures, with lower carbon footprint, that 
are essential inputs for the automotive, engineering, 
energy and transport industries. Iron ore, a material that 
ranks among the most common in the world, is currently 
the most widely used material to produce steel.
Steel scrap has been growing as an alternative raw 
material for steel production. Its magnetic properties 
enable feasible separation technologies. The use of steel 
scrap reduces carbon emissions throughout the life cycle 
of steel products. In combination with a long history of 
significant efforts to increase recycling rates, this has 
resulted in steel leading the recycling statistics, for 
example in cars and cans. Furthermore, its biodegradable 
nature positions steel as a solution to our society's waste 
disposal challenge.
Steel recycling depends on the availability of steel scrap. 
Developing economies have relatively young 
infrastructure stocks and have, therefore, limited amounts 
of obsolete steel scrap to use in steelmaking. However, as 
these economies advance their development curves, and 
infrastructure enters the replacement phase, availability of 
obsolete scrap increases, supporting a shift fromsteelmaking technologies based on iron ore to those 
relying more heavily on steel scrap. Over time, this shift 
will have a significant impact on trends in iron ore and 
steel scrap consumption globally.
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO DECARBONIZATION
Ternium is a signatory of worldsteel’s sustainability 
policy and joins its efforts to reduce carbon dioxide 
emissions, through its participation in several programs. 
In 2020, Ternium was distinguished under worldsteel’s 
Climate Action Recognition Program. The company 
contributes to this program since its launched in 2008.
Ternium also takes part in worldsteel’s Step Up Program. 
This initiative supports the steel industry’s efforts to 
reduce carbon dioxide emissions by means of better 
operational models and benchmarking of operating 
technologies. Based on the Step Up Program findings, 
Ternium seeks to identify opportunities to improve the 
efficiency of its operations, mainly related to raw 
materials usage, energy input, materials yields and 
maintenance models.
Water Management  
Ternium's water management strategy is designed on a 
case-by-case basis according to the specific water supply 
criticality indicators at each site where it operates. The 
company continuously incorporates state-of-the-art
37. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020WATER INTAKE - MEXICAN STEEL FACILITIES
MILLION CUBIC METERS
19.0 19.4 19.618.2 17.5
Subsurface Third party treated
Sewage Recycled
Municipal2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.05.010.015.020.025.0
technologies to improve water management and 
water discharge monitoring systems. Ternium has 
invested a total of $66 million in the last five years to 
improve its water management systems.
WATER INTAKE AND USE
Ternium’s steel shops in Mexico are located at water 
stressed areas. These findings are based on the company’s 
assessment of overall water-related risks according to the 
water risk atlas of the World Resource Institute. Over the 
years, Ternium has developed specific strategies to 
minimize water usage, especially at its Mexican facilities 
where it has achieved a water withdrawal intensity of just 
3.2 cubic meters per ton of steel produced in 2020. 
We have consistently reduced the consumption of 
subsurface water at stressed areas by increasing the usage 
of treated or sewage water. As a result, our consumption 
of subsurface water in Mexico decreased from 11.0 
million cubic meters in 2015 to 8.7 million cubic meters in 
2020. Total water consumption in Mexico in 2020 was 
17.5 million cubic meters, with a 50% share of subsurface 
water, a 24% share of third party treated water, a 16% 
share of external sewage water and an 10% share of 
internally treated and recycled water.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
Ternium permanently monitors wastewaterCO-PRODUCTS 
KILOGRAMS PER TON OF STEEL PRODUCED
2016 2017 2018 2019 20200100200300400500
discharges in compliance with local environmental 
regulations. The company designs capital expenditure 
projects to incorporate state-of-the-art technologies 
and monitoring systems that improve the quality of, 
and reduce, water discharges. For example, at its San 
Nicolás unit in Argentina, the company has built a 
new runoff water pumping station for the coal and 
coke yards, the coking batteries sector, the co-
products facilities and nearby areas.
Following this project, during 2020 the company 
reinforced its flow monitoring systems and related 
facilities, and built new infrastructure to better 
manage water discharges to the Paraná river in the 
event of extreme weather conditions. This investment 
followed other investments in previous years, 
including a new runoff water capturing system at the 
sinter yard and a gas scrubbing circuit-close at a blast 
furnace to reduce water intake and discharge. In 
addition, under its company-wide $460 million 
investment plan, Ternium will strengthen the entire 
effluents treatment and control system at its Rio de 
Janeiro unit in Brazil.
Material Efficiency
In Ternium we continuously develop strategies to 
maximize the use of co-products and reduce the 
production of waste. Co-products mainly include blast COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
38. TERNIUMfurnace and steel shop slag, iron oxide and chemical 
substances. We believe that the recovery and proper use 
of co-products is central to the application of circular 
economy concepts in the steel industry’s value chain.
The use of co-products reduces the consumption of raw 
materials and energy, with a positive effect on carbon 
dioxide emissions and waste generation. All the steel 
scrap generated in Ternium’s facilities is recycled. In 
addition, the company purchases steel scrap generated by 
other steel processors in its value-chain and steel scrap 
gathered by recyclers. In 2020, Ternium recycled 2.6 
million tons of steel scrap to produce new steel with all its 
properties, representing 27% of its total crude steel 
production.
The granulated slag generated in the blast furnaces is sold 
to the cement industry. The re-use of granulated slag as a 
substitute for clinker enabled carbon dioxide emission 
savings in the cement production process of 827,000 tons 
in 2020. The slag generated in the steel shop is also used 
to consolidate roads.
In addition, Ternium has sinter and briquetting facilities 
that allow to recycle different materials captured by its air 
and water cleaning equipment, including iron ore fines, 
coal, lime and dolomite.
The dust generated by the electric-arc furnaces at 
Ternium’s Guerrero and Puebla units, Mexico, is 
transformed into Mix Rock®, an innovative co-product 
developed and registered by Ternium. Mix Rock® 
enabled the re-use of EAF dust and slag as a substitute for 
iron ore in the clinker production process at the cement 
industry. In 2020, Ternium sold 99,000 tons of Mix 
Rock®.
The processing of metallurgical coal for the steelmaking 
production process yields significant volumes of co-
product gases. These gases stem from the distillation 
process in the coking batteries. Ternium cleans coking 
battery gases and obtains chemical products like tar, 
benzol and hydrated lime that are sold to third parties. In 
addition, once the gases obtained from the coking 
batteries, blast furnaces and, in the case of the Rio de 
Janeiro unit, the steel shop, are cleaned, they are used to 
produce steam for the generation of electricity.
All these processes have enabled Ternium to achieve 
a material efficiency rate of 99.6% at its steel 
operations in 2020, with 4.7 million tons of co-products generated and 65,600 tons of waste sent 
to landfill.
Air Quality
We are enhancing air quality monitoring systems and 
continuously investing to improve environmental 
performance.
Ternium has made investments for approximately $142 
million in the last five years, most of which were 
destined to projects aimed at improving the intake and 
treatment of particulate matter emissions at its facilities. 
In 2020, the company built new facilities at its Alzada 
mining unit in Mexico, which have enabled the 
elimination of particulate matter emissions and a 95% 
reduction in sulfur emissions in its pelletizing unit. In 
addition, the company has made progress in the 
construction of new facilities at its Guerrero steel unit in 
Mexico to improve the particulate matter capturing 
system of its iron ore handling equipment and its direct 
reduction facilities.
Under the new $460 million investment plan Ternium 
is advancing a project at its steel shop in the San 
Nicolás unit in Argentina to further enhance its 
environmental performance, and expects to 
incorporate cameras and monitoring systems in all 
steel shops to strengthen their environmental 
management and operational control.
Life Cycle and Environmental Product Declarations
Ternium assesses the life cycle of its steel production 
and participates in worldsteel’s life cycle assessment 
(LCA) initiatives to help document and improve steel 
products environmental footprint. A steel LCA 
involves a thorough inventory of the energy and 
materials that are required across the industry value 
chain, according to ISO 14040 and 14044 standards, 
to determine the greenhouse gas emission impact of 
steel products, among other indicators. As of year-
end 2020, Ternium’s LCA inventory reporting 
encompassed 92% of its crude steel production.
The assessment of the environmental impact of 
steel products is also required by certain customers. 
As a result, the company has developed 
environmental product declarations (EPDs) of eight 
products. More information on Ternium’s EPDs is 
available on our website.
39. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 
Iberá Wetlands, Corrientes, Argentina.  Ternium sponsors the projects of the Rewilding Argentina Foundation in the wetlands, part of the National Geographic Society’s 
Last Wild Places initiative.
Biodiversity Care
SEPETIBA BAY
Ternium’s Rio de Janeiro unit is located near a coastline 
area in the Sepetiba bay in Brazil, where it has its own 
port. The company has a broad strategy to protect the 
fauna and flora of the bay, including 600 hectares of 
mangroves. Of note among other initiatives, Ternium 
promotes and sponsors a project, carried out by the 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and the Instituto 
Boto Cinza, to study a dolphin that inhabits the bay, the 
boto cinza. As part of this initiative, it is expected that a 
study of the dolphin’s population structure and dynamics, 
and tissue cleanliness will be available by year-end 2021.
IBERÁ WETLANDS
Ternium sponsors the projects of the Rewilding 
Argentina Foundation at the Iberá wetlands, a 
protected area located at the northeast of Argentina. 
These projects have been incorporated into National 
Geographic Society’s Last Wild Places initiative. They 
seek to reintroduce in this area species that are 
considered endangered, such as the giant otter and the 
yaguareté, a kind of jaguar. Ternium contributed with 
steel products to build a new shoreline pen for a couple 
of giant otters brought from European zoos and for the 
yaguareté  breeding center. This center holds the breeding couple and offspring of yaguaretés , two of 
which were selected for the first release into the wild 
that took place in 2020.
RESTORATION WORKS AT DECOMMISSIONED MINES
As part of its restoration works at decommissioned 
mines, in the last five years Ternium has planted 
approximately 294,000 trees. Forestation works have 
taken place at former mining operations in the 
Mexican states of Colima, Jalisco and Michoacán, 
and involved more than 20 species that are native to 
the low rain forest.
TERNIUM’S PRESERVATION WORKS
Ternium performs field works aimed at preserving 
local biodiversity before starting the construction of 
new facilities and carries out a continuous control 
and surveillance program in areas intended for 
conservation in its steel and mining operations. The 
company defines various areas of ecological 
connectivity between its terrain and the natural 
ecosystems, and develops rescue programs to release 
wildlife in those areas and install wildlife connectivity 
gates for reptiles, amphibians and small mammals.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
40. TERNIUMENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY POLICY
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–Ternium is an integrated steel company committed on preserving the environment.
Its goal is to achieve the highest standards in environmental and energy performance as a basis for sustainable 
development throughout its operations in regards to company employees, the community and future 
generations. The company has committed to develop a high-quality performance, integrated and eco-efficient 
production system based on continuous improvement.
Caring for the environment is a fundamental value, and its principles are the following:
Compliance with the applicable legislation, as well as any voluntary agreements in relation to environmental 
protection and energy use, consumption and efficiency.
All levels in each area, throughout the company, are responsible for the results of environmental protection.
The commitment of all our personnel is essential, as is the training provided.
Environmental protection and energy efficiency are responsibilities of Ternium’s staff as well as of its 
subsidiaries, suppliers and contractor personnel.
Environmental and energy dimensions are an integral part of the company's management processes.
Continuous improvement in environmental and energy performance is actively promoted throughout the 
company, in addition to all the efforts necessary to achieve the objectives and established goals.
Pollution must be prevented at the source, controlling the most significant environmental aspects of our 
operations and minimizing their impacts and risks.
Promoting the acquisition of energy efficient products, technologies, services and implementing projects 
that enhance our energy performance.
Use energy and natural resources efficiently.
Encourage the use of best technologies and practices, as well as renewable energies, when feasible.
In each company, everyone is responsible for environmental and energy management:
The company supplies the means and resources to enable compliance with this policy, thereby supporting 
the sustainability of all operations, depending on the operations context.
All persons entering company facilities, such as own personnel, suppliers, contractors and customers, 
must comply with this policy.
The company seeks to share these principles throughout its value chain and across the communities where 
it operates, to promote the protection of the environment, encourage the efficient use and consumption of energy 
resources and foster an open dialogue with stakeholders.
This Policy applies to Ternium and its subsidiaries. It will be actively disseminated with a view to ensuring 
compliance throughout the organization.
June 2018
Máximo Vedoya
CEO
Ternium
41. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020REALIZING OUR PEOPLE’S 
FULL POTENTIAL
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
   
20,000
EMPLOYEES
LOCATED MAINLY IN THE AMERICAS.
GOALS ACTIONS
Promote a culture of industrial and technological excellence Reassessment of Ternium University’s training programs, based on career 
requirements, to achieve an up-to-date more effective offering
–Foster innovation Adoption of new career development plans to ensure that adequately skilled 
employees achieve key positions
–Enhance employee’ skills in a challenging atmosphere Development of a new working culture combining the positive aspects of 
traditional onsite work and new remote work alternatives
–Implement succession plans for key positions
–Shape an appealing working environment
Be an equal opportunity and equal treatment organization Endorsement of United Nations’s Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP)
–Increase diversity at Ternium’s management positions Consolidation of the Lean In Together initiative
–Engage the communities and the supply chain under a concerted 
strategy to empower womenLong-term plan to increase women participation at management positions, 
with a medium-term target of a 40% increase by 2023 from 2020COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
42. TERNIUM	
Ternium University  aims at offering the company’s employees career development programs and training activities.
Over the last 15 years, Ternium has become a leading flat 
steel producer in Latin America by virtue of its main 
asset: a team of committed, innovative, industrious, 
diverse and highly qualified individuals. As Ternium has 
embarked on a new phase of development, we rely on the 
talent and determination of our people to successfully 
shape our company in this new stage. 
Promoting Ternium’s Industrial and Technological Excellence
The sustainability of Ternium’s performance relies on the 
competences and skills of existing and new employees 
and on a successful succession and continuity process. 
Ternium is strengthening its Career Development 
program and is in the process of developing a new 
Succession program for key positions as part of its 
initiatives to ensure the company’s medium and long-
term success.
To achieve operational excellence, our teams pursue 
continuous improvement and innovation, and training is 
key to achieve this goal. Ternium has recently centralized 
all training activities in a corporate university: Ternium 
University. It has the mission of learning, sharing and 
growing to help employees increase their competences 
and skills for their current and future positions at the 
company. Employees’ training activities were reassessedin 2020 based on career requirements, resulting in 
increasingly effective and less intensive training 
programs. Ternium University increased its offering of 
online programs as a result of restrictions related to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, completing approximately 80% of 
the envisioned training material. In 2020, Ternium 
University launched the Weekly Training Hour program 
for salaried employees, ensuring the achievement of 
training goals for each function through an effective 
management of the time devoted to training activities. In 
addition, the company is developing a new IT system to 
enhance the effectiveness of its human resources 
initiatives by offering employees an integrated and easy-
to-use platform.
REDESIGNING TERNIUM’S TRAINING PROGRAM FOR YOUNG 
PROFESSIONALS
Ternium University is currently developing a new 
competence model for professionals, based on the 
assessment of required technical and managerial 
expertise under emerging and projected industry trends. 
Based on this new model, Ternium University is 
redesigning its Young Professionals program, with a pilot 
launched in September 2020. Under the new Young 
Professionals program, each participant is assigned 
customized training activities, with online and on-site
43. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020HEADCOUNT
# OF EMPLOYEES
16,72521,35320,660 20,061 20,351
Hourly employees Supervisors
Salaried employees Management2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
formats as well as networking activities. Participants will 
also be assigned to selected positions aimed at helping 
them raise their expertise on desired fields. The new 
mentoring system includes group and individual 
interactions, and upward feedback. Focused on attracting 
young talent and fostering a successful adaptation to 
Ternium's culture, the new Young Professionals program 
has reduced its duration from six to four years, and has 
increased online training formats to 80% of total training 
activities.
OTHER TRAINING PROGRAMS
In addition to its Young Professionals program, Ternium 
has developed a wide array of programs to help 
employees develop competences and skills during their 
entire career. The company also has an in-house 
outplacement program for retiring employees, which 
includes personalized consultancy and support services.
FOSTERING PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT
The individual performance of each salaried employee is 
assessed annually through a formal performance 
assessment process. The results of the evaluation process 
drive different aspects of the career, such as 
compensation and career development, training 
requirements and performance improvement 
opportunities. A performance assessment process based 
on a measurable set of objectives aims at helping ourHEADCOUNT BY NATIONALITY
DECEMBER 2020
Mexican
43%Argentine
28%
Brazilian
19%
Colombian
7%
Other
3%
employees have a positive working experience and 
relationship with their leaders. Ternium’s performance 
assessment process is integrated to the company’s 
human resources IT system, which includes each 
employee’s objectives under a 360-degree approach. 
This is a key component of the process ensuring that 
everyone’s goals are in line with the company’s 
objectives and guarantees transparency and fairness in 
the assessment of each employee’s work throughout the 
year.
The evaluation of objectives accomplishment is 
addressed through a combination of different views: 
the employee’s own opinion, peers’ evaluations, 
assessment committees and feedback meetings, as well 
as mid-year reviews. The system offers employees 
additional options to provide and receive assessments, 
including the chance of submitting client-supplier 
opinions related to specific objectives and an upward 
feedback tool for management positions accessible to 
the manager’s leader.
TRANSFORMING THE WAY WE WORK
The countries in which Ternium operates have adopted 
labor regulations providing for basic labor benefits, such 
as life and disability insurance, health assistance, parental 
leaves and pension systems. In addition to legal labor 
benefits, Ternium has in place several other ones.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
44. TERNIUMTernium is an equal opportunity employer
The company aims to foster a workplace environment that
attracts and develops talents across all genders, nationalities, 
generations, cultures, religions and backgrounds, respecting 
and valuing individual differences.
Ternium has a Diversity and Work Environment Free of Harassment policy  guiding our efforts in managing talent and attracting and retaining motivated employees.
45. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020EMPLOYEES TRAINING 
AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR AND EMPLOYEE
49
3553
36
237410190
725138
86105
74
39
Salaried employees &
managementSupervisors
Hourly employees2016 2017 2018 2019 20200306090120150
In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
company’s Flexible Working program has helped reduce 
the impact of travel restrictions, by offering its employees 
on-demand office space located closer to the employees’ 
homes. Ternium’s Work from Home program was 
technologically strengthened in 2020 to support a massive 
scale. Under this program, the company funded the 
acquisition of home office items for approximately 3,600 
employees, aimed at ensuring suitable conditions for 
remote work.
Ternium periodically commissions confidential surveys 
to monitor employees’ views and opinions on their 
working experience and the company’s management, 
leadership and culture. Action plans are based on 
survey results aimed at improving employees’ 
experience and overall labor climate. In 2020, we 
adopted a new methodology with stricter standards 
resulting in a general satisfaction score of 84% with the 
participation of 89% of salaried employees, showing a 
high level of interest and involvement in corporate life.
Ternium intends to shape a new working culture in the 
medium term, combining the positive aspects of both 
home-based work with on-site work. The design and 
implementation of this new working culture will require 
to assess working models applicable to each 
organizational area, its impact on team performance andPERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
% SALARIED EMPLOYEES
89 87 87828589949194 95
(Internal) client-customer opinion Upward feedback2016 2017 2018 2019 2020020406080100
the development of new leadership skills. 
Building an Equal Opportunity and Equal Treatment Organization
Ternium has adopted policies on Human Rights and 
Diversity and Work Environment Free of Harassment, 
which guide our efforts in managing talent and attracting 
and retaining motivated employees. Ternium is an equal 
opportunity employer and aims to foster a workplace 
environment that attracts and develops talents across all 
genders, nationalities, generations, cultures, religions
and backgrounds, respecting and valuing individual 
differences. Ternium’s Code of Conduct forbids unlawful 
discrimination in employment relations and ensures that 
any person has the right to apply for employment with 
the company or to be considered for a new position 
strictly based only on the skills required for such task. 
Over the years, Ternium has grown increasingly diverse. 
Mexicans, Argentines, Brazilians and Colombians 
account for the largest share of the company’s team 
members, yet a total of 27 nationalities are represented in 
Ternium’s staff. In 2020, 58% of the company’s local 
management positions throughout the organization were 
held by nationals. To foster diversity and inclusion at the 
work place, Ternium has set a number of programs and 
requirements under its policy. In 2020, the Human Rights 
Campaign foundation recognized Ternium as one of the 
best places to work in Mexico for the LGBT community.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
46. TERNIUMHEADCOUNT BY GENDER 
%, DECEMBER 2020
Male FemaleHourly employees &
supervisors
Salaried
employees
Management
0 20 40 60 80 100
UNITED NATIONS’ WEPS
In May 2021, Ternium embraced the Women’s 
Empowerment Principles (WEPs) of United Nations 
Women and started the subscription process. Ternium 
aims to raise female participation in its management 
positions on a long-term basis, with a medium-term 
target of a 40% increase by 2023 from 2020. As part of its 
commitments under the WEPs, Ternium promotes 
business practices that empower women among its 
employees and other stakeholders, including those in the 
steel industry value chain and the communities near its 
facilities.
LEAN IN TOGETHER PROGRAM
Under the company’s Diversity+ program, in 2019 
Ternium launched the Lean In Together initiative. In the 
first stage of the program, participants raised their 
awareness on identity unconscious biases, global 
perspective, cross-cultural leadership and inclusive 
spaces, and learned on the strategic management of 
differences. This module was organized on an online 
format including 140 participants at nine pilot groups 
combining employees from the same country with diverse 
career profiles and one pilot group combining managers 
from different countries. In the second stage of the 
program, participants designed various initiatives aimed 
at identifying cultural biases and conducts affecting 
corporate life, and ways to improve work relationshipsHEADCOUNT BY AGE 
%, DECEMBER 2020
Less than 30 years Between 30 and 50 years
More than 50 yearsHourly employees
Plant supervisors
Salaried
employees
Management
0 20 40 60 80 100
on the basis of equality and respect. This module was 
carried out during 2020 with 104 participants in nine 
groups.
MATERNITY MENTORING PROGRAM
During 2019, the company launched a Maternity 
Mentoring program as part of its initiatives to accelerate 
the reduction of the gender gap and foster the 
participation of women in managerial positions. Focused 
on strengthening women’s career development and 
reducing the rate of female employees that leave the 
company following pregnancy or maternity, the program 
offers a total of nine sessions to assist employees and 
their leaders in planning and managing the transition 
before, during and after maternity leave. Following a 
pilot test carried out in Mexico, the program was 
implemented in 2020 for our operations in Argentina, 
Brazil and Guatemala, with the assistance of a specialized 
consultancy firm.  
Best place to work in Mexico for LGBT
47. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020HELPING OUR
COMMUNITIES THRIVE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
   
  
$60 
MILLION
INVESTED IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS 
TO FOSTER EDUCATION AND LIFE QUALITY.
GOALS ACTIONS
Foster education Construction and operation of a technical school in Pesquería, Mexico
–Promote excellence in STEM education (Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics)Sponsorship of other technical schools, including math and technical 
training, and technical internships and projects.
–Support schools and outstanding students Financial support to students (high-school, undergraduate and graduate)
Implementation of an out-of-syllabus STEM education program for children
Support initiatives that strengthen communities near our 
operationsFunding of health care infrastructure and equipment, including special fund 
to face the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020
–Improve health care systems Construction and operation of a field hospital (COVID-19) in Monterrey, 
Mexico
–Sponsor volunteering activities Maintenance and refurbishing of community schools
–Promote cultural and sport activities Support to vulnerable families in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico
Sponsorship of diverse cultural exhibitions and events, as well as city races 
and other sport activitiesCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
48. TERNIUM	
New robotic and automation laboratories at a technical school in San Nicolás  that turned it into one of the most modern in Argentina. Ternium has also carried out 
infrastructure renovation works at a technical school in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and donated computers and other equipment to a technical school in Pesquería, Mexico.
We believe that an industrial project like Ternium’s can 
only be sustainable if community and industry grow 
together. This is the principle guiding our community 
programs, which focus on four main fields:
- Education, which includes the Roberto Rocca 
Technical Schools, the Technical Gene program, the 
AfterSchool Program and Roberto Rocca Scholarships. 
We are convinced that education is the key to 
prosperous community growth and thus we have 
developed and ran educational programs covering the 
entire school cycle, from elementary to post-graduate, 
helping children and youngsters to fulfill their potential 
and become active contributors to society.
- Culture, which includes the Film Festival and the 
Photo Library. As a multi-cultural and multi-lingual 
company, we enrich and broaden people’s cultural 
horizons in communities near our facilities, fostering 
diversity and inclusion by promoting cultural activities. 
- Volunteer work, through the Volunteers in Action 
program. We encourage our employees to volunteer for 
community activities with a special focus on 
refurbishing schools, aimed at helping those in need and 
cultivating pride and integration in our communities.- Health, by funding infrastructure projects and 
improvements at hospitals and health care centers near 
our facilities, with the aim of improving people’s 
quality of life and fostering welfare.
Abiding by these general directives, our programs have 
been designed to be implemented at local level, taking 
into account the particular circumstances of each 
community where we operate.
In 2020, in the context of the global health, educational 
and economic crisis resulting from the COVID-19 
outbreak, Ternium launched a dedicated fund to 
strengthen its support to the communities. For more 
information see page 18 "COVID-19".
Developing High Standards of Technical Education
One of our main programs is the Roberto Rocca 
Technical Schools (ETRR, for its acronym in Spanish). 
Named after one of the company’s founders and 
promoter of industrial culture and technical 
education, the ETRR was launched to educate high 
school students from our communities, using 
innovative teaching methods and the latest 
technology in both classroom and laboratory. All 
49. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020students are granted different scholarships, depending 
on their needs. 
The first school, inaugurated in 2013 in the city of 
Campana, Argentina by our sister company Tenaris, 
has capacity for 420 students. The second school, 
inaugurated in 2016 in Pesquería, Mexico by Ternium, 
can host up to 360 students. 
Although we have been forced to close the school 
because of the pandemic, we implemented a remote 
teaching system to ensure continuity, quality, follow-up 
and educational, technological and nutritional support 
to the students throughout this period. Students have 
not only continued with their studies but have also 
performed their industrial internships on virtual mode. 
For example, some students have participated together 
with graduates and company staff in the development 
of a sanitizing system designed for entrance halls. Other 
students have participated together with our employees, 
on a virtual format, in steel tube testing equipment 
design, aimed at achieving an automated process with 
safer procedures.
During 2020, we reinforced the Project-Based Learning 
(PBL) methodology, which we believe fosters 
innovation and teamwork, helps students develop 
Industry 4.0 skills and encourages them to think in 
diverse ways, developing critical thinking and better 
communication skills. Also during 2020, we trained ten 
teachers in the PBL methodology.
The ETRR has a teacher evaluation committee that  
monitors classes and assesses student surveys as part of 
its evaluation system. In 2020, we assessed the 
performance of 24 teachers. In addition to assessing 
and guiding improvement, which is the cornerstone of 
our teacher development plan, we reward 
performance, attendance, use of technology and 
training. During the year, the school teachers received 
approximately 3,600 hours of training under a 
continuous development program.
Strengthening Technical Education Community-Wide
The Technical Gene program provides support for the 
improvement of infrastructure and equipment at 
technical schools, as well as for teacher training andCOMMUNITY PROGRAMS 
$ MILLION
23.7
12.6
9.5
6.611.1
Regular programs (includes COVID-19 special funding in 2020)
Construction of Roberto Rocca Technical School in Pesquería, Mexico2016 2017 2018 2019 20200510152025
   
school management. In addition, it provides on-the-job 
training internships for high-school students and shares 
teaching and learning practices and concepts developed 
in the Roberto Rocca Technical Schools.
Furthermore, it provides opportunities for high-school 
students in communities near our facilities to develop 
industry 4.0 skills by offering them specific tools to 
guide their learning. The program currently comprises 
approximately 440 students and teachers from seven 
schools in Monterrey, Mexico, in San Nicolás, 
Argentina, and in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
In 2020, adapting to pandemic-related restrictions, we 
held a virtual hackathon of Technical Gene Makers in 
Argentina, with 70 participants brainstorming 
innovative projects to add value to their communities.
We continued training teachers, offering a virtual 
training course in physics and math to 17 educators and 
with 33 educators from five technical schools 
participating in another math project. In Brazil, we 
offered an online workshop to 50 educators on STEM-
oriented hybrid teaching (Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Math).COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
50. TERNIUMTECHNICAL GENE PROGRAM
# OF PARTICIPANTS
1,5012,215
1,5782,077
435
Students Teachers2016 2017 2018 2019 2020(*)
(*) Technical Gene operates at public technical schools, which saw their activity 
affected in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Quality Education for the Communities
Ternium has different programs aimed at improving 
skills and education in communities near its facilities. 
We organize workshop academies in Pihuamo, Aquila 
and Alzada in Mexico. In addition, through the 
AfterSchool (ASP) program, we provide support to 
primary schools in San Nicolás de los Garza, Mexico, 
and in Ramallo, Argentina.
The ASP offers non-formal education for children aged 
six to 12 years-old, designed for communities with 
considerable school dropout rates. The program offers 
extra hours of STEM four days a week to encourage 
children to commit to learning and further their 
personal development in the longer term. With 
approximately 310 participants, in 2020 ASP classes 
shifted to virtual format in Argentina and Mexico.
We took advantage of the new virtual format to share 
the ASP initiative with families and the community. In 
Argentina, we opened up the content developed for the 
virtual classes through a virtual platform and social 
networks, and in Mexico we developed a virtual end-of-
year event fully managed by the students with the 
participation of approximately 100 families.ROBERTO ROCCA SCHOLARSHIPS PROGRAM
# OF SCHOLARSHIPS
889
8031,0001,0791,133
High-school students Undergraduate + PhD students2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 
Encouraging Excellence Among Students
Launched in 1976 in Argentina, the Roberto Rocca 
Scholarships program was initially designed to benefit 
the children of Ternium’s employees. Later on, it was 
offered to other students living in communities near 
our facilities.
The focus of the program is to stimulate academic 
performance and commitment among high-school 
students and to promote the study of applied science 
and engineering among undergraduate and graduate 
students. In 2020, we awarded 763 scholarships to 
distinguished high-schools students, 361 scholarships to 
undergraduate students and nine fellowships to 
students pursuing their PhDs.
Culture and Tradition to Foster Diversity and Integration
For Ternium and its sister companies in the Techint 
Group, art and culture are a source of innovation as 
well as a means of celebrating diversity and exploring 
humanity.
The cornerstone of our arts programs in the areas of 
film and photography is our partnership with the 
PROA Foundation, which in addition to its activities in 
the community in Buenos Aires, Argentina, provides us 
with invaluable expertise and experience to guide us
51. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020	
Ternium’s community support  includes the funding of health care infrastructure and equipment at nearby hospitals and health care centers.
in the selection and development of content in our 
arts programs.
In 2020, our traditional film festivals had to be replaced 
by other events that could be streamed on-line, such as 
concerts, ballets and conferences. Art exhibitions were 
performed at open public spaces observing the 
recommendations related to the containment of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
Volunteering: Making a Difference
We are committed to making a difference and 
strengthening a sense of pride in belonging to the 
communities where we operate. Ternium employees 
and their families regularly volunteer to improve local 
school infrastructure, joining students, their relatives, 
school teachers and neighbors in this effort.
In 2020, restrictions related to the COVID-19 
pandemic curtailed most of our activities under this 
program as, by their nature, they entail on-site work. 
Nevertheless, we managed to gather approximately 
220 volunteers and 3,400 hours of volunteering, 
observing established protocols, to refurbish, restore, 
renovate and expand school buildings in Mexico, 
Argentina and Colombia.During 2020, those affected by the floods caused by
hurricanes ETA and IOTA in Guatemala received 460 
kits containing foodstuff and cleanliness and hygiene 
products donated by Ternium and its employees.
Sports and a Healthy Lifestyle
As part of our drive to promote a healthy lifestyle, it 
has been a tradition in our company to organize the 
10K Ternium annual local race, together with local 
institutions, in San Nicolás, Argentina, in Monterrey 
and Colima, Mexico, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and in 
Villa Nueva, Guatemala. In 2020 we organized the 
annual race on virtual format due to the pandemic. 
With the goal of adding kilometers rather than arriving 
first, participants ran or walked, choosing day, time, 
route and distance during a nine-day term. On the other 
hand, our traditional sport leagues, involving schools in 
neighboring communities, were suspended in 2020.
Regarding health care initiatives, during 2020 the 
company continued supporting and funding a basic 
health care unit in Aquila, Mexico, as well as 
improvements in health care infrastructure in different 
countries, which were reinforced in the context of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. For more information see page 
18 "COVID-19".COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
52. TERNIUMTERNIUM’S 
COMMUNITY 
SUPPORT IN 
NUMBERS$29
MILLION
INVESTED IN OUR TECHNICAL 
SCHOOL IN PESQUERÍA, 
MEXICO (2015-2018).$11
MILLION
INVESTED IN 2020 IN 
EDUCATION, HEALTH CARE, 
CULTURAL AND SPORT 
ACTIVITIES.1,133
SCHOLARSHIPS
FOR HIGH-SCHOOL, 
UNDERGRADUATE AND PHD 
STUDENTS IN 2020.
Graduation ceremony at Ternium’s ETRR at Pesquería, Mexico.  Two students, their family history and their dreams were the theme of a short film that captures the self-
improvement spirit that lays behind this endeavor, and that was awarded the 44° Suncoast Regional Emmy Awards 2020 in the category "Education News".
53. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020STRENGTHENING TERNIUM’S 
VALUE CHAIN
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
   
1,800 
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES
PARTICIPATE IN THIS ENDEAVOR TO STRENGTHEN
THE STEEL INDUSTRY VALUE CHAIN.
GOALS ACTIONS
Promote a collaborative network in the steel value chain to foster 
performance excellenceEngagement of universities, business schools and industrial chambers to 
collaborate with the program’s initiatives
Engagement of special-purpose governmental agencies to expand SME’s 
project financing tools
ProPymes conferences to coordinate the sector’s agenda, and strengthen ties 
and networks
Help small and medium-sized customers and suppliers grow Training programs for managers, employees and workers
–Enhance competitiveness and foster investments Assistance in the development of industrial projects and management tools
–Identify and pursue business opportunities Support to develop commercial banks’ financing of industrial projects
Financing of working capital requirements
Broad assistance program for export-led SMEs
New program focused on climate change related subjects
Assistance in the development of commercial relationships to enhance 
business opportunities
Assistance in the development of an institutional agenda to deepen ties with 
governmental bodies and communitiesCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
54. TERNIUM	
ProPymes  offers support to small and medium size customers and suppliers in the steel industry value chain in Mexico and Argentina.
Ternium offers support to small and medium size 
enterprises (SMEs) through a program that provides a 
variety of services, including training, industrial 
assistance, institutional assistance, commercial support 
and financial aid. With the participation of 1,821 
companies as of the end of 2020, our ProPymes program 
fosters the development of the industrial value chain in 
Mexico and Argentina.
ProPymes  has helped create an industrial network that 
encourages the professionalization and quest for 
excellence of SMEs, which, based on knowledge sharing, 
reciprocal learning and exchange of experiences, aims at 
the implementation along the value chain of the best 
practices utilized in the industry.
Why Should Ternium Help Other Companies?
Ternium believes that part of its role as a large industrial 
company in Latin America is to strengthen its value chain. 
The ProPymes  program was first launched in Argentina in 
2002, during a deep economic crisis that severely affected 
many companies in the steel industry value chain. It has 
been named after the acronym Pyme, which in Spanish 
stands for SME. In Mexico, the program was introduced 
four years later.ProPymes  institutionalizes the cooperation between 
Ternium and the company’s small and medium-size 
customers and suppliers. Ternium works with SMEs to 
help them reach their potential, enhancing their 
professional, management and financial capabilities, and 
helping them participate competitively in both domestic 
and foreign markets. A strengthened value chain fosters, 
in turn, the development of industrial infrastructure at 
Ternium’s main markets, with increased steel demand 
and enhanced competitiveness.
ProPymes  Assistance Services
TRAINING
ProPymes  designs and implements an annual training 
agenda. The course contents are continuously updated to 
offer our customers and suppliers the best available tools 
and management practices for their salaried and hourly 
employees, as well as for managers. Every year the 
program incorporates additional subjects to its 
curriculum to meet SMEs’ increasingly sophisticated 
range of needs, as they advance their learning curves. In 
2020, the COVID-19 pandemic required a shift to online 
formats for training activities and the incorporation of 
additional courses to discuss new protocols for running 
safe industrial operations in compliance with new
55. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020PROPYMES’ SPONSORED INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
# OF PROJECTS
307376408451
297
Argentina Mexico2016 2017 2018 2019 2020(*)0100200300400500
(*) Activity in 2020 was affected by restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
 
regulations. Training activities include programs, 
workshops and webinars with the participation of 
renowned consultants and teachers from 
universities and technical schools. In 2020, 
ProPymes  sponsored online training courses for 
approximately 5,300 attendants who spent an 
aggregate 72,900 hours in class.
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
ProPymes ’ industrial assistance service focuses on a broad 
array of issues from the use of automation technology, the 
optimization of production facilities and quality 
certifications, to the development of environment, health 
and safety protocols and human resources management. 
Although in 2020 the COVID-19 pandemic impaired the 
industrial assistance service, the incorporation of an 
online assistance format helped keep some level of activity 
with the development of approximately 300 projects.
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
The financial assistance service aims at fostering 
investments to enhance productivity and increase SMEs’ 
installed capacity. The scope of ProPymes  assistance 
includes the analysis and development of the project, and 
the granting of a loan from ProPymes  or support for 
application for commercial bank financing and 
guarantees or government-sponsored low-cost financingPROPYMES’ SPONSORED TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
# OF SCHOOLS
2224324143
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020(*)01020304050
 
instruments. In 2020, Ternium’s SME customers were 
granted $5.7 million in direct financial assistance and 
$13.5 million in loans from banks and mutual guarantee 
companies with the assistance and sponsorship of 
ProPymes .
COMMERCIAL SUPPORT
ProPymes  assists suppliers in the development and 
certification of new products for Ternium and/or any of 
its affiliated companies. In addition, it assists SMEs in the 
development process required to become a supplier of 
large companies to gain new customers for automotive, 
oil & gas and other industrial sectors. ProPymes  also 
offers SMEs the possibility to leveraging on the Techint 
Group’s global network of commercial offices in order to 
enhance their market reach.
INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES
The ProPymes  institutional assistance program helps 
SMEs develop an agenda that deepens ties with 
governmental bodies and communities, and addresses 
common concerns. Initiatives under this program 
include strategies aimed at ensuring a level playing field 
in the local market, given the potential threat of 
unfairly traded imports, those intended for the setting 
of industry chambers and the development of technical 
standards for industrial products, and those aimed atCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
56. TERNIUMProPymes response to the pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic brought new challenges to the 
management of companies’ operations, threatening the 
financial stability of SMEs. Ternium, through ProPymes , 
established a collaborative network with the Argentine 
chamber of metallurgical enterprises to tailor 
customized solutions for member companies, aimed at 
sustaining their utilization rates.
enhancing SMEs competitiveness. In addition, we help 
SMEs set their own corporate social programs through 
the implementation of a support program for technical 
educational institutes.
SPECIAL PROGRAM FOR EXPORT-LED COMPANIES
Under the ProPymes Exporta  program, launched in 2018, 
we encourage export-led SMEs to expand their businesses 
abroad by leveraging on their export potential. Selected 
companies in the steel industry value chain in Argentina 
are invited to participate according to their export profile. 
The program aims at increasing their medium-term 
export capabilities through a broad industrial, 
commercial, financial and institutional support program. 
The ProPymes Exporta  program encompasses 
approximately 240 SMEs with a customer base located at 
close to 30 countries .
NEW PROGRAMS
ProPymes  has recently launched a pilot program with 
selected SMEs in Argentina to help them assess their 
medium-term environmental risks and opportunities, 
and elaborate and implement their medium-term 
strategic plans. ProPymes  is carrying out the first phase 
of the program, consisting in training activities. In a 
second phase, ProPymes  is planned to assist SMEs in 
the analysis and development of their climate change-related roadmaps, and to promote their 
implementation. We expect to broaden the pilot to 
other SMEs in Argentina and Mexico. ProPymes  has 
also organized sectoral workshops to assess SMEs 
opportunities at developing new markets and 
incorporating technology (mainly Industry 4.0). 
ProPymes  is planned also to assist SMEs in the analysis 
and implementation of customized solutions.
Developing the SMEs Agenda
SMEs are key players for the social integration of their 
communities, as they generate a substantial share of total 
industrial jobs. The ProPymes  program plays an 
important role in advancing the SME policy agenda in 
Mexico and Argentina. Ternium organizes major events 
under the auspices of the ProPymes  initiative, bringing 
SMEs’ representatives together with government 
officials, economists and journalists to discuss the 
sector’s economic context and outlook. In Mexico, the 
ProPymes  biannual event showcases awards for SMEs 
excelling in diverse areas including occupational health 
and safety, logistics services and raw material handling. 
The occasion also includes a Supplier of the Year award. 
In Argentina, the event features panels and interviews 
designed to allow SMEs’ executives share their 
experiences and lessons learned.
57. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020DELIVERING TERNIUM’S 
BUSINESS STRATEGY
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
  
50%
INCREASE
IN THE PRODUCTION CAPACITY OF HOT-ROLLED
STEEL COILS, WITH START-UP OF NEW MILL IN JUNE 2021.
ELEMENTS OF STRATEGY ACTIONS
Focus on sophisticated steel products New galvanizing and painting lines at Ternium’s industrial center in 
Pesquería, Mexico
New research center in Mexico to further expand Ternium’s R&D capabilities
Pursuit of strategic growth opportunities New 4.4 million tons hot-rolling mill in Pesquería to increase Ternium’s 
market share in the USMCA steel market
New 520,000 tons steel bar & coil mill in Colombia
Enhancement of Ternium’s competitive position Incorporation of state-of-the-art equipment through Ternium's new 
investment projects
–Full product range offering Coordinated deployment of new technologies and cross implementation of 
Ternium’s best practices
–Operational excellence Offering of just-in-time and short notice supply agreements with consistent 
quality and delivery compliance
–Differentiated services through a strong distribution network Human resources management measures (see "Realizing Our People’s Full 
Potential")
–Attract and train talented employeesCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
58. TERNIUM	
Remote assistance with augmented reality , one of diverse applications enabled by a technological convergence that has helped shape the SMART factory concept.
Ternium aims to enhance stakeholder value by further 
consolidating the company’s position as a leading steel 
producer in Latin America and a strong player in the 
Americas, while increasing its differentiation and 
strengthening its competitiveness.
We believe Ternium has built competitive advantages 
in its main steel markets. The company’s industrial 
presence, and its network of distribution centers and 
commercial offices increases Ternium’s ability to offer 
differentiated logistics and stock management services. 
Our customers have access to an integrated 
connectivity platform covering the entire customer 
relationship process. For more information on 
Ternium’s Webservice Platform, see page 64 
"Differentiated Services Through a Digital 
Marketplace".
Ternium also works together with small and medium-
sized customers and suppliers in Argentina and 
Mexico, through the ProPymes  program, to help them 
grow. The prosperity of SMEs and the development of 
a collaborative industrial network have strengthened 
the company’s value chain. This effort has led to a 
virtuous cycle of improved competitiveness, increased 
exports and imports substituted by new locally 
manufactured products. For more information onthe ProPymes  program, see page 54 "Strengthening 
Ternium’s Value Chain".
Ternium’s differentiation initiatives have also included 
investments in state-of-the-art technologies. As part of 
this strategy the company has built its Pesquería 
Industrial Center in Mexico, which currently comprise 
a cold-rolling mill, two galvanizing facilities and a 
painting line, and will soon start up a new hot-rolling 
mill.
Together with its processing technology upgrade, 
Ternium has increased its product research and 
development capabilities in order to broaden its 
product range, particularly in the high-end steel 
segment, in order to satisfy its industrial customers' 
requirements. Ternium provides technical assistance to 
its customers through its product research and 
development area, allowing to maximize the 
performance of the company’s steel products and the 
efficiency of the manufacturing processes downstream 
in the steel industry value chain.
We believe that Ternium has additional growth 
opportunities in the USMCA trade region. In Mexico, 
increased steel consumption over the last decades gave 
way to an attractive steel market with a significant 
demand for advanced steel products, mainly driven by 
59. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020a dynamic manufacturing industry that destines a 
significant share of its production to the US market. 
The Mexican industrial sector has access to the US and 
Canadian markets through the USMCA, and to other 
major economic regions and trade blocks through 
other free trade agreements. Mexico has privileged 
conditions to host a competitive and innovative 
manufacturing sector and the country’s geographic 
location provides a competitive logistics base to reach 
every major market.
Mexican steel producers deliver approximately half of 
the flat steel demand in the country. We believe that 
Ternium is very well positioned to compete with 
foreign producers and gradually substitute imports in 
the country. The company has built a solid 
differentiation strategy leaning on its unique industrial 
presence in Mexico, as well as on its market 
competitiveness. We believe that Ternium is also well 
positioned to compete in the US steel market.
In South America, Ternium has a significant presence 
in the Argentine steel market, the third largest in Latin 
America. The country’s manufacturing customers 
account for approximately half of local flat steel 
demand, providing ample opportunities for the offering 
of value added products and services. Ternium is in an 
unparalleled position to compete with foreign 
producers in Argentina. Its solid differentiation 
strategy built on its industrial integration in the 
country allows to offer customized products and value-
added services.
Ternium has a significant local presence in Colombia, 
the fourth largest steel market in Latin America. The 
company is also a competitive player in other steel 
markets in the region.
We identify three main drivers of Ternium’s business 
strategy: a focus on sophisticated value-added 
products, the pursuit of strategic growth opportunities 
and a relentless quest for competitive industrial 
operations.
Focus on Sophisticated Steel Products
The incorporation of new technologies, the 
development of new advanced steel products and the 
integration of our industrial system are elements of a 
strategy aimed at increasing the participation of higher margin value-added products in the company’s 
sales mix. 
Ternium’s industrial center in Pesquería enabled the 
manufacturing of new cold-rolled and hot-dipped 
galvanized steel products that strengthened our 
positioning in the high-end market sector, giving way 
to a gradual replacement of imported goods in key 
industrial segments, like the automotive sector.
The further development of the Pesquería unit in 2019 
allowed the manufacturing of new hot-dipped 
galvanized and pre-painted products, expanding our 
product range for industrial customers and increasing 
the value added at our processing facilities. The new 
painting line incorporated the most advanced 
technology to the Mexican steel industry.
A new hot-rolling mill in Ternium’s industrial center in 
Pesquería, soon to be inaugurated, will represent a 
technological leap forward in the country’s steel 
production capacity, and has been coupled with 
investments in new research and development 
infrastructure to accelerate the expansion of Ternium’s 
product range.
With this investment, Ternium broadened its 
dimensional offerings with the most advanced steel 
grades, aiming at fulfilling all industry requirements to 
substitute high-value-added steel imports targeting the 
demanding and innovative automotive industry, as well 
as the home appliance, machinery, energy and 
construction sectors.
Pursuit of Strategic Growth Opportunities
We have a history of strategically growing our 
businesses through acquisitions and organic growth. 
We intend to continue identifying and actively pursuing 
growth-enhancing strategic opportunities to 
consolidate Ternium’s presence in its main markets 
and expand it to the rest of the Americas, increase our 
industrial system integration, broaden our offerings of 
value-added products, and enhance our production and 
distribution capabilities.
For example, in 2017, Ternium acquired Ternium 
Brasil, a steel slab producer with facilities located in the 
state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The plant has an annual 
production capacity of 5.0 million tons of high-endCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
60. TERNIUMDelivering Ternium’s business strategy
New state-of-the-art hot-dipped galvanizing and painting 
lines in Mexico.
New advanced hot-rolling mill in Mexico.
Increased integration of the Rio de Janeiro steel mill.
Strengthened product research and development capabilities.
Deployment of new technologies.
Reliable quality, unparalleled service and on-schedule delivery.
Solid financial performance.
Ternium’s industrial center in Pesquería.  Upon the inauguration of the new hot-rolling mill, the industrial center will have an annual production capacity of 4.4 million 
tons of hot-rolled products, 1.6 million tons of cold-rolled products, 830,000 tons of hot-dipped galvanized products and 120,000 tons of pre-painted products.
61. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020TERNIUM’S TOTAL 
PRODUCTION 
CAPACITY AS OF 
JUNE 202112.4
MILLION TONS
ANNUAL CRUDE STEEL 
PRODUCTION CAPACITY, UP 
70% IN 2017.13.8
MILLION TONS
ANNUAL HOT-ROLLED COIL 
PRODUCTION CAPACITY, UP 
50% IN 2021.5.5
MILLION TONS
ANNUAL COLD-ROLLED COIL 
PRODUCTION CAPACITY.
3.7
MILLION TONS
ANNUAL GALVANIZED STEEL 
PRODUCTION CAPACITY, UP 
20% IN 2019.1.1
MILLION TONS
ANNUAL PAINTING 
PRODUCTION CAPACITY, UP 
10% IN 2019.1.9
MILLION TONS
ANNUAL HOT-ROLLED BARS 
AND COILS PRODUCTION 
CAPACITY, UP 40% IN 2020.
steel slabs, a deep-water harbor and a 490 MW 
combined cycle power plant. With this acquisition, 
total crude steel production capacity of Ternium’s 
industrial system increased to 12.4 million tons, or 
approximately 70%.
The addition of the Rio de Janeiro facility to 
Ternium’s industrial system triggered the second wave 
of projects in Pesquería, Mexico, which will be 
completed with the inauguration of the new hot-rolling 
mill. This new mill, with an annual production 
capacity of 4.4 million tons and an option to increase 
capacity in the future by an additional 400,000 tons, 
combined with the steel-making facility in Rio de 
Janeiro, will enable Ternium to continue increasing its 
market share in Mexico.
Ternium’s increased participation at the country’s steel 
market will be supported by the combination of a 
higher production capacity and a strengthened product 
range with a broader dimensional offering and new 
advanced steel grades. The company also expects to 
enhance customer service and reduce lead times in its 
value chain in Mexico, leaning on its higher local 
production capacity and the company’s service center 
and distribution capabilities.In Colombia, Ternium started up  a new reinforcing 
bar facility in Palmar de Varela in 2020, adding 
520,000 tons of annual production capacity of steel 
bars to Ternium’s industrial system. This investment 
will enable the company to expand its market share in 
Colombia’s dynamic construction sector, by offering 
an alternative to imports in the country's northern 
region. In addition, it has increased our upstream 
integration in the country.
Enhancement of Ternium’s Competitive Position
In addition to developing a full range offering of steel 
products and delivering differentiated services to 
Ternium’s customer base, we aim to enhance the 
company’s competitive position by seeking excellence 
in operational performance, and by attracting and 
training talented employees.
Our quest for operational excellence relies on the cross 
implementation of Ternium’s managerial, commercial 
and production best practices. Ternium has a 
centralized industrial engineering, automation, OH&S 
and environmental management area. Focused on 
capacity utilization, quality and maintenance, this area 
facilitates the improvement of production processes 
through best practices, a coordinated deployment ofCOMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
62. TERNIUMINVESTMENT IN PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
$ MILLION
9.29.8
8.910.0
8.3
2016 2017 2018 2019 202002.557.51012.5
new technologies and access to strong internal 
technical support.
We aim to obtain better purchase conditions and prices 
by combining the demand for products and services 
both by Ternium and its affiliate, Tenaris. We pursue 
this goal through Exiros, a purchase agency which we 
own 50/50 with Tenaris. Exiros has offices in various 
countries and procures most of the raw materials and 
other products and services required for our 
manufacturing process.
Ternium’s broad range of value-added products, 
just-in-time delivery, inventory management and 
other services are offered to customers in major 
steel markets supported by the company’s 
extended service center, distribution, sales and 
marketing networks. As part of its differentiation 
strategy, Ternium aims at further strengthening its 
presence at local steel markets. In this regard, in 
2019 and 2020 Ternium inaugurated a total of 
seven new distribution centers in Mexico and 
Guatemala.
STRENGTHENING PRODUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
CAPABILITIES
In addition to the incorporation of state-of-the-art 
processing technology, Ternium has been strengtheningAUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY CERTIFICATIONS
NUMBER OF CERTIFICATIONS APPROVED
363397413432451
2016 2017 2018 2019 20200100200300400500
its product research and development capabilities 
to widen its product range.
We are designing a new product development 
roadmap, aimed at increasing our offering of 
resistant and lightweight steel products for low 
carbon economy applications. This initiative is one 
of the elements of the company’s climate change 
strategy.
Ternium’s research programs are developed at its own 
facilities, with an emphasis on creating and 
manufacturing increasingly sophisticated steel products 
for new uses and customers. These efforts are 
complemented with our participation in a broad-based 
international network of industry consortia, 
universities and research laboratories.
Ternium is a member of WorldAutoSteel, an 
organization comprising some of the world’s major 
steel producers. Sponsored by worldsteel, the group 
regularly updates the automotive industry on 
upcoming new steel capabilities available to meet 
design and  manufacturing requirements.
We have identified synergies in collaborating with 
Ternium’s customers in the early stages of their
63. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020projects. Being able to anticipate the markets’ 
requirements, through joint product development 
projects with leading industrial companies, is key not 
only to build strong customer relationships but also to 
plan and develop new processes, which may sometimes 
require the incorporation of new equipment and 
technology.
Ternium also promotes the participation of university 
researchers and students from some of the world’s 
most prestigious institutions in projects’ early stages. 
We engage universities in our research efforts in order 
to expand and further diversify the company’s research 
network and capabilities.
This initiative fosters the development of fundamental 
knowledge and know-how by participating universities 
while enabling the optimization of Ternium’s in-house 
research resources. Approximately thirty 
undergraduate and postgraduate students pursuing 
degrees in engineering, materials science and 
metallurgy take part in the program.
These research initiatives span the entire production 
cycle, from primary steel making and metallurgy, to 
rolling and coating. The goal is to design and develop 
the best solutions to achieve a better and more 
sustainable steel.
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic took its toll on the 
collaboration of universities and research laboratories 
with Ternium’s projects. Once the pandemic recedes, 
we expect to normalize these activities that before the 
COVID-19 outbreak used to involve over 50 
institutions from both the public and private sectors.
The company’s research facilities include laboratories 
in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, where we test product 
performance and simulate production processes. 
Ternium has recently reinforced its research 
infrastructure with the incorporation of a new coking 
pilot plant in Argentina and the upgrade of a steel 
corrosion testing laboratory in Mexico.
In addition, the company has launched the 
construction of a new research and development center 
in Monterrey, Mexico. This new state-of-the-artcenter, expected to be operative in 2021, will 
incorporate new equipment to Ternium’s research and 
development infrastructure to test product 
performance.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF ADVANCED STEEL PRODUCTS
Ternium’s adoption of state-of-the-art technologies 
enabled the company to develop dual phase, ferrite-
bainite, martensitic and complex phase grades to 
broaden its product range, as part of its focus on new 
advanced high-strength steel grades.
We intensified our product development activities 
based on these new capabilities to further broaden 
Ternium’s high-end product portfolio for customers in 
the automotive, metal-mechanic, home appliance, 
energy and electric motors industries. More recently, 
with the new investment at the company’s industrial 
center in Pesquería, we widened our product portfolio 
for automotive and home-appliance manufacturers, 
and other industrial sectors.
With Ternium’s new steel bar and coil mill in Palmar 
de Varela, Colombia, we will be able to offer leading 
anti-seismic steel products for the Colombian 
construction sector, with improved resistance and 
toughness compared to those currently available in 
the market.
DIFFERENTIATED SERVICES THROUGH A DIGITAL MARKETPLACE
As Ternium’s industrial system runs on a unified IT 
platform, our ample range of products and services can 
be offered to our customer base in a coordinated way. 
The company has integrated its processes with those of 
its customers and suppliers through "WebService", the 
company’s digital marketplace. Most of our customers’ 
orders are placed through this platform, which helps 
them improve their management processes. WebService 
has also proved its value during the COVID-19 
outbreak, as functionalities enabled customers to 
operate without the need of personal interaction.
In the medium-term, Ternium intends to further 
develop its digital platform capabilities, with the 
incorporation of a new tool able to proactively 
anticipate customers’ needs based on the utilization of 
artificial intelligence.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
64. TERNIUMFocus on high-margin value-added products
Ternium has launched the construction of a new 
research and development center at its industrial 
center in Pesquería, Mexico, to boost high-end steel 
product development capabilities.
Equipment testing at the new hot-rolling mill in Pesquería, Mexico , which we expect to inaugurate in June 2021.
65. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020COMPETITIVENESS AGENDA: SMART FACTORY
SMART is the acronym for Social, Mobile, Analytics, 
Robotics and (internet of) Things. Ternium is making 
progress in the deployment of new digital technologies 
that are leading to step improvements in its operating 
performance.
These new solutions are based on the processing and 
analysis of a constant stream of information and 
knowledge from its industrial operations (data and 
events provided by meters, cameras and drones). In 
order to support Ternium’s analytics needs across all 
business functions, we have implemented a Data Lake, 
a single technological platform that meets all our big 
data and analytics requirements. 
SMART factory applications include a wide array of 
company functions such as order management, 
administration, human resources, maintenance, 
quality, and occupational health and safety. Solutions 
encompass mobile and remote work; remote assistance 
(augmented reality); personnel training (virtual reality 
simulation); the execution of automated administrative 
processes and tasks (robots); and the real-time 
autonomous detection of unsafe conducts or situations, 
the autonomous assessment of difficult-to-access 
building structures and equipment, and the appraisal of 
bulk material (automatic image interpretation through 
artificial intelligence).
SMART factory applications also include the 
automated handling of steel products in the yards 
(RFID and WMS), and the prediction of failures in 
maintenance management (predictive analytics and 
data correlation). Ternium’s RFID system has been 
installed at several stockpile yards for identifying and 
tracking each coil from the moment it reaches the yards 
until shipment, facilitating inspection procedures, 
improving inspectors’ safety and reducing operations 
lead times.
Ternium has thousands of cameras tracking operations 
in our facilities, as part of an early safety alarm system. 
Hundreds of those cameras are able to assess distances 
from suspended loads, moving vehicles and entrapment 
areas, verify the observance of marked pathways and 
social distancing, and monitor the use of safety 
helmets, vests and facemasks. The social distancing 
and facemask functionalities were implemented soon after the new COVID-19 related protocols were
designed. By the end of 2020, the slab continuous 
casters at the company’s Brazilian, Mexican and 
Argentine facilities were using analytics and data 
correlation technology for maintenance purposes. We 
plan to apply this technology to the company’s main 
flat steel hot-rolling, cold-rolling and galvanizing lines 
to shield strategic equipment and reduce interruptions, 
thus increasing the reliability of operations and 
reducing costs.
For training purposes, Ternium has built facilities and 
developed virtual reality software on risk perception, 
crane and secondary metallurgy operations, and 
firefighting. The company expects to incorporate new 
training subjects to gradually broaden its virtual 
educational program. To enhance productivity, the 
company has developed digital replicas of physical 
assets, processes, people, sites, systems and devices that 
can be used for various purposes.
During 2020, the company reinforced and expanded 
remote work functionalities in the context of the 
COVID-19 outbreak, adapting to a significant increase 
in connectivity demand and cybersecurity, and in the 
demand for new tools for enhancing remote workers’ 
interactions and for massive virtual meetings.
Ternium also uses administrative robots running 
automated processes and tasks in the areas of accounts 
payable, accounts receivable, sales back office and 
industrial engineering administration, reducing 
repetitive tasks formerly performed by employees.
For the medium-term, we envision further possibilities 
in the development of smart maintenance, autonomous 
administrative processes with minimum manual tasks, 
digital modelling of products and processes to 
maximize industrial and quality performance, and in 
the anticipation and prevention of safety events.
Ternium’s IT system is certified under ISO 20000. The 
company intends to implement the best practices in the 
management of an organization’s IT processes and 
services, to help Ternium optimize costs, resources and 
processes, enhance customer satisfaction, strengthen 
the performance assessment of its IT system, increase 
compliance with applicable regulations, and thus 
enhance overall business competitiveness.COMPREHENSIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY
66. TERNIUMIncreased presence in Colombia
In 2020, Ternium started up a new reinforcing bar 
greenfield steel mill at Palmar de Varela to gain 
market share in the country’s Northern region and 
integrate its downstream operations.
New facility at Palmar de Varela, Colombia.  The 520,000 tons-per-year capacity mill has incorporated three shifts since its start-up in November 2020.
67. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Ternium’s customers range from small businesses to 
large global companies in the industrial and 
construction sectors.
We report steel shipments for three geographic regions: 
Mexico, the Southern Region and Other Markets. 
Mexico
The Mexican steel market is one of the two largest in 
Latin America, together with the Brazilian market. The 
industrial sector, which in 2020 accounted for 49% of 
Ternium’s total shipments in Mexico, is the main 
driver behind this attractive high-end steel market. 
Ternium’s largest industrial customer in Mexico is the 
automotive industry.
With 3.0 million vehicles produced in 2020, the local 
industrial hub is the largest in Latin America and ranks 
seventh in the world behind China, the US, Japan, 
Germany, South Korea and India.
The Mexican manufacturing industry is a fundamental 
part of a complex supply chain in the USMCA, and is 
prepared to supply highly sophisticated products for 
demanding end-user markets. In addition to the 
automotive industry, the Mexican home appliance, 
HVAC and lighting manufacturers also have a high 
level of sophistication, requiring innovative advanced 
steel products.
Southern Region
The Southern Region encompasses the steel markets in
Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay. The 
Argentine steel market, the third largest in Latin 
America, accounts for most of Ternium’s shipments in 
this region.
The industrial sector in Argentina represented 
approximately 46% of Ternium’s total shipments in 
the country in 2020. The Argentine automotive 
industry, the third largest in Latin America, is part of a 
value chain in the Mercosur, a customs union between 
Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay, which has 
eliminated or significantly reduced import duties, 
tariffs and other trade barriers among member states.TERNIUM’S STEEL SHIPMENTS BY COUNTRY
2020
Mexico
52%
US
14%Brazil
8%Colombia
4%Other
7%Argentina
15%
Other relevant industrial sectors in Argentina include 
the agricultural machinery, cans and home appliance 
manufactures, and the oil & gas sector.
Other Markets
Ternium’s finished steel customers in the Other 
Markets segment are mainly engaged in the 
construction and energy-related industries in 
Colombia, the United States and Central America. 
Following the acquisition of Ternium Brasil in 2017, 
Ternium started shipping steel slabs to other steel 
companies mainly in the United States and Brazil. A 
small share of Ternium’s shipments is destined to steel 
markets outside the Americas. Sales to Europe, Asia 
and Africa are carried out mainly through Ternium’s 
commercial office in Spain.TERNIUM’S STEEL MARKETS
68. TERNIUMHIGH 
INDUSTRIAL 
SECTOR 
PARTICIPATION 
IN TERNIUM’S 
MAIN MARKETS49%
IN MEXICO
WHERE THE INDUSTRY 
INTEGRATES A COMPLEX 
SUPPLY CHAIN IN THE 
USMCA.46%
IN ARGENTINA
WHERE THE INDUSTRY IS 
PART OF A VALUE CHAIN IN 
THE MERCOSUR CUSTOMS 
UNION.60
MILLION TONS
OF STEEL CONSUMED IN 
LATIN AMERICA IN 2020,
MAINLY IN MEXICO, BRAZIL, 
ARGENTINA AND COLOMBIA.
Sophisticated products and services.  The automotive industry is Ternium’s largest industrial customer.
69. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Solid set of results despite the COVID-19 pandemic
2020 has been marked by the start of the COVID-19 outbreak 
in our region. Ternium took prompt action to successfully 
mitigate the impact of the pandemic on the company and its 
stakeholders.
2020 Economic and Financial Performance
SUCCESSFUL PERFORMANCE IN A CHALLENGING YEAR
The situation created by the COVID-19 pandemic 
and the company’s successful response is discussed in 
the section “COVID-19” on page 18. Early in 2020, 
Ternium implemented new working protocols, 
adjusted its operations to a new demand scenario, 
and strengthened support to SMEs in its value chain, 
community hospitals and health care centers, as well 
as to vulnerable families. 
Shipments in the Mexican market were 5.9 million 
tons in 2020, representing 52% of Ternium’s total 
steel shipments. Shipments in the Southern Region 
were 1.9 million tons in 2020, or 17% of Ternium’s 
consolidated shipments in the steel segment, most of 
which are destined for the Argentine market. 
Shipments in the Other Markets region were 3.5 
million tons in 2020, or 31% of Ternium’s 
consolidated shipments in the steel segment. Our 
major shipment destinations in the Other Markets 
region are usually the United States, Brazil, Colombia 
and Central America.
Net sales in 2020 were $8.7 billion, including steel 
products net sales of $8.5 billion on steel shipments of 
11.4 million tons, iron ore products net sales of 
$390.5 million on iron ore shipments of 3.8 million 
tons, and other products net sales of $177.7 million. 
The majority of our iron ore production was 
consumed in our own steel operations in Mexico. 
Steel revenue per ton was $748 in 2020, 5% lower than revenue per ton in 2019, mainly reflecting a 
weak steel price environment during the first half of 
2020, particularly at the start of the COVID-19 
outbreak, partially offset by a significant recovery in 
prices during the second half of the year. EBITDA 
reached $1.5 billion in 2020 with EBITDA margin of 
17% and EBITDA per ton of $134. Equity holders’ 
net income in 2020 was $778.5 million, equivalent to 
earnings per ADS of $3.97, including a non-cash gain 
related to the derecognition of a contingency on 
certain tax benefits at Ternium Brasil, equivalent to 
$0.95 per ADS.
SOUND FINANCIAL POSITION
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2020 was $1.8 
billion, including a working capital reduction of $352.8 
million. In 2020, Ternium’s capital expenditures were 
$560.0 million, down 47% year-over-year reflecting the 
conclusion of some expansion projects and Ternium's 
decision to slow or postpone several other projects across 
its facilities, including its new hot-rolling mill in the 
company’s Pesquería industrial center in Mexico, as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The main investments 
carried out during 2020 included those made for the new 
hot-rolling mill, the capacity expansion of the pulverized 
coal injection system in our Rio de Janeiro unit in Brazil, 
and projects aimed at further improving environmental 
and safety conditions throughout our facilities.
With free cash flow of $1.2 billion in 2020, Ternium’s net 
debt position reached $371.5 million at the end of 
December 2020, down from $1.5 billion at the end of 
December 2019, with a net debt to last twelve months 
EBITDA ratio of 0.2 times.ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
70. TERNIUM2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
STEEL SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS)
Mexico  5,912.7  6,305.0  6,544.8  6,622.8  6,405.2 
Southern Region  1,923.6  1,938.3  2,301.1  2,456.0  2,220.8 
Other Markets  3,523.2  4,268.0  4,105.2  2,517.7  1,138.1 
Total  11,359.5  12,511.3  12,951.1  11,596.6  9,764.0 
IRON ORE SALES VOLUME (THOUSAND TONS)  3,796.8  3,575.9  3,616.3  3,551.1  3,309.6 
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS ($ MILLION)
Net sales  8,735.4  10,192.8  11,453.4  9,700.3  7,224.0 
Operating income  1,079.5  864.6  2,108.4  1,456.8  1,141.7 
EBITDA  1,524.5  1,525.7  2,697.7  1,931.1  1,548.6 
Profit for the year attributable to:
  Owners of the Parent  778.5  564.3  1,506.6  886.2  595.6 
Non-controlling interest  89.4  65.8  155.5  136.7  111.3 
Profit for the year  867.9  630.0  1,662.1  1,022.9  706.9 
Capital expenditures      560.0  1,052.3  520.3  409.4  435.5 
Free cash flow  1,201.2  595.4  1,219.0  (25.5)  664.1 
BALANCE SHEET ($ MILLION)
Total assets  12,856.2  12,935.5  12,547.9  12,122.6  8,322.9 
Total liabilities  4,413.1  5,220.6  5,063.3  6,269.8  3,156.3 
 Financial debt  1,722.9  2,188.7  2,037.0  3,221.9  1,218.6 
Net financial debt  371.5  1,453.4  1,734.9  2,748.3  884.3 
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the parent  7,286.1  6,611.7  6,393.3  5,010.4  4,391.3 
Non-controlling interest  1,157.0  1,103.2  1,091.3  842.3  775.3 
STOCK DATA ($)
Basic earnings per ADS  3.97  2.87  7.67  4.51  3.03 
Proposed dividend per ADS  2.10  —  1.20  1.10  1.00 
$8.9
BILLION
ECONOMIC VALUE 
GENERATED IN 2020$739
MILLION
EMPLOYEES$560
MILLION
CAPEX$436
MILLION
TAXES
$6.4
BILLION
SUPPLIERS$47
MILLION
CAPITAL PROVIDERS
$8
MILLION
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT$11
MILLION
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS
71. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 202072. TERNIUMCOMMITMENT 
TO INTEGRITY
 Integrity is key to Ternium’s long-term
sustainability. With ethical behavior and
compliance with law as a core company value,
we continuously work on building a corporate
culture of transparency.
73. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Commitment to integrity through strong corporate governance
Audit committee fully composed of independent directors
Internal Audit Department reporting to the Chairman of the 
Board and the Audit Committee
Business Conduct Compliance Officer reporting to the CEO
Employee training and accountability to ensure
transparent behavior
Compliance department that oversees SOX certifications and 
related party transactions
Confidential channels to report non-compliant behavior
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Ternium has adopted a Code of Conduct incorporating 
guidelines and standards of integrity and transparency 
that apply to all directors, officers and employees. As far 
as the nature of each relation permits, the principles 
described in the Code of Conduct also apply to relations 
with our contractors, subcontractors, suppliers and 
associated persons.
The company’s Code of Conduct also includes guidelines 
related to the promotion of a healthy and safe workplace 
environment, respect for human and labor rights, the 
protection of the environment, our commitment tofair, honest and transparent competition, and the 
protection of data privacy of our employees and third 
parties with whom we conduct business.
The company has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior 
Financial Officers to supplement its Code of Conduct, 
which applies specifically to the chief executive officer, 
the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer or 
controller, or other persons performing similar functions. 
In addition, the company has adopted a Transparency 
Policy governing relationships with third parties, a Policy 
on Business Conduct, a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, 
an Anti-fraud Policy, a Policy on Securities Trading, a 
Policy on Financial and Accounting Controls, and a 
Policy on Personal Data Protection.
As a condition of employment, eligible employees 
(salaried employees and managers, excluding plant 
supervisors), must acknowledge and commit to comply 
with Ternium’s Code of Conduct and Policy on Business 
Conduct.COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY
74. TERNIUMBusiness Conduct Compliance Program
Ternium has developed a Business Conduct Compliance 
Program with the objective of preventing bribery and 
corruption. The Compliance Program is aimed at 
promoting the implementation of business conduct best 
practices, both internally and when interacting with 
customers, suppliers, state-controlled entities and other 
third parties.
Ternium has appointed a Business Conduct Compliance 
Officer reporting to the CEO and the Audit Committee, 
who has responsibility for identifying and mitigating 
corruption risks and fostering a culture of ethical and 
transparent conduct, and for designing, implementing 
and supervising the Compliance Program, aligned with 
the requirements of applicable national and international 
laws against corruption and bribery, such as the US 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the 1997 OECD 
Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public 
Officials.
The Business Conduct Compliance Program is focused 
on ten core preventive measures: risk assessment, 
normative framework, communication, advisory, 
training, acknowledgement and certification, monitoring 
and auditing, third party due diligence and monitoring, 
disciplinary actions and remediation, and benchmarking.
Activities are implemented based on a periodic risk 
assessment analysis that enables us to identify key factors 
to be stressed on, particularly at training and risk 
prevention sessions, based on exposure to conflicting 
situations.
Ternium’s Code of Conduct and its Policy on Business 
Conduct clearly state that any illegal payment is strictly 
prohibited and will not be tolerated. They also include 
specific guidelines regarding due diligence when hiring 
third-parties that act on behalf of Ternium. Charitable 
contributions, as well as hospitality expenses to third 
parties (meals, gifts and business trips) are regulated by 
internal procedures. Facilitating payments are forbidden.
Communication is essential to build an ethical culture. 
Ternium maintains regular communications with its 
directors, senior managers and employees in order toraise their awareness about possible risks of non-
compliance, and to remind them of the applicable 
principles and regulations. This program includes top-
down messages, management meetings, newsletters, 
articles and announcements on the company’s intranet. 
The company encourages active participation of all areas, 
emphasizing the importance of asking for guidance in 
case of red flags or ambiguous situations.
Ternium has defined specific procedures for hiring 
professional services providers that act on behalf of or 
otherwise represent the company before governmental 
entities, including those retained to assist in obtaining 
permits or licenses, customs agents, advisers and law 
firms. These procedures include a due diligence process, 
internal authorizations and contract provisions to ensure 
third-party’s commitment to Ternium’s anti-bribery 
policies. 
Monitoring procedures and audits are carried out 
regularly to validate the effective implementation of the 
Compliance Program and the investigation of any 
conduct contrary to the Policy on Business Conduct or its 
principles.
Training on Anti-Bribery Policies and Procedures
Ternium has implemented an extensive training program 
on anti-bribery policies and procedures. This program 
aims at training Ternium’s employees on the company’s 
ethical commitment and a clear set of guidelines and 
values. Eligible employees participate in an on-line 
mandatory training program and, according to their level 
of exposure, in an on-site training program as well. 
99.1% of Ternium’s eligible employees have completed 
the mandatory training course on the company’s Policy 
on Business Conduct in e-learning format. In 2020, 
Ternium delivered 93 training sessions (mostly online) to 
786 employees. On-site training has been suspended due 
to COVID-19 related restrictions.
Our anti-bribery training program also reaches third 
parties that represent or act on behalf of Ternium. 561 
third-party’s employees have completed Ternium’s 
mandatory training program on corruption prevention, 
which has been implemented in e-learning format.
75. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Select Codes Policies Procedures
 
Code of Conduct
–––
Code of Conduct 
for Suppliers
–––
Code of Ethics for Senior 
Financial Officers 
Business Conduct
–––
Transparency
–––
Anti-Fraud
–––
Securities Trading
–––
Financial and Accounting Controls
–––
Personal Data Protection 
Disclosure Procedure 
(relevant information)
–––
Transactions Between 
Related Parties
Code of Conduct for Suppliers
Ternium purchases most of its supplies through Exiros, a 
specialized procurement company owned 50%/50% with 
Tenaris. Ternium’s suppliers undergo, through Exiros, a 
rigorous selection process to ensure adequate governance 
standards are in place, in compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations and in line with our Code of 
Conduct for Suppliers, which includes, among other 
items, ethical behavior, compliance with the law, and 
health, safety, human rights and environmental 
management commitments.
Compliance Line
Ternium established and encourages the use of its 
Compliance Line. This confidential channel is available 
to all employees, suppliers, customers and other 
stakeholders who wish to report any type of alleged 
breaches of the Code of Conduct and its principles. 
Ternium’s Compliance Line is available in Spanish, 
Portuguese and English. 
The identity of the reporting person and the reported fact 
itself remain confidential as long as it is so permitted by 
applicable laws and regulations. Ternium takes action, as 
necessary, to avoid retaliation against those who use the 
Compliance Line in good faith. Anonymous reports are 
also allowed. The Internal Audit area, which is 
independent of the operating areas, analyses all reports. 
In 2020, 53% of analyzed complaints were verified andresulted in corrective actions, including dismissals and 
termination of commercial relationships. This reporting 
system has also helped to improve the company’s internal
control environment. Although complaints can be
anonymous, 56% of the reporting persons have
identified themselves.
Shareholders’ Compliance Line
In addition, Ternium has a web-based confidential 
channel for investors to communicate their concerns 
directly to the company’s Audit Committee, which 
regularly reviews the status of all reports received 
through this line with the assistance of our Internal 
Audit Director.
Risk Management
Ternium has established a Critical Risks Committee 
(CRC), which reports to the company’s CEO. While 
management is responsible for identifying and managing 
risks, the CRC facilitates the identification and 
assessment of critical risks, the development of mitigating 
actions and the monitoring of action plans. Critical risks 
are escalated through the usual reporting lines and 
decision-making is the responsibility of managers.
The CRC focuses on critical reputational risks in 
connection with people and the environment, and critical 
financial risks in connection with the company’s 
infrastructure and businesses. Ternium has categorizedCOMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY
76. TERNIUMrisks according to the potential area impacted, the 
likelihood of their occurrence and the severity of an 
eventual impact. The main identified risks include threats 
to the proper function of machinery and operations, 
cybersecurity and environmental issues. Additionally, in 
2020 the CRC focused its attention on the main actions 
and mitigation plans to tackle the consequences of the 
COVID-19 outbreak to ensure business continuity.
Corporate Organization
Ternium S.A. is organized as a public limited liability 
company (société anonyme) under the laws of the Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg, and its American Depositary 
Shares, or ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE: TX). The Company holds controlling 
stakes in steel companies operating in the Americas. San 
Faustin S.A. has a 62% indirect controlling interest in 
Ternium.
San Faustin also has controlling interests in Tenaris, a 
global supplier of steel pipes and related services mainly 
for the energy industry, which holds an additional 11% 
interest in Ternium. In addition, San Faustin controls 
Tecpetrol, an oil and gas company, Techint, an 
engineering and construction company, Tenova, a 
supplier of equipment and technology for iron mining 
and steel and Humanitas, a network of hospitals in Italy.
Board of Directors and Audit Committee
The Company’s board of directors is currently comprised 
of eight directors. Three directors are independent under 
the company’s articles of association and applicable SEC 
regulations. The board of directors has an audit 
committee composed of three independent members.
The charter of the audit committee sets forth, among 
other issues, the audit committee’s purpose and 
responsibilities, which include the responsibility to 
review material transactions with related parties to 
determine whether their terms are consistent with market 
conditions or are otherwise fair to the company and/or 
its subsidiaries.
In addition, the audit committee reports to the board of 
directors on the adequacy of the systems of internal 
control over financial reporting.
Ternium has an Internal Audit area that reports to the 
chairman of the board of directors and, with respectto internal control over financial reporting, to the audit
committee. The Internal Audit area evaluates and 
reassures the effectiveness of internal control processes, 
risk management and governance.
Shareholders’ Meetings
Our articles of association provide that our annual 
general shareholders’ meetings take place in  
Luxembourg (or in a foreign country if circumstances of 
force majeure so require), within six months from the 
end of the previous financial year. There are no 
limitations currently imposed by Luxembourg law on the 
rights of non-resident shareholders to hold or vote the 
Company’s shares.
Ternium’s Shares and American Depositary Receipts
The company has an authorized share capital of a single 
class of 3.5 billion shares with a nominal value of $1.00 
per share entitling one vote each. As of December 31, 
2020, there were 2,004,743,442 shares issued and 
outstanding, of which 41,666,666 were held in treasury.
Each ADS represents ten shares. Holders of ADSs only 
have those rights that are expressly granted to them in 
the deposit agreement dated January 31, 2006, among the 
Company, The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The 
Bank of New York), as depositary, and owners and 
beneficial owners from time to time of ADSs of the 
Company.
ADS holders may not attend or directly exercise voting 
rights in shareholders’ meetings, but may instruct voting 
to the depositary bank. Holders of ADSs maintaining 
non-certificated positions must follow instructions given 
by their broker or custodian bank.
   
77. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Board of Directors Senior Management
Chairman Paolo Rocca Chief Executive Officer Máximo Vedoya
Vice-Chairman Daniel A. Novegil Chief Financial Officer Pablo D. Brizzio
Roberto Bonatti Ternium Mexico César A. Jiménez
Carlos A. Condorelli President Flores
Vincent R. Gilles Decalf (*)
Gioia M. Ghezzi (*)Ternium Argentina Martín A. Berardi
Adrián R. Lajous Vargas (*)President
Gianfelice M. Rocca
Ternium Brasil Marcelo R. Chara
Secretary Arturo Sporleder President
International Business Unit Héctor Obeso
President Zunzunegui
Audit Committee
Planning and Global Oscar Montero
Chairman Vincent R. Gilles Decalf (*)Business Development Martínez
Gioia M. Ghezzi (*)General Director
Adrián R. Lajous Vargas (*)
Engineering, Industrial Pablo H. Bassi
(*) Independent Directors Coordination and EHS
Director
Quality Director Rubén Herrera
Chief Information Officer Roberto Demidchuk
Human Resources Rodrigo Piña
DirectorBOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
78. TERNIUMInvestor Relations and Compliance 
Director IR Inquiries
Sebastián  Martí TERNIUM Investor Relations
smarti@ternium.com ir@ternium.com
Phone: +54 11 4018 8389
U.S. toll free: 866 890 0443
Luxembourg Office ADS Depositary Bank
26, Boulevard Royal - 4th floor Bank of New York Mellon
L2449 - Luxembourg BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
Luxembourg P.O. Box 505000
Phone: +352 2668 3152 Louisville, KY 40233-5000
Fax: +352 2659 8349
Stock Information
New York Stock Exchange (TX)
CUSIP Number: 880890108
Internet
www.ternium.comINVESTOR INFORMATION
79. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020ANNEX 1: 
GRI MATERIAL TOPICS INDEX
80. TERNIUMIn this section, Ternium presents the economic, 
environmental and social topics that were defined as a 
priority to include in our Sustainability Report. They 
are informed according to Global Reporting Initiative’s 
(GRI) Standard core option of the reporting levels 
throughout the document and indexed herein in order 
to facilitate browsing.
The contents of Ternium’s sustainability report are 
aligned with the GRI principles of Stakeholder 
Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality and 
Completeness. 
Ternium’s Materiality Analysis follows GRI’s four-step 
process. In this regard, key economic, social and 
environmental topics were identified through a 
combination of industry research and benchmarking, 
international standards and priority subjects(Identification), and then prioritized through a 
consultation process among employees, suppliers, 
customers, community organizations, business 
associations, investors, press, and academic institutions 
(Prioritization).
To conclude the selection of material topics, the results 
were examined considering the company’s long-term 
strategy and the programs implemented. The result of 
this analysis depicts a materiality matrix that ranks 
relevant economic, environmental and social topics 
according to their influence on stakeholders’ 
assessments and decisions, and according to their 
significance to the company (Validation).
The Materiality Matrix has been included in the 
company’s sustainability report for the year 2019, on 
page 90.
General Disclosure
Organization Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 9-12-77
GRI 102-2Activities, brands, products, and services
  We do not sell products that are banned in certain
  markets or that were the subject of stakeholder
  questions or public debate.9-12-68
See 20-F2020 
Pag 31
GRI 102-3Location of headquarters
Principal executive offices77
GRI 102-4 Location of operations 9-68
GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form77. See 20-F 
2020 Pag 101
GRI 102-6 Markets served 12-68
GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 12-44-68-70
GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 44-47-89
GRI 102-9 Supply chain9-68 See 20-F 
2020 Pag 33
GRI 102-10Significant changes to the organization and its supply 
chain9-68 See 20-F 
2020 Pag 33
GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 12
GRI 102-12 External initiatives 12
GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations 12Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Pages
81. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 11-23-58
Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 12-73
Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 12-77-78
Stakeholder 
engagementGRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groupsSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 89
GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholdersSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagementSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raisedSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
Reporting Practices GRI 102-45Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsSee 20-F 2020 
Pag 13
GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic BoundariesSee SR 2019 
Pag 4
GRI 102-47 List of material topicsSee SR 2019 
Pag 90
GRI 102-48 Restatements of information See 20-F 2020
GRI 102-49Changes in reporting
There were no significant changes from previous reporting 
periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries
GRI 102-50 Reporting period: Year 2020
GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report: 2020-07-20
GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle: Annual
GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 79
GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting according to the GRI Standards 12-81
GRI 102-55 GRI content index 81
GRI 102-56External assurance
At the time of the report, external assurance is not mandatory
Material Subjects
Economic GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed* 71
GRI 202-2Proportion of senior management hired from the local 
community46-91
GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported19-21 54-57 
48-53 93
Ethic and integrity GRI 205-2Communication and training about anticorruption 
policies and procedures75-93
Environmental GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 38-39 88Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic PagesGRI MATERIAL TOPICS INDEX
82. TERNIUMGRI 302-3 Energy intensity 34-36-87
GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 37-38-88
GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 37-38-88
GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 37-38-88
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 34-36-87
GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 37-87
GRI 307-1Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations33
Social GRI 401-2Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employees24-31
GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 24-31
GRI 403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigation24-31
GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 24-31
GRI 403-4Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety24-31
GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 24-31-92
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health 24-31
GRI 403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 
safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships24-31
GRI 403-8Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management system92
GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 46-91
GRI 404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs42-47
GRI 404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews46-91
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 89-90-91
GRI 413-1Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programs48-53 92-93
*“Direct Economic Value Generated” equals net sales plus interest income, proceeds from the sale of property, plant & equipment, other operating income, equity in earnings of 
associated companies and inflation adjustment results, less other financial losses. “Employees” equals labor costs. “Taxes” equals current income tax expense plus cost of sales and 
SG&A taxes, less the effect of changes in tax law. “Suppliers” equals cost of sales plus SG&A, less labor costs, depreciation of property, plant and equipment, amortization of 
intangible assets, allowance for obsolescence, cost of sales and SG&A taxes, R&D expenditures and community investments. “Capital Providers” equals dividends paid in cash to 
company’s shareholders and non-controlling interest, plus interest expense.Topic GRI Standard GRI Topic Pages
83. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020ANNEX 2: 
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
GOALS INDEX
84. TERNIUM• • 24, 48 Topics
1
Improving Our Safety 
Performance
–––
2
Minimizing Ternium’s 
Environmental Footprint
–––
3
Realizing People’s Full 
Potential
–––
4
Helping Our 
Communities Thrive
–––
5
Strengthening Ternium’s 
Value Chain
–––
6
Delivering Ternium’s 
Business Strategy
–––
7
Commitment to
Integrity
• • • 42, 48, 54
• 42
• 32
• • • • 24, 42, 48, 58
• • • 48, 54, 58
• • • 42, 48, 54
• 48
• 32
• 32
• 32
• 32
• • 24, 74
• • • 48, 54, 58SD Goal Topics Pages
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Since 2019 Ternium has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate 
responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the 
environment and anti-corruption.
85. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020ANNEX 3: 
HISTORICAL DATA
86. TERNIUMHistorical Data
In this section, Ternium has compiled the historical 
data and additional information related to the selected 
environmental and social topics for its 2020 
Sustainability Report, according to the materiality 
matrix. Historical data related to the selected economic 
topics has been compiled in the table on page 71. Also, 
the company has compiled in this section additional 
data that it deemed relevant to disclose.The financial  and operational information contained in this report is 
based on Ternium’s operational data and on the 
Company’s consolidated financial statements, which 
were prepared according to IFRS and IFRIC 
interpretations as issued by the IASB and adopted by 
the European Union and presented in U.S. dollars ($) 
and metric tons.
Environmental and Energy Management Systems
% of employees and contractors working in 
registered production facilities %  97 %  98 %  98 %
% of steel produced under ISO 14001 certificated 
facilities%  100 %  100 %  100 %
% of steel produced under ISO 50001 certificated 
facilities%  42 %  63 %  63 %
Mining operations certified with ISO 14001 % operations  50 %  100 %  100 %
Investment in Environment and Energy $ million 73.1 70.7 37.3
Energy and Emissions
Energy intensity GJ/ton crude steel 21.3 22.1 22.0
Emission intensity - scopes 1, 2 and 3ton CO2/ton crude 
steel1.79 1.82 1.76
Direct emissions - scope 1ton CO2/ton crude 
steel1.62 1.62 1.57
Indirect emissions related to electricity - scope 2ton CO2/ton crude 
steel0.08 0.11 0.12
Indirect emissions related to raw materials - 
scope 3ton CO2/ton crude 
steel0.10 0.09 0.08
Direct emissions - scope 1 ton CO2 17,744,560 16,682,357 15,257,923
Indirect emissions related to electricity - scope 2 ton CO2 858,941 1,141,024 1,154,111
Indirect emissions related to raw materials - 
scope 3ton CO2 1,056,210 910,292 767,666
The information regarding Energy and Emissions is only for Ternium’s steelmaking facilities and is based on worldsteel’s sectoral approach methodology, according to ISO 14404, 
using local scope 2 emission factors.ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2018 2019 2020
87. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Water and Effluents*
Subsurface water intakethousand cubic 
meters10,040 9,439 8,715
Provision from third parties treated waterthousand cubic 
meters4,357 4,229 4,166
Provision from municipalitythousand cubic 
meters64 42 44
Provision from municipal sewagethousand cubic 
meters3,422 3,093 2,804
Internal treated and recycled waterthousand cubic 
meters1,682 1,390 1,815
Water withdrawal intensity for Mexican steel 
shops m3/ ton crude steel 3.4 3.4 3.2
Fresh water** millions m314.0 13.0 11.7
Other water** millions m35.6 5.2 5.9
*The information provided herein corresponds to Ternium's facilities in Mexico placed in areas of water-scarce
**Historical information regarding "total fresh water" and "other water" were reclassified based on analysis of laboratory results
Materials and waste
Material Efficiency %  99.6 %  99.6 %  99.6 %
Steel scrap recycled million tons 2.8 2.7 2.6
Co Products million tons 5.0 4.8 4.7
Recycled input materials used (steel scrap/new 
steel)%  26 %  26 %  27 %
Blast Furnace slag to cement industry million tons 1.9 1.7 1.7
  MixRock® to cement industry thousands tons 94.4 86.0 99.0
Annual weight of tailings waste (mining)* million tons 4.6 4.5 5.7
Accumulated total weight of tailings waste 
(mining)*million tons 75.4 79.9 85.6
Hazardous and non hazardous waste sent to 
landfillthousands tons 64.4 58.3 65.6
Hazardous and non hazardous waste sent 
to co-processingthousands tons 0.0 2.1 1.4
Total hazardous waste thousands tons 40.9 52.3 24.9
Total non hazardous waste thousands tons 58.9 89.5 98.0
The information about materials and waste only refers to Ternium's steelmaking facilities except for the information about mining tailing waste
*The information regarding mining  includes 50% of Consorcio Minero Benito Juárez Peña Colorada S.A. de C.VENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2018 2019 2020HISTORICAL DATA
88. TERNIUMHeadcount
Management # of People478 494 484
Salaried # of People3,478 3,402 3,125
Hourly # of People15,377 14,808 15,237
Plant supervisors # of People1,327 1,357 1,505
Total # of People20,660 20,061 20,351
Employees covered by collective bargaining 
agreements%  75 %  73 %  74 %
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Management by gender, age and nationality
Male %  92 %  92 %  91 %
Female %  8 %  8 %  9 %
30-50 years old %  61 %  62 %  67 %
over 50 years old %  39 %  38 %  33 %
Argentine %  29 %  29 %  27 %
Brazilian %  14 %  14 %  14 %
Colombian %  4 %  3 %  3 %
Mexican %  48 %  49 %  51 %
Other nationalities %  5 %  5 %  5 %
Salaried by gender, age and nationality
Male %  69 %  69 %  68 %
Female %  31 %  31 %  32 %
under 30 years old %  19 %  18 %  17 %
30-50 years old %  62 %  63 %  67 %
over 50 years old %  19 %  19 %  16 %SOCIAL DATA 2018 2019 2020
89. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Argentine %  20 %  18 %  19 %
Brazilian %  20 %  19 %  18 %
Colombian %  8 %  7 %  7 %
Mexican %  47 %  49 %  50 %
Other nationalities %  6 %  6 %  7 %
Hourly by gender, age and nationality
Male %  98 %  98 %  98 %
Female %  2 %  2 %  2 %
under 30 years old %  24 %  22 %  23 %
30-50 years old %  60 %  61 %  62 %
over 50 years old %  17 %  17 %  14 %
Argentine %  28 %  27 %  30 %
Brazilian %  19 %  19 %  20 %
Colombian %  7 %  8 %  7 %
Mexican %  44 %  43 %  41 %
Other nationalities %  2 %  2 %  2 %
Plant supervisors by gender, age and 
nationality
Male %  98 %  98 %  97 %
Female %  2 %  2 %  3 %
under 30 years old %  7 %  6 %  5 %
30-50 years old %  60 %  62 %  65 %
over 50 years old %  33 %  32 %  30 %
Argentine %  29 %  26 %  33 %SOCIAL DATA 2018 2019 2020HISTORICAL DATA
90. TERNIUMBrazilian %  9 %  11 %  11 %
Colombian %  6 %  6 %  6 %
Mexican %  53 %  54 %  48 %
Other nationalities %  3 %  3 %  3 %
At December 2020. the Board of Directors was composed by 9 members, 8 men and 1 woman, all of them over 51 years old. The distribution by nationality is the following: 4 of them 
are Italian citizens, 3 of them are Argentine citizens, 1 is a French and Luxembourg citizen and 1 is a Mexican citizen. The Senior Management was composed by 11 members, all of 
them male. In the distribution by age 3 of them were in the range between 31 and 50 years old and 8 of them over 51  years old. The composition by nationality is the following: 9 of 
them are Argentine citizens and 2 of them are Mexican citizens.
Proportion of top management hired from the local community
Country
Argentina %  100 %  100 %  100 %
Brazil %  64 %  62 %  58 %
Colombia %  50 %  50 %  33 %
Mexico %  42 %  41 %  41 %
Average hours of training per year per employee
Management Hs/per year53 36 15
Salaried Hs/per year53 36 25
Hourly Hs/per year105 74 39
Plant supervisors Hs/per year90 7 25
Total Hs/per year94 62 36
Male Hs/per year97 64 36
Female Hs/per year51 40 29
Performance and career development reviews
Management & Salaried (M&S) % 93 %  97 %  96 %
Hourly % 47 %  54 %  36 %
Plant supervisors % 97 %  98 %  97 %
Upward feedback (M&S) % 91 %  94 %  95 %
Client-Customer opinion (M&S) % 87 %  82 %  85 %SOCIAL DATA 2018 2019 2020
91. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Health and Safety
Lost time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR)# day-loss/million 
hours worked0.67 0.84 0.82
Injuries frequency rate (IFR)#/million hours 
worked2.96 2.74 2.70
Fatality frequency rate (FFR)#/million hours 
worked0.02 0.00 0.00
Fatalities # 2 0 0
Safety training hours # hours per year 564,341 487,649 112,001
Safety training participation# of employees 
and contractors18,609 15,666 10,060
Safety hours program walks # of sessions 116,347 147,093 141,933
Safety hours program participation# of employees 
and contractors1,016 1,632 1,887
Ten Life-Saving Rules compliance audits # per year 29,907 42,788 27,082
Health and Safety audits # per year 171,410 199,772 187,092
Positive approaches** # per year 57,024 106,704 100,162
**Positive approach is used with employees to identify safe behaviors to be reinforced.
Promotion of worker health. Most of Ternium’s employees and their families have access to private health care systems managed by their respective unions, affiliate companies or 
companies controlled by Ternium. The health care systems are funded through employees’ and Ternium’s mandatory contributions together with, in certain cases, Ternium’s voluntary 
contributions. In addition, the company funds and manages health care programs for the broader communities, such as health fairs, clinical examinations, and disease and addiction 
prevention campaigns, aimed at increasing the community’s awareness and gaining of a basic understanding of how to prevent and take care of various health issues. The company 
supports and funds a basic health care unit in Aquila, Mexico, and funds improvements in health care infrastructure in different countries. For more information see section "Helping 
Our Communities Thrive".
H&S System Coverage % of employees 
and contractors 100 %  100 %  100 %
H&S System Coverage (internally audited)% of employees 
and contractors 100 %  100 %  100 %
H&S System Coverage (externally certified)% of employees 
and contractors 67 %  67 %  68 %
Investment in Health and Safety $ million 49 50 27
Community
Internship Hours hours/Per year  34,600  63,800  19,040 
Community Investments* $ million  9.5  6.6  11.1 
Education Investments $ million  6.2  4.6  2.9 
Technical Gene program - Teachers # of Participants  152  148  116 SOCIAL DATA 2018 2019 2020HISTORICAL DATA
92. TERNIUMTechnical Gene program - Students # of Participants  1,426  1,929  319 
After school program participation # of Students  266  270  307 
Roberto Rocca Scholarship Program (high-school) # of Scholarships  712  759  763 
Roberto Rocca Scholarship Program 
(undergraduate)# of Scholarships  276  305  361 
Roberto Rocca Scholarship Program (PhDs) # of Scholarships  12  15  9 
Volunteering Program # of volunteers  1,644  1,878  218 
Volunteering Program hours / per year  9,996  16,611  3,352 
* Community investments in 2020 include a $6.4 million special fund to face the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Program (ProPymes)
Small and medium-sized enterprises 
participation# SMEs  1,600  1,800  1,821 
Sponsored training courses # attendants  4,700  5,300  5,257 
Sponsored training courseshours in class /per 
year 92,000  87,400  72,909 
ProPymes sponsored technical schools* # of Schools  32  41  43 
ProPymes sponsored industrial projects # of Projects  408  451  297 
Finance assistance $ million  6.6  6.0  5.7 
* Activity in 2020 was affected by restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Commitment to Integrity
Training sessions on Ternium’s policy on 
business conduct (on-site)# sessions  79  64  93 
Training sessions on Ternium’s policy on 
business conduct (on-site)# participants  1,603  878  786 
Acknowledgment and commitment to abide 
Ternium’s Code of Conduct and Policy on 
Business Conduct% eligible 
employees* 99.7 %  99.7 %  99.8 %
Training course on the company’s Policy on 
Business Conduct (e-learning)% eligible  
employees* 97.0 %  98.2 %  99.1 %
Compliance Line’s substantiation rate %  40.0 %  46.0 %  53.0 %
*Salaried employees and managers excluding plant supervisors.SOCIAL DATA 2018 2019 2020
93. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020Forward Looking Statements
This sustainability report contains “forward-
looking statements”, including with respect to 
certain of our plans and current goals and 
expectations relating to Ternium’s future 
financial condition and performance, which 
are provided to allow potential investors the 
opportunity to understand management’s 
beliefs and opinions in respect of the future so 
that they may use such beliefs and opinions as 
one factor in evaluating an investment in 
Ternium’s securities.
All forward-looking statements are based on 
management’s present expectations of future events 
and are subject to a number of factors and 
uncertainties that cause actual results, performance or 
events to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by those statements.
These risks include but are not limited to risks relating 
to the steel industry and mining activities, risks relating 
to countries in which we operate, risks relating to our 
business, including uncertainties as to gross domestic 
product, related market demand, global production 
capacity, tariffs, cyclicality in the industries that 
purchase steel products, risks relating to the company’s 
structure and regulatory risks, as well as other factors 
beyond Ternium’s control.Risk factors
For a detailed description of Ternium’s main risk 
factors, please see the section "Risk Factors" included 
in the Company’s annual report on form 20-F for the 
year ended December 31, 2020.
By their nature, certain disclosures relating to these and 
other risks are only estimates and could be materially 
different from what actually occurs in the future. As a 
result, actual future gains or losses that may affect 
Ternium’s financial condition and results of operations 
could differ materially from those that have been 
estimated.
You should not place undue reliance on the forward-
looking statements, which speak only as of the date of 
this sustainability report. Except as required by law, we 
are not under any obligation, and expressly disclaim 
any obligation, to update or alter any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of changes of 
circumstances or management’s estimates or opinions, 
new information, future events or otherwise.
94. TERNIUMIntentionally left blankwww.ternium.com