THE GYM G ROUP PLCSUSTAINABILTY  
REPORT 2021
EXTRACTED FROM ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
28BreAKING 
DoWN 
BArrIer S  
To FITNeSS  
For A llSafeguarding 
customer data  
and privacy
Good jobs,  
quality  
education  
and lifelong 
learning
Diversity  
and equal 
opportunityresponsibility  
to the  
environmentGood health  
and wellbeingreDucIN
G
 o
ur cArBo
N em
ISSIoNS
AND eQuAl WorKplAceBuIlDING A DIVerSe, INcluSIVeopporTuNITIeS WITh FAIr pAy & co
N
DITIo
N
S
proVIDING GooD JoBS AND cAreerDATA AND prIVAcy
heAlTh, SAFeTy AND WellBeINGSAFeGuArDING cuSTomer
proTecTING our employeeS AND memBerSGeNerATING SocIAl VAlue
GeNerATING SocIAl VAlueSuSTAINABI lITy AT 
The Gym Group
At The Gym Group, our purpose  
is to break down barriers to 
fitness for all and our ambition  
is to deliver this in an entirely 
sustainable way, enabling people 
to live healthier, more rewarding 
lives within the natural balance  
of the planet. We actively place 
sustainability at the core of our 
business and in 2021 we 
advanced on this agenda by 
forming a dedicated Sustainability 
committee with the objective of 
continuously improving our 
sustainability performance. Even though we continued to be impacted 
by the pandemic, we still enabled over  
33 million visits to the gym in 2021. We 
made further progress on measurement of 
the social value generated by our members 
exercising in our gyms, achieving  
£485 million in the year. A metric designed 
to drive this value has been introduced as a 
key performance measure and incentive for 
executive performance.
COP26 concluded in November with nearly 
200 countries agreeing to the Glasgow 
Climate Pact to keep 1.5°C alive. The latest 
report from the Intergovernmental Panel for 
Climate Change (‘IPCC’) indicates urgent 
action is required if this is to be achieved. 
During the year we undertook an extensive 
carbon audit of our operations and supply 
chain to establish a 2019 baseline carbon 
footprint leading to the launch of our 
Net-Zero commitment, with a target 50% 
carbon reduction before 20301 and 
achieving net-zero by 2035. We have also 
chosen to off-set emissions on our journey to 
net-zero and become the UK’s first carbon 
neutral gym chain in alignment with The 
CarbonNeutral Protocol.
Our internal and external stakeholders are 
key to the success of our business and 
following best practice set out in the Global 
Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’), we conducted an 
extensive materiality assessment with all 
stakeholders to identify significant issues 
and impacts that matter most to them, 
including members, investors, suppliers  
and our people. 
The materiality matrix demonstrates the 
findings of the assessment, identifying the 
sustainability topics that are key priorities  
for The Gym Group. In the diagram 
opposite, we have aligned our material 
topics to our priority areas. Note that 
‘Safeguarding customer data and privacy’ 
is specifically addressed in the GRI Index. 
Further information on our approach and 
performance on each of these topics is 
provided within this report. STrATeGIc repor T
SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T
1  Compared to 2019 on a like-for-like basis of operating estate.The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
2829
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCESustainability governance 
Robust governance practices are a 
fundamental foundation for a sustainable 
business. 
Our Sustainability Committee reports to  
The Gym Group plc Board to ensure 
sustainability is at the core of our business 
and shares oversight of corporate 
responsibility for sustainability, reviews 
sustainability targets and commitments and 
oversees the assessment of climate-related 
risks and opportunities, including the 
requirements of the Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’).  
The Committee receives reports from three 
key workstreams:
• Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (‘EDI’)
• Environmental, Social & Governance 
(‘ESG’)
• Health, Safety & Wellbeing
Our Board shares The Gym Group’s passion 
for a sustainable business and the delivery 
of affordable fitness for all. The participation 
of Executive members in the Sustainability 
Committee demonstrates our commitment to 
integrating sustainability into the heart of our 
business decisions. reporting for the 2021  
financial year
We continually review and improve our 
reporting processes. In 2019, we began to 
align to the GRI standards for our 
sustainability reporting and we have 
continued to report in accordance with 
these standards (Core Option). In addition, 
for 2021 we have further developed our 
reporting to align with the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’) 
standards.
We have also made a submission to the 
Workforce Disclosure Initiative (‘WDi’) and 
the Science Based Targets Initiative (‘SBTi’). We were delighted to be a founding 
member of the All-party Parliamentary 
Group for ESG and look forward to 
contributing to further development of the 
UK’s ESG strategy.
In aligning with global standards, we ensure 
that we continue to provide our varied 
stakeholders with clear, concise information 
that demonstrates how we are progressing 
with our material topics. The GRI content 
index can be found on our website.
David m elhuish
Chief Development and  
Sustainability OfficerThe Gym Group Board
Group Sustainability c ommitteeLowerLower Higher
HigherImportance to stakeholders
Business impactMinimising our
impacts on water 
resourcesInvesting in local 
communities Minimising the 
impacts of resource 
use and wasteWorking with  
our suppliersRunning  
our business  
ethicallyEngaging positively 
with our employees
Upholding human 
rights and 
eliminating modern 
slavery
Running a  
profitable business
Addressing key 
climate change risks 
to our businessReducing our  
carbon emissionsGenerating  
social valueBuilding a diverse, 
inclusive and equal 
workplaceProtecting our employees’  
and members’ health, 
safety and wellbeingBreaking down barriers  
to fitness for allSafeguarding 
customer data and 
privacy
Providing good  
jobs and career 
opportunities
Sustainability Working Group
Health, Safety and  
Wellbeing WorkstreamEquality, Diversity and  
Inclusion Workstream
Environment, Social and Governance WorkstreamVery High
Need active 
management
High
Actively 
monitoring
Moderate
TrackingIdentifying our material topicsThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
30
GooD J oBS  
AND Q uAlITy 
eDucATIoN
engagement survey
85%
participation rate  
(increase of 20%  from 2020)
overall level of engagement 
across the business
61%
(increase of 10%  from 2020)
hydrate & c hat catch-ups 
are fantastic to build trust 
and develop the team
2021 engagement survey feedbackSTrATeGIc repor T
SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUEDThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
3031
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
Training and development 
This year we launched our LeadWELL 
programme in partnership with Outliers 
Wellbeing. The six-week programme 
included training on financial wellbeing 
and psychological safety, focusing on 
empowering our leadership teams and 
supporting mental resilience. In addition, 
we relaunched our Coaching for 
Performance programme, providing a 
framework for managers to assess the 
performance and potential of their 
teams, and facilitate effective 
development and progression 
discussions. We have also continued 
our six-monthly talent map reviews to 
establish what career development 
plans are required for 2022.employment 
Through our participation in the UK 
Government Kickstart Scheme, we 
continued to provide job placement 
opportunities for 16 to 24-year-olds on 
Universal Credit who are at risk of 
long-term unemployment. Our first cohort 
of 30 Kickstart Fitness Trainees started in 
December 2020 and during 2021 we 
welcomed a further 147 trainees. So far 
84 have qualified as personal trainers after 
completing our Kickstart programme and 
we welcomed 64 as new employees. 
During 2021, we further expanded the 
Kickstart Scheme, introducing five new 
trainees into our gym support functions with 
a further 13 placements approved in 
partnership with The Princes Trust. We plan 
to fully participate in the government 
scheme until this ceases in March 2022.
We continue to review our employee 
reward and wellbeing offering. This year 
we introduced a new Salary Sacrifice 
Pension Scheme, a Life Assurance 
Programme, an Electric Car Salary 
Sacrifice Scheme, and enhanced our 
Company Maternity Pay for employees.
During 2021, we further developed our 
communication and engagement platform 
– CORE – extending the Mental Wellbeing 
Hub to include content focused on women’s 
health, men’s health, and family wellbeing. 
We continue to engage and discuss with 
our employee forums to enable feedback 
on key business decisions.our approach
Our people-first culture plays a key part in 
our success and over the past year, despite 
the challenges, we have continued to 
ensure that nurturing our people and our 
culture remains a key business focus. 
The materiality assessment we carried out 
during 2021 highlighted that ‘providing 
good jobs and career opportunities with 
fair pay and conditions’ was a topic of 
high importance to our stakeholders. 
Throughout the challenges posed by 
government restrictions over the past two 
years, our priority has been to provide a 
workplace where our people can thrive 
personally and grow professionally. The 
strength of our values and culture has 
enabled us to support our people 
effectively throughout this time. 
One of our key focuses in 2021 has been 
to safely reopen our gyms for our 
members, whilst ensuring that our 
employees are fully supported as we do 
so. Our focus on people aligns with, and 
contributes to, the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (‘SDGs’), 
as we strive for Quality Education (SDG 4) 
and Good Jobs and Economic Growth 
(SDG 8). 
At The Gym Group we believe it is vital to 
provide regular opportunities for our people 
to share their experiences, ideas and 
feedback. We continued with our 
engagement surveys to gain thoughts on 
energy levels, recognition, and our response 
to the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
We achieved an 85% participation rate (an 
increase of 20% from 2020) and our overall 
level of engagement across the business 
increased by 10% to 61%. Feedback 
highlighted particular satisfaction with the 
support provided for balancing life and 
work, and the focus on wellbeing that is 
offered by The Gym Group.182 
Kickstart Trainees onboarded 
since 2020  
84
qualified as personal 
trainers in 2021  
64
as new employees  
58
further trainees due to 
complete programme 
one of our key focuses  
in 2021 has been to safely 
reopen our gyms for our 
members, whilst ensuring 
that our employees are 
fully supported as we  
do so.It’s fantastic to see the 
Gym Group brilliantly 
backing the Kickstart 
Scheme – helping our next 
generation of workers 
really get on track and 
enable them to excel in  
the fitness industry.
mims Davies
Minister for EmploymentThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
32STrATeGIc repor T
SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUED
In our communities
We are delighted to have partnered with 
the Rio Ferdinand Foundation in 2021 to 
launch the new Find Your Future 
programme. This new community-focused 
12-month programme commenced in 
November 2021 and will create 
opportunities for up to 150 young people 
in South London via an employment skills 
programme and the Community Sports 
Leadership Award. The activities will be 
delivered in youth centres across South 
London and will utilise The Gym Group’s 
local gym facilities for a realistic on-the-job 
experience. Our teams will deliver both 
practical and theory-based knowledge on 
fitness, helping participants develop their 
employability skills for meaningful careers 
in the sports and fitness sector and the 
wider world of work.
In 2022, we will formally launch Grow 
Your Own, The Gym Group’s own talent 
development scheme. This scheme will 
provide an opportunity for those who have 
completed the Find Your Future programme 
and wish to start their career in the fitness 
industry. The scheme will deliver further 
training, education, experience and the 
certifications necessary for becoming a 
qualified Personal Trainer.
As our business expands, it is vital that we 
prioritise providing good jobs and career 
opportunities, whilst protecting our 
employees’ and members’ health, safety, 
and wellbeing. As our numbers increase 
and teams expand, we will concentrate on 
growing our own talent from within our 
communities. Our Emerging Talent scheme 
will be relaunched and we will continue to 
gather employee feedback and adjust our 
work practices accordingly, to ensure we 
always put our people first.human rights, anti-bribery  
and anti-corruption
We conduct our business honestly and 
ethically wherever we operate. We 
recognise the risks of modern slavery and 
take active steps to assess and manage 
them. We comply with the Modern Slavery 
Act and our statement, including further 
information on our activity to mitigate  
risks related to modern slavery,  
can be found on our website:  
www.tggplc.com/modern-slavery. 
We also have a detailed Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption Policy, which is available to all 
employees via our intranet. We are delighted to  
have partnered with the 
rio Ferdinand Foundation  
in 2021 to launch the  
new Find y our Future  
programme.33
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
Construction Manager for a little over six 
months and I’m loving it! My next 
educational journey is already lined up as I 
am working towards becoming a chartered 
member of RICS over the next few years. cASe STuDy
BuIlDING A 
reWArDING cA reer 
Isla m cIntosh, c onstruction 
manager, tells us about her career 
journey at The Gym Group and the 
incredible support she received.
I started working for The Gym Group in 
Edinburgh City Centre back in 2013 as a 
Personal Trainer. I love working in the 
fitness industry and with my passion and 
drive to develop, I naturally moved on to 
an Assistant General Manager role in the 
same gym. I love the company, the ethos, 
and the wider team at The Gym Group. 
With training and support from my 
manager and regional manager, I was 
promoted to General Manager at the new 
Edinburgh Murrayfield Gym. During the fit-out, I had an opportunity to be involved 
with the contractors on-site, and found 
managing these partnerships and the 
construction aspect of the job really 
interesting. Expressing my interest, I was 
able to shadow project managers in their 
daily job and learned more about 
development practices. This led to me 
successfully moving into a role within the 
Property team.
To support my role, I studied a Master’s 
Degree in Project Management in 
Construction at Edinburgh Napier 
University, which The Gym Group 
supported financially. In July 2021, an 
opportunity came up within the Property 
team and I’ve now been in my role as my career achievements 
were only possible  
with the support of  
my employer.
ISlA mc INToShFINANCIAL STATEMENTS STrATeGIc repor T OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
33The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
34
STrATeGIc repor T
SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUED
GooD he AlTh  
AND Well BeING
Social value
+31%
in 2021 compared with 
2020
70%
of social value generated in 
our gyms by our members 
through exercise comes 
from direct N hS cost savings 
and mental wellbeing 
benefits to our members
Social value is a reflection 
of the positive contribution 
our business is making to 
the communities we 
operate in. It is aligned 
with our purpose and with 
our commercial success.STrATeGIc repor TThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
3435
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE410
2017540
2018700
2019370
2020485
2021
 Volume of participants, frequency and duration of activity,  
demographics and socio-economic profile
 Social value generatedhealth
Reduction in 
likelihood of 
developing: 
Heart disease  
Breast cancer  
Colon cancer  
Type 2 diabetes  
Dementia  
Depression  
Hip fractures  
Back painmental 
wellbeing
Improved life 
satisfactionIndividual 
development
Increased 
educational 
attainment 
Improved starting 
salariesSocial and 
community 
development
Reduced criminal 
incidences in young 
males
Improved social 
capital to 
communities70% of the social value generated in our 
gyms by our members through exercise 
comes from direct NHS cost savings and 
mental wellbeing benefits to our members.
As a business, we are dedicated to 
generating social value and therefore have 
introduced a new KPI for the Executive 
Committee, with the core purpose of 
driving social value. The performance 
measure is linked to executive pay and is 
based on the percentage of members who 
visit our gyms at least four times a month 
and thereby contribute to the social value 
generated in our gyms. This KPI is aligned 
with our members’ motivation for joining 
our gyms and will be a Group-wide 
initiative. Our target for 2022 is to return to 
pre-COVID levels. 
One of the major factors in social value 
generation is the socio-economic status of 
our members. Individuals from more 
deprived communities are more likely to 
suffer from chronic conditions and therefore 
the social benefit to keeping these 
members active will be more significant. 
With 19 new gyms opening during 2021, 
32% of The Gym Group’s estate continues 
to be located in the 20% most deprived 
areas in the UK – reinforcing our 
commitment to tackling inactivity in 
disadvantaged communities. our approach
Regular physical activity benefits both the 
body and mind. It can reduce symptoms of 
depression and anxiety as well as 
contribute to preventing and managing a 
host of health conditions, including 
cardiovascular diseases, cancer and 
diabetes. Throughout 2021, the persistence 
of the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
continuation of government restrictions, has 
highlighted the crucial importance of 
exercise for both mental and physical 
health.
Our purpose at The Gym Group is to 
break down barriers to fitness for all. 
Through the provision of affordable, 
high-quality, safe, 24/7 facilities and a 
wide-ranging and growing gym network, 
we are breaking down those barriers to 
fitness. In doing so, we are supporting the 
UK Government’s vision to get the nation 
active and directly contribute to target 3.4 
of Sustainable Development Goal 3 – 
Good Health and Wellbeing: to reduce 
premature mortality and promote mental 
health and wellbeing.
Staying true to our purpose, we launched a 
Group-wide initiative to identify the 
physical and perceived barriers that may 
prevent people from either becoming 
members of, or working at, The Gym 
Group. This insight will inform how we 
work to become ever more accessible and 
is discussed on page 39, within the 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity section. 
The social impact of The Gym 
Group 
Building on our work in 2020, we once 
again commissioned 4Global, a UK-based 
data, services and software company, to 
determine the social impact of our business 
over the previous five years. This involved 
using a model created by Sheffield Hallam 
University that determines the social value 
to communities created through regular 
exercise. The methodology (see diagram 
opposite) was updated in 2021 to reflect 
the latest scientific research and is used 
extensively by Sport England, local 
authorities and the UK Government. 
As a result of national restrictions, our gyms 
were closed for extended periods in both 
2020 and 2021, causing a significant 
reduction of social value in both years. 
Despite this, we were able to grow social 
value by 31% in 2021 and are aiming in 
2022 to exceed the £700 million 
generated in 2019. Social value generated  
by The Gym Group in  
the past five years (£m) 
£2.5bn
Social value generated  
in 2021 (£m) 
£485m
The Social Value calculator m odelThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
36
Access to our gyms
Making gyms accessible is central to our 
purpose at The Gym Group. Our network 
of over 200 operating sites in the UK 
affords access to 49.5% of the UK 
population. Our 24/7 operation allows 
members to use the gym when it suits their 
lifestyle. The average monthly headline 
rate of £19.27 makes The Gym Group the 
best value, high-quality proposition in the 
market, and with our ‘no contract’ model, 
members need only pay for the months 
they intend to use the gym. 
Our 2021 programme on identifying and 
removing further barriers that may prevent 
individuals from accessing our gyms is 
described on page 39.
Safety at our gyms
The safety of our members and staff is at 
the heart of our operation and as the 
business has grown, we have continued to 
evolve our health and safety management 
system. A clear understanding and 
continuous review of our risk profile ensures 
our processes are compliant and mitigate 
risk, whilst remaining functional and easy 
to use. Our external health and safety 
auditors deliver a consistent and 
transparent review of performance at site 
level, including the physical safety of 
equipment and facilities, as well as audits 
of our wider safety and building 
maintenance systems.Our main objective in 2021 was to 
improve central visibility of health, safety 
and compliance across the Group, and 
produce improved data and reporting to 
support ongoing, focused risk reviews. We 
launched our digital health, safety and 
compliance portal which provides central 
visibility of compliance, as well as 
advanced reporting and management 
data to support us in quickly identifying 
and responding to health and safety 
trends. With this new set of data we can 
initiate detailed risk reviews and set clear 
actions which will have a positive impact 
on overall accident frequencies. We aim to 
reduce accident frequencies in 2022 by 
focusing on areas where we see 
opportunity to improve risk mitigation. 
During the year we also appointed 
Wakefield Council as our Primary Authority 
partner to provide regulatory advice on 
our health and safety management system 
and liaise with other enforcing and 
regulatory bodies across the UK. The 
Council benefits from extensive experience 
in dealing with other multi-site leisure 
companies and large national 
supermarkets. 
In 2022, we will continue to develop our 
health and safety management system with 
an aim to conform to ISO 45001, the 
international health and safety standard. 
Certifying our management system to ISO 
45001 will provide the business with 
another layer of reassurance that our 
health and safety processes, procedures 
and culture are effective and, where they 
are not, ensure they are challenged and 
reviewed.our network affords access to
49.5%
of the u K population
32%
of our estate in the 20% most 
deprived areas of the u K
our average health  
and safety audit  
result for 2021 was
97%STrATeGIc repor T
SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUED
our main health and 
safety objective in  
2021 was to improve 
central visibility and 
compliance across the 
Group and produce 
improved data and 
reporting to support 
ongoing, focused risk 
reviews. 37
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
37FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STrATeGIc repor T OVERVIEW GOVERNANCEThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
38
DIVerSIT y  
AND e QuAl 
opporT uNITy
We want our staff and 
members to be reflective 
of the diversity of the  
local communities in  
which we operate. reduced Gender p ay Gap to 
1. 62%
Aiming for 
50/50
gender balance by
2030
(2021: 29.2% F emAle)STrATeGIc repor T
SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUEDThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
3839
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE lGBTQI+ Agecultural 
diversityDisability GenderInclusion at The Gym Group
At the end of 2020, we launched our 
Diversity and Inclusion Manifesto, 
providing transparency on our 
commitments to improving diversity, 
inclusion and equality within the business. 
Our Executive Committee pledged their 
personal commitment and accountability  
to this agenda by signing The Gym Group 
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Pledge, 
which sets out the principles, ambitions, 
and targets for 2021. We have made great 
strides towards the actions in our 2021 
pledge and have stretched our 2022 
targets to highlight our longer-term goals 
for improved inclusion and diversity at  
The Gym Group.
On page 41 we set out where we are 
currently in relation to the targets set in 
2021 and our targets for 2022 to 2030. 
Despite the challenges of the pandemic 
and the temporary closure of our gyms, we 
remained committed to staying connected, 
driving inclusion and wellbeing, and 
improving flexibility. We are proud to have 
launched our ‘Inclusive Workspace’ for our 
gym support colleagues, which has 
cemented our new flexible approach to 
working – creating an environment of trust, 
work/life balance and a culture where 
people can perform at their best.
In January and March 2021, we launched 
our lockdown-focused Reset & Recharge 
(‘R&R’) programme, providing employees 
with weekly social and wellbeing activities 
to energise and connect teams ready for 
returning to the office and gyms. 
In addition, we were proud to provide 
colleagues with diversity and inclusion and 
unconscious bias training. As we build an 
inclusive and diverse workforce, we 
continue to deliver communications 
supporting national awareness events to 
raise the profile and discussions around 
inclusion and share examples of how our 
teams are driving diversity and inclusion 
within their gyms.Identifying barriers 
In 2021, our Chief Development and 
Sustainability Officer, David Melhuish, was 
appointed our Executive sponsor for the 
Diversity & Inclusion Group, and has 
played a crucial role in raising the agenda 
for discussions and positive action on 
diversity. In 2021, the group launched a 
project focused on identifying the barriers 
that exist for both employees and members 
at The Gym Group.
Workstreams formed of colleagues from 
across the business focused on identifying 
the barriers that exist across five areas of 
diversity: age, cultural diversity, disability, 
gender and LGBTQI+. The research 
identified a number of barriers and 
potential solutions to support us in 
achieving our purpose of breaking down 
barriers to fitness for all. Key themes 
identified were around Perception of the 
Gym Sector, Accessibility, Gymtimidation, 
Visibility & Representation, and Education 
& Understanding. Moving forward, our 
workstreams will continue to raise 
awareness and work as ambassadors for 
diversity and inclusion.
In response to some of the key barriers 
highlighted, we introduced several new 
policies during 2021: our Dignity at The 
Gym Policy, Transgender Inclusion Policy 
and Transition Action Plan, and 
Menopause Policy. In addition, we have 
begun delivering informal training sessions 
with our gym managers to encourage 
discussions on how to facilitate inclusive 
environments in the gym. 
For 2022, we will review the information 
and recommendations collected from this 
research and the insights provided will 
inform our diversity and inclusion plans 
going forward. our approach
Equality, diversity and inclusion remain 
fundamental to our culture, values and 
decision-making. We are committed to 
achieving our purpose of breaking down 
barriers to fitness for all and ensuring that 
The Gym Group is a place where everyone 
is welcomed, accepted for who they are, 
and has equal opportunities to succeed. To 
truly achieve this, it is vital for us to 
understand the barriers that exist within our 
business.
Our Diversity & Inclusion strategy focuses 
our actions on three core pillars: Insights, 
Talents and Culture. By delivering our 
strategy, we are contributing to SDG 5 - 
Gender Equality, and SDG 10 - Reduced 
Inequalities.
Collaboration is an important part of our 
culture and we remain active members of 
Women in Hospitality, Travel and Leisure 
(‘WiHTL’), regularly contributing to 
cross-industry discussions and initiatives.  
In addition, as signatories of the Business  
in the Community Race at Work Charter, 
we continue with our commitment to its five 
‘calls-to-action’ for businesses to prioritise 
activity on race and improve equality of 
opportunity in the workplace. Our Chief 
Sustainability and Development Officer, 
David Melhuish, was recognised as an 
Inclusive Leader within the 2021 Role 
Models for Inclusion Index from WiHTL  
and The MBS Group, demonstrating our 
leadership commitment. Colleagues from 
The Gym Group were also featured within 
their Women to Watch Index.
In relation to wellbeing and flexible 
working, we were shortlisted for two Top 
Employer Awards through WM People, 
one for Best in Flexible Working and the 
other for Best in Mental Health, 
demonstrating external recognition of our 
progress in these areas. 
our five areas of diversityThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
40
cASe STuDy
SupporT AT The  
Gym Group
caroline and Natacha, and their 
care worker r achel, tell us about the 
support they have received since 
joining The Gym Group in 2021.
‘Lockdown was an extremely tough time for 
us mentally due to being stuck indoors at 
home. We wanted to find fun activities in 
an environment that felt safe. Since joining 
The Gym Group, Paul (Assistant Manager 
at Exeter Marsh Barton) has taught us how 
to adapt and push through any barriers, 
teaching us to try new things and 
educating us and our carers on safe and 
effective use of the equipment. We get fitter 
and stronger week by week; we have fun 
every time we visit and get the support to 
push ourselves safely. The staff at The Gym 
Group have been incredibly supportive 
since day one, finding ways to enable us to do things we wouldn’t normally try.  
Paul’s willingness to learn and communicate 
with us through sign and the level of 
interaction we receive, you just wouldn’t get 
anywhere else!’
– caroline and Natacha. 
Rachel adds: “The care agency researched 
and visited every gym in the area to assess 
which gym would offer the best personal 
service. After speaking to various managers 
and visiting every gym in the area, Paul was 
highly recommended by our staff. The 
personalised attention at The Gym Group is 
just one of a kind. Natacha and Caroline 
get full attention every time they visit and we 
have never received this level of attention 
anywhere else.”The Gym Group gives  
us something to focus  
on and look forward  
to each week.
cArolINe I feel stronger, fitter  
and happier.  The Gym 
Group has given us  
a place to feel safe.
NATA chA SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUEDSTrATeGIc repor T
40The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 202141
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
Addressing gender balance
Gym  
Support %capturing ethnicity data
Gym  
operations %uK 2011  
census % Senior leaders  
    who are female
 All staff who  
   are female  
2020                                     2021                                      2020                                     2021                                      35.0%
30.0%
25.0%
20.0%
15.0%
10.0%
5.0%
0.0%
2019                                        2020                                       2021
 Black, African, Caribbean    Asian     Mixed    Other    White    Not disclosed 5.7                                     9.6                                     5.1                                     1.5                                     69.5                                     8.6                                     
9.2                                     10.7                                    6.0                                     0.5                                     72.2                                     1.4                                     
12.2                                    6.3                                     7.5                                     3.2                                     65.0                                     5.7                                     
11.9                                     6.5                                     7.4                                     3.1                                     67.7                                     3.5                                     
3.3                                     7.5                                     2.2                                     1.0                                     86.0                                     equality, Diversity & Inclusion 
pledge 2022 – 2023
We would like our staff and members to  
be reflective of the diversity of the local 
communities in which we operate. And  
we aspire to achieve a gender, balanced 
workforce by 2030 and for our senior 
leaders to be 40% female by 2025. Below 
we state our performance against this target 
over the past three years. We will continue 
to take positive action to address gender 
balance and report monthly to the Board of 
Directors on our progress.
We promoted the importance of capturing 
ethnicity data during the course of the year 
and significantly increased the employee 
population identifying their ethnicity. Our 
population identifying as ethnically white 
has increased by 2.7% but remains below 
the UK average in both gym support and 
operational groups.
Gender pay gap
The fitness sector has historically struggled 
to attract women which we have 
addressed through our Diversity & Inclusion 
Manifesto and Pledge, brand awareness, 
improved standardised recruitment 
practices, unconscious bias training and 
targeted recruitment strategies. 
We are pleased to have achieved a 
reduction in our mean gender pay gap 
from 5.48% in 2020 to 1.62% in 2021. 
Our median gender pay gap has also 
reduced since last year. The majority of our 
employees undertake the same role,  
and are therefore on the same pay rate, 
regardless of whether they are male  
or female.
ethnicity pay gap
Throughout 2021, we continued to collect 
and record ethnicity data for our workforce, 
and we are pleased to see that our 
colleagues feel increasingly comfortable 
with sharing this information with us. 
For the first time, we have chosen to report 
on our ethnicity pay gap. Our mean 
ethnicity pay gap as of April 2021 is 16% 
and our median ethnicity pay gap is 0%. 
We recognise we have to make progress 
in addressing this gap and during 2022 
we will focus on actions to reduce this.
Our full ethnicity and gender pay gap 
reports provide further detail on our figures 
and the actions we are taking to address 
this and are available on our website 
www.tggplc.com. performance against our 2021 e DI pledge 2021 target %
Senior leaders from u K ethnic minority groups2021 actual %
15 16.1
Senior leaders who are female25 27.4
members from our operations team who  
are from u K ethnic minority groups 30 29
members from our operations team who  
are female 30 28.4The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
42
reSpoNSIBIl ITy  
To The 
eNVIroNmeNT
our responsibility to
the environment is a 
significant way in which 
we align and contribute 
to the sustainable 
development goals.SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUEDSTrATeGIc repor T
purchasing
100%
renewable energy
95%
of waste diverted 
from landfill
carbon neutral since
2021The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
4243
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
our approach
Climate change is the most pressing 
challenge of our time, and beyond the 
potential financial impact this could have 
on our business in the longer-term, it 
threatens our ability to provide accessible 
fitness for all. 2021 saw COP26 conclude 
with nearly 200 countries signing the 
Glasgow Climate Pact, which renews their 
commitment to meet the Paris Agreement 
and limit global warming to 1.5°C through 
collective action. We recognise the 
importance of this commitment and the 
individual responsibility of each and every 
one of us to achieve this goal. The Gym 
Group is committed to championing 
environmental action and welcomes the 
UK’s net zero Strategy and Ten Point Plan 
for a Green Industrial Revolution. 
We will take a proactive, strategic 
approach to reducing our environmental 
impacts by leading the way within the 
health and fitness sector. We continue to 
reduce our carbon emissions and 
environmental impact and are investing in 
the energy-efficient design of our new sites, 
as well as investing in our existing estate 
with schemes such as extending the use of 
air source heat pumps for hot water 
generation. We are also working to reduce 
waste from our operations and improve the 
operational efficiencies of our gyms, 
however, we continue to face the challenge 
of increased cleaning regimes due to 
COVID -19. 
Our responsibility to the environment is a 
significant way in which we align and 
contribute to the Sustainable Development 
Goals. Our efforts to procure renewable 
energy and increase the energy efficiency 
of our gyms align with SDG 7 – Affordable 
and Clean Energy; our efforts to reduce 
waste align with SDG 12 – Responsible 
Production and Consumption; and our 
approach to address our carbon risk aligns 
with SDG 13 – Taking Urgent Action to 
Combat Climate Change.climate and carbon 
The world is facing a critical moment in 
tackling climate change. As a multi-site 
operator with over 200 gyms across the 
UK, we have an obligation to our 
stakeholders to minimise the impact of our 
operations. Our most significant carbon 
impact comes from the energy we use in 
our gyms. 
We are proud to have procured 100% 
renewable energy since October 2019 for 
all of our sites where we directly control the 
purchase of energy. In doing so, we are 
directly contributing to SDG target 7 .2 (‘By 
2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy 
mix’)1. In 2021, the renewable fuel mix of 
our power supplier is certified by EcoAct. 
We acknowledge that we are on a journey 
towards net-zero and are committed to 
taking action to reduce our emissions whilst 
understanding and managing the risks 
posed by climate change.
Our carbon emissions through electrical 
power consumption will reduce with the 
decarbonisation of the National Grid and 
natural gas will eventually become our 
principal source of direct carbon emission. 
We now have 13 sites operating 
successfully without gas for water heating 
and are continuing to roll out electric heat 
pumps to obviate the requirement for gas.
We understand that as our business grows 
in terms of the number of sites and 
members, our emissions will also grow. This 
will require a comprehensive approach 
towards maintaining progress to meet our 
net-zero target.
1  Compared to 2019 on a like-for-like basis of 
operating estate.committed to achieving
NeT-Zero
carbon by 2035 
50%
reduction in emissions 
by 20301The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
44STrATeGIc repor T
SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUED
We commissioned site-level energy audits 
at five sample sites in 2021 to identify 
potential energy reduction initiatives that 
might be applied across the estate. The 
uniformity of our estate enables 
opportunities to be realised in multiple 
locations when identified in a typical 
sample. There were no new issues 
identified and we continue with our 
programme of upgrading and networking 
building control systems as the main driver 
for energy reduction. Our strategy of 
delivering energy efficiency by exemplary 
design and high-quality maintenance of 
services remains in place. 95% of our gyms 
now have full LED lighting with the 
remaining ten sites programmed for 
conversion in 2022.
We have now submitted our net-zero 
commitment to the Science Based Target 
initiative (‘SBTi’), joined the Business Ambition 
for 1.5°C and the UN Race to Zero. In line 
with SBTi requirements we are developing 
our pathway with a near-term target of 50% 
reduction in baseline emissions before 20301, 
and a long-term target of net-zero by 2035.
We have also chosen to offset emissions on 
our journey to net-zero and have become the 
UK’s first carbon neutral gym chain. Our 
carbon offset projects are carefully chosen 
and certified by internationally recognised 
bodies:offsetting project location certification
community 
reforestation, 
Ghana:
The project is restoring degraded forest reserves  
in Ghana with teak, indigenous trees and natural  
forest in riparian buffer zones, following the principles 
and criteria of the Forest Stewardship Council (‘FSC’). 
The areas have been degraded due to 
overexploitation, bush fires and conversion to 
agriculture. The project works closely with local  
farmers, some of whom are employed by the project  
and others are able to grow crops, via intercropping, 
within the reforested area, benefitting from the 
improved soil conditions.Ghana Verified Carbon 
Standard
efficient cookstoves; 
creating jobs and 
transforming lives
In Ghana, more than 80% of the population use 
solid fuels for cooking. The project introduces a 
more efficient cookstove which cooks food more 
quickly and requires 46% less fuel and is less smoky 
- cutting carbon emissions and reducing exposure to 
toxic fumes. Cutting fuel requirements saves families 
as much as $100 annually, at the same time 
protecting Ghana’s forests.Ghana Gold Standard
The u K’s first carbon  
neutral gym chain
1  Compared to 2019 on a like-for-like basis of  
operating estate.45
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
2017 2018 2019 202012,00014,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
 Total emissions
 Intensity metric tCO2e per million me mber visit 
 Intensity metric1 tCO2e per gym 2019 2020 2021Total e missions and Intensity 
metricsTotal emissions (t co 2e) 2019 2020 2021
Direct Emissions from Operation (Scope 1)  2,035  1,602  1,282 
Purchased Electricity and Heat (Scope 2)  9,544  5,895  6,420 
Indirect Emissions in Value Chain (Scope 3)  1,629  1,088  978 
Total e missions (t co 2e)  13,208  8,585  8,680 
% Change from base year -35% -34%
Intensity Metric1 (tCO 2e per gym)  74  47  43 
% Change from base year -37% -42%
Intensity Metric (tCO 2e per million member visit)  283  349  259 
% Change from base year 23% -9%
Total consumption (kwh) 2019 2020 2021
Scope 1 (Gas) 11,071,196 8,710,907 6,999,558
Scope 2 (Electricity) 34,409,373 25,272,315 30,216,391
Scope 2 (Heat) 10,907 18,405 22,450
Total (kWh) 45,491,477 34,001,627 37,238,399carbon emissions
Carbon emissions for the year ending on  
31 December 2021 have been measured 
as required under the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Account and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended in 
2013. In 2021, we further developed our 
carbon auditing process to understand our 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and set our 
ambitious target to achieve net zero carbon 
emissions by 2035. The main activity which 
creates carbon emissions for The Gym 
Group is the purchase and use of gas and 
electricity to power our gyms. We have also 
re-stated our Scope 3 emissions for 2019 
and 2020 to increase the boundary in line 
with 2021 data to include emissions from 
water use, business travel, waste and 
upstream transportation. We have used  
the Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standards (revised edition 2015) and  
data gathered to fulfil the requirements 
under the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency scheme to calculate  
the disclosures.
Due to the closure periods as a result of the 
restrictions from the COVID-19 pandemic, 
our overall energy consumption and 
subsequent emissions appear lower than 
previous years. However, to ensure fair 
and balanced reporting we have included 
comparative carbon intensity metrics of 
tCO 2e per trading gym and, tCO 2e per 
million-member visits. The Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
46
 Landfill 10%
 Recycled 54%
 Waste-to-energy 34%
 Anaerobic digestion 2% Landfill 5%
 Recycled 42%
 Waste-to-energy 53%
 Anaerobic digestion 0%Waste
In 2021, we reduced our waste to landfill 
from 10% in 2020 to 5% in 2021. 
Due to a mixture of increased trading days 
in 2021 compared to 2020 and new gym 
openings, waste collection increased by 
105%. This presents an area for 
environmental performance improvement 
and we will continue to drive down waste 
consumption. 
‘Blue roll’ is still the major contributor to the 
increased volumes as we continue to 
ensure the highest cleaning and hygiene 
standards are maintained in our gyms at all 
times. We are exploring how we can 
reduce the use of blue roll through new 
dispensers and the quantity of dispensers 
in each gym, but only as and when it is 
safe to do so. Blue roll is considered a 
recyclable product but is not recyclable 
when sprays are added to it. This has 
resulted in a larger volume of waste 
categorised as general waste with the 
subsequent material being diverted to 
waste-to-energy.landfill diversion 2020
Water
The use of water at our sites is typically 
confined to shower, toilet, washbasin and 
cleaning requirements. All taps and 
showers are either non-concussive or 
electronic for timed operation, reducing 
misuse and waste. 
Prior to the pandemic, we operated a small 
number of saunas and steam rooms, 
located in acquired gyms. The facilities 
were closed due to COVID-19 pandemic 
restrictions and have been fully 
decommissioned except at one location. 
We do not operate swimming pools or 
other similar ‘wet’ facilities.During 2021, we carried out site water 
auditing across all gyms to provide insight 
into how water is used across the estate, to 
identify wastage, and to initiate a 
monitoring and targeting programme. 
Whilst our data of historical water 
consumption does not present a holistic 
yearly picture for reporting, we now have 
systems in place to collect water data and 
we will report on water consumption 
moving forward. This will allow us to better 
monitor and manage our water 
consumption and therefore reduce the 
environmental impact from our resources. landfill diversion 2021
Average Tonnes per gym
3.5Average Tonnes per gym
6.0No. of Gyms serviced
128No. of Gyms serviced
157
Total tonnage collected
443percentage of estate
70%
Total tonnage collected
942percentage of estate
77%percentage increase
N/Apercentage increase  
(vs 2020)
23% SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUEDSTrATeGIc repor T47
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE
Newton Abbot Gym
Newton Abbott is a small market town 
located between the edge of Dartmoor and 
Torquay, with a population of just 27 ,000 
people. Previously, this would not be a typical 
location for a low cost gym operation; 
however, development in our smaller format 
model and improvements in operational 
efficiency enabled us to open a new 
8,500sq.ft gym in the town in 2021.
The property identified had been unoccupied 
for several years, was in poor condition and 
had a varied history, being used for car sales 
and more recently by a carpet and flooring 
distributor. 
When we took on the building it was in a 
poor state of repair, with roof leaks, damp 
and some structural issues. We were able to 
significantly invest into the building fabric to • We reduce our energy consumption by 
using high efficiency LEDs for lighting;
• We use heat created from cooling and 
recycle it to heat water for showers
In addition to the repurposing and 
regeneration of the building, this site has 
created a facility that the community did not 
previously have access to. An affordable, 
accessible and high quality gym environment 
that didn’t exist in the locality before, 
breaking down barriers to fitness for many in 
the town.
It is estimated that member participation at 
the gym will create between £1.5 million and 
£2.0 million of social value directly into the 
community each year. bring it up to modern standards, transforming 
a long-unloved dilapidated building. The 
works included the removal of asbestos, 
overhauling and insulating roofs, repairing a 
failed wall bounding a river and resurfacing 
the car park, to name a few of the enabling 
works. 
Once the building fabric was brought up to 
standard, we then applied our ‘best-in-class’ 
mechanical and electrical systems, including 
high efficiency air-conditioning and 
ventilation systems, with smart control systems 
to best manage the flow of fresh air and the 
internal temperature. 
Being able to reuse, reduce and recycle is key 
to our approach:
• We reuse the condensate water from our 
A/C systems to flush toilets;cASe STuDy
loW cArBoN  
Gym eXpANSIoN
47FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STrATeGIc repor T OVERVIEW GOVERNANCEThe Gym Group plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2021
48At The Gym Group, we are 
committed to tackling both 
the immediate and long-
term impacts of climate 
change on our business 
and the people we serve. 
We are responding by embracing the  
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (‘TCFD’) and developing our 
disclosures in line with the Task Force’s 
recommendations across four thematic 
areas: governance, strategy, risk 
management, and metrics and targets. 
The recommendations support the 
identification and assessment of our 
climate-related risks and opportunities; 
informing how we respond to the physical 
risks of climate change and the transition 
risks associated with the UK progressing to 
a low-carbon economy. These 
recommendations will also aid our strategy 
to achieve our target of net-zero carbon by 
2035 with an aim of a 50% reduction in 
emissions by 20301, from a 2019 baseline. 
This is our first year reporting against the 
TCFD disclosures and recommendations, 
and we will continue to refine and develop 
our approach as we progress our 
understanding of our climate-related 
financial risks and opportunities to meet the 
recommendations in full.
1  Compared to 2019 on a like-for-like basis of  
operating estate.TcFD risk management
Our risk management process has been 
developed in line with our TCFD Scenario 
Analysis Report, ensuring our processes are 
informed by robust climate science. This 
allows us to credibly identify, evaluate and 
mitigate risks to the business. In line with 
TCFD disclosure recommendations, we 
have identified and assessed our climate-
related financial risks against two 
recognised climate scenarios, known as 
representative concentration pathways 
(‘RCP’s’), RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5: a 2°C 
scenario and a 4°C scenario. We have 
selected two scenarios, as defined by  
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (‘IPCC’), to present a sharp 
contrast between potential futures and 
allow for a comprehensive assessment  
of risks and opportunities.TcFD governance
The Gym Group Board and Executive 
Committee are fully committed to 
identifying and addressing the immediate 
and longer-term risks that climate change 
poses to our business. In 2021, we 
strengthened our approach to the 
governance of climate-related risks and 
opportunities through the establishment of 
a new Sustainability Committee 
(‘Committee’), chaired by Non-Executive 
Director Wais Shaifta, reporting directly to 
the Board. Climate-related risks and 
opportunities will be a standing agenda 
item for the Committee, and through the 
Committee, regular Board level governance 
of climate-related issues is provided. To 
further bolster our climate change 
governance, our Chief Development and 
Sustainability Officer, David Melhuish, has 
taken on responsibility for sustainability 
and now leads the management and 
oversight of the Group’s response to 
carbon. 
Through the Committee and our focused 
ESG workstream we will incorporate 
financial impact assessments of the risks 
and opportunities identified.
TcFD strategy
We position the environment as a key 
stakeholder alongside shareholders, 
employees, members, suppliers, 
communities, and lending banks. As a 
business, we have pledged to become 
net-zero by 2035 and submitted our 
net-zero strategy to SBTi. Responding to the 
risks and opportunities from climate change 
and the transition to a low carbon 
economy is therefore a clear priority. Our 
process to managing climate risks is 
embedded within ‘Responsibility to the 
Environment’, a core pillar of our strategic 
approach to sustainability. We are working 
collaboratively with our key stakeholders to 
both enhance the resilience of our business 
against climate-related risks and maximise 
the opportunities that arise with a transition 
to net-zero.STrATeGIc repor T
climate  
scenario 
Definition
The 2°C climate 
scenario, represented 
by RCP 4.5, describes  
a pathway of moderate 
to high emission 
mitigation, reflecting  
a transition to a lower 
carbon economy.
The 4°C climate 
scenario, represented 
by RCP 8.5, describes 
a pathway where 
greenhouse gas 
emissions continue  
to grow unmitigated.rcp 4.5
rcp 8.5
We assess climate-related risks through our 
TCFD Risk Register, and communicate the 
findings to our Management team, 
Executive Committee, and the Board. The 
Risk Register facilitates a robust assessment 
of the current and future business impact of 
climate-related physical and transition risks 
and opportunities, identified through our 
climate scenario analysis, over short 
(2030), medium (2050), and long-term 
(2080) timeframes. This allows the business 
to identify and prioritise the most significant 
risks and inform our planning for current 
and future risk mitigation. Risks and 
opportunities are reviewed regularly in line 
with evolving policy, forthcoming 
legislation, and the latest climate science.SuSTAINABIl ITy repor T CONTINUED
TASK F orce o N clImATe-relATeD FINANc IAl DIScloSureS
We are proud to have 
procured 100% renewable 
energy since october 2019 
for all of our sites where 
we directly control the 
purchase of energy.  
In doing so, we are  
directly contributing to 
SDG target 7.2.49
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCEmetrics and targets
As a business, we are committed to 
significantly reducing our carbon 
emissions. We measure, monitor and 
disclose the annual greenhouse gas 
emissions intensity metrics per gym and  
per million member visits to measure and accelerate our progress on our target to be 
net-zero by 2035. Refer to the ‘climate and 
carbon’ sub-section of the ‘Responsibility to 
the Environment’ section on pages 42 to 
47 for further information on our disclosure 
of climate-related metrics and targets.The table below provides references to the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2021 sections 
containing the relevant information on the 
internal processes in place to address each 
of the 11 TCFD recommended disclosures.
Disclosure recommendation Section reference page
Governance
a)  Describe the Board’s oversight of  
climate-related risks and opportunitiesSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures (‘TCFD governance’) 
Strategic Report – Sustainability Governance
Governance – Report of the Sustainability Committee Page 48  
Page 29
Page 85
b)  Describe management’s role in assessing 
and managing climate-related risks  
and opportunitiesSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures 
Governance – Report of the Sustainability Committee Page 48  
Page 85
Strategy
a)  Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium and long-termSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures Page 48
b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the organisation’s 
businesses, strategy and financial planningSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures
Strategic Report – Strategy in ActionPage 48  
Page 19
c)  Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
future climate scenarios, including a 2°C or 
lower scenarioSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures Page 48  
risk
a)  Describe the organisation’s processes  
for identifying and assessing  
climate-related risksSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures 
Strategic Report - Principal Risks and UncertaintiesPage 48  
Pages 62-68
b)  Describe the organisation’s processes  
for managing climate-related risksSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures 
Strategic Report – Principal Risks and UncertaintiesPage 48  
Pages 62-68
c)  Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organisation’s overall 
risk managementSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Taskforce on Climate-related 
financial disclosures
Strategic Report – Principal Risks and UncertaintiesPage 48  
Pages 62-68
metrics
a)  Disclose the metrics used by the  
organisation to assess climate-related  
risks and opportunitiesSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Climate and carbon Pages 43-45
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse  
gas emissions and the related risksSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Climate and carbon: Carbon 
emissionsPage 45
c)  Describe the targets used by the organisation 
to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance  
against targetsSustainability Report – Responsibility to the Environment – Climate and carbon Pages 43-45THE GYM GROUP PLC
5th Floor
OneCroydon
12-16 Addiscombe Road
Croydon
CR0 0XT
 
www.tggplc.com
www.thegymgroup.com