SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2O14I
“To us ethical behavior implies a strong sense
of responsibility towards stakeholders:
that’s what we have clearly stated in our
Code of Ethics, together with our steadfast 
commitment to the principles of the
UN Global Compact and other major standards 
for the protection of human rights and labor,
the safeguard of the environment and the
fight against corruption. Our constant support
to the Global Compact is confirmed
by the progresses communicated in this report.”CHAIRMAN’S LETTER  
Albert Einstein often said that the value of a man must be measured by what he is able to give, 
not what he is able to receive. The way I see it, this is also true for companies.
Companies that aim to change the world, improve the sectors in which they operate. They are so -
cially responsible, not only because it is right, but because 
it creates economic value. Telecom Italia is one of these. 
For us, sustainability means creating both economic and 
social value, creating a shared value; long-term econom -
ic development cannot be achieved unless greater social 
welfare and the protection of natural resources are guar -
anteed at the same time.
In a globalised world, the motto “no man is an island” 
is becoming less of a poetic image and, with our contri -
bution, more of a concrete, palpable and everyday ex -
perience. The world is increasingly interconnected and 
we contribute to designing, building and managing these 
connections. Telecom Italia puts people in contact, con -
veys our emotions, and the optical fibres are just the means by which we carry words, thoughts, 
music and images which, for better or worse, touch the hearts of people and enrich their lives. Our 
mission is, after all, to bring people closer.
We provide the countries in which we operate with our infrastructure and technology, to support the 
development of an increasingly digital culture that allows us to access services which improve our 
collective quality of life. Our broadband and ultra-broadband coverage objectives will allow us to 
improve welfare and economic opportunities for the country and for current and future generations. 
It is thanks to our people that our ambitions can be translated into concrete actions. For them, 
we have begun to implement the new People Strategy, which focuses on people’s motivation and 
skills and the organisation underlying their working activities.
We have the vision, courage and skills required to be the protagonists of this change and all feel 
the responsibility to design a smarter, more inclusive and more sustainable future.
Giuseppe Recchi
 #wesharethefuture
[G4-1]II
CLIENTIIII
#WESHARETHEFUTURE
#wesharethefuture  expresses the Corporate Social Responsibility vision of Telecom Italia, sys -
tematising all the Company’s sustainability initiatives and projects. 
As a pioneer in the field of corporate sustainability in Italy, Telecom Italia has established a new 
strategy based on creating economic and social value, developing Corporate Social Responsi -
bility into Corporate Shared Value (CSV) with the aim of linking economic and financial results to 
the social progress created by responding to the needs expressed by the sectors in which it oper -
ates. This innovative process aims to guide the company’s strategic decisions and measure their 
financial and non-financial performance in order to meet the legitimate demands of stakeholders.
Corporate Shared Value: BUSINESS VALUE & SOCIAL VALUE
SHARED
VALUE
Projects
that create
shared valueBUSINESS
VALUE
Projects
that create
business valueSOCIAL
VALUE
Projects
that create
social value
Telecom Italia’s role is to allow everyone to seize the opportunities offered by the world of ICT, 
maintaining a balance between three dimensions:
environmental sustainability:  implementing projects and initiatives aimed at reducing the en -
vironmental impact of its activities and those of its customers, in addition to promoting more 
“sustainable” lifestyles;
social sustainability:  disseminating a digital and innovation culture as an enabling factor for the 
development of people and the countries where it operates;
economic sustainability:  creating value, in the long term, for shareholders and stakeholders 
in general.
The Group is aware of the responsibilities that arise from its role as a market leader in electronic com -
munication and therefore an enabler for improving well-being in the various contexts in which it oper -
[G4-1]IV
ates. Telecom Italia is also strengthening its commitment through its active contribution to achieving 
the country’s digitisation objectives as defined in the Italian Digital Agenda, developed by the Italian 
government by transposing the directives set out by the EU in the European Digital Agenda.
The macro areas stated in the Digital Agenda and main actions taken in this field by the Group 
are listed below: 
• Enhancing the Network →  investments in IT infrastructure (broadband and ultra-broadband).
• Improving the efficiency of government local offices and secure use of public services 
online →  from investments in healthcare, justice and education digital products and solutions 
to digital identity and big data management solutions.
• System continuity and respect for privacy →  investments in network and information secu -
rity and safe Internet use awareness projects.
• Developing the digital skills of people and companies →  projects to disseminate digital 
culture and reduce the digital divide.
• Attractiveness of territories and good management of urbanisation →  smart solutions 
allowing urban spaces to be management smartly and sustainably, promoting a reduction in 
environmental impacts and more efficient services.
• Growing the market and strengthening companies →  company digitisation solutions, from 
cloud services to mobile payment solutions.
The Group has identified three strategic areas of intervention which contribute to creating value 
for the Company and for the sectors in which it operates, in response to the social needs and 
objectives of the Italian Digital Agenda:
• Digitisation, connectivity and social innovation. 
• Digital culture
• Environmental protection
Digitisation, connectivity and social innovation.  In this area, the Company stands as a digital 
ecosystem “enabler”, connecting companies, government bodies and local communities, so as to 
create positive synergies for development. The contribution our Group makes to developing the 
sectors in which it operates doesn’t stop at infrastructure projects but ranges from digital solutions 
for government local bodies to cloud services for businesses, digital platforms for healthcare, 
applications for people with disabilities to technologies for reducing energy use by cities and 
companies. Further initiatives have been developed in this context, including projects for the 
digital inclusion of women, both within the Company and outside, and the crowdfunding platform 
that receives requests for donations and other non-profit-making financial assistance for people 
intending to implement environmental protection and social projects. Furthermore, Telecom Italia 
is a founding member of the Italian Digital Champions association. Digital Champions are inno -
vation ambassadors appointed by each Member State of the EU to promote the benefits of an 
inclusive digital society and make their citizens “digital”, working with communities, businesses, 
[G4-1]V
governments and academia. The Company is also supporting the digital innovation process of 
SMEs to enhance Made in Italy products, developing social education campaigns for the correct 
use of terminals.
Digital culture.  For growth and social development to be achieved in the digital era, all citi -
zens must be able to acquire the skills they need to make full use of the benefits offered by the 
Web and new technologies. In the knowledge that an effective schooling system and adequate 
standards of education and training play a fundamental role in the growth and socio-econom -
ic development of the country, Telecom Italia is committed to implementing projects to support 
digital education and schooling, including by supplying infrastructure and tools. This has led to 
the EducaTI  digital education multi-project aimed at supporting innovation in Italian schools. A 
concrete commitment that is fulfilled by training teachers and students to use new technologies, 
introducing programming in schools, raising awareness about the responsible use of the Web and 
combating phenomena like cyber-bullying. Integration with the Group’s other initiatives, includ -
ing the introduction of new models and the testing of advanced and inclusive digital education 
platforms, in addition to initiatives to digitise traditional cultural environments, complete Telecom 
Italia’s commitment to promoting digital education.
Environmental protection.  Telecom Italia has launched both projects to improve the efficiency 
of its operations and initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental impacts of its customers. 
In 2014, Telecom Italia entered a agreement, that also cover 2015, to buy guarantees of origin 
which certify electricity generated by renewable sources, drastically reducing its carbon dioxide 
emissions. The Company continues to market energy efficiency products and services and to im -
plement customer involvement and awareness-building initiatives, including the IORiciclo project, 
a programme that facilitates the transition to devices that allow next generation network services 
to be used and provides guidance on how to reuse or dispose of used and obsolete handsets. 
ICT solutions that allow the smart management of cities and productive open spaces, thanks to 
IoT, and limiting the environmental footprint of its customers, are examples of how social and 
economic value can be generated for the community and a contribution can be made to environ -
mental sustainability.
All this takes place thanks to the 66,000 people who contribute every day to achieving the Group’s 
strategy.  In order to respond to their requirements, in addition to contributing constantly to im -
proving people’s quality of life, Telecom Italia has started to implement its new People Strategy, 
launching a radical review of activities and processes that involve the staff, from management to 
training, remuneration to organisation, involving numerous managers from all over the Company. 
Nine working groups were therefore set up with the aim of calibrating and shaping motivational, 
training and organisations techniques and processes to ensure that the Company is able to face 
the technological, market and financial challenges to which it is increasingly subjected. 
[G4-1]VI
Over the past year, a survey was carried out of CSV projects that meet the demands of the Digital 
Agenda and the country’s key Social Needs, as shown in the following diagram and discussed in 
detail in the final chapter. 
QUALITY
OF SERVICES
Products, services
and offers promoting
inclusivity
EFFICIENCY
AND TRANSPARENCY
Real time data
and informationPROTECTION OF
THE ENVIRONMENT
AND THE LANDSCAPE
Energy Efficiency solutions
and Environmental 
Impacts (IORiciclo)
INNOVATION
CULTURE
School
technological
innovation
QUALITY
OF WORK
Telework,
NurseriesHEALTH
Digital healthcareEDUCATION
AND TRAINING
"EducaTI" and
"Scuola Digitale"RESEARCH
AND INNOVATION
Open Labs,
Working Capital
Big Data
ECONOMIC
WELL-BEING
Network infrastructure,
enabling factor of a
digital ecosystemSECURITY
Digital Identity,
Privacy Protection
Solutions
INNOVATIVE
AND SECURE
IT INFRASTRUCTURE
Investments in broadband
and ultra broadbandTELECOM
ITALIA
GROUP
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DEPARTMENTFONDAZIONE TELECOM ITALIA IT PROJECTS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
[G4-1]VII
Complementing the Group’s commitment, the Fondazione Telecom Italia  renewed its mission 
throughout the year, in line with the Company’s activities, by promoting a culture of change and 
innovation and acting according to three guidelines for the development of projects in the fields of: 
• education
• innovation culture
• social empowerment
The Foundation’s renewal and revitalisation process includes launching a pool of consistent pro -
jects that strongly enhance innovation culture. In fact, according to a recent study on foundations1 
in Italy, for the value of a foundation to benefit the group to which it belongs, strong synergy and 
cohesion has to exist between the two entities. Foundations are considered to be an important 
component of Corporate Social Responsibility: activities must be synergistic to be effective.
Marcella Logli
Head of Telecom Italia Corporate Social Responsibility Dpt.
Director General Fondazione Telecom Italia
1 Ipsos “Corporate Social Responsibility according to Italians: knowledge and opinions”, February 2015.
[G4-1]PART I       
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP  11
Profile of Telecom Italia Group 12
Telecom Italia: a group of strategic relevance 16
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCE  27
Outline of the Telecom Italia Group’s Corporate Governance 28
Governance and management of sustainability in Telecom Italia 34
Reporting 49
Materiality analysis 51
BEING SUSTAINABLE: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES  57
Risks and opportunities 58
Human Rights 63
PART II
CUSTOMERS  71
Strategy 72
Relevant stakeholders 73
Quality of service and Customer listening 73
Customer satisfaction 75
Certifications 78
Digital inclusion 79
Innovative services 81
Research and innovation in e-security 87
Child protection 88
Product responsibility 92
Conciliation procedures 95
Safeguarding privacy and personal data protection 97
SUPPLIERS  101
Strategy 102
Relevant stakeholders 102
Overview 102
Sustainability initiatives 104
Sustainability checks 106
Involvement initiatives 108
Commitments 109
INSTITUTIONS  111
Strategy 112
Relevant stakeholders 112
Central national institutions 112
Local national institutions 115
European and international institutions 117
Relations with institutions in Brazil 119
COMPETITORS  121
Strategy 122
Relevant stakeholders 122
Relations with stakeholders 122
Competitive positioning 124INDEXServices to OLOs 124
The Italian Telecommunications Authority (AGCOM) 125
The Italian Competition and Market Authority (AGCM) 126
Undertakings regarding the access network 127
Relations with the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority
and the Antitrust Authority in Brazil 128
ENVIRONMENT  131
Strategy 132
Relevant stakeholders 133
Environmental performance 133
Climate change 145
Telecom Italia Green 151
COMMUNITY  155
Strategy 156
Relevant stakeholders 157
Relations with local communities 158
How the contribution to the community is measured 159
Responses to the stakeholders 160
Research and development 169
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE  181
Strategy 182
Relevant stakeholders 183
Telecom Italia people: concise figures 184
Gender balance 186
People caring 187
New skills and development 191
Collaboration with universities 195
Training and knowledge management 196
Internal communication 199
Health and safety 200
Industrial relations 204
Remuneration policy 206
Reports received through the internal control procedure 208
Appendix - detailed tables 208
SHAREHOLDERS  219
Strategy 220
Relevant stakeholders 220
Financial communication 221
TOWARDS TELECOM ITALIA
CORPORATE SHARED VALUE MODEL  225
APPENDIX  235
Results for 2013 and 2014 235
2015 and multiannual targets 238
GRI Content Index 243
AUDITOR’S REPORT  253TELECOM ITALIA 
GROUP12
TELECOM ITALIA GROUPPROFILE OF TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
[G4-3] Telecom Italia Group provides fixed and mobile communication services as well as ICT 
solutions1.
In Italy, the Group operates the largest fixed voice and data infrastructure, which runs through 
each corner of the country, and provides one of the most extensive and advanced mobile network 
platforms. [G4-6]  In addition to its domestic leadership, the Group has a significant international 
presence in South America, particularly in Brazil. For details of the countries where Telecom Italia 
operates see Note 46 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements, which also lists [G4-17a]  
the Group companies, subdividing them by consolidation method.  [G4-13], [G4-22]  No significant 
changes in operations and in the consolidation scope took place during 2014. For details of the 
changes that did take place, see Notes 1 and 3 of the Group’s financial statements. The main 
changes that have taken place over the past three years include the Sofora – Telecom Argentina 
Group being recorded among discontinued operations, the sale of operations run by La7 S.r.l. and 
the shareholding in the MTV Group.
[G4-8], [G4-9]  All the Group’s activities are encompassed in the following business units2: 
• the “Domestic” Business Unit  operates primarily in the field of fixed and mobile voice and 
data services for end customers (retail) and other operators (wholesale), as well as in the 
domestic Information Technology products and services sector. Internationally it includes ac -
tivities related to the development of optical fibre networks (international wholesale) in Europe, 
the Mediterranean and South America;
• the “Brazil” Business Unit  (TIM Brasil Group) provides mobile telecommunications services. 
Furthermore, as a result of the acquisition of a number of fixed line operators, it also offers 
optical fibre data transmission and residential broadband services;
• Media  operates as an Italian domestic network operator through Persidera S.p.A.;  
• the “Other Activities”  include the financial companies and other minor companies not strictly 
connected with the Group’s “core business”.
THE GROUP’S MAIN BRANDS 
[G4-4], [G4-8]  The main brands market voice/data and information technology products and ser -
vices for residential and business customers, public administration, national and international 
operators. The Group also provides transmission capacity and technological solutions for TV 
sector operators.
In particular, within Italy, the Telecom Italia  brand guarantees fixed telecommunications products 
and services for residential customers and integrated solutions for business customers and public 
1 [G4-3]  For information concerning the general form of the Group, see the Telecom Italia Group Consolidated Financial Statements, 
Note 1.
2 Business Units are aggregation of homogeneous operations.13
administration, as well as services for telecommunications operators. 
TIM is the Telecom Italia commercial brand for mobile telephony and mobile Internet services, as 
well as entertainment and combined fixed-mobile service bundles in Italy. The TIM brand is also 
present in Brazil, where it markets mobile services, mobile Internet and fixed line services.   
Through the Telecom Italia Sparkle  brand, the Group offers international voice, data and Inter -
net solutions to fixed and mobile telecommunications operators, ISPs/ASPs, content and media 
players and multinational companies.
The Olivetti  brand markets information technology products and services for residential and busi -
ness customers. Finally Persidera  offers terrestrial digital transmission capacity and high quality 
technological solutions to leading TV networks operating in the domestic market.  
MAIN SHAREHOLDERS OF TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.
[G4-7] Telecom Italia is a joint-stock company organised under the laws of the Republic of Italy3, 
[G4-5]  where the parent company has its headquarters. [G4-7]  The main shareholdings as of De -
cember 31, 2014 were those of Telco S.p.A. with 22.30% and the Findim Group S.A. with 4.97% of 
the ordinary capital, [G4-13]  which had remained almost stable for the preceding three years4. The 
structure of the Equity and the number of shares in circulation are shown in Note 15 of the Group’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information relating to reports made to Consob 
regarding significant shareholdings, see the Report on Operations of the Telecom Italia Group.
KEY ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DATA
AND ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED
The Telecom Italia Group aims to achieve a balance between the three dimensions of sustainability:
• environmental sustainability: maintaining the functionality of ecological systems while ensuring 
a balance between the use of natural resources and the company’s activities;
• social sustainability: promoting the principle of fairness among generations and within the 
same generation;
• economic sustainability: maintaining and increasing capital.
[G4-9]  The Group reports on what it does to achieve this balance through the sustainability report, 
which focuses primarily on environmental and social sustainability, as well as on aspects that 
are both of a social and economic nature (e.g. customer care and innovation management), and 
through the Annual Financial Report, which discusses the Group’s economic performance in de -
tail. In order to give a comprehensive view of the Group’s sustainability, we have provided some 
summary data of economic performance below, which are drawn from the Annual Report. 
3 [G4-7]  Also see the Telecom Italia Group Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1.
4 [G4-7]  For details, also see the Report on Operations of the Telecom Italia Group, Information for Investors, and [G4-13]  chapter 
on Shareholders of this report.14
TELECOM ITALIA GROUPTelecom Italia Group – Main consolidated economic and financial data
Revenues EBITDAIndustrial
investmentsHeadcount
at year-end (units)
(million euros) 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012
Domestic 15,303 16,388 18,109 6,998 7,746 8,676 2,783 3,031 3,075 53,076 53,377 54,002
Brazil 6,244 6,945 7,477  1,774 1,812 1,996 2,195 1,349 1,500 12,841 12,140 11,622
Media 71 124 222  25 (2) (45) 6 20 57 89 84 735
Other activities - - 62 (12) (15) (37) - - 7 19 22 22
Adjustments
and eliminations(45) (50) (111) 1 3 (8) - - - -
Consolidated 
total21,573 23,407 25,759 8,786 9,540 10,525 4,984 4,400 4,639 66,025 65,623 66,381
[G4-9]  The distribution of revenues by product and service is shown in Note 26 of the Telecom 
Italia Group’s consolidated financial statements.
Telecom Italia Group – Other consolidated economic and financial data
(million euros) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
 Total net equity 21,699 20,186 23,012
- attributable to Parent Company Shareholders 18,145 17,061 19,378
- attributable to minority Shareholdings 3,554 3,125 3,634
Profit (loss) for the financial year attributable to Parent Company 
Shareholders1,349 (674) (1,627)
Profit (loss) for the financial year attributable to Minority
Shareholdings610 436 350
Net financial accounting debt 28,021 27,942 29,053
[G4-9]  The trend in the Group’s capitalisation and debt is shown in the Report on Operations of 
the Telecom Italia Group. 
[G4-9]  The following table shows one of the Group’s key management data figures: the trend in 
fixed and mobile telephone service access lines.
Telecom Italia Group – Main operational data by Business Unit
(thousands) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
DOMESTIC FIXED
Physical connections at year end 19,704 20,378 21,153
Broadband connections in Italy at year end 8,750 8,740 8,967
DOMESTIC MOBILE    
Number of lines at year end 30,350 31,221 32,159
BRAZIL    
Number of lines at year end 75,721 73,431 70,36215
[G4-EC1] The economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders is shown below5. Since 
2008, the method of presentation recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has been 
adopted, with appropriate adaptation.
Telecom Italia Group – Economic value generated and distributed
(million euros) 2014 2013 2012
Direct economic value generated
a) Total revenue and operating income 21,974 23,731 26,044
b) Interest payable and dividends paid 228 149 167
c) Net gains (losses) on disposals of non-current
assets29 (82) 52
d) Direct economic value generated (a+b+c) 22,231 23,798 26,263
Economic value distributed  
e) Operating costs 9,951 10,976 12,067
f)  Employee costs 3,119 3,087 3,333
g) Shareholders and providers of capital 2,259 2,508 3,047
h) Taxes and duties 852 961 988
i) Economic value distributed (e+f+g+h) 16,181 17,532 19,435
Economic value retained (d-i) 6,050 6,266 6,828
Wages and salaries 2,202 2,183 2,386
Social security costs 801 788 847
Other expenses 116 116 100
Employee costs 3,119 3,087 3,333
Purchases of materials and services 9,430 10,377 11,289
Other operating costs(*) 1,057 1,190 1,355
Change in inventories 52 (48) 4
Internally generated assets (588) (543) (581)
Operating costs 9,951 10,976 12,067
Dividends distributed 319 595 993
Interest payable 1,940 1,913 2,054
Shareholders and providers of capital 2,259 2,508 3,047
Income tax 734 833 869
Indirect taxes and duties 118 128 119
Taxes and duties 852 961 988
- regarding Domestic BU 724 826 824
- regarding the Brazilian BU 122 126 177
- regarding activities abroad/other 6 9 (13)
(*) Mainly includes write-downs and charges connected to the management of non-financial credits of 375 million euros (380 million 
euros in 2013), accruals for risks of 84 million euros (100 million euros in 2013), and contributions and fees for the performance of 
TLC activities of 449 million euros (482 million euros in 2013) net of “Other taxes and duties” of 118 million euros (128 million euros 
in 2013) included in the item “Taxes and duties”.
5 The economic value distributed to the Community stakeholder is not shown. See the chapter on Community for these data.16
TELECOM ITALIA GROUPTELECOM ITALIA:
A GROUP OF STRATEGIC RELEVANCE 
[G4-EC7a], [G4-EC7b], [G4-EC8a], [G4-EC8b], [G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts]
IMPORTANCE OF THE GROUP IN ITALY
Telecom Italia contributes to producing approximately 0.7% of the added value of Italian GDP6. 
The Group’s activities generate direct employment for around 50,000 people in Italy. This means 
that for every 225 employees in the private sector, one belongs to the Telecom Italia Group. The 
Group’s relevance becomes even more significant when one considers the indirect employees, 
i.e. the ones working on projects connected with the activities of Telecom Italia. A total of around 
100,000 people, corresponding to around 1% of employees in the whole private sector7, are either 
directly or indirectly employed by the Group in Italy. 
Telecom Italia operates the biggest fixed voice and data infrastructure, covering the whole of 
Italy, and provides one of the country’s most extensive and advanced mobile network platforms. 
Therefore, in terms of size, ubiquity and infrastructural and technological assets, it is a “system 
company”, integrated with the territory and with the social, economic and production fabric, with a 
pervasive role for the whole of the country’s economy and the competitiveness of its companies, 
the efficiency of its public administration and, more generally, the welfare of its citizens. 
ULTRABROADBAND NETWORKS: A NATIONAL TREASURE 
[G4-EC7a]  Telecom Italia is aware of its strategic role and works constantly to manage and update 
the infrastructure and technology it makes available to the country: Telecom Italia invests around 3 
billion euros a year in Italy and is top of the national ranking based on the volume of investments8. 
The Group’s new strategic plan confirms its commitment to investing in advanced infrastructure 
and technologies and is focused on new generation networks (→ see NGAN box).
6 Internal estimates on Annual Report data. An estimate of the added value generated by Telecom Italia can be found in the report 
R&S Mediobanca “Le principali società italiane 2013” http://www.mbres.it/it/publications/leading-italian-companies.
7 The estimate of indirect employees is based on the results of the  report  Social Study 2013 – The Economic Impact of BT in the 
United Kingdom written by Regeneris  for BT Group in 2014.
8 Calculation based on Mediobanca’s data.17
In the meantime, mobile network coverage of the whole country with the new 4G/LTE standard, 
a significant evolution in response to the growing demand for high speed data, has almost been 
completed. This new mobile network technology provides greater transmission speed compared 
to the past and shorter response times, allowing a high degree of interactivity on the move. 
Download and upload speeds, which are already comparable to those of fixed line broadband 
networks, will be able to increase further as the performance of the devices and the availability of 
appropriate frequencies improve.
Therefore, having build the national fixed and mobile infrastructure in the past century and the 
country’s broadband network in the first ten years of the new century, the challenge the Group 
now faces, as of the year just ended, is to establish ultrabroadband networks, a major effort on 
which network technicians and engineers are now working every day.
[G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts] The ambitious investment plan Telecom Italia is implementing 
coincides with a phase in which the Italian government is engaged in devising and implementing 
the national strategic ultrabroadband plan, which aims to achieve the challenging objectives of During 2014 there was a significant 
increase in the speed of investments 
made by Telecom Italia in Next Generation 
Access Networks (NGAN). This was made 
possible in particular by technological 
innovation, which fundamentally changed 
the reference scenario. Solutions that bring 
fibre to the line splitter cabinet and then 
continue into the home using copper wires, 
known as FTTCab (Fibre to the Cabinet), 
are now considered to be fully-fledged next 
generation networks. The main innovations 
that can be introduced in the copper network 
are: vectoring, a technique that eliminates 
the background crosstalk which generally 
disturbs signal transmission on copper 
wires; bonding,which allows the signal to be transmitted using multiple aggregated 
copper pairs, and finally G.Fast, a solution 
that prevents interference between lines 
grouped together in the same cable and 
allows very high speeds to be achieved 
over short distances (typically between 200 
and 500 Mbits/sec). By boosting existing 
network infrastructure in the final access 
section, FTTCab solutions reduce the 
investment required compared to FTTH 
(Fibre to the Home) solutions, because 
they avoid the operator having to lay fibre-
optic cables all the way to the customer’s 
home. This allows next generation access 
networks to be created more quickly and 
less expensively.NGAN18
TELECOM ITALIA GROUPthe European Digital Agenda in terms of a widespread supply of infrastructure and an increase in the 
demand for digital services. Telecom Italia’s investment plan therefore becomes an important ele -
ment in the digital transformation of the society, confirming the Group’s historic role as an engine for 
the country’s modernisation and facilitating achievement of the European Digital Agenda objectives9.
IMPORTANCE OF THE GROUP IN BRAZIL
[G4-EC7a] A focus on innovation and investments in new infrastructure and technology also char -
acterise Telecom Italia’s action in Brazil, a country where the Group has been operating since 
1997 through its subsidiary TIM Brasil and which is the Group’s second biggest market. Telecom 
Italia’s presence in Brazil has been increasing in recent years thanks to strategic acquisitions: 
the Intelig and AEM Atimus fixed network infrastructure has allowed the Group to strengthen the 
backbones and connecting links of the mobile network radio base stations through the use of 
fibre-optic cables which, in view of the development of LTE networks, are even more important 
and strategic. 
In the past 5 years alone, Telecom Italia has invested more than 5 billion euros in Brazil, focusing 
primarily on building new generation infrastructure. During 2014, TIM Brasil also successfully 
participated in the frequencies auction for the 4G/LTE service in Brazil: a further step forward in 
extending the spread of mobile broadband and ultrabroadband services and contributing to the 
modernisation of the country. 
9 The Institutions chapter contains an account of the initiatives involving national and local institutions for assessing infrastructure 
work requirements.19
THE ECONOMIC EFFECTS OF BROADBAND
AND ULTRABROADBAND NETWORKS ON GROWTH
AND EMPLOYMENT
[G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts], [G4-EC7b]
The spread of broadband and ultrabroadband networks is a boost for the economic growth of 
countries. Many studies attest to the positive impact of broadband on GDP. The most reliable esti -
mates, as shown in the table taken from an International Telecommunication Union (ITU)10 report, 
indicate that a 10% increase in broadband coverage generates economic growth of between 0.25 
and 1.38% of GDP.
Country Authors - Institution Data Effect
OECDCzernich et al. (2009)
University of Munich25 OECD countries
between 1996 and 2007A 10% increase in 
broadband penetration 
raises per-capita GDP 
growth by 0.9-1.5 
percentage points
Koutroumpis (2009)
Imperial College2002 - 2007 for 22 OECD 
countriesAn increase in broadband 
penetration of 10% yields 
0.25% increase in GDP 
growth
High Income 
EconomiesQiang et al. (2009)
World Bank1980 - 2002 for 22 OECD 
countries10% increase in broadband 
penetration yielded an 
additional 1.21 percentage 
points of GDP growth
Low & Middle income 
economiesQiang et al. (2009)
World Bank1980 - 2002 for the 
remaining 120 countries 
(low and middle income)10% increase in broadband 
penetration yielded an 
additional 1.38 in GDP 
growth
As regards the specific impact of ultrabroadband networks on economies, one of the first studies 
on this subject is the one carried out by Analysys Mason  and Tech4i2  in 2013 for the European 
Commission11 according to which an investment in ultrabroadband networks can generate bene -
fits of around three times the capital invested, as shown in the table below. According to the study, 
investments in new generation networks also have a major impact on employment, with 20,000 
jobs potentially being created for every one billion euros invested.
10 Impact of broadband on the economy: Research to Date and Policy Issues. ITU - 2012.
11 Study on the socio-economic impact of bandwidth (SMART 2010/0033), Analysys Mason e Tech4i2 – March 2013. The who -
le study can be downloaded via this link: http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/en/news/study-socio-economic-impact-bandwi -
dth-smart-20100033. A summary of the main results of the work is available on the Analysys Mason website using this link: http://
www.analysysmason.com/About-Us/News/Press-releases1/broadband-benefit-for-EU-Mar2013/.20
TELECOM ITALIA GROUPScenarioTotal NGA 
investment
(EUR billion)Input-output
benefits
(EUR billion)Jobs created
(million)Consumer surplus
benefits
(EUR billion)
Do nothing 76.4 181.2 1.35 26.5
Modest intervention 102.5 270.4 1.98 28.6
Major intervention 211.2 569.4 3.94 31.9
A similar result can also be found in the study conducted by the Boston Consulting Group  
(BCG) for the ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association) in 201312. 
BCG estimates that an investment of around 110-170 billion euros is required to achieve the infra -
structure objectives of the European Digital Agenda project. BCG estimates that if the increased 
investments were made, GDP growth of 750 billion euros could be achieved and 5.5 million new 
jobs could be created, which is the equivalent of 4.4 billion euros in GDP and around 30,000 new 
jobs for every billion euros invested.
GDP increase p.a. in %, EU-27Impact on jobs
~ M 3.5-5.5 by 2020~ B € 450-750com. by 2020
0.00.51.01.52.02.5
2020 2018 2016 2014 2012Worst
caseAs-isTarget
12 Reforming Europe’s Telecoms Regulation to Enable the Digital Single Market, The Boston Consulting Group - 2013.21
Both studies therefore show that ultrabroadband networks have a positive effect on economies. Bet -
ter results are definitely achieved when the investment plans of private operators are accompanied 
by public initiatives aimed at extending coverage and therefore increasing the benefits for all citizens.
EXTENDING NETWORK INVESTMENTS
TO “WHITE AREAS”
[G4-EC8b]  
Telecom Italia’s concrete commitment is also shown by its participation, as the only operator, in 
the Eurosud  public tenders organised by the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE), which 
are essential for ensuring ultrabroadband coverage in “market failure” areas (known as “white 
areas”, in which there is a risk of inadequate return being made on investments) and therefore 
achieving the objective of 30 Mbit/s coverage of 100% of the population by 2020. During 2014, 
Telecom Italia won the tenders for the public funding provided to bring ultrabroadband technology 
to the white areas of Apulia and Basilicata.
Finally, alongside initiatives to create ultrabroadband networks, particularly thanks to the availa -
bility of public funding through the National Broadband Plan , work is continuing on extending 
the traditional broadband network to the few areas not yet covered. During 2014, Telecom Italia 
participated in and won the two tenders for Calabria and Veneto, which join the two tenders - re -
lating to Lazio and Campania - that Telecom Italia won in 2013.
These digital inclusion initiatives put geographically disadvantaged communities in a position to 
exploit the potential of the network to participate in the economic and social development offered 
by new technologies. 
TWO INSTRUMENTS TO IMPROVE TRANSPARENCY
IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT
OF DIGITAL PROJECTS: TELECOM ITALIA NETBOOK
AND ITALIA CONNESSA
[G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts]
In order to make the effective development of broadband and ultrabroadband networks even 
more transparent, since 2012, Telecom Italia has published the Telecom Italia Netbook , which 
accurately and meticulously tracks the progress achieved. The Telecom Italia Netbook is a pub -
lication that shows the country and the main stakeholders the state of the network with extreme 
transparency, clarity and precision, using data and maps to illustrate the size and structure of the 
Telecom Italia infrastructure, the evolution in terms of exchanges (which are increasingly connect -
ed by fibre-optic cables and fitted with new generation equipment for managing broadband traffic) 
and broadband and ultrabroadband network coverage in each individual Italian province. 
[G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts] Furthermore, in order to stimulate and promote a culture of 
innovation and speed-up digitalisation processes among medium sized municipalities, the third 22
TELECOM ITALIA GROUPedition of “Italia Connessa”  was published in 2014, containing a digital check-up of Italian re -
gions and connected with an initiative aimed at local governments proposing the most concrete 
and convincing digital development plan. Through this initiative, Telecom Italia is committed to 
rewarding local institutions that promote the development of digital services for citizens and busi -
nesses, creating ultrabroadband infrastructure earlier than planned.
TELECOM ITALIA’S COMMITMENT TO MINIMISING
THE NEGATIVE IMPACTS OF CREATING NEW NETWORKS 
[G4-EC7b]  The creation of fixed and mobile network infrastructure can cause disruption for local 
communities (the work needed to lay fibre-optic cables can create noise and traffic). Telecom 
Italia mitigates these negative aspects by using innovative excavation and cable laying tech -
niques, including the digging of micro-trenches instead of the normal ducts and using innovative 
materials. This leads to an overall reduction in the time required to carry out the work and in traffic 
disruption, as well as significantly reducing both the environmental impact (lower emissions and 
less waste for disposal) and social impact (fewer accidents at work).
NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE AS AN ENABLING
PLATFORM FOR DEVELOPING THE DIGITAL ECONOMY 
AND INCREASING THE COMPETITIVENESS
OF THE COUNTRY
[G4-EC8a]  
The latest OECD Science, Technology and Industry Outlook13 report provides a very clear sum -
mary of the aspects that determine the different levels of competitiveness of countries and out -
lines the “recipes” that economies should implement to overcome the crisis: 
• increasing the productivity of labour, which explains the different rates of growth in the wealth 
of countries most open to new technologies and other economies; 
• promoting innovation, particularly by offering training systems that are geared above all to 
stimulating talent, disseminating the new skills required by production systems, extending the 
segment of the population susceptible to new technologies; 
• increasing the effectiveness of local and national research and development systems, con -
necting them to international research networks and to the main reservoirs of knowledge, 
increasing opportunities for interaction between research and businesses; 
• identifying new growth opportunities in solutions that address environmental protection, the 
ageing population, improving quality of life in urban areas.
As General Purpose Technologies (GPTs), i.e. enabling technologies needed to activate new 
services and solutions and disseminate digital culture, the broadband and ultrabroadband infra -
structure is one of the main drivers that will enable the developments advocated by the OECD.  
13 Science, Technology and Industry Outlook, OECD - 2014.23
Back in 2009, a study by Waverman in fact indicated broadband as a vehicle for increasing the 
efficiency - and therefore the competitiveness - of an economic system by improving the produc -
tivity derived from the greater use of ICT technologies14. Naturally, the more the economic system 
is open to using new technologies, the wider this impact will be. 
SOME OF TELECOM ITALIA’S INITIATIVES
TO DISSEMINATE DIGITAL CULTURE
Alongside its infrastructure project, Telecom Italia has promoted various initiatives to improve dig -
ital literacy, technological equipment used by Italians and the use of services that make the most 
of the potential of the Internet. 
For this purpose, Telecom Italia has used a variety of strategies (from conferences to field trials 
and financing start-ups) in order to explore and promote the potential applications of digital tech -
nology in many areas of social and economic interest: schools, services provided to citizens by 
public administration, applications aimed at people with disabilities, innovative solutions targeted 
at businesses, industrial areas, cities.
One example of these is the sponsored initiatives aimed at increasing awareness of solutions de -
signed to improve the efficiency of public administration processes, including the Forum PA 2014, 
of which Telecom Italia was the main partner and in which ICT solutions for local government de -
livered in cloud computing mode using Nuvola Italiana were presented: from electronic invoicing 
to graphometric signatures, from digital identity services to administrative and health certification. 
e-Government services can contribute to improving the efficiency of public administration, making 
the services offered to citizens quicker and simpler, and reducing the costs of bureaucracy. 
[G4-EC8b]  Not surprisingly, the European Commission has identified promoting the development of 
e-Government services as one of the main objectives to be achieved in implementing the digital agen -
da. The spread of e-Government has enormous potential in terms of savings: in Denmark a digital 
archiving project was launched in 2012 which allows citizens to enter their details only once for all 
administrative formalities and it is estimated that by 2020 the annual savings may amount to 100 mil -
lion euros. The Danish digital archiving model is particularly evolved compared to others and provides 
opportunities for various applications, including commercial ones. If the same approach were applied 
everywhere in Europe, savings in the order of 5 billion euros a year could be achieved by 201715. 
The launch of field trials can also be a way to disseminate digital culture. One example is the trials 
and pilot projects on “smart city” solutions, which can provide local communities with a concrete 
demonstration of how applications and new technologies can improve time management, reduce 
waste, induce a more responsible attitude towards the environment and the community, improve 
safety and transparency. In other words, they can improve quality of life. [G4-EC8b]  At European 
14 Economic Impact of Broadband: An Empirical Study, L. Waverman – 2009. Waverman estimated that every 1% increase in broa -
dband network coverage would lead to a 0.13% increase in productivity.
15 Study on eGovernment and the Reduction of Administrative Burden, Ernst & Young e Danish Technological Institute – 2014. Study 
conducted by the European Commission - DG Communications Networks, Content & Technology. https://ec.europa.eu/digital-a -
genda/en/news/final-report-study-egovernment-and-reduction-administrative-burden-smart-20120061.24
TELECOM ITALIA GROUPlevel there are many trials taking place, such as the 370 recorded as part of the European Com -
mission initiative called “The European Innovation Partnership on Smart Cities and Communi -
ties”16 which also sees Telecom Italia involved in a sustainable urban mobility project in the areas 
of Turin, Milan, Pisa and Rome, intended to promote a model of urban logistics that reduces CO2 
emissions and makes the public transport system more efficient17. An even more comprehensive 
initiative is the Città 3.0  trial launched by Telecom Italia to develop innovative services for Smart 
Cities, which involves the creation of experimental platforms for monitoring energy use and envi -
ronmental sustainability. The trial also includes SIM Card solutions, for managing digital identity 
services, and Mobile Wallet services, which allow a smart phone to be used both as an electronic 
wallet and to pay everyday expenses, such as public transport and car parking. 
[G4-EC8b]  Digital skills have a crucial role to play in our society and have been one of the key 
factors in allowing economies to achieve a competitive advantage over the past twenty years, as 
shown by much of the work carried out by the OECD or promoted by the European Commission.
[G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts]  In this respect as well, the Digital Agenda asks Member States to 
take action to broaden knowledge of digital tools and increase the number of people with evolved 
digital skills, particularly by disseminating ICT technologies in schools, which become key enablers 
in the development of new skills. In this context, schools must make a radical change in the way 
they plan and provide education, and in the way pupils, teachers and parents relate to one anoth -
er. Because of the importance of this subject, the European Commission constantly monitors the 
speed with which digital technologies are being introduced in schools and in teaching processes. 
The latest report prepared by the European Commission shows that the presence of Internet-con -
nected computers is a critical factor at all levels of schooling in Italy. A significant delay in equipping 
Italian schools with technology is also found at other levels of the education system18. One initiative 
designed to promote the use of digital tools from the early school years onwards is the TIMCollege  
commercial offer which, in addition to offering a tablet and a connection service, provides students 
with access to digital content and a coupon worth 150 euros to purchase school text books in dig -
ital format on the scuolabook.it platform. 
In order to improve the efficiency of companies – particularly small and medium sized ones – var -
ious commercial services based on the Telecom Italia Nuvola Italiana cloud have been launched, 
which allow servers and computers to be virtualised, and company vehicles to be managed and 
geolocalised. These include Nuvola IT Localizza , which cuts costs, reduces environmental pol -
lution and increases security levels in case of accident or theft19.
16 http://eu-smartcities.eu/.
17 http://eu-smartcities.eu/commitment/7475.
18 Survey of Schools: ICT in Education, European Schoolnet and Liegi University (2013). The survey report and contents are available 
at https://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/en/survey-schools-ict-education.
19 [G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts], [G4-EC7c] All the initiatives mentioned in this section are of a commercial or experimental 
nature. For in-kind or pro-bono initiatives, see the Community chapter.25
THE INFRASTRUCTURE FOR SOCIAL INCLUSION IN BRAZIL
[G4-EC7a], [G4-EC7b]  In Latin America, ever since it was introduced, mobile telephony has played a 
key role in the process of integrating more disadvantaged people, contributing to cohesion and to 
involvement in social and democratic life. Suffice to say that in Brazil, as of June 2013, there were 
44 million fixed lines installed while mobile lines exceeded 275 million units20. 
Tim Brasil manages over 75 million mobiles lines and has always played a major role in this context.  
The work already done to extend GSM network coverage to the whole country is continuing on a 
number of development fronts, which include improving the quality of the network in major cities, 
developing Mobile BroadBand and Fiber-To-The-Site (FTTS) in some cities, pilot small-cell and Wi-
Fi projects and developing the LT Amazonas Fiber transmission project in the Amazonian region. 
[G4-EC8]  TIM Brasil is notable for its social inclusion projects, such as those providing Internet 
access to problem metropolitan communities such as Rocinha and Leme in Rio de Janeiro, or 
Transamazonica Digital, which brings fibre-optic technology to a number of municipalities in the 
regions of Amazonas, Pará and Amapá.
However, the availability of infrastructure is only one of the ingredients and has to go hand-in-hand 
with an overall digital growth of the population in a literacy development process that will increase 
demand and stimulate investments. Part of this process is the “National Broadband Plan” for 
Brazil (PNBL - Programa Nacional de Banda Larga), in which the Telecom Italia Group has been 
involved from the start. It is a federal programme which has led the country towards the objective 
of encouraging and disseminating the use and distribution of ICT goods and services, extending 
network coverage to the more remote areas of the country and making services more accessible 
to all segments of the population, contributing to reduce economic and social inequalities. 
The PNBL was launched in 2010 with aim of providing fixed and mobile broadband Internet ac -
cess to households in the poorest regions of the country, while also covering all public service 
establishments, including schools. For this purpose, the PNBL provides incentives for operators 
who commit to marketing the broadband service for a pre-established price, in addition to tax 
exemption measures to increase the spread of smartphones, tablets and other tools offering a 
mobile broadband connection. The significant growth in fixed and mobile broadband lines re -
corded in all regions of the country, particularly in 2013-2014, seems to indicate that the market’s 
response to the strategy implemented has been very positive21. TIM Brasil has played its part in 
this context with great determination, also by launching partnership initiatives with Telebras, the 
operator entrusted with the task of extending the national backbone, to lay optical fibre in some 
regions of the country and to increase the reach and efficiency of the mobile 3G and 4G networks.
20 The most recent data is available on the website of Anatel, the Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency, at http://www.anatel.
gov.br/Portal/exibirPortalInternet.do Information for 2013 can be found in the annual report for 2013 at: http://www.anatel.gov.br/
Portal/verificaDocumentos/documento.asp?numeroPublicacao=312603&pub=original&filtro=1&documentoPath=312603.pdf.
21 For more information on the PNBL go to  http://www.mc.gov.br/programa-nacional-de-banda-larga-pnbl.SUSTAINABILITY 
AND
GOVERNANCE28
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEOUTLINE OF TELECOM ITALIA GROUP’S
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Some aspects of the Group’s Corporate Governance which are particularly relevant (material) to 
the reporting of sustainability in accordance with the GRI-G4-guidelines are briefly illustrated below.
For a more detailed and comprehensive description see the 2014 Report on Corporate Govern -
ance and Share Ownership  (“RGS” hereafter), the Report on Remuneration  (“RR” hereafter), the 
By-laws and the Group Governance Procedures, available at www.telecomitalia.com.
[G4-34], [G4-35], [G4-40]  The Telecom Italia Group’s Board of Directors is appointed by the Share -
holders’ Meeting based on slates submitted by eligible voters who own a total of at least 0.5% of 
the ordinary share capital (or any other amount that may be required by the regulations issued 
by Consob). [G4-38], [G4-40] The only stakeholders represented in the Board of Directors are the 
shareholders.  Directors’ powers are granted (and revoked) by the Board of Directors, which de -
termines the purpose, limits and methods by which they are exercised. 
[G4-40]  The Group’s By-laws require the least represented gender to account for at least one 
third of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next unit in the event of a fraction. The 
independence of a minimum number of directors is required by the law (Consolidated Law on 
Finance) based on the overall composition of the Board; the same law and the Corporate Govern -
ance Code of Borsa Italiana also define the criteria for the independence of directors. 
[G4-40]  In delivering its guidance to shareholders, before the Shareholders’ Meeting called to re -
new the Board of Directors on April 16, 2014, the outgoing Board of Directors expressed, among 
other things, some desiderata regarding the new Board, including:
• the skills which were deemed to be necessary were a knowledge of the telecommunications 
and/or information technology sectors (including regulations) or similar areas of business, 
strategy, finance, communication and organisation, risk management and internal control. 
In terms of professional background, people of managerial extraction were to be preferred 
(primarily: CEOs or CFOs of significantly large companies), but the contribution of academic 
experts in finance and taxation, risks, law or the technical sector in which the Group operates 
were also judged useful;
• international openness was desirable, with the inclusion in the slate of non-Italian candidates, 
or individuals who had gained professional experience overseas;
• knowing that specialised skills can be contributed by internal structures or, if necessary, by 
external consultants, and that the complexity of the matters to be dealt with suggests that can -
didates with prior experience gained on the boards of listed companies would be appropriate.
(see Resolution Proposals - Shareholders’ Meeting of April 16, 2014, available at www.tele -
comitalia.it).29
[G4-38]  The Board of Directors in office as of April 16, 2014 consists of 13 members, including 
9 independents. 5 of the Board members are women and the female gender is the only social 
subgroup represented. Table 2 “Structure of the board of directors and committees and other 
positions held” in of RGS shows, for each director, their term of office, the committees to which 
they belong, the number and nature of other positions they hold, the slate to which they belong 
(Majority or Minority), whether they are independent, executive or non-executive. The CVs of 
each director are available at www.telecomitalia.com. Skills in the field of economics range from 
university teaching to university and post-university studies and experience at the top of large 
companies. Four directors also declare that they have worked on CSR-related projects. [G4-47]  
14 meetings of the Board of Directors were held in 2014. 
[G4-43]  The Directors take part in specific meetings with the management or external consultants, 
aimed at providing adequate knowledge of the industry in which the Company operates, business 
dynamics and their evolution. Business lunches, workshops on new technologies and educa -
tional-informative meetings are held prior to strategic meetings. Updates regarding the relevant 
legislative framework are provided in specific briefing notes. Training sessions on sustainability 
are also planned for 2015.
[G4-34], [G4-40]  Currently the committees set up within the Board of Directors are the Control and Risk 
Committee  and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee . The nomination and selection pro -
cesses of committees, as well as the requirements for independence and skills are described in the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee Regulations  and Control and Risk Committee Regulations .
[G4-44a]  Self-assessment of the size, composition and operation of the Board and its Committees 
was launched in December 2014 with the support of the independent external consultants Board -
roomReview . [G4-44b] The assessment methods and results are illustrated in RGS. In 2014 the 
self-assessment did not cover sustainability topics.   
[G4-35], [G4-36], [G4-39], [G4-42]  The Shareholders’ Meeting of April 16, 2014 appointed Giuseppe 
Recchi as Chairman and the subsequent meeting of the Board of Directors of April 18 appointed 
Marco Patuano as CEO.
The powers assigned to the Chairman (detailed in RGS) include:
• determining the guidelines for the development of the Group, in agreement with the CEO, with 
powers to identify and analyse extraordinary operations;
• supervising the strategic, industrial and financial plans, the implementation of these plans and 
their development and monitoring the implementation of board resolutions;
• supervising the definition of organisational structures and the power to organise and determine 
the size of the workforce and resources required to exercise his functions, making direct use 
of the Human Resources department, which reports to the CEO;30
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCE• supervising the economic and financial performance of the companies and the Group;
• supervising the process of examination and definition of the structure of the internal control system;
• representing the company and the group in external relations with all authorities, Italian and 
international institutions and investors (on the understanding that People Value department 
reports to the CEO);
• organisational responsibility for the following departments that report directly to him:
- Legal and Corporate Affairs (save for the CEO’s power to make use of the Legal Affairs De -
partment for the operational management support required);
- Press Office and Opinion Makers Relations (save for the CEO’s power to make use of the Press 
Office for the operational management support required in coordination with the Chairman);
-  Public & Regulatory Affairs (coordinating, as regards relations with AGCOM and AGCM and 
the corresponding overseas authorities, with the CEO, to which the Department reports in 
respect of relations with these authorities only);
• organisational responsibility for the Corporate Social Responsibility department ( [G4-48]  includ -
ing responsibility for drawing up the sustainability report) and governance of the Fondazione 
Telecom Italia.
[G4-35], [G4-36], [G4-42]  The powers assigned to the CEO (detailed in RGS) include:
• responsibility for administration (which include drawing up the financial statements), ordinary 
and extraordinary finance, taxation activities, management control and investor relations;
• responsibility for devising, proposing to the board of directors and then implementing and de -
veloping strategic, industrial and financial plans;
• responsibility for defining organisational structures, personnel policies and relations with 
trade unions;
• all organisational responsibilities for managing and developing the business in Italy and 
South America;
• organisational responsibility for the sections of the Public & Regulatory Affairs department 
responsible for relations with AGCOM and AGCM and the corresponding overseas authorities, 
coordinating with the Chairman;
• responsibility for brand and commercial communication policies;
• responsibility for market disclosure, with reference to the company;
• “employer” responsibility for the health and safety of workers in the workplace, with reference 
to the company;
• responsibility and powers regarding the handling and protection of personal data, with refer -
ence to the company.
[G4-35], [G4-36]  The system by which the executive directors (Chairman and CEO) delegate pow -
ers to the departments that report to them is the subject of a specific company procedure that 
establishes the methods by which this system must be implemented  (Granting and Revocation of 31
Powers). Powers are normally granted to those reporting directly to the executive directors and, in 
particular, for matters of an economic and financial nature, they are granted to those reporting to 
the CEO who deal with such matters, while for CSR the powers are delegated to those in charge 
of the CSR department reporting to the Chairman. Those reporting directly can in turn assign 
specific powers to specific departments; [G4-37]  in particular, powers are granted in this way to 
consult stakeholders (customers, suppliers, public administration, employees, etc., described in 
the Stakeholder Engagement section of this chapter).
[G4-41]  The company procedure for transactions with related parties1, drawn up in accordance 
with Consob Regulation no. 17221 of March 12, 2010, is regularly updated (the latest revision is 
dated December 18, 2014) and is illustrated in RGS, see Directors’ Interests and Transactions 
with Related Parties . The disclosure of any transactions with related parties during the relevant 
period is included in the Transactions with related parties  chapter of the Annual Financial Report.
[G4-45], [G4-46], [G4-14]  The internal control and risk management system consists of a set of rules, 
procedures and organisational structures intended to ensure the healthy and proper management 
of the company, in a way that is consistent with the established goals, through an appropriate 
key risk identification, measurement, management and monitoring process. Being responsible 
for the internal control and risk management system the Board of Directors defines the system 
guidelines, verifying their adequacy, effectiveness and proper operation, so as to ensure that the 
main risks facing the company (including operational, compliance, economic and financial risks) 
are correctly identified and managed over time.
The establishment and maintenance of the internal control system are entrusted to the Executive 
Directors, each in his/her own delegated area, and to the Executive responsible for preparing the 
Company’s accounting documents in his/her area of responsibility, so as to ensure the overall 
adequacy of the system and its effectiveness, from a risk-based perspective, which is also consid -
ered when determining the agenda of Board meetings. Coordination between the parties involved 
in the internal control and risk management system is illustrated in RGS.
The internal control system is completed by the so-called “Organisational Model 231”, i.e. an 
organisational and management model adopted pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001, aimed 
at preventing offences that may result in liability for the Company.
[G4-45], [G4-46], [G4-14]  Telecom Italia Group has adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (here -
inafter ERM) Model which allows all kinds of risks to be identified, assessed and managed uni -
formly within Group companies, highlighting potential synergies between the parties involved in 
1 The terms “related party” and “related parties” of Telecom Italia are understood to refer to the parties defined as such in the Consob 
Regulation. Regardless of whether they can be defined as related parties according to accounting principles, the Procedure also 
applies to participants to significant shareholders’ agreements, pursuant to article 122 of the Consolidated Law on Finance, that 
govern candidacies for the position of Director of the Company, if it turns out that the majority of Directors appointed has been 
drawn from the slate presented by  participants in shareholders’ agreements.32
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEassessing the Internal Control and Risk Management System. The ERM process is designed to 
identify potential events that may influence the business, in order to manage risk within accept -
able limits and provide a reasonable guarantee that business objectives will be achieved.
The process is managed by the ERM Steering Committee, which is chaired and coordinated by 
the head of the Administration, Finance and Control Department. The Steering Committee meets 
every three months (or when specifically required) and is intended to ensure the governing of the 
Group risk management process, which is designed to guarantee the operational continuity of 
the company’s business, monitoring the effectiveness of countermeasures adopted. For further 
information, see the chapter Being Sustainable: Risks and opportunities , The Group’s Enterprise 
Risk Management System  section.
 
[G4-49], [G4-50], [G4-58]  The main procedures made available by the Group for stakeholder reporting are:
• the internal control reporting procedure (whistleblowing procedure)
• the procedure for reporting complaints to the Board of Statutory Auditors
available at www.telecomitalia.com. In addition to these there is the procedure for reporting com -
plaints to the “Organismo di Vigilanza” (Supervisory Board), available on the company intranet. 
[G4-57], [G4-DMA Labor Practice Grievance Mechanisms] As stated in article 4 of the Group Code of Eth -
ics and Conduct, any requests for clarification regarding the appropriateness of one’s own conduct 
or the conduct of other people, in order to ensure full compliance with the Code and the values set 
by the Code itself, must be addressed to the Head of the Audit Department of Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
or to the Head of the Audit Department of the Group’s overseas company directly involved, in ac -
cordance with specific internal procedures. [G4-58]  The same entities must be promptly informed, 
by means of the appropriate internal procedures (Internal Control reporting procedure), of the 
following by the recipients of the Code and those who have undertaken to comply with it:
• any violation, request or inducement to violate legal provisions or regulations, provisions of the 
Code and internal procedures with regard to the activities and services of interest to the Group;
• any irregularity or negligence in accounting procedures, keeping of relevant accounting docu -
mentation, fulfilling reporting obligations or internal management in Group companies.
There are no negative consequences for people who make reports in good faith.
The confidentiality of the identity of people making reports is in any case guaranteed by appro -
priate internal procedures, subject to legal requirements. No recipient of the Code, employee or 
third party having business relations with the Group can be subject to sanctions or otherwise dis -
criminated against if he/she refuses to perform actions or adopt a conduct which are considered, 
in good faith, to infringe the Code, even if this refusal should result in a loss of business or other 
adverse consequence for the company’s business and/or the Group.33
[G4-50]  In 2014, via the internal control reporting procedure, 91 reports were received from Italy 
and 77 from Brazil, most of them relating to alleged inefficiencies. The Human Rights  section of 
the Being Sustainable: risks and opportunities  chapter and the Reports received via the internal 
control procedure  of the Telecom Italia People chapter illustrate the reports received concerning 
alleged violations of human and labour rights2.  
[G4-50] The Board of Statutory Auditors’ Report states the number of reports received via the 
Board of Auditors’ Reporting Procedure and provides summary of the investigations carried out 
by the Board itself with the support of the Group Compliance Officer (see 2014 Annual Financial 
Report). Furthermore, during 2014, the Supervisory Body received just 3 reports, none of which 
related to the Code of Ethics and Organisational Model 231.
[G4-51], [G4-52] The remuneration policy for the members of the Board of Directors is determined 
in accordance with legal requirements and the by-laws, according to which:
• [G4-53]  the Shareholders’ Meeting determines the total gross annual remuneration of the Board 
of Directors (and of the directors holding specific offices: Chairman and CEO); expresses an 
opinion on the first section of the Remuneration Report; passes resolutions regarding remuner -
ation plans based on the allocation of financial instruments;
• the Board of Directors passes resolutions to determine how the remuneration set by the Share -
holders’ Meeting will be distributed (when it is established as a total amount for the Board in 
its entirety); determines the remuneration policy for executive directors and key managers with 
strategic responsibilities; determines the remuneration of directors holding special offices.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for making proposals to the Shareholders’ Meeting 
regarding remuneration plans based on the allocation of financial instruments for directors and 
employees and for drawing up the Remuneration Report.
[G4-52] In order to ensure that the choices made regarding remuneration are appropriately in -
vestigated, in accordance with the rules on transparency and the strict regulations on potential 
conflicts of interest, the Board of Directors relies on the support of the Nomination and Remuner -
ation Committee. In performing its duties, the Committee (the meetings of which are attended by 
the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors or, if he/she is unavailable, by another Auditor 
appointed by him/her) relies on the assistance provided by appropriate structures of the Company 
and can also rely on the support of external consultants whose position does not compromise 
their independence of judgement. Since the renewal of the Board of Directors, the Committee has 
relied on the assistance and support of Mercer Italia.
[G4-51]  With the exception of the Chairman and the CEO, the directors receive fixed remunera -
tions only. Table 1 “Compensation paid to members of the management and control body and to 
2 In particular, the Telecom Italia People section contains a more detailed description of the procedure and the types of reports made 
via the procedure.34
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEKey managers with strategic responsibilities” in the Remuneration Report states all the types and 
amounts of remuneration received by each director.  Details of the fixed and variable remunera -
tion components (including any stock option), benefits and severance pay attributed to the CEO, 
the Chairman and the key managers with strategic responsibilities, as well as the targets for the 
variable component of the CEO’s remuneration are illustrated in detail in the Remuneration Re -
port. In particular, the targets assigned to the CEO are primarily of a financial nature, except for 
the Customer Satisfaction indicator and the total investments in innovation, while for the Chair -
man, the targets assigned relate for the most part to effectiveness in managing the activities of 
the Board of Directors, measured by the Board assessment. The sustainability targets used to 
determine the management incentive system are stated in the Remuneration Policies  section of 
the Telecom Italia People chapter of this report.
GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
OF SUSTAINABILITY IN TELECOM ITALIA
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
[G4-34], [G4-42] Responsibility for monitoring the Group’s socio-environmental issues and identify -
ing CSR projects and initiatives rests with the Corporate Social Responsibility department, which  
• reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Directors;  
• periodically reports to the Control and Risk Committee. 
The latter acts as a corporate social responsibility overseer, ensuring the consistency of actions carried 
out with the principles of the Group’s Code of Ethics and with the values adopted by the Group.  [G4-47]  
During 2014, the Control and Risk Committee met the representatives of the CSR department twice.
[G4-48]  The sustainability report, including the materiality analysis, is the responsibility of the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and is submitted for approval to the Board of Directors.
[G4-35]  Socio-environmental responsibilities are delegated, in the same way as all other powers 
delegated by the company, by applying the procedure Granting and revoking powers . In par -
ticular, [G4-36]  responsibility for monitoring and communicating environmental and social issues 
rests with the CSR department, which draws up the sustainability report, manages relations with 
rating agencies and also oversees the implementation of particular projects. Responsibility for 
dealing with specific socio-environmental issues rests with the departments that deal directly 
with operations involving these issues (e.g. the People Value department is responsible, among 
other things, for ensuring the health and safety of employees, handles relations with workers’ rep -
resentatives, ensures compliance with labour laws, etc., the Open Access department ensures 
compliance with environmental legislation, etc., the Infrastructures & Energy department, in the 
Network context, devises initiatives for reducing energy consumption, etc.). [G4-42]  These latter 
departments in particular identify specific strategies and targets for improving socio-environmen -
tal performance, each department in its own area of responsibility. The strategies, activities and 35
socio-environmental targets of the various departments are stated in the sustainability report.
[G4-37]  Just as the responsibility for dealing with each socio-environmental issue is delegated 
to the department that is operationally responsible for dealing with that issue, stakeholder con -
sultation is delegated to the departments that are operationally responsible for dealing with the 
company’s various stakeholders. The various involvement initiatives are listed in the Stakeholder 
Engagement section of this report.  
REFERENCES 
The Telecom Italia Group operates with the conviction that business activities must be conducted 
in a way that considers the expectations of stakeholders, in keeping with the principles established 
by internationally recognised standards. In defining and implementing its sustainability strategy and 
programmes, the Group is inspired by the guidelines issued by the main global guidance and stand -
ardisation organisations in the field of Corporate Responsibility. The system of sustainability man -
agement also takes into account the principal reference regulations and international standards:
• European Commission directives, recommendations and communications;
• the OCSE guidelines directed at multinational enterprises;
• the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications governing quality and environmental management 
systems;
• principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions on respecting the funda -
mental rights of workers;
• the Social AccountAbility 8000 standard (SA 8000), aimed at promoting respect for human 
rights and working conditions by companies and their supply chains; 
• AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS 2008) drawn up by AccountAbility, an in -
ternational organisation which promotes collaboration between stakeholders, and lays down 
standards and guidelines on matters of sustainability; 
• ISO 26000 guidelines for private and public organisations of all sizes.
[G4-15], [G4-16]  The Telecom Italia Group has long been a member of many environmental and so -
cial organisations, both national and international, formed to disseminate universally recognised 
values including respect for Human Rights, labour rights and environmental protection. The main 
associations in which the Group is involved and some of the charters and codes to which it has 
signed up are listed below:
• Global Compact, the main global benchmark launched in 2000 by the UN, to which Telecom Italia 
has been signed up since 2002; Telecom Italia is a member of the Global Compact Network Italy;
• ITU (International Telecommunications Union) the UN’s main agency for Telecommunications 
and Information, as well as a reference point for governments and the private sector in the 
development of networks and services. Its purpose is to allow the development of telecom -
munications to guarantee that everyone in the world can access the global economy. Telecom 
Italia is involved, amongst other things, in the ITU Child Online Protection working group: 36
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEGuidelines for industry. Telecom Italia is also involved in updating guidelines on Child Online 
Protection - COP for companies in the broadcasting, Internet and mobile sector, which is part 
of the broader international Global Cybersecurity Agenda project, and in the Environment and 
Climate Change working group (Study Group 5);  
• ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute), the main European standardisation 
organisation for telecommunications. Telecom Italia is involved in the following technical com -
mittees and interest groups regarding the environment: TC ATTM (Access, Terminals, Trans -
mission and Multiplexing), TC EE (Environmental Engineering) and ISG OEU (Operational 
Energy Efficiency for Users);
• GSM Association and particularly the GSMA - Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse 
Content working group for all technological and communication initiatives aimed at protecting 
children in the mobile phone sector;
• ICT Coalition and Better Internet for kids/CEO Coalition, for establishing the principles and 
technologies required to make the Internet a safer place for children;
• GRI, a body set up in 1997 by CERES, Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economy, 
with the aim of developing globally applicable guidelines for drawing up sustainability reports.
• GeSI (the Global e-Sustainability Initiative), a global partnership of ICT companies to promote 
the sustainable development of new technologies. Telecom Italia is represented in the General 
Assembly and is involved in the initiative’s working groups, particularly with regard to optimising 
energy use and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. From the middle of 2012 to the middle of 
2014, Telecom Italia was also a member of the Board of Directors, performing the role of treasurer;
• ETNO, a trade association which aims, among other things, to develop a competitive and 
efficient European telecommunications market through coordination between operators and 
dialogue with Institutions. Telecom Italia is a member  of the Executive Board, which it chaired 
between 2011 and 2014, and has signed up to The Sustainability Charter of the European 
Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association. Issues related to Corporate Responsi -
bility are handled by a Working Group which Telecom Italia has chaired since 1997, the tasks 
of which include promoting and verifying the objectives undertaken through the Association’s 
Sustainability Charter. An Energy Task Force coordinated by Telecom Italia reports to the work -
ing group and is responsible for evaluating and pooling best practices and the most advanced 
solutions in the field of energy efficiency;
• Joint Audit Cooperation, a joint initiative between telephone operators to perform sustainability 
audits in the production plants of suppliers in developing countries. Telecom Italia is one of the 
three founding members and is represented in the Leadership Assembly (which has guidance 
and auditing tasks and consists of high level representatives of the Purchasing and CSR de -
partments of its members) and the Operational Board, which defines procedures and tools and 
coordinates the auditing of suppliers;
• The European Commission’s Joint Research Centre which, with the help of telecommunica -
tions operators, including Telecom Italia, has developed Codes for the energy efficiency of data 37
centres and the energy consumption of broadband appliances, both adopted by Telecom Italia;
• FOSI - Family Online Safety Institute, an international non-profit organisation formed to make the 
Internet safer for young people and their families, identifying the best strategies while respecting 
the freedom of the Web. FOSI also promotes dialogue between heads of government, the world 
of industry and the non-profit sector in seeking new solutions for the safety of children in the Web 
2.0 world.  Telecom Italia is the first Italian company to have joined this important institution.
Telecom Italia is also a member of ANIMA and Sodalitas (entities that deal with sustainability in 
Italian trade associations), CSR Europe, a network of European companies for the development 
of CSR in companies.
Among the other codes relevant to sustainability to which Telecom Italia has signed up, we should 
mention the Equal Opportunities Charter , the Self-regulation code for mobile services , the Code 
of conduct for premium rate services  and the Self-regulation code for commercial communication 
(available on the telecomitalia.com website).
CODES AND CHARTERS OF THE GROUP
[G4-56]  The undertakings given by the Group to its stakeholders are expressed in a system of 
Charters and Codes available in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
In the belief that the success of the company cannot be separated from business ethics, the Code 
of Ethics and Conduct  sets out the objectives and values of the Company’s activities in respect of 
the main stakeholders with whom the Group interacts.
The Service Charters , which are intended to simplify the relationship with customers and make it 
more direct, set out the principles of conduct and undertakings given by Telecom Italia regarding 
the quality of the services offered. They also provide information regarding the ongoing improve -
ment of quality standards and contact channels available to customers. The Service Charters are 
available on the Group’s commercial websites (telecomitalia.it, impresasemplice.it, tim.it).
The General Conditions of Subscription and Contract , which govern relations with subscribers 
and are additional to the Service Charters, are published on the following websites telecomitalia.
it, tim.it, impresasemplice.it and nuvolaitaliana.it. The General Conditions of Subscription for fixed 
telephony are also published in telephone directories.
Furthermore, in order to comply with the various resolutions of the Italian communications authority 
regarding quality, the relevant websites state the objectives set for the year for the individual services 
(fixed and mobile voice services, Internet access services, call centre services for customer support). 
A selection of the objectives and their respective levels of achievement is set out in the Appendix.
The other undertakings given by the Group are contained in the following documents, which are 
available in the sustainability section of the company’s Internet site:
• Social responsibility in the Telecom Italia Group, on compliance with labour standards within 38
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEthe Group, with particular reference to child labour, forced labour, health and safety, freedom 
of association, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and pay;
• Relations with suppliers in Telecom Italia Group’s procurement process, which governs the 
negotiating ethic of the Group (transparency, the separation of roles, fairness and traceability) 
and the requirements that Telecom Italia demands of its suppliers in the area of labour and 
environmental standards;
• Green Procurement Policy, which is intended to minimise the environmental impact directly 
attributable to the Company and its suppliers in the context of the procurement process;
• Telecom Italia Group Guidelines on Voluntary Contributions to the Community, which govern the 
ways in which the Group makes investments in favour of the Communities in which it operates;
• Code of conduct for the confidentiality of OLO (Other Licensed Operator) Data, which ensures the 
proper handling and confidentiality of data by the departments that supply services to other operators;
• Telecom Italia Group Guidelines for Responsible Marketing, which outline the principles fol -
lowed by the Group to ensure honest, transparent and fair business practices in addition to 
those contained in the Charters and Codes mentioned above. 
Telecom Italia’s Code of Ethics and Conduct underlines a number of key objectives for everyone 
working in the Group; these objectives, which are listed below, provide useful behavioural references.
Excellence of service
We pursue excellence towards customers, creating value for the shareholder and the communi -
ties in which we operate.
Ethics and compliance 
We operate in compliance with the law and with universally accepted ethical principles, based on 
transparency, fairness and loyalty. 
Competition 
We promote fair competition that serves the interests of customers and of every player in the market. 
Human resources 
We value the Group’s human resources, respecting diversity, within a framework of loyalty, obser -
vance of ethical values and trust. 
Communication 
We ensure the transparency of our actions in our relationship with customers, the market, inves -
tors, the community, employees and all stakeholders in general. 
The community
We contribute to the prosperity and growth of the communities in which we operate, respecting 
the environment and the rights of future generations. 
Health and Safety 
We protect health and safety in the workplace, ensuring respect for the physical and moral integ -
rity, rights and dignity of workers. 39
FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
[G4-SO3a]  Corruption is widely recognised as one of the main factors threatening socio-economic 
growth and the well-being of the population. Preventing corruption has always been an important 
part of the Telecom Italia control system in all its companies. Over time, Telecom Italia’s control 
systems have evolved and the scope of its companies has changed. Here we shall concentrate 
on the Group’s existing scope, which consists of the following Business Units: Domestic BU 
(which includes all the commercial and technical activities related to telephony, including Telecom 
Italia Sparkle, and Olivetti), Brazil BU and Media (see Telecom Italia Group/Group profile).
[G4-DMA Anti-corruption]  The Group’s system for identifying, preventing and controlling corruption 
risks is the “Organisational Model 231”, pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001, a compliance 
programme for preventing offences pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001 which can result in 
administrative responsibilities being placed on the Company.
 
The Organisational Model 231 consists of:
• the Code of Ethics and Conduct of the Telecom Italia Group, where the general principles 
(transparency, fairness, loyalty) that guide the Company in the organization and conduct of 
business are indicated;
• the “general principles of internal control”, principles for achieving the objectives of operational 
efficiency and effectiveness, reliability of financial and management reporting, compliance with 
laws and regulations, safeguarding of company assets against possible fraud;
• the “principles of conduct”, which consist of specific rules for relations with third parties and 
for all fulfilments and activities of a corporate nature, and the “internal control check-lists” that 
describe business processes at risk of crime, any predicate offences relating to them, the pre -
ventive control activities and the behavioural indications aimed at avoiding the related risks.
The internal control check-lists have been developed according to the following principles: (i) the 
separation of roles in undertaking the principal activities involved in business processes; (ii) the 
traceability of decisions, to allow for identification of the points of responsibility and the motiva -
tions for the decisions themselves; and (iii) the objectification of the decision-making processes, 
so that decisions are not made on the basis of purely subjective considerations, but based on 
pre-established criteria.
In January 2013, a version of the Organisational Model 2013 was adopted which incorporated 
the new offences of corruption between private subjects and of unlawful inducement to promise 
or give benefits to a public official/public service employee. The new version contains updated 
internal control guidelines and a reference to the Group’s anti-corruption policy. The new version 
also complies with the relevant compliance programme for the application of anti-corruption leg -
islation, such as the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act.
[G4-SO3b] 
The areas identified as being at risk of corruption are:40
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCE• gifts and entertainment expenses
• events and sponsorships
• donations/membership fees/contributions to non-profit organisations
• consulting, intermediation, relations with business partners and suppliers
• joint ventures, acquisitions and transfers and furthermore
• sale of goods and services
• relations with institutions/authorities
• authorisations and concessions
• subsidised finance
• legal and arbitration proceedings
• health and safety at work obligations
• environmental protection obligations
• staff selection and recruitment 
[G4-DMA Anti-corruption] It is specifically prohibited to directly or indirectly receive, demand, give 
or offer compensation of any kind, gifts, economic benefits or other utility to or from a public or 
private subject and/or the body such subject directly or indirectly represents that: (a) exceed a 
modest value and the reasonable practical limits of courtesy and, in any event, (b) are capable 
of being interpreted as designed to unduly influence the relations between the Group Companies 
and the aforementioned subject and/or body it directly or indirectly represents, irrespective of 
whether the aim was pursued, even if exclusively, in the interests or to the benefit of the individual 
Company or of the Group. 
Nor are “facilitation payments” permitted. These are unofficial modest payments made to speed 
up, favour or secure the execution of a routine or otherwise expected activity that is part of the 
duties of the public or private subject with which the Group companies has relations. 
The anti-corruption policy pays interests to donations, gifts and/or participation in charitable organi -
sations, foundations, non-profit organisations, providing for contributions to be made exclusively to 
organisations with a proven reliability and recognised reputation, subject to due diligence, and in ac -
cordance with the budget prepared on the basis of cost-effectiveness and reasonableness criteria.
[G4-DMA Anti-corruption]  The above areas are the criteria by which processes or activities are judged 
to be at risk or not (each process/activity is at risk if it includes these areas)3.
The Organisational Model is complemented by the Supervisory Body, which is responsible for 
supervising the operation of the Model, ensuring it is complied with and updating it. Pursuant to 
Legislative Decree 231/01 article 6(4bis), the functions of Supervisory Body are assigned to the 
3 Furthermore, Telecom Italia’s procedures for transactions with related parties specify all the measures to be adopted in order to 
mitigate the risk associated with these transactions (the procedures are approved by the Board of Directors and are published at 
http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/en/about-us/governance-system/procedures.html).41
Board of Statutory Auditors appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 15, 2012.
Amendments to the Model are drafted by a Group managerial committee called Steering Com -
mittee 231, briefed by the Supervisory Board and approved by the Board of Directors when of a 
significant nature.
In order to support the Supervisory bodies of the Companies belonging to the Group, the Com -
pliance Department of Telecom Italia includes a specific structure (Compliance 231) in charge of 
managing violations of the Organisational Model and carrying out specific compliance interventions 
also according to the evidence received via the information flows established inside the Group.
[G4-SO3a]  The Organisational Model 231 currently covers all the Group’s Business Units and [G4-
SO4] has been approved by the Group’s Board of Directors since 2003 (successive amendments 
have been approved since then), while in December 2012 a specific Anti-Corruption Policy was 
adopted, which is referred to in the Organisational Model itself.  Furthermore, in August 2014, the 
Board of Directors of TIM Partecipações approved the Organisational Model in accordance with 
the recent local anti-corruption law (Ley 12846/13) and the relevant provisions required at Group 
level.  Previously, Brazil had adopted corruption prevention procedures, including the Anti-Corrup -
tion Policy of May 2013. [G4-SO4]  In the case of Italian companies, the Organisational Model 231 
and the anti-corruption policy are communicated to all employees, while commercial partners are 
required to confirm their adherence to the principles contained therein4. In Brazil, the communica -
tion thereof to employees and partners began in 2014.  
In Italy, 185 executives received classroom training on the Organisational Model in 2014 (459 in 
2013 and 73 in 2012). Furthermore, two e-learning training campaigns were run, one ending in 
2012 and the other in 20145: 
E-learning training campaigns run in Italy
2014 2012
Senior managers 718 865
Middle managers 3,787 4,270
Others 33,877 30,143
Furthermore, in Brazil, between 2012 and 2014, training activities on anti-corruption were carried out 
with a focus, in the last year, on the new anti-corruption law adopted at the local level6. Training on 
the Organizational Model is currently being defined. It must be pointed out that, as part of activities 
to raise awareness on anti-corruption issues, over 12,000 resources have signed the Code of Ethics.
4 Commercial partners include suppliers of orders worth over 3000 euros, joint ventures, consultants.
5 The training campaigns are not necessarily annual but depend on changes made to the Model or other organisational requirements.
6 Data regarding training activities carried out in 2012-2014 are not reported because they cannot be directly compared to those related 
to the same activities in Italy. Tim Participaçoes  is currently thinking about the possibility to report  data in an homogeneous way.42
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCE[G4-DMA Anti-corruption] Employees are trained every time the Organisational Model undergoes 
substantial changes.
Telecom Italia is currently also planning to carry out training sessions on the Organisational Model 
231 and the anti-corruption policy for the corporate bodies of TI SpA, and, with regard to domestic 
subsidiaries, the activity is currently under way.  
[G4-SO5]  No incident of corruption has taken place in the Group companies in the past 3 years, nor 
have any legal proceedings been started on grounds of corruption against Group companies in 
the same period. With regard to suppliers, in the past 3 years Telecom Italia has never terminated 
a contract for reasons related to corruption. Only on one occasion, in 2014, has Telecom Italia 
suspended new activities with a supplier because the latter was charged with corruption.  
[G4-DMA Anti-corruption]  Telecom Italia is a member of the “231 and Legality” Working Group set 
up as part of the initiatives taken by Confindustria .
LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND COMPLIANCE
The Group’s activities are conducted in full compliance with ruling laws in the countries in which it op -
erates and with universally accepted ethical principles, based on transparency, fairness and loyalty.
[G4-DMA Public Policy], [G4-DMA Compliance]  The main changes in the relevant legislation for the 
Group are regularly set out in the Report on Operations of the Telecom Italia Group (see the Main 
changes in the regulatory environment  chapter), while public administration engagement activi -
ties are described in the Institutions  chapter of this report. Relations between the Group and its 
employees and public administration are carefully regulated and controlled by the Organisational 
Model 231, briefly presented in the previous section. [G4-SO6]  In particular, the Code of Ethics ex -
plicitly bans any direct or indirect disbursements, contributions, advantages or benefits of any kind 
to political parties, political movements or trade unions or to their representatives or candidates.   
[G4-DMA Anti-competitive Behavior]  Relations with our competitors are described in the Competitors  
chapter of this report, which also describes our relations with the relevant competition authorities.  
Furthermore [G4-SO7]  the Group’s main disputes in this respect are listed and described in Note 
25 (Contingent liabilities, other information, commitments and guarantees ) of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, particularly in the Significant disputes and pending legal actions  section. 
[G4-SO8]  The same Note contains a description of all the Group’s other disputes.
[G4-DMA Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society], [G4-SO11]  No reports have been received over 
the past three years, via the main company reporting mechanisms described in the Outline of Cor -
porate Governance  section of this chapter, regarding alleged damage caused to the community by 
Telecom Italia, including damage of an environmental nature, discrimination against the population 
in terms of coverage, and corruption.  43
[G4-DMA Compliance], [G4-EN29] In its environmental management systems, the Group is very care -
ful to comply with the environmental laws of the countries in which it operates. There have been 
no significant fines of this nature over the past three years.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Telecom Italia believes it is fundamentally important to consider the opinions and expectations of 
its stakeholders, namely the parties who for various reasons have an interest in the company’s 
activities. 
[G4-24]  The stakeholders with whom Telecom Italia comes into contact in the conduct of its busi -
ness are many and very varied. For ease of management and reporting they have been grouped 
into eight categories, the first six of which relate to the outside world and the remaining two relate 
to the internal world of the Company: 
• customers
• suppliers
• institutions
• competitors
• environment
• community (including the media)
• Telecom Italia people
• shareholders
This sustainability report, the chapters of which are arranged according to these stakeholder cate -
gories, is a report on the Group’s activities that are relevant to the stakeholders in each category. 
In particular, each chapter dedicated to a particular stakeholder category contains a list of the 
main stakeholders belonging to that category.  
[G4-25], [G4-26]  The stakeholder engagement process takes place regularly during implementation 
of the company’s projects. For each project, the affected stakeholders are identified and priorities 
are assigned based on the importance of the stakeholder for the business objectives or on the 
basis of the Company’s decision to focus on specific fields such as, for example, contributing to 
the economic or cultural growth of the country with projects not strictly connected with business.  
Once the relevant stakeholders have been identified for the project, the most suitable strategies 
for building relations are studied, which can include individual meetings, group meetings, informa -
tion sessions, shared projects, surveys, focus groups, etc.
At the end of the feasibility analysis and verification process, Telecom Italia decides which solu -
tions to offer, which projects and which initiatives to undertake. Stakeholder involvement contin -
ues beyond this and serves to monitor and adjust the initiatives. 44
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCETelecom Italia has drawn up general guidelines for group stakeholder engagement  and a set of 
policies associated with different kinds of stakeholders, including customer service charters, a 
policy on relations with suppliers in purchasing processes, the code of conduct for protecting the 
data of other local operators, guidelines for relations with local authorities and other organisa -
tions, guidelines for voluntary contributions to the Community .
[G4-26], [G4-27]  The Group’s main stakeholder engagement initiatives taken in 2014 are summa -
rised below. In the diagram:
• the “information” column refers to one-way communications by the Company with stakeholders;  
• the “consultation” column refers to the occasions when stakeholders are asked for their opinion 
through surveys or similar tools; 
• the “dialogues” column refers to the discussions and ongoing and stable cooperation between 
the Group and stakeholders; 
• the “partnership” column refers to the specific projects that are managed together.
Each initiative mentioned in the table is accompanied by reference to the relevant chapter and 
section of this report in which the initiative is discussed in detail.45
INITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
Product environmental 
declarations for customers – Telecom Italia Green range (Environment/Pro-duct Responsibility/Tele-com Italia Green) Collaboration with other telecommunications operators on issues of environmental relevance within the framework of industry associations and initiatives, including GeSI 
and ETNO
(Environment/Relevant stakeholders, and Climate change)
Focus groups were held that involved around 50 representatives of 
profit-making and 
non-profit-making organisations in the fields of the environment, digital 
and social culture. The 
consultation activity consisted of gathering suggestions and 
surveying expectations 
regarding the creation and implementation of the WITHYOUWEDO crowdfunding platform (Community/Responses to 
stakeholders)During 2014, the TI Group 
worked with the Postal and Communication 
Police to implement the 
“Una vita da social” initiative, a road show designed to educate people regarding legality 
on the Internet, presenting 
students, families and visitors with the main pitfalls of the Web and in 
particular the risks 
children face when 
browsing the Internet 
(Community/Responses to stakeholders) Many projects carried out in partnership with companies, universities, research centres and 
non-governmental and 
civil society organisations. (Community/Responses to stakeholders, and 
Research and Develop-
ment)
Internal communication activities (Telecom Italia People / Internal communication)The ninth edition of the climate survey was carried out in Italy and Brazil, involving a total of around 
66,000 people (Telecom 
Italia People/People caring)Mailboxes, Intranet, blogs, virtual communities, multimedia conventions to communicate with employees
(Telecom Italia People/ 
Internal communication)Selection and training programmes carried out with research centres, universities, associations and voluntary foundations 
(Telecom Italia 
People/Collaboration with universities)
Involvement of employees in the Individual Performance Feedback assessment programme (Telecom Italia People/ Health and safety) 7
th edition of the “Network 
Scuola Impresa” (school business network) project, working with 35 schools selected from across the country. The project aims to create a structured relationship with senior schools, particularly in order to express our 
internal skills, get in touch 
with young people across the country and promote the company’s image at the same time (Telecom Italia People/Collaboration with universities)Initiatives to improve the 
management of diversity 
in the Company (Telecom 
Italia People/People caring)Counselling service for dealing with personal difficulties or problems at work experienced by employees (Telecom Italia People/People caring)Volunteering initiatives with the involvement of employees and external partners Telecom Italia People/People caring) In 2014, the Company continued with its significant commitment to provide safety training to all company staff with different programmes 
based on the risks to 
which workers are exposed (Telecom Italia People/Health and safety)Information and discussion sessions with 
trade unions on matters of 
interest (Telecom Italia 
People/Industrial 
relations)Second edition of the Tim Chair in Market Innovation 
at the Bocconi University 
of Milan, as part of the 
Master’s Degree in 
Economics and Management of Innovation and Technology (EMIT). (Telecom Italia People/Collaboration with universities)ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITYSTAKEHOLDERS
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE46
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCE
INITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
Information on the Service 
Charters and General Conditions of Subscription via the Group’s websites (Governance and management of 
sustainability in Telecom 
Italia/Codes and Charters of the Group)Customer satisfaction is surveyed  systematically (Customers/Quality of service and Customer listening)Collaboration with the consumer associations(Customers/Conciliation procedures)Participation in national and international working groups, in partnership with UN agencies, non-govern-mental organisations, and  organisations in the sector, on the issue of protecting children from 
potential abuses carried 
out via the Internet(Customers/Child protection)
Specific focus on the principles expressed in the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct and recalled in the contract clauses and specific 
undertakings that 
suppliers are made to sign (Suppliers/General comments)Self-assessment 
questionnaire sent to the 
most risky suppliers, in terms of sustainability, during the qualification stage and, periodically, to qualified suppliers 
(Suppliers/Sustainability 
initiatives)
The “TI Alw@ys ON” shareholders’ club (telecomitaliaclub.it) provides important information to individual 
investors and the general 
public 
(Shareholders/Financial 
communicationThree monthly conference 
calls, meetings at 
institutional offices of the 
Group (reverse road 
shows), participation in sector conferences, making a total over 600 investors meetings (Shareholders/Financial communication)
Online financial communication through the Group’s website(Shareholders/Financial communication)Meetings with stakehol-ders on corporate governance issues (Shareholders/Financial communication)Exchange of information 
and documentation with 
suppliers via the “Vendors hub” portal (Suppliers/In-volvement initiatives)Eighth survey of 
satisfaction with the 
Purchasing department, and more generally with Telecom Italia, conducted among the Group’s main suppliers
(Suppliers/Involvement 
initiatives)Collaboration areas dedicated to the main suppliers available on the Vendors Hub portal (Suppliers/Involvement 
initiatives)Joint Audit Cooperation, 
an initiative which provides for CSR audit activities conducted in the production plants of 
common suppliers and 
sub-suppliers based on an agreement signed with another 9 telecommunica-
tions operators 
(Suppliers/Sustainability checks)Information regarding tools for the safe use of 
the Internet and for 
combating computer 
abuse (Customers/Child protection)Use of web-based tools on social networks by 
customer care operators 
to talk to customers and 
share their knowledge(Customers/Quality of 
service and Customer 
listening)Partnership projects with institutions and other companies to test and create innovative services(Customers/Innovative services)STAKEHOLDERS
CUST OMERS SUPPLIERS SHAREHOLDERS47
INITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
Periodic qualitative and 
quantitative research 
activities to analyse the 
strength of the Telecom Italia and TIM brands, the image of the providers of telecommunications  and mobile telephony services, 
the reputation of operators 
(Competitors/Competitive positioning)Dialogue with the OLOs on commercial issues and 
regarding implementation 
of the Undertakings (Competitors/Services for OLOs)
Constant dialogue with the 
Authorities (AGCM and 
AGCOM)
The Group is a member of 
numerous federations, associations and organisations, both nationally and internatio-
nally (Competitors/Rele-
vant stakeholders)Dialogue with national and international institutions also takes the form of actual consultation with the various stakeholders, 
for example when public 
telephone equipment (telephone booths) is removed, which has involved public consultation as part of a 
procedure agreed with 
AGCOM (Institutions/Lo-cal national institutions)Dialogue with national and international Institutions 
on business issues of 
relevance to the Group A protocol was signed with  
Municipalities for the joint 
implementation of energy 
efficiency initiatives in 
school buildings and digital education 
(Institutions/Local national 
institutions)INSTITUTIONS COMPETITORS48
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEPLACEMENT IN THE INDEXES
Sustainability indexes are stock indexes in which securities are selected on the basis of eco -
nomic-financial parameters as well as social and environmental criteria. The selection process 
is carried out by specialised agencies that assess companies on the basis of publicly available 
information or questionnaires, taking account of opinions expressed by the media and stakehold -
ers. Inclusion in these indexes is an important achievement for companies because of the positive 
effects on their reputation and because, in addition to the pension funds and ethical funds, an ever 
increasing number of investors favour these companies, considering them to be less risky and 
more promising in the medium to long term.
Taking part in the process of evaluation is, moreover, a timely moment for reflection within the 
company on the results achieved. In fact, the suggestions of the rating agencies at the end of the 
process are taken into careful consideration when planning improvement actions in the future.
In 2014, Telecom Italia was not only confirmed for the eleventh year running in both the sustain -
ability index categories of the Dow Jones (Dow Jones Sustainability Index World and Europe) 
but also emerged as the industry leader in its sector, the only Italian company to achieve this 
recognition.
Furthermore, in 2014, Telecom Italia was included for the first time in the Climate Disclosure 
Leadership Index (CDLI) of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 
Telecom Italia has been included in the Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good) 
Global and Europe series since its inception. 
Telecom Italia is also included in the following indexes: 
• Euronext Vigeo: 
-  Europe 120
-  Eurozone 120
• Ethibel Sustainability Indexes (ESI): 
-  Excellence Europe
-  Excellence Global
• ECPI Indexes:
-  ECPI Euro Ethical Equity
-  ECPI EMU Ethical Equity
Finally, Telecom Italia is classified as “prime” in the OEKOM rating.
Tim Participações, the listed holding company of the TIM Brasil Group, has had its position con -
firmed in the ISE (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial) index, managed by BM&F Bovespa 49
(the São Paolo stock exchange) together with the Brazilian Environment Ministry and other finan -
cial sustainability organisations.
OTHER AWARDS
The main awards won by Telecom Italia concerning sustainability and its communication, include 
the following:
• first place in the Lundquist CSR Online Awards 2014 ranking for the best online sustainability 
communication in Italy, through the Group website telecomitalia.com. Conducted by strategic 
consultancy firm Lundquist, the survey analyses 100 major national companies and assesses 
corporate social responsibility reporting based on seven pillars: concrete, transparent,integrat -
ed, distinctive, ongoing, user-friendly presentation of the information and use of Social Media;
• third place in the  Italian and European Webranking by Comprend (formerly KW Digital) 2014 
rankings, which assess and reward the quality of online financial and corporate communica -
tion. The rankings, drawn up by Comprend, working with Lundquist, respectively considered 
the 100 biggest Italian companies and the 500 biggest European companies by capitalisation 
included in the FT Europe 500 index;
• Top Employers 2014 certification, awarded annually to the best companies in the field of HR 
management. Conducted by the Top Employers Institute, the survey verified and certified the 
excellence of Telecom Italia in the field of Human Resources and the wide range of benefits 
and initiatives provided to its people: from working conditions to non-monetary benefits, includ -
ing structured training and development policies.
REPORTING 
SCOPE AND CRITERIA
[G4-17b]  The Sustainability Report complies with the same accounting principles and the same 
consolidation scopes as the Consolidated Financial Statements, except for some information 
(particularly associated with environmental performance) which is highlighted in the text7.   
In accordance with the triple bottom line8 approach, the company’s economic and financial data 
has to be shown together with the environmental and social results. The overall analysis of com -
pany performance including all three dimensions provides stakeholders with complete and com -
prehensive information and allows interests to be balanced in a way that guarantees the success 
and survival of the company in the medium and long term. For this reason, as of 2003, the Group 
has integrated sustainability data in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in fact preceding the 
7 In accordance with the materiality principle, in these cases only information relating to companies with more than 40 employees 
and a turnover of more than 300,000 euros are included.  Furthermore, for environmental data, in order to allow a proper asses -
sment of the trend, the scope used in previous years is reclassified according to the last year .
8 This approach was defined for the first time by John Elkington in 1994 in the article “Towards the sustainable corporation: Win-win-
win business strategies for sustainable development”. California Management Review 36, no. 2: 2: 90-100.50
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEapplication of European Directive 51/2003, which was transposed in Italy by Legislative Decree 
No. 32 of February 2, 2007. 
[G4-28], [G4-30] The Sustainability Report, which is drawn up for every calendar year, complies 
with the same deadlines as the Group’s Annual Financial Report and is based on a multi-stake -
holder approach, involving the joint analysis of actions taken in respect of the main stakeholders 
with whom the Company interacts. The report is drawn up according to a system of indicators 
(KPI - Key Performance Indicators) which measure the company’s performance and the degree 
of achievement of objectives previously established for the areas in which the Company has 
major impact. 
The KPIs are defined on the basis of:
• the analysis of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international organisation which devel -
ops universally applicable guidelines for drawing up sustainability reports;
• the demands received from stakeholders; 
• the questionnaires sent out by the leading rating agencies for the purpose of admission to 
sustainability indexes;
• the experience the Company has gained in the field of sustainability in over 18 years. 
The KPIs are managed on a dedicated application system (BPC) that uses the same platform 
used for financial reporting and controlling.
The Sustainability Report9 is based on the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS 
2008), adopted as of the 2009 Financial Statements, and set out below:
• inclusivity: identification of the stakeholders and their expectations, and development of in -
volvement strategies aimed at improving the Company’s sustainability performance;
• materiality: identification of the important issues for the organisation and its stakeholders;
• responsiveness: a description of the initiatives carried out by the Company to meet the expec -
tations of stakeholders. 
The Telecom Italia Sustainability Report’s compliance with the AA1000 standard and the GRI G4 
standard, comprehensive option is verified by the auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (see 
Independent Auditor’s Report). 
9 [G4-29]  The Group sustainability report for 2013 was approved by the Board of Directors in April 2014.51
MATERIALITY ANALYSIS
[G4-18a], [G4-18b]
Telecom Italia has reviewed its materiality analysis process with the aim of refining it and ensuring 
that it conforms to the new GRI G4 guidelines, thus focusing it on identifying the most relevant 
topics in terms of the socio-environmental and economic impact generated by the Group, both 
inside and outside the organisation.
IDENTIFICATION OF RELEVANT TOPICS
An initial list of topics to be explored during the subsequent stages of the analysis process was 
identified. Numerous sources of information, both national and international, public and non-pub -
lic, internal and external to the Group were analysed.
At the end of this initial screening, Telecom Italia was therefore able to draw up a list of relevant 
topics representing 9 macro areas:
• Direct and indirect economic impacts;
• Risk management and Public Policy;
• Business ethics and promotion of human rights;
• Market position and customer protection;
• Compliance with national and international regulations; 
• Responsible management of human resources, promotion of diversity, equal opportunities and 
the health and safety of workers;
• Responsible management of the supply chain;
• Initiatives for local Communities;
• Responsible management of energy resources, atmospheric emissions and waste.
ASSIGNMENT OF PRIORITIES
The assignment of priorities among the topics emerging from the aforesaid analysis, led to the 
identification of the material issues to be disclosed in the sustainability report.
During this phase, Telecom Italia assessed the importance of the topics identified from an internal 
and external viewpoint.
The internal viewpoint was provided by the Top Management which, through the involvement of 
a significant sample from all the company’s departments, expressed its opinion on the relevance 
of each topic for Telecom Italia.
[G4-26] The external viewpoint was instead surveyed by organising two focus groups involving 
employees representing the departments that normally deal with the Group’s various categories 
of stakeholders. These employees were asked to assess the relevance of the topics based on the 
perceptions of stakeholders with whom they normally have relations.
[G4-19] Assessing the results of the analyses allowed the topics to be put in order of priority and 
the materiality matrix summarising the results for the 2014 report to be created.52
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEResults at a glance: the materiality matrix
VALIDATION
The validation of the topics and the whole materiality analysis process was carried out by the 
Corporate Social Responsibility department, which was assisted by the Telecom Italia Lab depart -
ment assigned to survey perceptions through psycho-social research analyses. The Governance 
of the Corporate Social Responsibility department is explained in the Sustainability Governance 
section of this report. 
REVIEW
The review phase is due to take place as a preparatory stage prior to the next reporting cycle, 
with the aim of submitting the results of the analyses carried out, updated in the following year, to 
specific stakeholder engagement activities.
In order to make the process systematic, consistent over time, transparent and well-structured 
for this and future years, the “Telecom Italia Handbook for Materiality Analysis Pursuant to GRI 
G4” has been produced. It contains guidelines for all the activities, describing the timescales and 
responsibilities involved in the process itself.
BOUNDARIES
[G4-20], [G4-21]  All the topics (and therefore aspects of the GRI G4 standard) that are judged to be 
material have major implications both inside and outside the company . 
ENERGY
MANAGEMENT
WASTE
MANAGEMENT
RELATIONS WITH
NO PROFIT SECTORRISKMANAGEMENTHEALTH AND
SAFETY AT WORKSENSITIVE DATA
MANAGEMENT AND
CHILD PROTECTIONINNOVATION
MANAGEMENT
LISTENING AND
TRANSPARENCY
TOWARDS
CUSTOMERSMANAGEMENT OF THE WORKFORCE,
GENERATIONAL
RENEWAL
AND PROMOTION OF TALENT
COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC IMPACT
ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES
DIVERSITY AND
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIESECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCESOCIAL DIGITAL
DIVIDE REDUCTIONNETWORKCOVERAGE
ANTI-CORRUPTION
PROGRAMMESRELATIONS WITHPUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONDISASTER RESPONSE
AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY
MARKETING AND
PRICING POLICIESSUPPLY CHAIN
RESPONSIBLE
MANAGEMENT
RELATIONS WITH
COMPETITORSPROMOTION OF RESPECT
OF HUMAN RIGHTSCOMPANY
STAKEHOLDER53
The topics can be grouped into two categories in terms of their relevance to the different areas 
of the Group.  
On the one hand there are cross-cutting topics that are relevant to all the companies in the 
Group’s consolidation scope, wherever they may be, without exception, and which are relevant to 
all external and internal stakeholders, these being:
• Innovation management
• Compliance with national and international regulations
• Anti-corruption programmes
• Promotion of respect for Human Rights inside and outside the company
• Management of the health and safety of workers
• Management of the workforce, generational renewal and promotion of talent10
• Customer listening and transparency of relations
On the other hand there are topics that are mainly relevant to Group companies operating as tele -
phone service operators, which account by far for the main part of the Group in terms of turnover, 
employees and impact on external stakeholders:
• Network coverage 
• Bridging the “digital divide” and promoting social inclusion and the digital transformation of the 
country by disseminating and developing ICT technology across the country.
• “Disaster response” and business continuity
• Sensitive data management and child protection
These topics are undoubtedly more relevant to all the stakeholders who live in Italy, where Tel -
ecom Italia is the biggest operator and therefore the company on which stakeholders pin their 
greatest expectations. In Brazil, where the Group is present with one of the country’s biggest mo -
bile operators, the topics are definitely relevant to stakeholders but to a lesser extent than in Italy.  
[G4-23]  No significant changes have been recorded in the scope of activities, and therefore in 
relevance of boundary, in recent years, except as mentioned in Group Profile section of Telecom 
Italia Group  chapter.
10 The health and safety of workers and staff management may appear to be material issues only for employee stakeholders. In actual 
fact they directly involve public administration and the communities where employees work and, indirectly, all stakeholders who 
come into contact with employees, who benefit from balanced and serene relations.54
SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCEThe following table shows the relation between the Group’s material topics and GRI G4 “aspects”
Innovation management G4 EC [7, 8] G4 SO [1, 2]
Network coverage G4 EC [7, 8] G4 SO [1, 2]
Anti-corruption programmes G4 SO [3, 4, 5], [6]
Compliance with national
and international regulationsG4 PR9 G4 SO [7, 8]
Sensitive data managementand child protectionG4 SO [11]G4 PR [3, 4, 5],
[8], [9]
Customer listening
and transparency of relationsG4 PR [1, 2], [3, 4, 5],
[6, 7], [8], [9]G4 PR [3, 4, 5],[8], [9]G4 EN [29]
Management of the health
and safety of workers
“Disaster response”and business continuityG4 LA [5, 6, 7, 8]
Management of the workforce,generational renewaland promotion of talentG4 LA [1, 2, 3], [4],
[9, 10, 11], [12], [13], [16]
Promotion of respect
for Human Rights insideand outside the companyG4 HR [1, 2], [3], [4],
[5], [6], [7], [8], [9],[10, 11], [12]
Bridging the “digital divide”
and promoting social inclusionand the digital transformationof the country by disseminating
and developing ICT technology
across the countryG4 SO [1, 2]
G4 EC [7, 8]BEING
SUSTAINABLE:
RISKS AND
OPPORTUNITIES58
BEING SUSTAINABLE: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESRISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Telecom Italia plays a prominent role in the affairs of the countries in which it operates because of 
the increasing importance of communication technologies for people’s lives and for the economic 
and social development of communities. 
THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE GROUP’S OPERATIONS
TO SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
[G4-2]
The Group’s economic contribution to the countries where it operates has already been discussed 
under Importance of the Group in Italy  in the chapter Telecom Italia: a group of strategic rele -
vance of this report. This section deals with the socio-environmental impacts of the Group.
The contribution, in terms of sustainability, that a major telecommunications company can give to 
the community is invaluable. Consider, for example:
• bridging the geographical digital divide: in addition to stimulating growth in GDP (see A strate -
gically important Group), access to broadband, and therefore the services it enables, including 
telemedicine or tele-education, is a very important lever for improving the quality of life of com -
munities. Telecom Italia has significant projects and investments in place to provide communities 
with new generation network coverage. Details of the Italian strategies and activities are provid -
ed in the 2014 Italia Connessa report available at italiaconnessa.telecomitalia.com. For Brazil, 
the point of reference is the National Broadband Plan, to which TIM Brasil has also contributed;
• contribution to digital social inclusion - this includes initiatives for spreading knowledge of the 
Internet and new technologies among social groups who tend to be excluded from them, as 
well as projects for the development of telecommunications technologies for sick and disabled 
people (see Community/Responses to stakeholders);
• innovation for quality of life - e.g. telemedicine services that make remote surgery possible or 
tele-monitoring for elderly and chronically sick people, road traffic routing services to avoid 
traffic jams and pollution, and so on. These services are the result of years of research; in this 
field, Telecom Italia’s laboratories continue to contribute to scientific progress nationally and 
internationally (see Community/Research and Development);
• protection and security of communications between people using digital networks - the per -
vasiveness of communication technologies implies risks associated with the improper use of 
information that is put online in good faith, as well as risks connected with the use of the Inter -
net to transmit information which is illegal or otherwise harmful to various sensitivities. Telecom 
Italia has many instruments in place to protect the people exposed and to ensure safe data 
transmission (see Customers/Child Protection and Research and Innovation in e-security);
• the offer of services and products that contribute to reducing the environmental impact  of citi -
zens and companies: services such as telecommuting, virtual conferences, travel information, 
cloud computing, remote monitoring of energy consumption will make an increasingly valuable 59
contribution to reducing emissions into the atmosphere. Telecom Italia offers these services 
and disseminates knowledge about them among public administration bodies, companies and 
citizens (see Customers/Innovative services).
In contrast, even though telecommunications is a low environmental impact sector, sustainable 
companies have a duty to do everything they can to reduce their environmental footprint. Telecom 
Italia takes many measures described in detail in the Environment chapter of this report. 
From a social point of view, Telecom Italia’s operations do not take place in high risk countries, and in 
any case the Group ensures respect for the human and social rights of its employees (see Telecom 
Italia People), it has implemented a management system to protect the rights of its suppliers’ employ -
ees (see Suppliers) and of the inhabitants of the areas where it operates (see Telecom Italia People). 
SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS OF THE GROUP’S
OPERATIONS
[G4-2], [G4-14]
Listed below are the most common risks associated with the telecommunications sector which 
are classifiable as socio-environmental risks, accompanied by a quick summary of the mitigation 
actions implemented by Telecom Italia.
Social Risks
Beyond the risks common to any large company, associated with labour exploitation (which are 
meticulously avoided, within Telecom Italia, by a management system that starts with the Group 
Social Responsibility Policy available at www.telecomitalia.com and trade union agreements, and 
is based on detailed monitoring procedures that require the presence of workers’ representa -
tives), the social risks most closely connected with the telecommunications business come from:
• breaches of network security and privacy systems, with consequent access to personal and 
sensitive data, to mitigate which Telecom Italia has equipped itself with a specific organisational 
structure and skills to predict and combat such breaches; within this structure, a team is dedicat -
ed to seeking new e-security solutions (see Customers/Research and innovation for e-security);
• use of telecommunications services that causes harm to the mental and physical well-being 
of children or of anyone who lacks sufficient protection, which is mitigated by Telecom Italia 
through a series of actions described in the Customers chapter, under Child protection;
• discrimination of certain individuals who, for geographical or socio-cultural reasons, have no 
access to the Internet and to the ensuing benefits, i.e. the digital divide which Telecom Italia is 
attempting to bridge by developing its infrastructure and by means of digital culture dissemina -
tion activities (see Customers/Digital inclusion).
Environmental Risks
This area includes two types of risks:
• the risks that external environmental conditions can pose for business continuity (for example, 60
BEING SUSTAINABLE: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESearthquakes can destroy telephone exchanges, the depletion of energy resources can create 
unsustainable costs for the company etc.). Among such risks, some are determined by climate 
change, such as flooding caused by rising oceans and precipitation or increasing energy costs 
caused by rising temperatures;
• potential damage caused to the environment by the company’s activities.
The first type of risks, which is a threat to the operation of the company, is considered and moni -
tored carefully by means of appropriate Business Continuity strategies and procedures (see The 
business continuity management system at Telecom Italia  section of this chapter). 
As regards the potential environmental damage caused by the company, the delivery of telecommu -
nications services does not pose serious risks, other than those associated with the supply chain:
• the indirect risks arising from energy use - as Telecom Italia is not an energy producer, the only 
mitigation tools available to the company are to optimise its energy consumption (discussed in 
the Environment chapter of this report) and to select suppliers (discussed in the Suppliers chap -
ter of this report). It is worth noting, in particular, that the consumption of electricity by Telecom 
Italia S.p.A. in  2014 was focused on renewable energy, certified by guarantees of origins;
• the sourcing of technologies, i.e. the purchase of technological products the production of 
which can cause serious environmental damage, and the disposal of technological waste (by 
the company’s suppliers). These aspects are governed by the Group Green Procurement pol -
icy available at www.telecomitalia.it and by the sustainable supply chain management system 
described in the Suppliers chapter of this report. 
Telecom Italia monitors the aforementioned types of risk using the tools it considers most appropri -
ate for each type, briefly described in the Environment, Suppliers, Telecom Italia People  chapters 
and the Human Rights  paragraph of the present chapter. Precise targets have only been set for 
the types of risk for which targets can actually be useful. In particular, targets have been set for :
• new generation network coverage 
• supplier sustainability 
• reducing energy consumption 
(see Suppliers and Appendix).
THE GROUP’S ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
[G4-2], [G4-14]
The Telecom Italia Group has adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (hereinafter ERM) Model 
which allows risks to be identified, assessed and managed uniformly within Group companies, 
highlighting potential synergies between the parties involved in assessing the Internal Control and 
Risk Management System. The ERM process is designed to identify potential events that may 
influence the business, in order to manage risk within acceptable limits and provide a reasonable 
guarantee that business objectives will be achieved.61
The process is managed by the ERM Steering Committee, which is chaired and coordinated by 
the head of the Administration, Finance and Control Department. The Steering Committee meets 
every three months (or when specifically required) and is intended to ensure the governing of the 
Group risk management process, which is designed to guarantee the operational continuity of the 
company’s business, monitoring the effectiveness of countermeasures adopted.
The process adopted is cyclical and includes the following stages:
• defining the Risk Appetite, identifying the Risk Exposure and Risk Tolerance Threshold in rela -
tion to the planned objectives;
• identifying and Fine Tuning the Risk Universe of Telecom Italia, the Risk Universe being the 
document that contains a description of the main characteristics of all the risks identified, up -
dated annually in order to confirm / integrate / edit the list of business risks;
• Risk Assessment, for each risk considered in the Risk Universe a severity assessment is car -
ried out in order to place it on 3X3 (Risk and Control Panel) matrix, which allows action priori -
ties to be identified;
• Identifying Relevant Risks and determining the Corporate Risk Profile;
• Activating mitigation actions on Relevant Risks and monitoring them over time;
• Drawing up the Reporting Flows. 
A brief summary of the main types of risk identified by the ERM system is contained in the Main 
Risks and Uncertainties chapter of the Annual Report.
THE BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
IN TELECOM ITALIA
[G4-EC7] , [G4-EC8]  Telecom Italia pays a great deal of attention to Business Continuity1 as a crucial 
element for delivering its services in full compliance with the terms of its contracts with customers, 
industry regulations and, more generally, in accordance with the relevant international methodolo -
gies and standards. 
The Telecom Italia Group’s new Business Continuity Management System adopts the guidance 
contained in ISO 22301, which, among other things, emphasises the importance of:
• understanding the needs of the organisation and stakeholders in terms of Business Continuity;
• implementing and operating the controls and measures needed to manage the capacity to deal 
with interruptions in operation due to accidental causes;
• monitoring and reviewing the performance and effectiveness of the business continuity man -
agement system.
With this in mind, the Business Continuity Management process is divided into four main stages: 
Governance&Planning, Execution, Performance Evaluation and Improvement.
At the Governance&Planning stage, the relevant context is examined, identifying the needs of 
1 “Business continuity” is understood to mean the ability to ensure continuity of service, based on predefined and acceptable levels, 
following a disruptive incident.62
BEING SUSTAINABLE: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESthe Company and its Stakeholders, as well as the contractual/regulatory constraints on Business 
Continuity. Based on these elements, the scope of the company’s Business Continuity policy and 
the main strategic objectives are determined.  This preliminary analysis goes on to identify the 
company’s key processes and services and its critical activities, as well as the resources needed 
to maintain them. The activities carried out at this stage allow a Business Continuity strategy to be 
devised that guarantees an appropriate response for each process/service, in terms of operating 
levels and acceptable recovery times during and after a damaging event.
This stage includes, inter alia:
• the Business Impact Analysis (BIA), which is an assessment of the impact on the business 
where significant events occur that may affect business activities and the delivery of services;
• the Risk Analysis, aimed at identifying and assessing threats that may affect corporate assets, 
making them unavailable for a more or less long period of time. 
Approving the Business Continuity strategy, and the respective budget, allows the executive 
stage to be launched, with the development of Risk Treatment and Business Continuity Opera -
tional Plans. Operational planning is carried out by the operational departments, each to the ex -
tent of its responsibilities, while checks are carried out centrally to verify consistency between the 
operational plans and the Business Continuity Strategic Plan, particularly in order to standardise 
and correlate mitigation activities throughout the company processes/systems involved. 
An overall analysis of the performance of the Business Continuity Management System is carried 
out every six months, analysing the following in particular:
• actual data (incident history) regarding recovery times and economic impacts of events
• operational test data
• internal assessments
The performance evaluation is used to identify any corrective actions to be undertaken (e.g. spe -
cific initiatives for risk prevention, procedural reviews, etc.).
The results of the performance evaluation, together with any corrective actions, are presented to 
Senior Executives for a periodic Management Review.63
OPPORTUNITIES GENERATED
BY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS 
[G4-2], [G4-14]
Although, as we have repeatedly stressed, telecommunications can make a significant contribu -
tion to improving the environment and quality of life, at present, ICT services aimed, for example, 
at reducing energy consumption or tele-medicine, remain niche services. However, they are see -
ing positive growth rates and are likely to be widespread in the future. Telecom Italia’s laboratories 
have long been engaged in researching and developing these kinds of services, some of which 
are already being tested on the market. Thus customers already have a wide range of solutions 
available to them to cut energy consumption, reduce CO2 emissions, improve health services and 
bureaucracy, increase security for citizens.  Many of the socio-environmentally relevant services 
offered by Telecom Italia are discussed in the chapters Customers (see Innovative services), 
Community (see Research and development), Environment (see Telecom Italia Green). Further -
more, examples of the economic opportunities arising from sustainable management of the com -
pany’s activities are discussed in the Social and environmental impacts of operations and their 
economic aspects chapter of the Group’s Annual Financial Report. 
HUMAN RIGHTS
[G4-DMA Investment], [G4-DMA Non-discrimination], [G4-DMA Freedom of Association and Collective Bar -
gaining], [G4-DMA Child Labor], [G4-DMA Forced or Compulsory Labor], [G4-DMA Security Practices], [G4-
DMA Indigenous Rights], [G4-DMA Assessment], [G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment], [G4-DMA 
Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms] The materiality analysis conducted by Telecom Italia has high -
lighted issues relating to the defence of Human Rights among those regarded as material by the 
Company’s stakeholders.
This result, which may seem surprising for a telecommunications operator that works in countries 
considered to be at low/medium risk of Human Rights violations, is based on two sets of reasons:
• the public outcry caused by Human Rights violation incidents, which can seriously affect busi -
ness reputation,
• the very broad meaning given to the concept of “Human Right” by Telecom Italia - it includes 
not only basic Human Rights, such as the right to a decent remuneration, non-discrimination, 
freedom from forced labour, etc., but also rights associated with the information society, there -
fore the right to access information and the right to have one’s privacy and safety protected 
online, which are of course material issues for a telecommunications company.   
In order to ensure that Human Rights are respected in its operations, Telecom Italia has adopted 
the UN framework set out in the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
Note that, given the cross-cutting nature of Human Rights with regard to the Group’s stakehold -64
BEING SUSTAINABLE: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESers, this paragraph covers the [G4-HR3], [G4-HR8], [G4-HR9], [G4-HR12] KPIs of the GRI G4 
standard. The Suppliers chapter sets out the [G4-HR1], [G4-HR4], [G4-HR5], [G4-HR6], [G4-
HR7], [G4-HR10] and [G4-HR11] KPIs, while the Telecom Italia People chapter sets out the [G4-
HR2], [G4-HR4], [G4-HR5], [G4-HR6] and [G4-HR7] KPIs.
UN GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON BUSINESS
AND HUMAN RIGHTS
In 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Council unanimously approved the result of the work 
carried out by Prof. Ruggie, considering it a global benchmark for “Business and Human Rights”. 
The “Guiding Principles” were drawn up to implement the framework founded on the following 
three pillars:
• the duty of States to protect people against Human Rights abuses by third parties, including 
companies;
• the responsibility of companies to respect Human Rights (companies must operate with due 
diligence in order to avoid human rights violations and must commit themselves to solving any 
damage caused); the need to allow the fullest possible access to effective remedies by the 
victims of Human Rights abuses.Page Content
Furthermore, in order to strengthen the responsibility and transparency of large companies, at the 
end of 2014 the Parliament and Council of the European Union published Directive 2014/95/EU 
regarding disclosure of non-financial and diversity information.Relevant company policies:  Code of Ethics 
and Conduct, Group social responsibility 
policy, Supplier Relations Policy, Internal 
Control Reporting Procedure, Board of 
Statutory Auditors Reporting Procedure, 
Service Charter and General Subscription 
Conditions, Self-regulation Code for mobile 
services and Code of Conduct for premium 
services, Guidelines for responsible 
marketing, Telecom Italia Disclosures 
pursuant to article 13 of the Privacy Code, 
available at www.telecomitalia.com.
Effectiveness and monitoring:  in order 
to monitor the comprehensiveness and effectiveness of management processes 
and ensure the monitoring required by 
normal business procedures, Telecom 
Italia has performed a human rights due 
diligence according to the UN guidelines.  
Due diligence is a continuous improvement 
process. The results of the first phase are 
shown in this section, together with the quality 
improvement targets identified.  Telecom Italia 
also carefully monitors and analyses reports 
of any human rights violations received via 
the reporting mechanisms made available to 
stakeholders. The scarcity of such reports is 
an indication of how effective the company’s 
human rights protection processes are.65
TELECOM ITALIA AND THE HUMAN RIGHTS
DUE DILIGENCE
[G4-DMA Assessment]  Between 2008 and 2011, Telecom Italia was a member of the Global Com -
pact Human Rights Working Group set up by the Global Compact Board in 2006 with the aim of 
providing a strategic Human Rights input to the Global Compact. As of 2012, Telecom Italia has 
been involved in the Company Coaching and Capacity Assessment on Business and Human 
Rights, organised by the Global Compact Network Germany, as part of which the OCAI2 (Or-
ganisational Capacity Assessment Instrument) for human rights due diligence in companies has 
also been illustrated. More specifically, the OCAI is a self-assessment questionnaire consisting of 
twenty-two questions focused on the main elements of corporate responsibility for Human Rights. 
In completing the OCAI, for each question, the company/department assesses its own position on 
a spectrum of six levels that range from “non-responsive” to “Human Rights promoter”3.
 Telecom Italia is still one of the members of the Peer Learning Group on Business and Human 
Rights  set up within the Global Compact Network Germany.
The due diligence includes checking that the company has a policy that outlines the company’s 
commitment to Human Rights and the availability of processes through which one can:
• assess the effects/impacts, both existing and potential, on Human Rights of the company’s 
activities and relations;
• integrate - within the company - the commitment to the Human Rights policy and mitigate the risks;
• track the company’s performance and communicate how Human Rights issues will be dealt with;
• remedy any damage caused. 
The goals of the due diligence include:
• to increase awareness within the company of its current position regarding respect for Hu -
man Rights,  
• to highlight any gaps or inconsistencies between the company’s various departments, 
• to assess and improve the ability to manage the impacts on Human Rights,
• to allow comparison with similar companies, 
• to establish the appropriate objectives for the company (considering its profile) and the path it 
needs to follow to achieve them. 
[G4-HR9]  The due diligence so far carried out by Telecom Italia has involved the Group’s two 
biggest entities in terms of workforce and investments: the Domestic BU (excluding Olivetti and 
Telecom Italia Sparkle) and the Brazil BU. In terms of workforce, the percentage of employees 
2 Created by Twentyfifty Ltd with funding from the Global Compact Germany Foundation.
3 The two lowest levels identify a reactive approach to Human Rights (“non-responsive” and “reactive” respectively), the third is an 
active approach (“efficient management”), the three higher levels represent a proactive approach to Human Rights (rising from 
“proactive experimentation” to “strategic integration” and finally “Human Rights promoter”).  The tool does not operate as a com -
pliance expert.66
BEING SUSTAINABLE: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIEScovered by the due diligence in 2014 is 98%.
In order to perform the due diligence, Telecom Italia has decided:
• to not consider the question relating to “conflict-affected areas” as Telecom Italia does not 
operate in any such areas;
• to consider the following Human Rights:
- Basic Human Rights for the Group’s resources, i.e. rights regarding forced labour, child la -
bour, health and safety, freedom of association and collective bargaining, [G4-DMA Non-dis -
crimination]  discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours, remuneration;
- Basic Human Rights of suppliers’ resources;
- Rights relating to the health and safety of workers; 
-  Rights relating to the health and safety of suppliers’ workers; 
-  Rights relating to the privacy of employees and customers; 
-  Rights relating to the subjects of trade union agreements and bargaining; 
-  Rights relating to access to telecommunications services; 
-  Requirements relating to the delivery of Added Value services and to freedom of expression 
(including adult content, gaming and other services);  
-  Requirements relating to equal opportunities. 
All departments responsible for processes with an impact on identified Human Rights and each 
organisational unit completed the self-assessment questionnaire, in accordance with their mission. 
The Corporate Social Responsibility department examined the questionnaires of all Telecom Italia’s or -
ganisational units involved in the due diligence and, during the first half of 2014, it completed the feed -
back with the Italian ones, in order to examine the contributions in detail and determine action plans for 
the level two and level three self-assessments (3.1% and 8.6% of all responses respectively)4. 
The following emerged at the end of the feedback:
• on a scale of one to six, the average score for all the answers was 4.4 (most of the contribu -
tions were supported by documents and/or explanations);
• the need to improve the Telecom Italia Group’s Human Rights policy (around 2/3 of the insuffi -
cient self-assessments regarded this aspect);
• the usefulness of organising internal Human Rights training courses.
 
A draft of the new Human Rights policy was therefore drawn up, which was submitted for assess -
ment by the Global Compact Network Italy, and activities were launched as required to organise a 
Human Rights training course (both initiatives will be completed in 2015). Furthermore, feedback 
meetings will shortly be planned in Brazil.
4 No level one response was supplied during the first round.67
REPORTS AND INCIDENTS
[G4-DMA Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms]
The Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct requires employees, collaborators, consultants and 
third parties who have business relations with the Group - in respect of activities and services of 
interest to the Group - to inform promptly the Head of the Telecom Italia Audit Department, either 
directly or via their line manager, of any violations or inducements to violate:
• legal or regulatory requirements
• provisions of the Code of Ethics
• internal procedures
and of any irregularities and/or negligence. The handling of reports, including those for which the 
Head of the Audit Department is responsible (known as whistleblowing) is a requirement of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Internal Control reporting procedure (see the Corporate Governance Outline section of the 
Sustainability and Governance  chapter) requires the Head of the Audit Department, who answers 
directly to the Board of Directors autonomously and independently of the senior executives:
• to ensure that reports are received, logged and analysed;
• based on the results of the preliminary analysis, to launch a structured audit activity (if required);
• to communicate the results of the analyses to the relevant departments, so that they may take 
the appropriate corrective actions (if required); the non-conformity is only closed once the 
Audit Department has verified the effectiveness of the corrective actions implemented by the 
relevant departments; 
• to ensure the traceability and retention of the documentation regarding the reports received 
and their analysis;
• to update the reporting procedure and disseminate it in agreement with the People Value de -
partment.
The procedure is available both on the company intranet and at www.telecomitalia.com. Employ -
ees were made aware of this in a letter from the CEO and a news item published on the company 
intranet.
During the 2014 financial year, this procedure led to a total of 91 reports being received, of which 
21 were anonymous and 70 non-anonymous, classified as follows:
a) 34 of a “business” nature (processes that could be improved, etc.);
b) 25 of a “personal” nature (employees in difficult situations, etc.);
c) 25 customer complaints (poor service);
d) 7 “irrelevant” ones in terms of the purpose of the procedure.68
BEING SUSTAINABLE: RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESThe other reporting procedure available to all stakeholders, through which one tenth of all reports 
are normally received, is the Board of Statutory Auditors’ Reporting Procedure5. As of 2015, these 
procedures will be unified. 
[G4-HR12]  The Human Rights related reports received through the main tool provided by the Com -
pany for stakeholders to report any kind of irregularity or breach of the Code of Ethics, i.e. the 
Internal Control reporting procedure, are given below. Note that the concept of Human Right used 
to complete the tables is the same as the one used for the due diligence described above. In par -
ticular, any substantiated reports relating to systematic non-availability of access to the Web have 
been considered as violations of the right of access to the information society.
5 No substantiated report regarding human rights has been received through this procedure in recent years. A third type of reporting 
mechanism exists, which is the Supervisory Body reporting procedure (see the Corporate Governance Outline section of the Su -
stainability and Governance chapter).69
[G4-HR12]  Reports received and handled in Italy regarding Human Rights
2014 substantiated 2013 substantiated 2012 substantiated
Total number of reports 
regarding human rights 
received through the main 
reporting mechanisms7 3 7 6 6 5
Of which handled during the 
reporting period7 3 7 6 6 5
Of which, resolved during the 
reporting period7 3 6 5 4 3
Total number of reports 
received prior to the survey 
period which were resolved 
during the reference period1 1 2 2 0 0
[G4-HR12]  Reports received and handled in Brazil regarding Human Rights
2014 substantiated 2013 substantiated 2012 substantiated
Total number of reports 
regarding human rights 
received through the main 
reporting mechanisms5 2 0 0 0 0
Of which handled during the 
reporting period5 2 0 0 0 0
Of which, resolved during the 
reporting period4 2 0 0 0 0
Total number of reports 
received prior to the survey 
period which were resolved 
during the reference period0 0 0 0 0 0
The reports dealt with the health and safety of workers, relations with suppliers, privacy and 
network coverage. The few cases in which the reports were substantiated were closed with cor -
rective actions. The reason why reports in Brazil were not recorded until 2014 is that reporting 
mechanisms had not previously been structured and communicated efficiently . 
The small number of reports and of substantiated reports is a clear indication of the efficiency of 
the Group’s Human Rights management system. 
[G4-HR3], [G4-HR8]  Over the past 3 years, no incidents have been reported in the Group regarding 
discrimination or violations of the rights of indigenous people6.
6 [G4-DMA Indigenous Rights]  The only geographical area with indigenous people in which Telecom Italia operates is Brazil. 
However, telecommunications activities do not have negative impacts on these people.The Company’s innovative
services to improve
people’s quality of lifeCUSTOMERS72
CUSTOMERSSTRATEGY
Telecom Italia Group companies base the excellence of their products and services on customer care. 
Their aim is to ensure an immediate and effective response to customer requirements, model -
ling their conduct on business propriety, transparency in contractual relations and undertakings, 
courtesy and collaboration, ensuring customer focus and in full compliance with the principles 
established by company procedures. Cooperation with consumer associations, which includes 
entering into specific agreements with them, is also highly valued.
[G4-DMA Product and Service Labeling], [G4-DMA Marketing Communications], [G4-DMA Customer Priva -
cy], [G4-DMA Compliance]
• listening and transparency towards customers,
• network coveragei,
• innovation managementii,
• sensitive data management and protection,
• child protection.
Relevant company policies:  Service 
Charter and General Subscription 
Conditions, Self-regulation Code for 
mobile services and Code of Conduct 
for premium services, Guidelines 
for responsible marketing, Telecom 
Italia Disclosures pursuant to article 
13 of the Privacy Code, available at 
www.telecomitalia.com.
Effectiveness and monitoring:   the 
company uses some numerical KPIs 
in order to monitor the effectiveness of 
management processes and ensure the monitoring required by quality 
management systems and internal 
control structures. This chapter 
presents the ones related to Customer 
Satisfaction, broadband coverage, 
the number of conciliation requests 
received and resolved, the number of 
reports received. The KPIs for which 
the Company has set itself numerical 
targets are presented in an appendix 
to the report. In particular, targets are 
listed for service activation, complaints, 
support and maintenance, availability 
and broadband network coverage.
I This subject is also dealt with in Part I, Telecom Italia, a group of strategic relevance.
II This subject is also dealt with in the Community chapter, and in Telecom Italia: a group of strategic relevance.MATERIAL ISSUES IN THIS CHAPTER73
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS 
The relevant stakeholders are:
• consumer customers, particularly customers with special needs (the disabled, the elderly, children, etc.);
• business customers and Public Administration;
• consumer associations.
QUALITY OF SERVICE
AND CUSTOMER LISTENING
[G4-DMA Product and Service Labeling] Developing the capacity to fully satisfy customers is, for Tel -
ecom Italia, a strategic factor for growth.
The global spread of digitisation and social media have strengthened consumers, changing the way in 
which their relationship with the brand is built and managed, In this context of general transformation, un -
derstanding and measuring customer expectations, in order to offer them the best experience (Customer 
Experience) and adopting a culture of continuous improvement, are the drivers needed to assert the 
centrality of the customer for the benefit of economic sustainability, loyalty and positive word-of-mouth. 
The main activities conducted in 2014, aimed at improving the Customer Experience and ensuring 
that employees play an active part in developing innovative and effective solutions for users, included:
• Customer Experience Management: towards the end of the year, Telecom Italia launched a 
programme aimed at redefining the way in which the quality perceived by customers is meas -
ured, by adopting Customer Experience Management methods. This system provides meth -
ods and tools to help the company progress towards a customer-centred culture that reflects 
the evolution and increasingly high expectations of consumers. Its cornerstone is continuous 
and structured listening to the “voice of the customer”, which drives the design of products, ser -
vices and company processes. Furthermore, it promotes a new way of working, encouraging 
collaboration between departments to benefit the overall customer experience; 
• Customer Journey Lab: the Customer Experience is tested by a group of colleagues/testers. 
The project aims to allow a group of colleagues to experience the service received by Consum -
er customers by selecting, purchasing, activating and using TIM and Telecom Italia services and 
similar services offered by competitors, in order to determine the customer’s perception and 
the main areas requiring attention/strengths in the services offered by Tim/Telecom Italia and 
the competition. During 2014, this method was applied to the fixed line services (fibre services, 
transfer to Telecom Italia and transfer between operators), mobile services (LTE offer) and sup -
port services (Caring APP) and content delivery (entertainment, sport, publishing, music);
• “Chi-ama Telecom”: a tool used by Telecom Italia employees to channel reports received from 
customers, friends or acquaintances regarding the fixed line service requirements of consumer 
customers, of a commercial or technical nature. The project makes employees active par -
ticipants as the promoters of solutions in the management of customers. During 2014, an 74
CUSTOMERSincrease was recorded in the use of this tool by employees;
• monitoring quality of service in the mobile network as perceived by customers: identifies actions 
to improve and enhance the offer, caring and quality of service delivered. Uses continuous and 
unbiased observation of service levels experienced by customers, based on their behaviour 
and the context in which they use the various services. This method is based on the use of soft -
ware installed on mobile devices (smart phones, Internet dongles, tablets, etc.) of customers 
who have signed up to the initiative and continuously monitors the customer’s experience;
• the Quality Repository: the tool that coordinates all the information regarding the results drawn from 
customer listening activities and supports their dissemination and interpretation within the organisation.
Since 2012, in full compliance with privacy protection requirements, Telecom Italia has been mon -
itoring “conversations” on the Web regarding quality in the Telecommunications sector, relating to 
both fixed and mobile communication and the consumer and business segments. This monitoring 
takes place using a tool that performs a semantic search and analysis of the subjects most fre -
quently discussed on the Internet and analyses the “tone” (web sentiment) of conversations about 
Telecom Italia and its competitors. The aim is to make a prompt assessment of how customers 
perceive offers and services, gaining a greater insight into specific issues to support the business.
In 2014, Telecom Italia strengthened its 
presence on Social Networks (Facebook 
and Twitter), focusing on customer care in 
particular. The results show a high level of 
satisfaction, with considerable increases 
compared to previous years, particularly 
thanks to the greater ability to provide 
answers to customers. Excellent results 
have been achieved in terms of response 
times and the number of responses, leading 
TIM to be rated constantly among the top 
10 brands on Facebook nationally (source 
SocialBakers). Social network activity also 
provided further details and explanations 
on all the products offered by the company, providing customers with an easy-to-use 
tool for gathering information about all the 
sales-related aspects of our operations.
Telecom Italia also consolidated its 
leadership in the general Community 
with the following brands: Telecom Italia, 
TIM, Impresa Semplice, Cubovision, 
Cubomusica, Working Capital, Serie A TIM, 
Nuvola Italiana (5 million likers and just 
under 1 million followers).
For information about the social networking 
tools available to call centre operators 
(TUO), see the sustainability section of the 
telecomitalia.com website.      USE OF SOCIAL NETWORKING
IN CUSTOMER CARE75
Confirming its commitment to quality of service and transparency in its relations with customers, 
TIM Brasil is the first Latin American company to have launched a “Portas Abertas”1 (open doors) 
website in 2013, showing the plans for expansion of the technical network. Among other things, 
the website offers customers the chance to:
• interact with the company regarding the technical coverage map for each individual street;
• receive notifications regarding both maintenance and any failures to achieve technical network 
objectives;
• provide TIM with feedback on the perceived quality of the network.
Among the actions taken in 2014, it is worth highlighting the launch of the online chat service 
(available on the Web and via the TIM mobile app for smart phones), the improvement in several 
automatic and digital portal services, the humanisation of caring on digital channels in general, 
the creation of an online (web chat) channel for customers with questions about Anatel (Brazilian 
National Telecommunications Agency).
TIM Brasil also talks to its customers via Twitter “@ TIMBrasil” (https://twitter.com/TIMBrasil), 
which as of December 2014 had more than 516,000 followers, and Facebook (www.facebook.
com/timbrasil) with over 1,140,000 likers. Since 2012, the company has also activated a further 
channel “@ TIM_AJUDA” (https://twitter.com/TIM_AJUDA), which allows it to communicate with 
customers via Twitter. As of the end of 2014, this channel has over 99,000 followers.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
[G4-PR5]  
The customer Listening System aimed at monitoring customer satisfaction covers the following areas:
• operational processes and events assessed on a “reactive” basis, i.e. immediately after a spe -
cific event (e.g. delivery, assurance, sale, sales support); 
• customer contact channels (e.g. points of sale, customer care, web, billing);
• key products and services (e.g. fixed and mobile broadband);
• life cycle (customer journey) monitored during the main stages of the customer’s relationship 
with his/her operator;
• customer satisfaction assessed on a “reflective” basis, i.e. not in connection with a specific 
event, determined by the Customer Satisfaction Index - CSI - which adopts the international 
statistical survey standards (ACSI - American Customer Satisfaction Index model) to deter -
mine perceived quality in relation to the main satisfaction drivers for the various customer 
segments (consumer fixed, consumer mobile, small enterprise fixed and mobile, large/medium 
enterprise and vertical), particularly in comparison to similar services offered by the leading 
competitors (except for the vertical segment). The CSI is certified in accordance with the UNI 
1 In the second half of 2013, TIM Brasil launched “Portas Abertas App” for Android and iOS systems. The app includes the main 
content of the “Portas Abertas” website.76
CUSTOMERS11098:2003 Guideline (for determining customer satisfaction and measuring the respective 
process indicators).  Customer Satisfaction targets are included in the management (MBO) 
and collective (PR) incentive schemes. 
Telecom Italia has begun tests to develop the listening system into a Customer Experience Man -
agement (CEM) system, including measurement of the Net Promoter Score  (NPS), which meas -
ures customer word-of-mouth based on the balance between “detractor” customers and “promot -
er” customers and on investigating the reasons given by customers. The tests aimed at defining 
the new methodology are currently being developed. 
The information in the following table refers to the average annual progressive value of total 
customer satisfaction with Telecom Italia’s customer care service measured on a “reactive” basis.
With a view to assessing the customer care service in particular, the questionnaires were revised 
in 2014 to assess the customer experience more accurately, moving from satisfaction to assess -
ing the service received (on a scale of 1 to 10). 
Type of customer care customer 
Overall satisfaction
2014 2013 2012
187 consumer fixed telephony 8.08 8.48 8.46
119 consumer mobile telephony 8.49 8.72 8.69
191 business fixed telephony 7.79 8.18 8.1
191 business mobile telephony 7.83 8.13 8.22
Average satisfaction measured on a scale of 1-10, where 1 means “not at all satisfied” and 10 means “completely satisfied”.
The CSI values of Telecom Italia by segment are shown below.
Customer segment
2014 2013 2012
Consumer 76.28 75.84 75.45
Small Enterprise 65.85 65.56 65.88
Large/Medium Enterprise + Vertical 72.26 71.75 71.38
Totals 73.47 73.01 72.76
Average satisfaction is measured on a scale of 0-100, where 0 means “not at all satisfied” and 100 means “completely satisfied”. 
For the purposes of this trend, the 2012 result has been recalculated based on the new CSI 2013 model.77
TIM Brasil carries out two types of nation-wide customer satisfaction surveys by means of interviews:
• the TIM and competitors’ consumer customer survey, conducted twice a year (May and No -
vember) on a “reflective” basis, measures the customer’s general perception of the company 
(e.g. sales structure, call centre, network coverage and quality of the network, also as regards 
the Internet connection, technical support, the price of services, promotions, billing);
• the call centres survey, conducted once a month on a “reactive” basis, with the involvement of TIM 
customers (consumer and business) who have contacted the call centre in the previous 15 days .
2014 2013 2012
CONSUMER CUSTOMER SURVEY(*)7.54 7.92 8.03
CONSUMER MOBILE TELEPHONY CALL CENTRE SURVEY(**)7.30 7.31 7.47
BUSINESS MOBILE TELEPHONY CALL CENTRE SURVEY(***)7.16 7.05 6.80
(*) Average index, on a scale of 0 to 10.
(**) Average mobile consumer customer satisfaction index on a Scale of 0 to 10. 
(***) Average mobile business customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.    
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION WITHIN INCENTIVES SCHEMES  
Telecom Italia’s managerial incentive systems include many targets associated with customer 
satisfaction, in keeping with the business plan for the current period. The targets are measured 
using customer satisfaction indices, monitored by means of periodic surveys; for 2014, the man -
agement incentive scheme provides for two different indices, one related to customer segments 
in which Telecom Italia has already achieved optimum positioning compared to competitors and 
the other relating to customer segments with a more critical competitive position. The purpose of 
this segmentation of the customer satisfaction indicator is to pursue an improvement in the critical 
segments and to maintain the position achieved in the optimum segments.  
Specific targets associated with quality parameters and consistent with the criteria established 
for corporate and segment customer satisfaction indicators have been established in the collec -
tive incentive systems for Telecom Italia staff and for particularly critical processes and activities 
(commercial and technical front-end).
Finally, specific objectives associated with customer satisfaction have been set in the collective 
incentive scheme - known as CANVASS - which involves some of the staff in the Caring Services 
Customer Care, Business Customer Care and Technology Open Access departments.78
CUSTOMERSCERTIFICATIONS 
For areas of the company which have a significant impact on the community, because of the prod -
ucts and services they offer, the Group has obtained certifications to ensure that procedures and 
conduct are adopted that meet the expectations of the relevant stakeholders. 
The certifications achieved for the main activities are shown below:
• quality of products and services offered: UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 standard; 
• environmental protection: UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 standard;
• efficient energy management : ISO 50001 standard;
• protection of human capital by companies and suppliers: SA 8000 standard;
• health and safety at work: BS OHSAS 18001:2007 standard;
• general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories: ISO/IEC 
17025:2005 standard;
• Information Technology services: ISO/IEC 20000-1:2005 standard;
• data security: ISO 27001:2005 standard;
• software and IT solution production processes: CMMI-DEV (Capability Maturity Model Integra -
tion - Development) certifications;
• respect for principles intended to promote trust between consumers and businesses operating 
on the Internet: WebTrust (Certification Authorities - SSL Baseline Requirements Audit Criteria);
• fulfilment of the AGID (Digital Italy Agency) requirements to perform the role of:
- Accredited Certifier for Qualified Signatures, the National Service Charter and Timestamping;
- Accredited Operator for Certified Email;
- Accredited Custodian for storing electronic documents.
Detailed information about the certifications achieved by the various departments/companies of 
the Group is available in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website
In Brazil, as required by ANATEL (National Telecommunications Agency), the Brazilian telecom -
munications authority, TIM Celular has also achieved KPI Survey Method Quality Certificates for 
the whole country regarding:
• personal mobile service
• switched fixed telephone service
• multimedia communications services.79
DIGITAL INCLUSION 
[G4-EC7], [G4-EC8]  The spread of information and communication technology creates opportu -
nities for progress.
Telecom Italia is aware of the need to manage this development in the best possible way, helping to 
coordinate the actions of all the players in the broadband ecosystem, particularly in order to avoid 
exposing the community to technological and geographical divides. The impacts of digital inclusion 
are also dealt with in Part One of this report, Telecom Italia: a group of a strategic relevance . 
DIGITAL INCLUSION GEOGRAFICA
In order to deal with the digital divide that has arisen in the so-called marginal areas of Italy, which 
would otherwise remain excluded from the mainstream plans of telecommunications operators, 
owing to the low profitability of investments, between 2005 and 2014, Telecom Italia implemented 
a programme of extraordinary investments allowing ADSL coverage to be provided for approxi -
mately 4,150 new municipalities.
In December 2014 Telecom Italia has about 9,500 active stations, including 8,000 optical fibre 
ones. Alongside its plan to extend coverage, Telecom Italia has launched an additional plan to ex -
pand the active network2, where necessary, to guarantee full usability of the service by customers 
and the development of digital inclusion.
The following table shows the percentages of coverage in  December of the last three years.
Description 2014 2013 2012
ADSL coverage(*)98.75 98.4 98
UMTS and HSDPA coverage(**)96 87.5 85.6
LTE coverage(**)77 49 14.9
Next Generation Plan (fixed telephony) coverage(***)28.1 16.8 ---------
(*)  The percentage refers to fixed Telecom Italia telephone lines. 
(**) The percentage refers to the resident population. Coverage values are subject to change based on ISTAT and urbanisations updates.
(***) The percentage is determined by the ratio between the number of properties connected with “cabinets” reached by access optical 
fibres (or which can be served directly from an exchange if within acceptable distances) and the total number of properties that 
have or have had active telephone lines in the past.
   
In order to promote digital inclusion and the consequent coverage of the remaining geographical 
areas of “market failure”, Telecom Italia cannot avoid engaging in joint “public-private” initiatives.
Two types of action have been taken so far, both fully in line with European competition rules:
2 The plan consists of actions to ensure full enjoyment of the service by customers by expanding the capacity of equipment used, in 
terms of both user ports and bandwidth available on the Internet. The technical term for this is desaturation of DSLAM equipment, 
performed either in advance or once specific broadband quality and availability thresholds are exceed.80
CUSTOMERS• the first is a “central” approach involving collaboration with Infratel Italia S.p.A. (Infrastrutture e 
Telecomunicazioni per l’Italia)3, the public entity building passive broadband (fibre optic cable), 
organic and integrated infrastructure throughout the country, with the aim of increasing digital 
inclusion in lower income areas of the country;
• the second is distinguished by a “local” approach whereby regions promote projects aimed 
at increasing digital inclusion, e.g. through forms of financing centred on public tenders using 
the so-called claw-back model, which provides for contributions to be paid to offset the lack of 
return on investments. 
Using the above forms of intervention, in some cases simultaneously, Telecom Italia has in re -
cent years signed cooperation agreements with several local entities, some of which were in the 
course of being implemented in 2014. These include the following: 
• Memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with the Emilia Romagna Region and Lepida4 
in 2010, aimed at setting up a technical committee to widen digital inclusion in the region. This 
agreement was renewed in 2012 with a view to further widening digital inclusion and improving 
services providing access to information technologies (by equipping a further 70 exchanges 
with optical fibres by March 2014).
• the award of a tender in 2012 by the Marche region to complete digital inclusion (through state-
of-the-art broadband services with speeds of up to 20 Mbit/s) in the region’s market failure areas. 
The project is currently being implemented and will be completed in the first quarter of 2015.
During the second half of 2013 and throughout 2014, as part of the National Broadband Plan, 
the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) issued eleven regional tenders through Infratel, 
identified as the implementing organisation and assignee of the funds provided.
The funds allocated for projects to extend broadband technology to digital inclusion areas amount 
to 353 million euros, including 225 million euros to be allocated to the clawback model: the con -
tribution for each Region can correspond to a maximum of 70% of the cost of the project to widen 
digital inclusion. The tenders issued relate to the following eleven regions: Calabria, Campania, 
Emilia-Romagna, Lazio, Liguria, Marche, Molise, Sicily, Tuscany, Umbria and Veneto.
Tenders for a further six regions are expected to be issued during 2015: Abruzzo, Basilicata, 
Lombardy, Piedmont, Apulia and Sardinia.
For the remaining 3 regions (Friuli Venezia-Giulia, Trentino Alto-Adige and Valle d’Aosta) no ac -
tions is planned on the part of MISE as these regions have their own independent plans.
Telecom Italia has participated in all the tenders issued thus far, with the exception of the one for 
3 The company was set up on the initiative of the Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Development and Invitalia, 
the national inward investment and business development agency, and is the entity implementing the Broadband Programme.
4 Lepida SpA is the operating tool promoted by the Emilia-Romagna region for the consistent and unitary planning, development and 
management of the telecommunications infrastructure of entities connected to the Lepida network and the delivery of IT services 
included in the network architecture. The company also promotes and encourages measures to increase digital inclusion in rural 
and mountain areas, where supplying connectivity is difficult for market operators owing to the low return on investments.81
Liguria.  It has won the tenders for Calabria, Campania, Lazio and Veneto (for a total allocated 
contribution of 36 million euros) while the tenders for Emilia-Romagna, Marche, Umbria and Lig -
uria were awarded to NGI S.p.A.
The tenders for Tuscany, Sicily and Molise are currently being awarded.
SOCIO-CULTURAL DIGITAL INCLUSION
In a world in which technology facilitates contact with people, by disseminating broadband tech -
nology and the services it enables, Telecom Italia is making a contribution to overcoming the so -
cio-cultural barriers that restrict the opportunity to take part in the information society and enjoy its 
benefits. The innovative services aimed at promoting the digitisation of important areas of activity 
(e.g. healthcare) include those listed in the following paragraph.
For information regarding the initiatives implemented by Telecom Italia for the social inclusion of 
customers with specific needs (hearing impaired, elderly, children, etc.) see The Community and the 
following website http://www.telecomitalia.it/assistenza/info-consumatori/agevolazioni-economiche.  
TIM Brasil has continued to promote commercial offers to encourage the spread of the mobile 
web, particularly among the poorer classes. These consist of low cost services which are par -
ticularly suited to helping to widen the socio-cultural digital inclusion (e.g. INFINITY WEB and 
LIBERTY WEB).
INNOVATIVE SERVICES 
[G4-EC7], [G4-EC8]  
SMART SERVICES
In the context of public sector services, in accordance with the Italian Digital Agenda or ADI 
(Agenda Digitale Italiana) and European Directives, in 2014 Telecom Italia consolidated and 
streamlined its offer of Smart Services (a range of services for energy efficiency and digital servic -
es in urban areas), Urban Security and Digital School initiatives providing new services dedicated 
to security, the environment, mobility and schools, in order to ensure a comprehensive response 
to the needs of cities and surrounding areas. The aim is to promote the “smart city” model to im -
prove quality of life by developing innovative digital services to ferry communities towards a Smart 
Community model (as described in the Digital Agenda) that enables new forms of cooperation 
between citizens and public authorities.82
CUSTOMERS
SMART TOWN SMART BUILDINGNUVOLA IT 
URBAN SECURITYNUVOLA IT 
DIGITAL SCHOOL
Integrated management of 
local infrastructure networks. 
Enabled services:
• planning of electricity 
consumption and maintenance; 
• video surveillance; 
• digital communication 
with citizens and users in 
general (e.g. tourists);
• Wi-Fi hot spots 
(broadband access);Smart management and automation of buildings. Enabled services: • monitoring and reduction 
of consumption (electricity, water, etc.), mainly for Central Government Bodies;
• video surveillance;
• digital communication;
• extension of the IT 
network (LAN) of buildings by using the electricity network via a 
device that connects to 
the power socket.Management of participated security and urban territory control. Enabled services:• computerised 
management of the penalty issuing process for traffic and other violations for local public administration;
• participated manage-
ment of urban issues, with reporting of safety-related issues, antisocial activities and 
urban decay;
• real time monitoring of 
the urban and natural 
environment of cities (humidity, temperature, noise pollution, C02, 
gaseous pollutants, etc.);
• monitoring of available 
public parking spaces.Integrated digital management of teaching 
and school administration. Enabled services:• broadband and mobile 
connectivity;
• teaching cloud (services 
and solutions, storage for multimedia content);
• digital learning tools 
(distance learning, collaborative and shared 
learning with education 
platforms, social learning);
• classroom computerisa-
tion (LIM
1, notebooks 
and tablets);
• school-family interaction 
systems;
• digitisation of 
administrative services.
1   Interactive Multimedia Board.
The Environment section reports estimates of energy savings of some Smart Services.
For further information regarding Smart Services, see the sustainability section of the telecomi -
talia.com website.
INNOVATIVE E-HEALTH SERVICES
Telecom Italia is actively involved, either alone or in partnership with external partners, in devising 
and developing healthcare services at national, regional and local level. Designed to improve the 
Italian health service and the quality and effectiveness of healthcare, the services allow doctors, 
nurses and patients to carry out many activities remotely. 
The main electronic healthcare service applications available or being developed include:
• value products and services for general practice, aimed at enabling new primary care models 
and proactive medical services (e.g. screening campaigns managed by general practitioners);
• legal archiving of digital diagnostic images on the network, ensuring the authenticity and integ -
rity of documents;
• management of healthcare, administrative, logistical processes and a patient’s healthcare in -
formation throughout the period of hospitalisation;
• the management and coordination of operational facilities dedicated to emergencies (118) and 
continuity of assistance;
• healthcare monitoring (Nuvola IT Home Doctor).
All the solutions comply with the data privacy and transaction security requirements of healthcare 
processes.This allows patients suffering from chronic 
illnesses, or in post-hospital care, to monitor 
their physiological parameters (body weight, 
blood pressure, heart rate, blood oxygen levels, 
glycaemia, lung capacity, electrocardiogram, 
etc.) directly from their own homes or in properly 
equipped facilities (medical centres, medical 
practices etc.). The system consists of a 
technological platform and software configured 
on the patient’s mobile phone (or alternatively a 
PC or tablet) and on the healthcare personnel’s 
PC. Based on the plans established by the 
doctor, patients receive reminders on their 
mobile phones regarding the measurements to 
be taken, they take these measurements using 
portable electro-medical devices equipped 
with a Bluetooth interface and, using their 
mobile phone, they send the measurement 
automatically to the online platform. 
The benefits of the service are that it improves 
the patient’s quality of life while optimising 
costs for the healthcare organisation. 
In order to enhance the functionality of 
the service and increase Telecom Italia’s 
presence in the social care solutions sector, 
experimental activities are under way in various areas, such as:
• adding new devices aimed at increasing the 
measurements that can be monitored (e.g. 
physical activity and quality of sleep via 
wearable devices, blood and urine testing 
via Point of Care systems);
• the use of new Internet-connected TVs to 
improve the usability of healthcare services 
using various ways of displaying measures 
and accessing services;
• prevention and wellness services aimed at 
providing solutions for healthy people to help 
them maintain, if not improve, their health, 
particularly in unconventional environments 
such as schools or workplaces;
• services to support mobility in patients 
with severe limitations who lose their way 
very easily and might find themselves in 
dangerous places, using tracking solutions 
and mechanisms for family members or 
service centres to provide assistance;
• video-communication services to support 
telecare and telerehabilitation activities (e.g. 
patients can engage in telerehabilitation 
while being monitored by doctors 
interactively from a remote location).NUVOLA IT HOME DOCTOR 
8384CUSTOMERS
The experimental monitoring and 
telerehabilitation system for patients with 
Parkinson’s disease developed with CNR-
IEIIT (Institute of Electronics, Computer and 
Telecommunication Engineering) in Turin, the 
University of Parma and the Italian Auxology Institute of Verbania, has entered its validation 
phase.  For more information, please, refer 
to the “Commitment to the Ambient Assisted 
Living (AAL) with European projects and field 
trials” in the Community section.
The experimental service allowing for 
assistance to be provided to elderly people 
remotely, monitoring them and receiving alarm 
signals in cases of emergency.  For more information, please, refer to the “Commitment 
to the Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) with 
European projects and field trials” in the 
Community section.
This is an experimental motor telerehabilitation 
service which allows medical personnel 
remotely to monitor the conditions of patients 
with orthopaedic or neuromotor problems. 
The prototype, currently being tested, has 
been developed for the rehabilitation of knees, 
although the application can be used for other 
conditions.
The system allows doctors to evaluate 
compliance with the established rehabilitation 
programme and the correctness of exercises 
performed. 
Movement data is collected by sensors worn 
by the patient, which measure acceleration, 
angular speed and magnetic field along the 
reference axes. The data is sent by Bluetooth to a PC, where an application processes it in 
real time in order to extract information that 
can be used to define the movements and 
store them. 
The application can reduce the number of 
physiotherapy sessions at the healthcare 
facility, while maintaining the level of care 
unchanged, reducing the costs borne by the 
healthcare system and the need for the patient 
to travel.
Working with JOL WHITE, which perfected 
the Android app and developed the respective 
data collection platform, each patient’s 
work plan can now be determined, checking 
performance and communicating with the 
patient by messaging and video calls.VREHAB 
CASSIEL 2.0 
FISIO@HOME 85E-LEARNING AND EVOLVED DIGITAL EDUCATION
The demand for evolved educational services has undergone a profound transformation in recent 
years. The focus has shifted from the simple electronic use of content to disseminating and shar -
ing knowledge by more engaging methods for young people based on web 2.0 models. The solu -
tions already integrated in the Telecom Italia e-learning platform and the prototypes of the ones 
developed by analysing the requirements of the educational world, meet the demand for evolved 
services based on collaboration, communication and the involvement of end users.
With regard to schools, at the end of 2014, Telecom Italia signed a three-year memorandum of under -
standing with the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) and launched the EducaTI 
project with the aim of creating an ecosystem to disseminate new educational tools and languages. 
The EducaTI initiative aims to promote the use of digital technology in Italian schools, testing and 
promoting new learning and teaching models with everyone who operates in the world of education.
The EducaTI project, which is one of the Group’s Corporate Shared Value (CSV) initiatives, is 
split into four initiatives:
• Program the future: introduces programming (coding) into Italian primary schools. Telecom Ita -
lia is the main partner in the project developed jointly with the national inter-university consor -
tium for information technology CINI (Consorzio Interuniversitario Nazionale per l’Informatica);
• Digital Tutors: digital training course devised and created by Telecom Italia jointly with regional 
education departments (Uffici Regionali Scolastici - USR) and the Post Office Police;
• You Teach: an annual national creative competition for upper secondary schools that stimu -
lates the skills of young people, encouraging them to create digital products that emphasize 
the positive aspects of the Internet;
• WITHYOUWEDO Crowdfunding: platform that encourages the development of education-re -
lated projects.
INFOMOBILITY 
For many years, Telecom Italia has been working with all the parties involved in the ITS (Intelligent 
Transport Systems) and Infomobility solutions market value chain. The main principle is to enable 
new services for vehicles, their occupants, Public Administration and private citizens, by gradually 
introducing the idea of a vehicle constantly connected with the outside world (e.g. service centre, 
roadside infrastructure, occupants, other vehicles, etc.).
ITS services contribute to improving the efficiency of the “transport system” with a positive impact 
in environmental terms (e.g. ecodriving, intelligent parking) and on reducing travel time (e.g. gath -
ering and management of traffic data, dynamic navigation), improving safety (e.g. eCall, BCall5, 
driving style monitoring, management of hazardous goods), improving efficiency in passenger 
and goods transport (e.g. city logistics, fleet management) and reducing the costs associated with 
5 It allows drivers to send information about their location and the conditions of their vehicle to a specific organisation that will “han -
dle” the case.86
CUSTOMERSurban and suburban mobility (e.g. access control and management).
TIM WALLET
The TIM Wallet service allows physical wallets to be replaced by virtual ones on mobile phones using 
NFC technology6. Purchases are made by placing the phone close to a reader, such as a POS or 
turnstile at the entrance to offices. Telecom Italia has tested the application with the involvement of 
its own employees. In future, virtual coupons will be available to spend at commercial retailers.
ENERGY@HOME
Telecom Italia, Enel Distribuzione and Indesit Company conducted an experiment with various 
users to verify the environmental benefits of improving the end customer’s electricity consump -
tion. Customers were supplied with a prototype web app and a number of electricity metering de -
vices, including a device for communicating directly with the Enel electricity meter. Over a period 
of around twelve months – also thanks to the involvement of users through appropriate feedback 
and newsletters - an average reduction in consumption of around 9% was recorded which, na -
tionally, would allow residential consumption to be reduced by 5.6 TWh, leading to a fall in CO2 
emissions of around 3 million tonnes.
6 Near Field Communication: a technology that supplies short range bi-directional wireless connectivity (up to a maximum of 10 cm).During 2014, Telecom Italia directed the 
end-to-end design and implementation 
of mobile solutions for EXPO 2015 with a 
smart city app prototype and an app for 
the “Padiglione Italia” (the Italian Pavilion). 
The smart city app provides information 
on participating countries, the urban and 
national environment, the partners and 
actors involved, in addition to offering services and entertainment during the 
event. The purpose is to establish an 
ongoing relationship with the visitor, using 
LTE mobile broadband connectivity.. For 
more information, please, refer to the 
“Commitment to the Ambient Assisted 
Living (AAL) with European projects and 
field trials” in the Community section.SMART CITY APP - EXPO 201587
RESEARCH AND INNOVATION IN E-SECURITY
Telecom Italia is involved in research and innovation regarding cyber security and more generally 
the security of information and networks. 
Activities carried out in 2014 included the following:
• development of new malware7 detection and analysis methods for fixed and mobile networks;
• enhancement of algorithms and tools for analysing DNS (Domain Name System) traffic to 
provide security;
• definition and implementation of a prototype Threat Intelligence Private Cloud platform to serve 
corporate security platforms, automatically gathering and sharing information useful for pre -
venting and combating emerging threats;
• extension of examination models to be used with visual analysis tools for security Big Data; 
• development of semantic rules in the field of cyber security, to be used in tools set up to per -
form Open Source Intelligence activities;
• implementation of various scouting and testing campaigns for innovative security solutions;
• development of international activities as part of initiatives funded by the European Union: 
IST NEMESYS (Information Society Technologies, enhanced NEtwork security for seamless 
service provisioning in the smart Mobile EcoSYStem) project and CIP (Competitiveness and 
Innovation framework Programme) Advanced Cyber Defence Center project;
• in the context of ETSI8, the development of TC CYBER focused on Cyber security, particularly 
the following areas:
- Cyber Security;
- Security of infrastructure, devices, services and protocols; 
- Security advice, guidance and operational security requirements to users, manufacturers and 
network and infrastructure operators; 
- Security tools and techniques to ensure security;
• consolidation, within the ETSI-ISG (Industry Specification Groups) working group, of a frame -
work of security indicators to be used to measure performance and benchmark security oper -
ations;
• continuation of other monitoring and guidance activities regarding standards and forums with work 
primarily focused on the GSMA Security Group and Mobile Malware Group, 3GPP9 and ETIS10;
• development of cooperation launched in 2013 with EIT (European institute of Innovation and 
Technology), ICT Labs and the Action Line Guide to Privacy, Security & Trust.
7 Software created to compromise the security of a computer or IT systems and devices. The term is a combination of the words 
malicious and software.
8 European Telecommunications Standards Institute.
9 The 3rd Generation Partnership Project.
10 The Global IT Association for Telecommunications.88
CUSTOMERSCHILD PROTECTION
[G4-PR6] Telecom Italia Group companies have undertaken numerous initiatives to protect minor 
from content that may harm their psychological and physical development (for example, content 
that is violent, racist, offensive to religious sentiment, pornographic etc.). 
Among these, precise guidelines have been adopted for classifying and checking distributed con -
tent. These cover both the content offered directly by Group companies and content owned by 
third parties offering their own services on space purchased within Telecom Italia’s portals. These 
guidelines are regularly updated in line with regulatory and technological changes. 
For this purpose, in accordance with current regulations and self-regulatory codes signed by the 
Group, procedures are implemented to prevent minor from accessing adult content on all the 
Group’s service platforms (tablet/smart phone app, web, IPTV, TIMvision by decoder, smart TV, 
Xbox, WAP services). 
In particular:
• TIMvision: adult content can only be accessed using a decoder. This pay-per-view content can 
only be viewed after entering the parental control PIN and purchase PIN. The parental control 
functions are governed by legal provisions and mentioned in the statement delivered to cus -
tomers after they sign up to the service; 
• IPTV: access is only permitted to subscribers and the subscription can only be taken out by 
adults. The default setting does not allow adult content to be viewed and can only be changed 
after the PIN supplied to the adult subscriber has been entered;
• WAP services: content is always moderated in advance by Telecom Italia, in order to verify 
compliance with the classification guidelines, and delivered by a centralised platform. The PIN 
for accessing adult content is supplied by text message, at the customer’s request, after the 
person to whom the number is allocated is confirmed as being an adult.
For services delivered by IP connection, the Total Security software is available: a complete suite 
of security services based on ZoneAlarm® technology that protects you when surfing the Internet 
from viruses, hackers and spyware that may attempt to install themselves on your computer. 
Furthermore, parental control ensures that children can surf the Internet safely, only on sites 
suited to them, with antispam to protect them from unsolicited emails.  Total Security includes the 
following services:
• antivirus and antispyware, to detect and remove viruses and spyware;
• parental control, to protect young people against unsuitable content;
• firewall for networks and programmes to block any attacks by hackers and harmful programs;
• advanced download protection to analyse downloaded files before they can infect the PC and 
send a report if they come from a dangerous source;89
• anti-phishing and site status, in order to block unsafe websites which deceive people into re -
vealing their personal data;
• protection against unsolicited emails (SPAM), to block unsolicited emails automatically from 
email clients (email protocols: POP 3/IMAP incoming only, SMTP outgoing only);
• wireless PC protection to protect your PC against risks associated with connecting to unpro -
tected networks.
The TIM-Protect solution is the exclusive TIM option for total protection against WEB threats:
• parental control: protects young people while surfing the Net, filters WEB searches, gives 
warnings in case of behaviour that is judged to be dangerous;
• theft protection: protects the device from loss and/or theft, ensuring remote control by sending 
a simple instruction (block device, find device, delete data, SIM change notification);
• protection and privacy: protects all access to e-commerce, home banking and social media 
websites. Ensures privacy by filtering unwanted calls and messages;
• antivirus: manages the device securely without affecting its operation, protecting it during use 
against viruses, malware and other threats.
For the purpose of combating online child pornography and computer crime, from an organisa -
tional point of view, Telecom Italia has identified, within its Security department (Risk Prevention 
& IT Security Governance), the role of “Key contact for the Postal Police”. This person manages 
relations, and the flow of information, with the Postal Police (CNCPO - National Centre for the 
Fight against Online Child Pornography, CNAIPIC – National Centre against Digital Crime for the 
Protection of Critical Infrastructure etc.) and the competent authorities, and has the task of coordi -
nating, within the Telecom Italia Group, the process of abuse management, in accordance with the 
relevant legislative framework. Furthermore, the Telecom Italia Group has adopted an organisa -
tional model in accordance with Legislative Decree 231/2001, which defines the tools required to 
oversee and anticipate offences, particularly the dissemination of child pornography, as well as to 
ensure the organisational/disciplinary management of computer crimes. For this purpose, Telecom 
Italia has fielded resources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and combat “abuse”, 
meaning any activity committed in violation of the rules of conduct and legislation that governs the 
use of network services, digital systems or means of communication in general. 
In this respect, information initiatives have been implemented, aimed at children, parents and 
teachers, on the risks connected with the new technologies and navigation on the Internet (chat 
lines, instant messaging, forums, communities etc.). Among the initiatives involving a number of 
important public and private stakeholders selected above all on the basis of their activities and 
commitment to safeguarding the rights of children (including, for example, the Postal and Commu -
nication Police, Save the Children, Adiconsum, GSMA, ITU etc.), we would mention the following:
• “abuse” topic area on the company Intranet, which informs company staff and makes them 
aware of the activities conducted and the tools that exist for preventing digital crimes and pro -90
CUSTOMERStecting children who use the Internet services provided;
• the “Child protection” topic area on the telecomitalia.it portal, aimed at informing and making 
end users, and the other stakeholders, aware of the correct behaviour to adopt during naviga -
tion on the network, as well as the values and objectives that Telecom Italia pursues to combat 
digital abuse and protect children;
• form available on Telecom Italia’s corporate and commercial portals, which can be used by 
Telecom Italia’s end customers, or by outsider users, to report any crimes involving child por -
nography encountered while browsing the Internet. There is a guide to completion, and reports 
can also be submitted anonymously;
• the booklet “Born with the Network,” dedicated to the adult-parent public for the purposes of:
-  illustrating the fundamental rules for the safe use of the Internet;
- alerting people to the dangers that can be hidden on the network;
- providing the tools to convey the rules of conduct to children and guide them in the selection 
of content to use;
• web filtering: in accordance with the Implementing Decree of Law 38/2006 (Gentiloni Decree) 
which defines the technical prerequisites of filtering tools that providers of Internet network 
connections must use in order to prevent access to sites identified by the Postal Police through 
the CNCPO. Telecom Italia has also introduced a filtering system for foreign websites with child 
pornography content;
• drafting of “Guidelines for combating child pornography on line”, which are intended to make 
the identification of cases of child pornography to be notified to the Postal Police as objective 
and uniform as possible. The aim is to minimise any potential interpretation uncertainty of the 
subjects concerned (chat moderators  and/or community services, developers, abuse desk 
operators etc.) and to ensure compliance with current regulations. The guidelines are also 
modelled on those provided and implemented by the CNCPO and the major external organi -
sations operating in this field (Save The Children, Telefono Arcobaleno etc.);
• management of the abuse desks: operational groups who handle abuse differentiated by type 
of service (consumer and business), formed in accordance with the national and community 
regulations on child protection, the prevention of digital criminality and the fight against sexual 
exploitation (child pornography).  Their task is to receive alerts from external users/custom -
ers regarding alleged computer crimes or the presence of child pornography on the Group’s 
networks, and then direct them to the relevant department, where necessary involving the 
relevant authorities through the key contact for the Postal Police;
• participation in the “ITU Child Online Protection: Guidelines for industry,” working group, which 
is coordinated by the ITU (International Telecommunication Union). Telecom Italia is involved 
in updating a guideline on “Child Online Protection - COP” for companies in the broadcasting, 
Internet and mobile sector, which is part of the broader international “Global Cybersecurity 
Agenda” project under the auspices of the United Nations. To find out more:  www.itu.int/osg/
csd/cybersecurity/gca/cop/index.html;91
• participation in the “GSMA - Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse Content” working 
group in the context of the GSM Association, for all technological and communications initia -
tives aimed at protecting children in the mobile phone sector;
• participation in the European Safer Internet project: Telecom Italia is collaborating in the project 
promoted by Save the Children and Adiconsum, in response to the EU initiative “Safer Internet 
2009 – 2013,” taking part in the permanent round table as part of the Italian group, Safer Inter -
net. The priority is to protect minors in the European social context, where social networking is 
increasingly widespread, particularly among the younger members of society, and to provide 
the tools with which to make safe use of the web services that allow social networking, blog -
ging and instant messaging. The 2014 Safer Internet Day was dedicated to the theme of ‘let’s 
create a better Internet together’. Many events were organised in over 100 countries, including 
the United States for the first time. Telecom Italia took part in the round table organised in Brus -
sels by the European Commission, in the context of which the “Young Manifesto” was present -
ed with suggestions made by young people from all over Europe to create a better Internet. 
The initiative also deals with raising awareness, combating illegal content and rating content. 
An important part of the programme is dedicated to the Safer Internet Centers that now exist 
in over 30 countries to provide support and information to children, parents and teachers;
• participation in the European ICT Coalition and Better Internet for kids/CEO Coalition working 
groups for establishing the principles and technologies required to make the Internet a safer 
place for children;
• cooperation in the context of the Italian Child Abduction Alert System (ICAAS) project, for the 
creation of a web portal providing an “early warning” of missing children. In this context, in 
2011, Telecom Italia signed the “Allarme Scomparsa Minore” (missing child alert) agreement 
with the Ministry of the Interior’s Public Safety Department.
The Group has also implemented appropriate filtering and abuse prevention systems for services 
delivered in Brazil. In particular, WAP services with adult content require user authentication while 
the delivery of adult videos on IP platforms, which is only available in on demand mode, requires 
a PIN to be entered.  All the content is monitored and rated by the suppliers and, subsequently, by 
TIM Brasil, which limits their portfolio to level 3.2 of the international rating system.  
Customers who wish to purchase adult content, have to access the relevant portal, click on 
“ADULT”, confirm that they are adults and enter a password (parental control). 
TIM Brasil has signed an agreement with Safernet to prevent sexual abuse and paedophilia on 
the Internet. The agreement covers cooperation and the centralisation of any reports regarding 
abuse of a sexual nature and the development of an awareness-building campaign on the appro -
priate and safe use of the Internet. 92
CUSTOMERSPRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Telecom Italia is primarily an operator of telecommunications services, which do not endanger the 
physical health of users11, and it does not produce the telecommunications equipment it sells12.  
In order to verify that the products sold comply with health and safety legislation, the company has:
• appropriate internal structures that check the incoming quality of the products it markets (tele -
phones, modems, etc.), both in Italy and in the production centres of manufacturers overseas;
• a laboratory that tests the products marketed by the Group, particularly as regards the electro -
magnetic emissions of the mobile phones it sells.
In this way, any non-conformities in the products are thus detected prior to their market release 
and non-conforming products do not reach the end customer.
Services provided to customers are subject to the requirements set out in the Service Charters 
and in the Terms & Conditions of Subscription, available at www.telecomitalia.com.
[G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety], [G4-PR1]
In its laboratories, Telecom Italia carries out validation activities to fulfil the essential requirements 
certified at source. For products sold in Italy, the reference framework is the set of standards that 
support Directive 1999/5/EC, arranged by product macrofamily13.
 
Furthermore, with regard to protection and the safety of customers in using the equipment, the 
Group carries out checks on:
• the electromagnetic emission levels (SAR) of all mobile phones;
• regulatory requirements regarding the risk of electric shock, overheating, fire; 
• the electrical robustness of interfaces.
In particular, the following are checked: 
• the energy efficiency aspects required by the EuP (Energy-using Products) Directive: equip -
ment placed on the market is checked against the stand-by power consumption and perfor -
mance limits set by European Regulations 1275/2008/EC and 278/2009/EC, respectively for 
equipment and their external power supplies (available as accessories);
• functionality in different environmental conditions of installation and use of terminals and ac -
cessory components for connection to the fixed network: checks are carried out on compliance 
11 Threats of a psychological nature or relating to security and privacy are dealt with in the Child Protection, E-security and Privacy 
sections.
12 At Olivetti, the Group company that operates in the IT sector, there are hardware production plants. In the context of the Group as 
a whole, these activities are not significant as the entire turnover of Olivetti amounts to 1.05% of the Telecom Italia Group.
13 For “Corded terminals”, the following standards may be applied: EN 60950, EN 55022 and EN 55024; for “Cordless terminals” stan -
dards EN 60950, EN 50371, EN 62311, ITU-T P360, EN 301489 and EN 301406; for “Mobile terminals (smartphones, data cards 
etc.)” standards EN 60950, EN 62209, EN 302291, EN 301908,  EN301893, EN 301511, EN 300440, EN 300328 and EN 301489.93
with temperature and humidity ranges established by ETSI (European Telecommunications 
Standards Institute) for the specific “service condition”, on which different “severity” levels are 
based. Checks are carried out on the basis of the following standards: IEC-EN Series 60068-
2-1 (cold), 2 (dry heat), 14 (temperature changes), 30 (humidity changes), 78  (continuous 
humidity). For the most widely available products, with external plastic parts (e.g. AG), “flame 
resistance” is checked in the event of malfunctions of the internal electrical parts;
• electromagnetic compatibility aspects, regulated by Directive 2004/108/EU (in future 2014/30/
EU): every item of electronic equipment is checked for unintentional electromagnetic signal 
emissions - in order to avoid interference harmful to radio communication - and the fulfilment 
of certain immunity from electromagnetic interference requirements.  In Telecom Italia constant 
checks are carried out on terminals and network equipment to determine whether they comply 
with the requirements of international ETSI, CENELEC (European Committee for Electrotech -
nical Standardization) standards regarding electromagnetic compatibility.  In particular, checks 
are carried out on the compliance of equipment with the limits set by standards to limit the 
emission of electromagnetic disturbances which, in addition to polluting the surrounding envi -
ronment, can interfere with radio communications.
By law, telecommunications equipment sold in Brazil must be approved by the regulatory author -
ity ANATEL, which verifies, in its laboratories, the conformity of equipment with Brazilian legisla -
tion on electrical and electromagnetic safety. There is specific legislation to be complied with for 
each kind of equipment. TIM Brasil asks its suppliers to ensure that equipment has the ANATEL 
certificate of approval.  
[G4-PR2] Over the past three years, no non-conformities with European customer health and safe -
ty legislation have been found in any product that has reached the final marketing stage, neither 
in Italy nor in Brazil.
[G4-PR3] When contracts are drafted, for all fixed telephony products, Telecom Italia requires 
packaging to include an environmental statement, a statement about the origin of the coltan, 
a user manual containing safety information, details of any hazardous materials in the product 
and disposal information.  For mobile devices, as they are consumer products that Telecom Italia 
merely resells and do not require any customisation, Telecom Italia simply requires national leg -
islation to be complied with in respect of labelling in Italy. 
In Brazil, in addition complying with national legislation, labels are required to contain information 
about the correct use of devices.
For a particular product range, Telecom Italia Green, discussed in detail in the Environment chap -
ter (see Telecom Italia Green ), all the relevant environmental parameters are also shown (e.g. 
energy consumption). 94
CUSTOMERS[G4-PR4]  Over the past three years, no non-conformities regarding product information and label -
ling have been found in any product that has reached the final marketing stage.
There have however been a few cases in which non-conformities with regulations concerning 
information about services have been found. In particular, in Brazil, in 2014, 3 incidents occurred, 
resulting in a total penalty of 1,533,820 Reais, in 2013, 2 incidents occurred, resulting in a total 
penalty of 9,474 Reais14. In 2012 there were no incidents resulting in a financial penalty, but in one 
case a “warning” was issued by the regulatory authority. 
In Italy, the regulatory authority’s sanctioning procedures for non-conformities with regulations re -
garding information on services are part of the system of “penalties for the violation of regulatory 
legislation regarding consumer protection in the supply and use of TLC products and services”; 
which means that, for Italy, non-conformities regarding information on services have been merged 
with non-conformities regarding the supply and use of services (table below)15. 
[G4-PR9] The number and total monetary value of the fines for non-conformities with laws 
and regulations regarding the supply and use of products and services in Italy16
Description 2014 2013 2012
Number of fines for non-conformities regarding the supply 
and use of products and services7 10 14
Total monetary value of these fines (in euro)  1,102,000  727,619 882,316 
[G4-PR9] Number and total monetary value of the fines for non-conformities with laws and 
regulations regarding the supply and use of products and services in Brazil17
Description 2014 2013 2012
Number of fines for non-conformities regarding the supply 
and use of products and services5 12 15
Total monetary value of these fines (in R$) 13,214,257 11,268,560 2,062,964
14 In 2014 and 2013, in Brazil, there were no incidents of this kind, other than the cases reported, which all resulted in financial penalties.
15 It has not been possible to obtain a complete picture of the non-conformities that resulted in “warnings” in Italy in the current year 
because the concept of “warning” is not clear cut. The issue of whether and how to assess the various kinds of “warnings” that arri -
ve from the regulatory authority will be considered in greater detail in future.  Furthermore, as things stand at the moment, there is 
no system for receiving reports on the violation of self-regulatory codes concerning customers other than the reporting mechanisms 
stated in chapter Sustainability and Governance.
16 Only final decisions are recorded. The cases include the supply of unsolicited services, failure to comply with established quality 
targets, inadequate information supplied to the regulatory authority and, in one case, a non-conformity regarding  899 numbers.
17 Only final decisions are recorded. The cases include the supply of unsolicited services, failure to comply with established quality 
targets, unforeseen interruptions to the service, coverage by means and at times other than those established with the authority, 
service and billing irregularities.95
[G4-PR7]  Total number of non-conformities with legislation and voluntary codes regarding
marketing communications in Italy
Type of non conformity 2014 2013 2012
Number of non-conformities with legislation resulting in a 
fine or penalty0 1 0
Number of non-conformities with legislation resulting in a 
warning0 0 0
Number of non-conformities with voluntary codes 2 4 2
In Brazil, the only notifications relating to marketing and advertising communications are issued 
by CONAR, the non-governmental self-regulation organisation for advertising, which assesses 
non-conformities with the Advertising Self-Regulation Code. In 2014, CONAR did not report any 
kind of non-conformity, while in 2013 it reported 5 and in 2012 it reported 1118.
CONCILIATION PROCEDURES 
The conciliation procedure between Telecom Italia and the Consumer Associations who signed 
the framework agreement for the out-of-court settlement of telephone disputes, was the first ex -
ample of joint conciliation in Italy.
Introduced on a trial basis in 1991 by SIP, it was implemented throughout the country in 1993 and 
in 1995 the European Union recognised it  as a “Pilot project for consumer access to justice”. The 
model is still used today but has been adapted over the years to fulfil new requirements, computer -
ised and made easier to use, while maintaining the basic values that made it such an excellent tool, 
contributing to improving the transparency of the system, customer relations and a number of the 
Company’s operational processes. In 2011, the joint conciliation model was brought to the attention 
of the European Union and, on October 25 of the same year, the European Parliament recognised 
the “Italian joint conciliation model as an example of best practice based on a protocol drawn up 
and signed by the Company and consumer protection associations, under which the Company 
undertakes in advance to use ADR19 to settle any disputes that may arise in the areas covered by 
the protocol”. Twenty Consumer Associations have signed up to the conciliation agreement to date.
In 2009, in compliance with the voluntary undertakings given and approved by the Italian Commu -
nications Authority in December 2008, Telecom Italia also started managing conciliation requests 
submitted by customers at the offices of Co.Re.Com.20 and the Chambers of Commerce, thus 
providing a “single point of contact” and replicating the organisational model successfully applied 
for joint conciliations. This system allows customers who do not wish to approach a Consumer 
Association to use an alternative method for resolving their dispute through a streamlined and 
out-of-court procedure.
18 In these cases, the advertising was amended or suspended.
19 Alternative Dispute Resolution.
20 Regional Communication Committees.96
CUSTOMERSThan handling of conciliations takes customer requirements into account and, regardless of the 
selected procedure, allows their relationship with the company to be improved. 
The “single point of contact” model has so far allowed the undertakings given to AGCOM to be 
fulfilled and the expected qualitative and numerical results to be reached. The Co.Re.Com chan -
nel is in fact becoming increasingly popular compared to other channels (recourse to Chambers 
of Commerce is now secondary and accounts for fewer than 5% of conciliations). 
The positive trend seen in the conciliation system in previous years continued in 2014, in fact:
• around 96% of joint conciliation applications were settled (6,369 of 6.642), a percentage that 
has remained stable year-on-year and has improved compared to 201221; 
• around 84% of applications discussed by the Co.Re.Com. and Chambers of Commerce 
(15,612 of 18.540). This percentage remained excellent, despite the increase in the number of 
cases compared to the previous year (increase of almost 20% compared to 2013).
Telecom Italia supported the conciliation activity by means of:
• seminars and joint training initiatives involving dedicated personnel from Telecom Italia, AG -
COM, Co.Re.Com. and Consumer Associations;
• debates, conferences, interviews and other promotional activities involving senior manage -
ment in order to disseminate the correct cultural approach to the subject.  
Conciliation is becoming increasingly widespread among customers, particularly in view of the:
• large number of Co.Re.Com., which are opening provincial offices in many regions to make the 
conciliation system more easily available to people (avoiding the costs involved in travelling to 
regional capitals);
• better knowledge of the procedure, which is considered to be a quick and economical way of 
resolving disputes;
• economic crisis, which leads people to resort to conciliation even for small amounts (e.g. po -
tential inefficiencies involved in transferring from one operator to another).
In Brazil, TIM has close relations with the National Consumer Secretariat (SENACON) and exam -
ines claims sent by the Consumer Protection and Defence Authority (PROCON).
In 2008, TIM created the Legal BackOffice tool, which manages the whole process of handling 
claims from customers dissatisfied with the solutions supplied by the company and requesting 
the intervention of PROCON and the judiciary. This tool shortens the response time, reduces 
operating costs and improves relations between TIM and the official representatives of the above 
Bodies; Legal BackOffice thoroughly examines preliminary claims sent by PROCONs (i.e. before 
21 Historically, 96% of joint conciliation applications have been settled within 45 days of the date of presentation and the remaining 
4% within 90 days.97
they become justified complaints) The company’s legal department attends any conciliation hear -
ings to settle justified complaints.
In 2014, TIM achieved excellent results in settling claims submitted by PROCON offices: CIPs (Pre -
liminary Investigation Letters) 81%; justified complaints 75.4% (source: SENACON official report).
SAFEGUARDING PRIVACY
AND PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
[G4-DMA Customer Privacy], [G4-PR8]
In order to ensure that personal data is protected in the performance of business activities, Tel -
ecom Italia has applied an organisational model, since 2003, which includes a Privacy Function 
supervising correct application of the relevant regulations throughout the Group (according to 
Legislative Decree  193/03, known as the known as the “Privacy Code”). In this context, when it 
establishes or acquires new companies, the Parent Company also provides the support required 
to identify and carry out the formalities required.
The adoption of legal measures and the instructions of the Privacy Guarantor for personal data 
protection is assured by constantly updating the Group regulations and policies. The “System of 
rules for the application of privacy regulations in the Telecom Italia Group” is particularly signifi -
cant in this respect. It establishes the provisions and operating instructions needed to carry out 
the relevant formalities.
In 2014, the framework of the company’s personal data processing provisions was enhanced with a 
policy on compliance requirements for Wi-Fi service offers, which establishes, among other things, 
procedures for the adoption of measures to protect the personal data of users of these services.  
Furthermore, during the course of 2014, Telecom Italian continued to take the steps required to 
implement provisions in its internal processes to deal with any violation of personal data security 
relating to electronic communication services (so-called “data breaches). In particular, 9 training 
meetings were organised involving over 220 officers and managers, to disseminate and illustrate 
the specific internal procedure, which describes the activities to be undertaken and the related 
responsibilities should events defined as data breaches occur. 
In 2014, in addition to the above meetings, the ongoing training activities carried out to dissemi -
nate and ensure the proper implementation of internal privacy rules also involved specific activ -
ities dedicated to the external sales force of the Business Department and to commercial com -
pliance.  Furthermore, meetings centred on the management of telephone and electronic traffic 
data were held as part of the periodic training seminars to train conciliators, which are attended by 
representatives of Telecom Italia and consumer protection associations. The effective application 
of the regulations is monitored through a system based on regular self-assessment procedures 
by those responsible for handling the data, and on sample checks carried out by the relevant 
central departments, based on established procedures and methodologies.
With regard to innovative projects and the development of new services, in 2014 the Italian data 98
CUSTOMERSprotection authority approved the procedures established by Telecom Italia to protect the personal 
data of its customers in the context of a project to analyse the mobility of the population devised 
by Telecom Italia to respond to the information requirements expressed by public organisations 
and government offices that manage land and transport infrastructure. 
With regard to privacy protection relating to new technologies, Telcom Italia is also involved in 
initiatives launched in this respect by the European Commission (EU) to promote in the EU the 
development of cloud computing services that fulfil the requirements of EU law. In particular, Tele -
com Italia is actively involved in international working groups assigned by the European Commis -
sion to develop standards for establishing service levels (SLAs), model contracts and a reference 
code of conduct for the suppliers of these services. In 2014, the activity involved the publication 
of Guidelines on SLAs, in June, by the European Commission (see https://ec.europa.eu/digi -
tal-agenda/en/news/cloud-service-level-agreement-standardisation-guidelines); subsequently, in 
this field, work focused on preparing instructions to guide the work of the ISO22 according to the 
principles in force in the EU, which is in turn drawing up guidelines for SLA’s in cloud services. 
The drafting of the Code of Conduct (see https://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/en/cloud-select-in -
dustry-group-code-conduct) is at an advanced stage and is also intended to obtain the approval 
of the European Data Protection Authorities Group (known as the Article 29 Working Party).
The following table shows:
• the information requests made to Telecom Italia, in Italy, by the Italian Data Protection Author -
ity, including those made following reports from customers;
• the percentage of such requests filed by the Italian Data Protection Authority based on expla -
nations supplied by Telecom Italia.
Description 2014 2013 2012
Requests received 435 368 348
Percentage of requests filed >98% >99% >96%
The information requests made to the Group over the past three years have increased, as shown in 
the above table. The percentage filed, based on clarifications provided, is always close to 100%23. 
With regard to Brazil, in accordance with the Federal Constitution, article 3 of the general law on 
telecommunications of 1997 establishes the right of customers to the confidentiality of their per -
sonal data. The personal mobile service regulation, in articles 89, 90 and 91 of Resolution 477 of 
the national telecommunications agency (ANATEL), requires companies to take responsibility in 
22 International Standard Organization.
23 Other reports received regarding alleged small breaches of privacy are handled by the 187 service and relate for the most part to 
unsolicited inclusion in the telephone directory. 99
this respect and establishes that any waiver of confidentiality must take place only if requested by 
the relevant authority in the cases provided for by law. 
In order to ensure the confidentiality of its customer information, in accordance with national 
legislation, Tim Brasil has issued relevant internal policies and procedures based on the “need 
to know” (personal data processing is restricted to the minimum required to carry out the work) 
and separation of functions principles, which provide information classification and management 
methods that guarantee the appropriate levels of protection24. 
24 The comparability of breach of privacy data between Italy and Brazil is currently being considered. In order to avoid potential mi -
sunderstandings due to the diversity of legislation between the two countries, the data for alleged breaches of privacy in Brazil is 
not provided.Ensuring that products and services
are purchased according to the best economic 
conditions while complying with quality, safety
and sustainability requirementsSUPPLIERS102
SUPPLIERSSTRATEGY
Within the Telecom Italia Group, the procurement process is aimed at the acquisition of products 
and services under the best market conditions, assuring, at the same time, requirements con -
cerning  quality, safety and social and environmental respect.
The procurement process is based on a competitive comparison of the technical/economic offer -
ings of suppliers previously selected on the basis of company procedures which aim at preserving 
ethics in negotiations.
The Group is committed to guaranteeing the quality of its procurement processes and their con -
tinual improvement, including their sustainability.
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS 
The relevant stakeholders are the suppliers from which the Group acquires goods and/or services 
and their sub-suppliers.
Moreover, the communities in which suppliers carry out their operations hold a stake, as well as 
the associations watching over the social and environmental impacts of suppliers.
OVERVIEW
The selection, assessment and control of the Telecom Italia Group’s suppliers involves a pre-con -
tractual qualification stage, which is designed to assess their economic/financial and technical/
organisational characteristics.
Once these are ascertained, the suppliers can be enrolled in the Group’s Register of Suppliers 
(the Register). In this stage Telecom Italia requires and assesses some aspects concerning their 
business ethics and their respect for human, labour and environmental rights. 
[G4-HR1a]  In all the contracts signed, there is a specific clause which makes it mandatory for the 
supplier to accept the principles expressed in the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct1. 
[G4-HR1a], [G4-HR1b]  Concerning domestic operations, registered Italian suppliers with non-negligible  
orders (the threshold is only 3,000 euros a year) receive2 an initial screening relative to their com -
pliance with the principles of the Code of Ethics and are subject to periodic assessments. Actions 
carried out by Telecom Italia in order to check its suppliers vary according to the riskfulness of the 
supplier and the amount of spend: from simple questionnaires, to more and more complex ques -
1 [G4-DMA Investment]  The Group’s Code of Ethics (CE) says “Compliance with the Code must also be guaranteed by external 
collaborators and, where envisaged in the company procedural system, by third parties that do business with the Group.” In parti -
cular, internal procedures require that suppliers accept the principles contained in CE, and that contracts for joint ventures  or parti -
cipation in other companies contain clauses concerning compliance with the Organizational Model 231 (based on CE). Concerning 
human rights, the UN Global Compact is the reference in CE, which says “Telecom Italia has undersigned  the United Nations’ 
Global Compact on human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and ensures that this 
institutional commitment is fully implemented by undertaking regular initiatives on environmental and social issues.” Moreover, CE 
contains specific clauses on discrimination, threats, corruption and safeguard of health and safety . 
2 Public Administrations are excluded.103
tionnaires, to checks of documents and in the supplier’s premises, to specific sustainability audits.
[G4-HR10] In particular, in 2014 71% of new suppliers enrolled in the Register signed a specific 
questionnaire in which they undertook for themselves and for any authorised subcontractors, col -
laborators and employees to observe the principles of behaviour contained in the Group’s Code 
of Ethics and Conduct3. 
While the supply is taking place, registered companies which have received purchase orders normally 
undergo incoming quality control checks (a requirement for the acceptance and use of the purchased 
goods) and monitoring of the vendor rating. Environmental and social checks are also carried out4.
The purchasing departments focus on specific sectors, so as to provide accurate responses 
to the requirements of internal customers and stakeholders. These expectations are constantly 
monitored through surveys of both internal customers and suppliers in order to verify the quality 
of the services delivered (see Involvement initiatives).
[G4-12]  Telecom Italia’s purchases are made principally in the two geographical area where the 
Group’s major operations are sited: Italy and Brazil, and are directed for the most part towards the 
following categories of products/services: 
• Telecom networks
• Telecom products
• Information Technology
• Technical Professional Services
• Power
• Other
  
[G4-12]  In total, in 2014 there were  6,728 suppliers which had purchase orders with the Group5, 
(-9% compared with 2013 and -21% compared with 2012), of which 3,497 were for the Domestic 
BU (+2% compared with 2013 and +1% compared with 2012), 2,111 for Brazil (-8% compared 
with 2013 and -10% compared with 2012) and 421 for the Media BU (-51% compared with 2013 
and -76% compared with 2012).  
[G4-12]  For some sectors, the Group also measures and monitors subcontractors; in particular, 
for network development, there were 750 subcontractors (-14% compared with 2013 and -18% 
compared with 2012). In this sector, therefore, the estimated total number of suppliers involved in 
the supply chain was in 2014, 7726.
3 In Brazil, in 2014, 3%.
4 [G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment]  In particular, checks on Health & Safety and on the environment are carried out, 
and their results are part of the supplier’s rating, to which the penalty/incentive system is linked. [G4-DMA Employment]  Also, 
checks are held concerning compliance with labour laws.
5 Including Olivetti.
6 In the Brazilian BU currently there is no systematic monitoring of subcontractors. The assessment is being made as to how and 
whether it is possible to carry out such monitoring in the future.104
SUPPLIERS[G4-13]  In the last three years no significant changes have occurred in the structure of the Group’s 
supply chain, excluding those caused by the changes in the Group’s perimeter due to the sale of 
Argentina’s and television operations.
SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
In 2014 the implementation of the new process that defines the activities aimed at improving the 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of the supply chain continued with a more comprehensive 
system of elements used to assess the sustainability of suppliers during the stages of qualifica -
tion, incoming quality and vendor rating.
[G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment]  In particular, suppliers were classified according to 
the potential risks associated with their sustainability performance, by means of a specific meth -
od that considers the social-environmental and business continuity aspects associated with the 
purchasing markets in which they operate. For this reason, the purchasing markets (i.e. homo -
geneous procurement categories) have been classified in accordance with parameters such as: 
1. geographical areas and risks connected with them;
2. the potential impact on the environment and on society of the suppliers’ activities and of the 
products/services supplied throughout their entire life cycle, including risks relating to viola -
tions of human, labour and environmental rights;
3. the impact on the reputation of Telecom Italia as their customer.
A matrix has therefore been created which, by relating the spending on a given purchase market to 
the risk index calculated on the basis of the parameters listed, has allowed purchase markets to be 
divided into four classes, identifying those most critical from the point of view of sustainability and 
economic impact. Suppliers belonging to the classes at greatest risk are subject to CSR audits carried 
out by Company personnel or by personnel from third party auditors. These audits will be repeated 
periodically to monitor the implementation of corrective actions and, if the results are positive, in order 
to verify that the standard of performance found is being maintained. It is expected that the activity, 
developed for the Domestic BU, will be extended to Brazilian suppliers during the course of 2015. 
[G4-HR4a], [G4-HR5a], [G4-HR5b], [G4-HR6a], [G4-HR11]  All suppliers of the Domestic BU were as -
sessed and those at greatest socio/environmental risk7 in 2014 numbered 58 (+93% compared 
with 2013 and +26% compared with 2012). 21 purchasing markets8 and suppliers operating in 
7 [G4-DMA Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining] the Group policy which aims at preventing risks of breaches of 
labour rights is “Suppliers Policy in the Purchasing processes of Telecom Italia Group, which says “..the Group promotes and asks its 
own suppliers and, through them, its sub-suppliers, to respect the following principles and laws in force in the Countries in which the -
se Stakeholders operate…all personnel -whatever the level/qualification- are entitled to form and join trade unions for the protection 
of individual and collective interests. The Group’s companies acknowledge the role of union representatives, who are not subject to 
any discrimination, and ensure, for union activities, the appropriate retribution for leave of absence and the means to communicate 
with personnel in the workplace.”
8 Marketing of access gateways, 3G access, mobile software release, NGAN equipment, infrastructural applications, collaboration, 
assurance, call center, cables, creation, data – GBE, delivery, software development, handset, materials/poles/transmission, mid -
dleware, facility management, service layer, server/storage, tablet, WAN - VOIP.105
Asia, Center and South America, North Africa and Eastern Europe are considered to be at great -
est social risk. 
[G4-HR7]  In particular, for workers in companies which supply security services in Italy, the Consol -
idated Law on Public Security must be complied with, in particular article 138, subsection 2 which 
specifies the professional and training requirements of sworn guards. In Brazil, law 7102/83 pre -
scribes over private guards. It prescribes, among other things, that anyone who wishes to be hired 
as a guard by a  specialized company, has to attend training sessions carried out by schools certified 
by the Federal Police, and, after hiring, guards have to attend an update course every two years. 
[G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment]  In addition, a self-assessment questionnaire was pre -
pared, to be submitted during the qualification of new suppliers belonging to the highest risk 
purchasing categories in terms of sustainability and, periodically, to previously qualified suppliers. 
Based on the results and evolution of the qualification process, the questionnaire will be updated 
periodically. It was developed according to the main requirements of the relevant standards relat -
ing to respect for ethical values and to safeguarding the environment (including SA 8000, Global 
Compact and ISO 14001) and to the best industry practices. [G4-HR10], [G4-LA14]  The self-assess -
ment sustainability questionnaire, (previously sent on an experimental basis in 2011 and 2012 to 
over 100 significant suppliers identified by the above methods), was integrated in 2014 into the 
application that handles the supplier qualification process, which automatically extended it to all 
new suppliers operating in markets where sustainability is considered to be at risk. Suitable re -
fresher campaigns were mounted for suppliers previously qualified in Telecom Italia’s Register of 
suppliers. The results of the questionnaire will make it possible to refine the risk matrix described 
above. In Brazil, a self-assessment sustainability questionnaire has been sent to suppliers having 
orders amounting to over 5 million Reais. Results will be considered in future selection processes. 
 
The inspection for the “Quality Management System” to maintain ISO 9001:2008 Certification  for 
“supply chain” activities falling under the responsibility of the Business Support Office was success -
fully carried outin March 2015. The Certification was confirmed.
In 2014, application continued of the green procurement policy, which contains guidelines for estab -
lishing the environmental requirements of products/services purchased. The policy covers all stages 
of the product life: design, production, use and end of life. Published on the “Vendors Hub” supplier 
portal of Telecom Italia and in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, the docu -
ment helps to orient purchasing policies towards low environmental impact products and services.
Finally, with a view to ensuring the involvement of suppliers in the subject of sustainability, some 
of the questions in the annual satisfaction survey (see Involvement Initiatives) relate to the green 
procurement policy and to the principles relating to human and labour rights, and to their imple -
mentation by suppliers.106
SUPPLIERSSUSTAINABILITY CHECKS
[G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment], [G4-DMA Employment] Activities intended to verify the 
CSR performance of common suppliers and sub-suppliers continued in 2014 in the framework of 
the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) initiative, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understand -
ing signed at the end of 2009 by Telecom Italia S.p.A., Orange and Deutsche Telekom AG.
In 2011, Belgacom SA, KPN B.V., Swisscom Ltd. and Vodafone Group Services Limited signed 
up to the memorandum, followed by Telenor ASA and Teliasonera AB in 2012 and Verizon in 
2013. The purposes of the Joint Audit Cooperation initiative are:
• to verify the sustainability of the most important suppliers/sub-suppliers that are common to the 
members of the JAC, with production plants located in geographical areas with a significant de -
gree of socio-environmental risk. The checks are carried out by means of audits conducted by 
third parties using a specific method developed by the JAC members themselves, who share 
the results of the verifications;
• to contribute to the increased sustainability of suppliers/sub-suppliers involved by devising 
and implementing corrective actions and ongoing improvement programmes, establishing 
long-lasting and mutually beneficial cooperation with them in terms of efficiency, productivity 
and risk reduction in the supply chain.
[G4-HR4b], [G4-HR5c], [G4-HR6b], [G4-HR11c], [G4-HR11d], [G4-LA15]  Between 2010 and 2014, thanks 
to the gradual increase in the number of members of JAC, 148 audits were carried out – including 
37 in 2014 only9 - in production plants (suppliers and sub-suppliers) located in Asia, Central and 
South America and Eastern Europe. The checks were carried out through international special -
ised companies selected by competitive tender and related to a total of around 540,00010 workers. 
The suppliers included in the audit campaign belonged to the sectors of production relative to 
devices and appliances, network appliances and IT equipment.
9 97 on Telecom Italia’s suppliers, of which 24 in 2014.
10 Of which 458,000 were  Telecom Italia’s suppliers’ employees.107
The table below shows non-conformities relating to human rights encountered in the course of 
the audits:
2014 2013 2012
Environment 14 (12) 13 (3) 9 (8)
Discrimination 2 (2) 2 (1) 2 (2)
Business ethics 18 (18) 32 (19) 31 (27)
Forced labor 5 (4) 5 (4) 4 (3)
Child labor 8 (8) 11 (5) 9 (9)
Freedom of association 2 (2) 5 (1) 2 (2)
Work hours 23 (20) 34 (19) 23 (21)
Remuneration 6 (3) 11 (7) 9 (6)
Disciplinary practices 4 (3) 2 (1) 0 (0)
Health & Safety 79 (68) 79 (31) 64 (55)
(data in brackets refer to suppliers who also work for the Brazilian BU).
For all the non-conformities encountered, specific corrective action plans were drawn up that 
established resolution procedures and timetables amongst others. The implementation of these 
plans is monitored on a constant basis by the JAC members11.
In January 2014, the third “JAC CSR Forum” was held in Chengdu (China), attended by around 
130 guests representing TLC operators, suppliers, organizations active in CSR and NGOs.
The topic of the Forum, the aims of which include growth and the greater involvement of suppliers 
in issues regarding sustainability, was: “CSR, an integrative driving force”. The Forum was pre -
sented with evidence of the results achieved and discussed the challenges that lie ahead with a 
view to improving sustainability in the sector. There was an official presentation of, and discussion 
on, the “JAC Supply Chain Sustainability Guidelines”, whose objective is to inform suppliers of 
JAC members’ expectations regarding their sustainability performance, and at the same time to 
provide suppliers with a guide to form a basis for carrying out a self-assessment and improving 
their own organization. The Guidelines will be progressively enhanced with specific KPIs which 
can be used for measuring sustainability performance with respect to various issues in the Guide -
lines and assessing progress over time. Right from the beginning the initiative has aroused the 
interest of other telecoms operators, some of whom, as already mentioned, have adhered to the 
initiative over the course of the years. The members of the JAC are currently assessing further 
applications for membership received.
11 [G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment], [G4-HR11e] Since the aim of the initiative is to help suppliers operating in de -
veloping countries to improve their sustainability performance, non-conformities always lead to corrective actions and never to the 
closing of contracts.108
SUPPLIERSINVOLVEMENT INITIATIVES
Use of the suppliers’ portal (Vendors Hub), launched at the end of 2011 to improve communica -
tion and optimise operational processes by applying social networking systems to the business 
context, is now well established.
The portal now includes 2,395 active vendors on the application platform.
The portal allows suppliers to access a private area to view important data and events connect -
ed to their relationship with Telecom Italia and manage all their own details, thus improving the 
smooth operation and transparency of the relationship. The Vendors Hub also includes a public 
area containing information for potential suppliers.
Documentation is exchanged electronically (e.g. offers, purchase orders, contracts, qualification 
documentation, surveys), thus reducing the environmental impact resulting from the use of paper 
and from transporting and storing documents. 
For the eighth consecutive year, the Group’s main suppliers have been involved in the survey on 
satisfaction with the Purchasing department and, more generally, with Telecom Italia. The online 
questionnaire, consisting of 28 questions, remained active for 2 weeks. The analysis involved 
1,240 active suppliers in the Vendors Hub, with a participation rate of 54.9%, higher than the one 
recorded in previous editions and around 7% higher than the one achieved in 2013). The overall 
assessment of the supply relationship with the Telecom Italia Group achieved a score of 78/100, 
(with an improvement of 3 points over 2013). The positive satisfaction rating achieved in previous 
surveys was therefore confirmed.109
COMMITMENTS12 
 [G4-DMA Non-discrimination], [G4-DMA Child Labor], [G4-DMA Forced or Compulsory Labor], [G4-DMA Secu -
rity Practices], [G4-DMA Indigenous Rights], [G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment]
KPI TARGET VALUE TARGET YEAR TARGET SPECIFICATION
% of suppliers audited90% of high risk suppliers 
as defined in the paragraph 
“Sustainability initiatives”2015Comulative number of high 
sustainability risk suppliers 
which have received a 
thorough ESG audit (starting 
2010)
% of suppliers assessed100% of qualified suppliers 
as defined in the paragraph 
“overview”2015Number of suppliers which 
have been subject to a basic 
ethics questionnaire. On 
top, suppliers belonging to 
risk sectors are sent a more 
complex questionnaire
% of “prime contact” 
procurement staff trained 
on ESG issues relevant to 
procurement decisions90% 2015Staff directly involved in 
product choice procedures 
who attended a sustainability 
training session
% of suppliers contracts 
including ESG contract 
clauses100% 2015
% of suppliers with ISO 
14001 certification or 
equivalent25% of network suppliers 2015
Integration of supplier’s ESG 
risk profile into general risk 
profile100% of qualified suppliers 
as defined in the paragraph 
“overview”2015
12 Regarding Telecom Italia S.p.A.Our relationship with institutions
is fundamental for tuning our activities
to the needs of the countryINSTITUTIONS112
INSTITUTIONS[G4-DMA Public Policy]
STRATEGY
Telecom Italia Group is determined to continue its collaborative and transparent relations with na -
tional and supranational institutions in order to facilitate dialogue on matters of mutual interest and 
to ensure the Group’s viewpoint is faithfully represented.
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS
The key stakeholders are:
• central national institutions: Parliament, Government, Ministries, Public Administration;
• local institutions and their representative associations: Regions, Provinces, Municipalities, 
“Comunità montane”, the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), the Union of 
Italian Provinces (UPI);  
• the Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM) (see Competitors), the Italian Competition and 
Market Authority (AGCM) (see Competitors) and the Italian Data Protection Authority;
• European and international institutions: the European Commission and its regulation commit -
tees, the Council and the European Parliament, BEREC (Body of European Regulators for Elec -
tronic Communication), the OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development);
• the United Nations (UN): particularly the Global Compact, UNEP (United Nations Environment 
Programme), UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), ITU (In -
ternational Telecommunication Union) and the other UN agencies (e.g. UNHCR).
CENTRAL NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
Lobbying activities are principally conducted with the parliamentary committee members of the 
upper and lower houses of the Italian parliament concerned with issues that could impact on the 
company, including those of an economic and financial nature or concerning privacy, telecommu -
nications, Internet and TV.
Involvement in parliamentary hearings is also a way of examining specific issues in detail and cre -
ating opportunities for discussion about matters being debated in parliament. 
The monitoring of law-making activity among institutions often leads to amendments to individual 
measures being proposed. 
Moreover, Telecom Italia provides information to ministries (mainly the Ministry for Economic Develop -
ment) regarding the activities of the inspection body (parliamentary questions) directed at the Group. 
National legislative activity specifically monitored by Telecom Italia during 2014 mainly concerned 
draft legislation being examined by the Italian parliament and the law decrees introduced by the 
governments of Enrico Letta and Matteo Renzi - the latter in office since February 22, 2014 - 113
which might have an impact on the electronic communications sector. 
The process of approval of the following legislation was therefore monitored:
• 2013 European Law (Provisions for the fulfilment of obligations arising from Italy’s membership 
of the European Union);
• decrees implementing the law on the “golden power” (Law no. 56/2012). This law harmonised 
Italian legislation with EU regulations, redefining the powers of objection that may be exercised 
by the State in public and private companies operating in the energy, transport and telecommu -
nications sectors to protect the strategic interests of the country in these sectors. In order to put 
into force these regulations, following a long legislative procedure, the Government therefore 
adopted two implementing Presidential Decrees: the first (Presidential Decree no. 85 of March 
25, 2014) is intended to identify strategically relevant actions in the aforesaid sectors, which 
are the subject of special powers (in the communications sector these are represented by the 
networks and installations that enable  end users to access services included in the univer -
sal service obligations and broadband and ultrabroadband services); the second (Presidential 
Decree no. 86 of March 25, 2014) identifies the procedures for activating special powers in 
the same sectors, thus defining the organisational procedures for performing the preparatory 
activities needed to exercise the special powers;
• Legislative Decree no. 21/2014 implementing European Directive 2011/83/EU on consumer 
rights, which harmonised certain aspects of distance contracts entered into by consumers and 
the contracts negotiated by them away from business premises. The passage of this meas -
ure was monitored with specific reference to the provision which, in the context of the right of 
withdrawal, provides protection for the consumer in the case of telephone contracts through 
the general requirement for a written confirmation, even by electronic signature, but also by 
confirmation of the durable medium (so-called Verbal Order). The Decree also contains an 
important provision which has eliminated the overlap between the roles of AGCOM and AGCM 
regarding unfair business practices;
• Decree Law 145/2013, known as the “Destination Italy” decree (Law no. 9 of February 21, 
2014) which, in order to encourage the spread of broadband and ultrabroadband, including 
through the use of innovative excavation techniques that do not require the road surface to 
be restored (e.g. the “micro-trench” technique), provided for a joint decree to be issued by 
the Ministry of Economic Development and Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (awaiting 
adoption as of April 23, last) revisiting the specific techniques previously governed by the 2013 
“Excavation Rules”, which will establish further measures regarding the laying of broadband 
and ultrabroadband infrastructure. Furthermore, with regard to policies for the spread of ul -
trabroadband, the “Destination Italy” decree also provided for measures promoting the use of 
digital technology by small and medium sized companies (SMEs), in the form of vouchers and 
tax credits for the costs incurred to activate digital connectivity services;  
• Decree Law on “Competitiveness” no. 91/2014 (law no. 116 of August 11, 2014), which updates 
Decree Law 179/2012 by requiring the adoption of guidelines (by ISPRA-ARPA/APPA and the 114
INSTITUTIONSMinistry of the Environment) for the methods used to calculate the electromagnetic emissions 
of mobile telephony installations; these guidelines, which were particularly welcomed by op -
erators, should facilitate an effective deployment of LTE/4G networks. The passage of the 
Decree Law was also monitored:
- with regard to provisions concerning billing concessions granted to customers of low and me -
dium voltage electricity with power greater than 16.5 kW (measures that would also include 
Telecom Italia among its beneficiaries); 
- with regard to the provision reviewing takeover bid legislation, which introduces a dual thresh -
old (a 25% threshold added to the current 30% threshold) whereby in companies other than 
SMEs there would be a requirement for anyone with a shareholding exceeding the 25% thresh -
old to make a takeover bid in the absence of any other shareholder with a larger shareholding;   
• “Unblock Italy” Decree Law no. 133/2014 (law no. 164 of November 11, 2014), which provides 
for a series of tax benefits in the form of tax credits (on IRES [corporation tax] and IRAP [re -
gional tax on production], up to a maximum limit of 50% of the investment cost) as an incen -
tive for the development of ultrabroadband networks. The measure applies to infrastructure 
projects for which no public grants are available relating to the access network through which 
the users are supplied with the ultrabroadband service. The Decree Law was also monitored 
with regard to the provisions aimed at simplifying excavation and overhead cable installation 
procedures and the authorisations required for the development of mobile radio networks. The 
Decree also provides for the adoption of guidelines regarding limits to exposure to electromag -
netic emissions in outbuildings with habitable dimensions, the option for local authorities to 
exempt operators from the payment of TOSAP [tax on the use of public space]  and COSAP 
[fee for the use of public space] in relation to optical fibre infrastructure, a provision for digital 
infrastructure to be created in new or refurbished buildings and the creation of a federated 
infrastructure information system;
•  Draft law to reform title V of the Constitution, currently before Parliament, which abolishes 
the so-called “concurrent legislative power” between the State and the Regions and restores 
exclusive control of communication to the State; the provision would make it easier to over -
come the significant number of disputes currently taking place, particularly with regard to the 
installation of fixed and mobile infrastructure;
• Law no. 183 of December 10, 2014 on labour policies, known as the “Jobs Act”, currently be -
fore Parliament, which, among other things, aims to also extend the powers of the government 
to revising the rules governing solidarity contracts, in addition to granting powers to reorganise 
forms of contract and inspection activities; 
•  Law no. 190 of December 23, 2014 - Stability Law 2015 - which contains several general 
provisions of interest relating to tax and welfare, including the experimental disbursement 
of accrued TFR [severance pay] in pay packets for the period between March 1, 2015, and 
June 30, 2018, for private sector employees subject to ordinary taxation; the removal of 
employer contribution requirements (for a period of 3 years) in relation to new employees 115
hired on open-ended contracts as of January 1, 2015; the establishment of a fund of 2 
billion euros as of 2015 to cover the charges arising from implementation of the draft la -
bour law; the full deductibility, for IRAP purposes, of the cost of permanent employment; 
stabilisation of the IRPEF [personal income tax] bonus of 80 euros. Furthermore, among 
the aspects of specific interest to the company, it contains a provision that establishes the 
terms of the tender for the award of the so-called “Band L” (1452-1492 MHz), currently 
used by the fixed line and radio broadcasting service and to be allocated to broadband 
mobile communication services. 
Finally, the Company is also monitoring some parliamentary hearings, including the one currently 
in progress in the Transport, Post and Telecommunications Committee on audiovisual and radio 
broadcasting services. The purpose of these hearings is to determine whether existing legislation 
is appropriate to regulate the technological convergence between traditional television broadcast -
ing and internet services, with the option to use audiovisual content on multiple platforms; in this 
context, Telecom Italia will also be heard during the month of December.
LOCAL NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS 
[G4-DMA Indirect Economic Impacts]
At local level, Telecom Italia maintains constant dialogue with institutions on subjects of a general na -
ture regarding the electronic communications sector, with particular reference to network development 
and to other issues of interest to the company’s business.
The aim is to resolve any issues encountered, to guide the local law-making process in such a 
way that it respects the national reference framework, to promote the Group’s image and repre -
sent its position regarding these issues. The dialogue takes place both directly with local authori -
ties and with their representative associations: ANCI and UPI. 
Monitoring and constant interaction with the decision-making centres of local institutions take 
place by means of hearings, including the presentation of position documents relating to the 
drafting of local regulations, and involvement in workshops as well as in the work of regional 
commissions and ministerial and specialist work groups. Furthermore, Telecom Italia frequently 
organises communication initiatives on specific issues of local interest.
Coordination with the company departments operating at the local level is fundamental for the 
purpose of acquiring information regarding the approaches and expectations of local institutions 
and providing suitable solutions. 
Among the main subjects of dialogue with Local Authorities during 2014 we would highlight 
the following:
• the development of new ultrabroadband networks (NGA - Next Generation Access) and the 
new LTE (Long Term Evolution) standard, local coverage and reducing the digital divide;116
INSTITUTIONS• the drawing-up of protocols with local authorities in order to promote the use of non-invasive 
techniques (mini-trenches) during excavation work, particularly in order to speed up the devel -
opment of new generation access network coverage;
• draft regional laws and municipal regulations regarding the installation of mobile telephony 
systems and electromagnetic fields (e.g. Umbria Law, Municipality of Rome Regulation, Munici -
pality of Florence Town Planning Regulation) in order to represent the company’s requirements 
(particularly by submitting amendments), in a way that allows all the various interests involved 
to coexist, with a view to simplifying rules and standardising the relevant national provisions; 
• proposed excavation rules, in order to ensure the consistency of the authorisation process 
and the respective regulations with the relevant national regulations also in order to ensure 
increased simplification at local level;
• the removal of public telephone equipment (telephone booths) which involved public consulta -
tion as part of a procedure agreed with AGCOM; 
• promotion of Telecom Italia’s digital inclusion initiatives to facilitate the learning of new technol -
ogies and their proper use, particularly by seeking new forms of partnership with municipalities 
as well as other partnerships and sponsorships;
• promotion of Telecom Italia’s system of digital services for the creation of smart cities and 
particularly support for the cities of Genoa and Turin in their applications to take part in the Eu -
ropean Commission’s Smart City project. In this respect, we should mention: our involvement 
in the activities of the steering committee of Genoa Smart City (a protocol has been signed with 
the Municipality of Genoa for joint initiatives regarding the improvement of energy efficiency of 
school buildings and digital education), and our involvement as a founding member of the To -
rino Wireless Foundation (a technological ICT district involving national and local institutions, 
universities and research centres, businesses and financial institutions) and our cooperation 
with the Municipality of Turin and the Torino Smart City Foundation for the presentation of joint 
projects that can be implemented within the Smart City initiatives framework;
• the signing of a memorandum of understanding with ANCI for the “Progetto Comuni 3.0”, which 
involves the testing by Telecom Italia, in four Municipalities (Piacenza, Pordenone, Lecce, Ben -
evento), of solutions for innovative digital services in urban centres with a Smart City perspec -
tive. The selected Municipalities work together to determine the objectives and functions of the 
services that will be presented as case and excellence studies nationally and disseminated via 
the ANCI National Smart City Observatory;
• the presentation of three studies carried out with leading universities on health and education 
issues. More specifically: a study was carried out with the Bocconi University on the develop -
ment of Electronic Health Records in some Italian regions, the study was presented during a 
meeting of the Network of Public Health Authority Directors in June 2014. The second study 
was carried out with the University of Bologna and relates to the introduction of digital solutions 
in education; it was presented at the ABCD exhibition in Genoa in November 2014. The third 
study, carried out with the LUISS University, is related to the use of 2014-2020 cohesion policy 117
resources in the regions of southern Italy; the report was presented during a dedicated event 
held at LUISS in January 2014;
• the drafting of regional Policy Reports aimed at taking stock of the current situation and of 
developments in regional policy regarding digital services, network infrastructure and smart 
cities. In September 2014, the second updated edition of the Policy Report relating to all Italian 
regions was completed. 
EUROPEAN
AND INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
Relations with European and supranational institutions are both institutional (e.g. participation in 
discussion platforms, public consultations, workshops, meetings of parliamentary committees) 
and collaborative (meetings with the European Commission, Permanent Representatives of EU 
Member States, the European Parliament, Agencies or working groups and specialised studies 
under the auspices of EU institutions, including the Centre for European Policy Studies, etc.).
The company’s position in respect of BEREC and the European Commission is asserted through 
individual action and/or with the involvement of other operators.
Among the issues tackled at European level, which were the subject of the main legislative/reg -
ulatory provisions relevant to the Group, we would mention for example: the European Commis -
sion’s proposal for a Regulation concerning the Single European Market for Telecommunications, 
the Recommendation on Costing Methodologies and Non-Discrimination Principles, the Regula -
tory Framework Review, the procedures for notification of the decisions of National Regulatory 
Authorities to the Commission pursuant to framework article 7, the implementation of the new 
Recommendation on Relevant Markets, the BEREC public consultation documents and the reg -
ulatory framework interpretation and implementation documents discussed and adopted in the 
context of the BEREC annual work programme, the review of the Directive on Payment Services, 
the process of adoption of the new Regulation for the Protection of Personal Data, involvement in 
the expert groups on Cloud Computing (C-SIG) with regard to the drafting of Service Level Agree -
ments - SLAs -, of a Code of Conduct on the protection of personal data in the Cloud environment 
and the drafting of standard contract clauses for cloud services, the process of adopting the new 
Directive on cyber-security and the NIS Platform, the new regulation on electronic identity and trust 
services and respective implementation measures. Telecom Italia is also particularly active in Eu -
ropean and international committees relating to the distribution of digital content and the protection 
of rights, particularly on issues such as the review of copyright in the digital scenario and its en -
forcement, discussions and proposals regarding the responsibilities of operators/ISPs, particularly 
those relating to actions taken by hosting providers to combat illegal activities online, the reform of 
the European directive on audiovisual media services, including the consultation (Green Paper) on 
connected TVs and on the convergence of telecommunications. In the field of child protection, Tel -118
INSTITUTIONSecom Italia is actively involved in two particularly important initiatives aimed at increasing the safety 
of children using the Internet: these are the “Better Internet for Kids” platform (a committee set up 
by Commissioner Kroes in 2011) and the ICT Coalition (a committee of European ICT industries). 
As regards relations with the UN, the activities carried out as part of the Global Compact (GC) are 
of particular importance, taking the form of participation in the working group on Human Rights or -
ganised by the GC Network Germany and in the various activities of the Italian network. Telecom 
Italia and Tim Brasil, the two Group companies which have joined the Global Compact, draw up 
an annual “Communication on Progress”, which reports on progress achieved by the companies 
in promoting and applying the 10 core principles of the Global Compact. The CoP drawn up by 
Telecom Italia in the summer of 2014, relating to the whole of 2013, grants it “Active” status and 
the “Advanced” level (compliance with the twenty-one criteria required).  For further information 
see Human Rights paragraph and the telecomitalia.com website. 
Telecom Italia is actively involved as a sector member in the ITU (UN agency for international tel -
ecommunications), in the three sectors into which it is divided (ITU Radiocommunication Sector, 
ITU Telecommunication Standardization Sector, ITU Telecommunication Development Sector). It 
also regularly attends the most significant events of the ITU.
Telecom Italia actively monitors the work of the OECD through BIAC (an association which brings 
together a range of companies from OECD member states) and the Permanent Representative of 
Italy to the OECD and the work of the competent Committees on matters of relevance to the Com -
pany, including the CDEP (Committee on Digital Economy Policy), the Competition Committee 
and the respective working groups, including the Working Party (WP) on Communication Infra -
structures and Services Policy, the WP for Security and Privacy, the WP on consumer protection. 
The issues dealt with during 2014 related to the Knowledge Based Economy project, with a focus 
on the big data and intellectual property chapter, the review of security guidelines, the transition to 
IPv6, the international traffic termination, the spectrum, the development of broadband fixed net -
works, connected TV, the review of e-commerce guidelines, the Internet of Things . Furthermore, 
discussions and work have been launched relating to the OECD Ministerial meeting planned for 
May 2016 in Cancun, Mexico. 
Telecom Italia interfaces with institutions, particularly supranational ones, both individually and as 
a member of important associations operating on the European and international scene, such as 
ETNO, GSMA, Business Europe, TABC. 119
RELATIONS WITH INSTITUTIONS IN BRAZIL 
TIM Brasil holds excellent relations with the institutions, at all levels of Government, Congress, 
and regulatory authorities. Dialogue is very intense and frequent and it is based on objective 
proposals and positions aimed not only at the development of specific issues for the company, 
but also for the entire industry.
At the  federal level, relations activities occur primarily with the Ministry of Communications, and 
also with several relevant departments of the Office of the President of the Republic and of minis -
tries dealing with development and industry, justice, science and education, local entities. TIM holds 
moreover important relations with members of the committees involved with themes related (but not 
limited) to economic-financial issues, privacy, telecommunications and consumer protection.
Regionally, TIM Brasil maintains a permanent agenda with local institutions and authorities on 
general issues related to the telecommunications industry, with emphasis on the development of 
infrastructure and network coverage and other matters of interest of local communities. 
Addressing proposals, stimulating debates, active participation in public hearings, contributions in 
public consultations, meetings with specific stakeholders on specific issues, are the main modal -
ities of the daily intense interactions with all the above mentioned institutions.
The main industry associations in which TIM Brasil is active are:
• ABR Telecom (Brazilian Association of Telecommunications Resources), which focuses on 
centralized management of technology solutions;
• TelComp (Brazilian Competitive Telecommunications Association), which represents the inter -
ests of more than 60 operators for market competition;
• SINDITELEBRASIL (TLC operators National Syndicate), which works on the coordination, 
defense and legal representation of the member companies, including all mobile and fixed 
operators;
• GSMA, which represents the interests of mobile operators worldwide;
• AHCIET (Latin American Association of Research Centers and Telecommunication Enterpris -
es), which strives for a common position among associates based on various studies on the 
numerous industry challenges in Latin America, through a public-private dialogue.The importance of fair competition
for all stakeholdersCOMPETITORS122
COMPETITORS[G4-DMA Anti-competitive Behavior]
STRATEGY
Telecom Italia is committed to promoting fair competition, a factor considered to be in its interests 
and those of all market operators, customers and stakeholders in general, promoting and partic -
ipating in initiatives and projects, together with competitors, and in the management of technical 
round tables and the activities of trade associations.
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS 
Our target audiences in this respect are:
• OLOs (Other Licensed Operators), telecommunications operators, large and small, of fixed 
and mobile networks;
• the Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM);
• the Italian Competition and Market Authority (AGCM);
• associations, federations and trade associations:
-  in Italy: Confindustria, CD Digital Confindustria, Asstel, Assinform, Ugo Bordoni Foundation, 
Audio and ICT District, FRT (Radio and Television Federation), HD Forum (High Definition 
Forum), DGTVì (the national association for terrestrial digital broadcasting), Auditel, CNID 
(Italian National Digital Committee);
-  in the world: ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association), EIF 
(European Internet Foundation), EABC (European-American Business Council), ITU (Inter -
national Telecommunication Union), EITO (European Information Technology Observatory), 
BIAC (Business and Industry Advisory Committee), BEREC  (Body of European Regulators 
for Electronic Communications), GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative). 
RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 
Telecom Italia manages relations with associations, coordinating representation activities in re -
spect of Confindustria and other Trade associations. 
Initiatives at national and local level consist of actions and meetings for business development 
and the protection of the company’s interests in the fields of economics, regulations, trade unions 
and labour. These initiatives are based on dialogue and comparing respective positions in order 
to identify, where possible, a common position for the sector to be presented to national and 
Community institutions. 
The Group is a member of over 100 local associations, including, in particular, CD Confindustria 
Digitale and  Asstel. Since 2010, Telecom Italia joined Assinform, the national aAsociation of 
leading Information Technology companies operating in the Italian market, which acts as a link 123
between the main economic, political and institutional entities for the development of Italy as a 
national system by recourse to innovation and new technologies. 
Together with the other operators, Telecom Italia takes part in the Ugo Bordoni Foundation (FUB), 
which aims to carry out research and studies in the communication and digital technology sector 
for the purpose of promoting scientific progress and technological innovation. The Foundation, 
in which public administration performs management and control functions, provides advice to 
Parliament, the Government and independent administrative Authorities. 
Telecom Italia also participates in the Audio and ICT District, a consortium of around 60 business -
es operating in the information technology, telecommunications, networking and media sectors. 
Sponsored by the municipality of Rome, the Union of Industrialists and the Rome Chamber of Com -
merce, the objective of the District is to express and represent, within its field, the industrial activities 
and services operating in the new economic area of the great convergence or multimediality.
The TI Media Group is associated with Confindustria Radio Televisioni, an association through which 
the company’s positions regarding TV frequencies are represented. The Italian Communications 
Authority AGCOM draws up frequency allocation plans, making use of the bodies of the Ministry of 
Communication, having consulted the public concessionaire and national associations representing 
the owners of private broadcasters and networks, in accordance with the national frequencies alloca -
tion plan. Confindustria Radio Televisioni was set up in June 2013 by Rai, Mediaset, TIMedia, SKY, 
La7, local TV stations and radio stations represented by the FRT (FRT PMI) association.
As regards other activities, the TI Media Group is present in:
• Tivù, a company in which TI Media has a 3.5% stake, which aims to promote a single platform 
for terrestrial digital and satellite services (Tivùsat). With regard to the free satellite platform, 
2,293,276 cards had been activated as of the end of November 2014;
• HD Forum, the association that promotes the development of high definition as well as regula -
tory and standardisation initiatives. 124
COMPETITORSCOMPETITIVE POSITIONING 
Quantitative surveys are periodically carried out on a representative sample of the adult Italian 
population to measure the effectiveness of the advertising for mobile telephony and telecommu -
nication services.
These measure how well the individual operators are known, unprompted and prompted knowl -
edge of advertising, recollection of advertising content and enjoyment of the advertising. 
As of July, on a quarterly basis, Telecom Italia’s reputation is monitored on the web using an 
automatic research and semi-automatic classification method which analyses the volume of con -
versations regarding Telecom Italia on the most significant Italian websites and main social net -
works and uses this information to rate the Company based on source, value and category. The 
objective is to track perception of the Telecom Italia and TIM brands in terms of their image. This 
process also involves the calculation of an index of reputation risk, based on an algorithm which 
weighs up the importance of the site/channel hosting the message (potential audience) against 
the valence (positive or negative) and relevance of the type of conversation to the Company.
SERVICES TO OLO s 
The Telecom Italia National Wholesale Service (NWS) department is the point of contact for 
other licensed operators (OLOs) and ISPs (Internet Service Providers) regarding the provision 
of network infrastructure and services for subsequent marketing by the said OLOs of electronic 
communication services to their own end customers.
NWS is responsible for pre- and after-sales design, identifying requirements and drawing up of -
fers and contracts, sales, support and billing for products/services supplied. Organisational and 
administrative separation between the retail departments of Telecom Italia and NWS, which is 
verified every year by an external body, ensures compliance with the principles of equal treatment 
and non-discrimination established by current regulatory provisions and in particular Resolution 
152/02/CONS. 
On an annual basis, NWS draws up and submits the reference offers (RO) for the various regu -
lated wholesale services. The process of approval of each reference offer involves joint examina -
tions and reviews designed to provide the clarifications requested by AGCOM, which approves its 
contents and monitors the work of the NWS in order to ensure that competition is safeguarded. 
AGCOM also acts as the guarantor and relevant authority in cases brought by OLOs/ISPs and 
end users on regulatory matters. 
In addition to the regulated services, NWS offers infrastructure and transmission capacity, data 
access and transmission,TLC equipment hosting, outsourcing and all the added value services 125
that allow operator networks to be “virtualised”. 
Each OLO has a direct relationship with its own account manager in the marketing and sales 
department of NWS, who receives the customer’s requests and customises the respective supply 
contracts in accordance with current regulatory requirements. In particular contracts relating to 
regulated services include clauses which provide for constant monitoring of the various stages of 
the supply of the service, ensuring that a number of the main indicators are subject to periodic no -
tification to AGCOM. The interests of the client are therefore safeguarded on a continuous basis, 
formalised through a process of conference calls, video conferencing and meetings involving all 
the company departments concerned. 
For further information regarding dialogue and involvement initiatives (Wholesale Forum, Whole -
sale Tour, Wholesale Portal), caring initiatives and the actions taken to measure OLO satisfaction 
go to the Telecom Italia Wholesale website at http://www.wholesale-telecomitalia.it.
THE ITALIAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS
AUTHORITY (AGCOM) 
Telecom Italia interacts with AGCOM in order to contribute to the administration of the regulatory 
process on matters considered concrete to the growth in value of the Company.
For this purpose, Telecom Italia pursues an honest dialogue and ongoing discussion with the Author -
ities and institutions with the aim of achieving a simple, effective and symmetrical regulatory frame -
work. Furthermore, the Group makes its own knowledge available by participating in public consul -
tations, institutional hearings, conventions, public meetings and by presenting appropriate testimony 
and petitions. The constant discussions with AGCOM and the institutions ensure that Telecom Italia 
gathers their opinions, supplying transparent, reliable responses, and anticipates events, creating 
and exploiting the best opportunities for the Company. For further information on legal provisions that 
regulate public consultations, market analyses, fact-finding surveys and dispute resolution among 
operators see the sustainability section of the website www.telecomitalia.com. 
Telecom Italia provides the answers required (e.g. public consultations, defensive testimony, sup -
ply of data and information of various kinds, etc.) and always ensures the completeness and 
reliability of the contribution.
In the case of violation proceedings, Telecom Italia presents testimony, expert reports and other 
defence documents, requesting a hearing by those responsible for the proceedings on the facts 
that are the subject of the dispute. Telecom Italia may decide to present a proposal, subject to 
the termination of the disputed conduct, aimed at improving competitive conditions in the sector, 
removing the anticompetitive consequences through suitable and stable measures. 126
COMPETITORSTHE ITALIAN COMPETITION
AND MARKET AUTHORITY (AGCM) 
As part of the protection of competition and the consumer, Telecom Italia Group interacts with the 
Antitrust authority both in a preventative way and during proceedings launched by it. 
For prior information purposes, in addition to responding to the requests regularly submitted by 
the Authority in performing the tasks assigned to it by Law 287/90 and the Consumer Code, 
the company’s departments periodically organise meetings for the exchange of information. The 
objective is to facilitate understanding of the development of the market and the effects on the 
Authority’s area of responsibility, in order to ensure transparency. 
The areas in which prior information is provided include the development of the Group’s offer, the 
company’s position on strategic issues such as the development of the access network and Net 
Neutrality, the development of the criteria adopted for pricing in the markets in which the Com -
pany is in a dominant position, and the technical and economic characteristics of certain offers 
disputed by competitors. 
In the event of dispute proceedings being launched, the Group presents its case in the appropri -
ate forums, in some cases presenting the Authority with undertakings that will reduce the alleged 
anti-competitive aspects at the centre of the proceedings. After having assessed these undertak -
ings, the Authority may make them compulsory and end the proceedings without imposing any 
financial penalty. 
Within the Company there are preventive controls on processes with potentially significant im -
pacts in Antitrust terms such as, for example, the drawing-up of marketing plans, the develop -
ment of contracts, conditions for the provision of telecommunication services, the development 
of the company’s information systems. The controls are aimed at ensuring that the operational 
management of the processes take into consideration these potential impacts. In order to raise 
awareness and disseminate a correct approach to the subject, as a follow-up to the online train -
ing programme launched in 2010, during 2013, management were offered a specific classroom 
training course on the application of competition law. In 2014, training activities continued for staff 
belonging to the NWS function.127
UNDERTAKINGS REGARDING
THE ACCESS NETWORK 
In December, 2008, AGCOM approved the voluntary undertakings presented by Telecom Italia 
with Resolution 718/08/CONS, subdivided into 14 groups, plus three additional groups of a meth -
odological nature (variation, expiry, modulation). The impact of the undertakings on stakeholders, 
both internal (shareholders) and external (customers, institutions, competitors, community) can 
be broken down into different aspects. Specifically:
• greater satisfaction of wholesale and retail customers, promoting innovation in internal pro -
cesses, the qualitative development and improvement of the fixed access network and respec -
tive services, the reduction of disputes;
• development of fair competition among competitors, which is considered to be in the interests 
of the Group, the market, the customers and stakeholders in general, promoting equality of 
technical and economic treatment among the marketing departments of Telecom Italia and the 
other operators; 
• maintenance of competitive conditions in the transition to new generation networks, in order to 
ensure the creation of an open network able to offer the Community high quality services;
• more transparency in the evolution of fixed access network for competitors and institutions 
through communication of the technical plans for quality and development of the infrastructure;
• fulfilment of requests received from AGCOM, consumer associations and alternative opera -
tors, contributing to the development of a relationship and problem resolution model based on 
constructive relationships founded on a climate of trust and continuous discussion.
A fundamental requirement for the fulfilment of these undertakings is the development of a new 
culture centred on the concept of Equivalence1 and the role of Open Access, the structure set 
up in February 2008 in the Technology & Operations department to provide access services to 
the Retail sales department of Telecom Italia and other alternative operators through NWS (for 
further information see § Services to OLOs). The access network is an infrastructure of primary 
importance for the whole country and is used by alternative operators in the market to connect 
their infrastructures and offer services to the Community. The Open Access and NWS activities 
for the production and sale of access services are separate and managed independently from the 
other commercial departments of the Telecom Italia Group. Also in 2008, the Supervisory Board 
was set up, a supervisory Committee that verifies the proper fulfilment of the undertakings, the 
1 The concept of Equivalence, introduced by Resolution 718 of 2008, exceeds the concept of equality of treatment referred to in 
Resolution 152 of 2002. Essentially, “being equivalent” means: 
• behaving in a way that does not discriminate against competitors; or serving the customers of other operators as if they were 
retail customers of Telecom Italia, which means providing  the same services, under the same conditions and above all an 
identical standard of quality;
• ensuring the transparency of the market, making technical, economic and commercial information public, including the terms 
and conditions for the supply and the use of services, and the characteristics and development plans for the access network;
• guaranteeing access to and use of network resources, accepting all reasonable requests from OLOs;
• setting cost-driven prices and having specific accounting information regarding these prices. 128
COMPETITORSequality of access by other operators to the fixed network infrastructure and the achievement of 
service quality objectives. 
In November 2011 AGCOM, with Resolution 600/11/CONS, acknowledged the full implemen -
tation of the undertakings by Telecom Italia while continuing monitoring activities with special 
reference to some particularly important aspects concerning guarantees of Equivalence (new 
provisioning system, information databases and equality of treatment indicators).  
Following AGCOM resolution 1/12/CONS, with which Telecom Italia was named as an operator 
with significant market power in NGAN services as well, as of July 2012 the equivalence model 
was extended to these services as well.
Furthermore, the equivalence model, which is constantly monitored by AGCOM and the Supervi -
sory Body, has evolved, transposing and adapting itself to the provisions recently defined by the 
Authority regarding the development of new generation networks, particularly in respect of the 
methods for achieving co-location and cabinet access obligations (resolutions 747/13/CONS and 
155/14/CONS).
RELATIONS WITH THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS
REGULATORY AUTHORITY
AND THE ANTITRUST AUTHORITY IN BRAZIL
TIM Brasil holds a very participative and collaborative relationship with ANATEL and CADE, the 
authorities which deal, respectively, with regulation in the telecommunication industry and with 
market and competition.
With ANATEL (Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações) TIM Brasil cooperates for the development 
of the dialogue on a telecommunications regulatory framework suited to the sector and the general 
economic growth. The main goal is to identify the most relevant issues and to reduce barriers for the 
sector, especially by contributing to the development of the main regulatory chapters like spectrum 
management, quality of service, interconnection and network sharing, rural areas coverage.
TIM Brasil also maintains a transparent and collaborative relationship with CADE (Conselho Ad -
ministrativo de Defesa Econômica). The company is responsible for notifying CADE about its 
mergers, acquisitions and agreements, as well as for providing in due time all necessary infor -
mation. Also, TIM Brazil promotes debates and studies and it works with academic institutions in 
order to support research activities on competition policy in the country.The contribution made by Information
and Communication Technology solutions
to safeguarding the planet for us
and future generationsENVIRONMENT 132
ENVIRONMENTSTRATEGY
Protecting the environment, improving energy efficiency and offering services that reduce emis -
sions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants are the main intervention policies adopted by the 
Telecom Italia Group to promote sustainable development in its areas of influence. The specific 
actions taken are therefore aimed at reducing its environmental impacts and offering technologi -
cal solutions aimed at individuals, businesses and public administration for the creation of a more 
inclusive and viable digital society. 
The environmental strategy of the Group’s companies is founded on the following principles:
• optimising the use of energy sources and other natural resources;
• constantly seeking to improve environmental performance by reducing negative impacts and 
increasing positive ones; 
• adopting procurement policies that take environmental issues into account; 
• disseminating a culture that promotes a correct approach to environmental issues.
In order to ensure the effective and sustainable management of operational processes which 
have particular environmental impacts, Telecom Italia has equipped itself with an Environmental 
Management System (Sistema di Gestione Ambientale - SGA) which is ISO14001 certified. In 
some organizations, the Environmental Management System has been integrated with the Qual -
ity Management System (Gestione della Qualità), together with the Safety Management System 
based on the OHSAS 18001 standard: all of them have achieved the respective certification. 
Some activities have also achieved the certification for the Energy Management System against 
the ISO 50001 standard. For further details on this subject go to the telecomitalia.com website.
The main indicators used to measure the Telecom Italia Group’s environmental performance 
in 2014 performed as follows:
Indicator Trend
Total electricity procured and produced Up
Total atmospheric emissions of CO2Significantly down  
Total water consumption Down
Eco-efficiency Up133
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS 
The environment stakeholder consists of future generations and their right to live in a world not 
compromised by the negative effects of development by previous generations. The interests of 
this collective person are identified in the demands made by:
• national and international environmental organisations;
• national and supranational institutions;
• the community in general, particularly in the areas where Telecom Italia operates; 
• industry associations and non-profit organisations dealing with issues relating to the environ -
ment. These include the following in particular: CSR Europe, Academy of Business in Society 
(ABIS), European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), European 
Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), Car -
bon Disclosure Project (CDP), European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT), International 
Telecommunication Union (ITU).
Telecom Italia is attentive to the requirements of stakeholders interested in protecting the envi -
ronment and has developed various channels of communication with them, including the Festival 
of Science, the Venice Future Centre and the Group Internet/Intranet pages dealing with envi -
ronmental issues, in addition to formal and informal meetings with these stakeholders. Telecom 
Italia promotes and in some cases coordinates national and international environmental projects. 
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
The information regarding environmental and energy performances is drawn from management 
data, some of which is estimated.
The data shown below relate to energy use (heating, transport and electricity), eco-efficiency, at -
mospheric emissions, use of water, paper and waste production. Some of the Media BU’s figures 
are up on the previous period, albeit with a very low incidence compared to the group as a whole, 
as a result of variations in the scope of the BU’s business. 
ENERGY
[G4-EN3], [G4-EN6]  Energy consumption by the Telecom Italia Group is presented according to the 
guidelines proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative regarding direct consumption for heating, 
power generation and transport (Scope 1, according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol1) and indi -
rect consumption for the use of purchased electricity (Scope 2).
1 The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council on Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD), sets the global standard for how to measure, manage, and report greenhouse gas emissions.134
ENVIRONMENTHeating systems
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation
compared to the previous 2 years
Group Domestic Brazil Media
Energy generated by heating oil MJ 107,863,648 100% 0%  0%
Energy generated by natural gas MJ 609,854,508 100% 0%  0%
Total energy for heating MJ 717,718,156 100%  0%  0%
2014 v. 2013 (10)% (10)%  0% 0%
2014 v. 2012 11% 12%  0% (100)%
The data in the table show that in 2014 there was a significant reduction compared to the data for 
2013 and an increase compared to 2012; this effect was expected and was already highlighted 
last year, underlining that the significant increase shown did not represent a real increase in con -
sumption but was the consequence of an adjustment on the previous period. The system used to 
measure the energy use of large buildings is now more efficient and precise. 
In Brazil, given the particular climate conditions throughout the year, indoor heating is not used. 
The Media BU operates the broadcasting business and, as has already been said, it is extremely 
small compared to the Group as a whole. 
Transport (†)
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation
compared to the previous 2 years
Group 2014 Domestic Brazil Media
Energy from unleaded petrol   MJ  57,556,026 17% 83% 0%
Energy by heating oil   MJ 640,450,882 99% 0% 1%
Energy from LPG   MJ 4,846,838 100% 0% 0%
Energy by natural gas   MJ 375,843 100%  0%  0%
Total energy for transport (‡)   MJ 703,229,589 92% 7% 1%
2014 v. 2013   (3)% (3)% (4)% 2%
2014 v. 2012   (6)% (6)% 4% (20)%
Total number of vehicles     
no.20,049        95%   5% 0%
2014 v. 2013       0%   0%  (3)% (7)%
2014 v. 2012        (1)%   (1)%  14% (48)%
Total distance travelled km 301,777,289  94%    5%     1%
2014 v. 2013       (3)%    (3)%   (6)% 1%
2014 v. 2012         (6)%    (6)%   3% (31)%
(†) The data shown in the tables relating to transport refer to all the Group’s vehicles (industrial, commercial, used by senior  manag -
ers/middle managers/sales people), both owned and hired. The vehicles, consumption and mileage of vehicles owned or in use 
by the sales force of Tim Brasil have been included only where usage is significant and continuous. 
(‡) Represents conversion into Megajoules of the consumption of unleaded petrol, diesel and LPG (expressed in litres) and natural gas 
- CNG (expressed in kg).135
As a consequence of the reduction in distances travelled, the downward trend in the energy used 
for transport continues.  
Consumption figures for electricity used to operate telecommunications and civil/industrial tech -
nological plants are shown below. 
Electricity procured and produced
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation
compared to the previous 2 years
Group Domestic Brazil Media
Electricity from mixed sources kWh 604,934,214 16% 80% 4%
2014 v. 2013 (74)%  (95)%  20% 39%
2014 v. 2012 (74)% (95)%  33%  5%
Electricity from renewable 
sourceskWh 1,911,262,764 100% 0% 0%
2014 v. 2013 4,785%  4,785%  0%  0%
2014 v. 2012  3,842% 3,842% 0%  0%
Total electricity kWh 2,516,196,978 80%  19% 1%
2014 v. 2013 5%  1%  20%  39%
2014 v. 2012 5%  0%  33%  5%
Energy use across the Group has risen as a result of the increased volume of traffic and services 
offered to customers. In particular, the rate of growth is significant in Brazil as a consequence of 
the expansion in the network and the market.   
In 2014, Telecom Italia entered into an agreement, that also covers 2015, to buy guarantees of origin  
which certify electricity generated by renewable sources. This explains the big percentage changes 
shown in this table in the quantities of electricity used, by type, compared to previous years.
 
In accordance with the energy policy adopted, the Group continued to take action in the following 
areas this year: 
• on one hand, seeking energy saving opportunities, i.e. recovering energy without structural chang -
es but through organic action - e.g. temperature alignment and redefinition of Group policies, 
improving the efficiency of existing cogeneration plants, energy stations, recalibration of set-points 
in multi-system sites, cogeneration refrigeration systems, free cooling, disconnection of obsolete 
equipment; on the other hand, technological upgrading and distributed generation work, with in -
vestments aimed at achieving “less use at a lower cost”, including new free cooling technologies, 
prioritising air conditioning, lighting of offices and industrial sites, trigeneration plants (including 
micro plants), geothermal and other renewable sources;  136
ENVIRONMENT• work on increasing awareness of the impact of people’s behaviour, in order to emphasise the 
“enabling factors” that help to save energy and reduce the carbon footprint, defining dedicated 
roles aimed at guiding the implementation of initiatives to disseminate the results achieved at all 
levels and promoting a culture of energy-saving and environmental respect within the Company.
Previously launched energy saving initiatives continued and new initiatives were undertaken in 
2014 in Italy:
• technological modernisation and streamlining of exchange and Radio Base Station (RBS) equip -
ment, involved 552 power stations, 676 air conditioning systems and 1,169 batteries during the year; 
• in the context of IT efficiency projects, work continued on replacing and modernising techno -
logically obsolete platforms with a consequent migration of data network services to innovative 
and more efficient ones; the gradual freeing-up of spaces, resulting from the transfer of tra -
ditional voice customers to VoIP platforms and the gradual expansion of the fixed ultrabroad -
band network, make it possible to increase the compactness of exchanges on the PSTN2 
network for fixed network equipment and to concentrate 2 or more SGUs3 (SuperSGU project) 
with significant savings in electricity use;   
• activities continued to assess and optimise the efficiency of the mobile network with multian -
nual objectives assessed over 5 years to achieve energy savings of 10% in infrastructure and 
20% in transmission equipment. Once these targets are reached, a discount of 3% on the 
amount charged for LTE licences in Italy will be guaranteed; 
• modernisation of mobile access network nodes with a “green” approach, i.e. paying particular 
attention to saving energy and to the energy certification of solutions adopted, as well as a 
“future proof” approach, intended to anticipate the future developments and benefits of tech -
nology by adopting multi-standard integrated 2G/3G/4G technologies;
• new solutions have been adopted that have allowed the greater energy efficiency of GSM radio 
base stations to be achieved; these solutions, which only involved work on the software, were 
implemented out together with the suppliers (Ericsson, Nokia and Huawei);
• efficiency development activities continued following the energy audits carried out on the 6 
offices and Data Processing Centres in Bari and Rozzano; 
• further efficiency works on the consumption of gas for property heating through the use of soft -
ware for dynamic automatic boiler regulation. The work focused on the top 10 buildings sorted 
by consumption; 
• as part of the lighting project, work began to install ceiling lights in office premises. The lighting 
systems will be fitted with presence detectors and variable light controls to adjust the lighting 
required depending on external lighting. Around 15,000 ceiling lights were installed in 2014; 
• as part of the work done to increase energy self-generation, 7 new co-generation plants were 
installed, which will be tested during the first six months of 2015. 
2 PSTN = Public Switched Telephone Network.
3 SGU = Stadio di Gruppo Urbano (Urban Group Stage); is a type of exchange that provides urban telephone switching.137
There are also plans to take further energy saving measures in 2015: 
• also in the context of IT solutions that do not require the replacement of hardware, field tests 
are set to continue, with the subsequent adoption of energy efficiency solutions in all suitable 
2G stations, with similar solutions planned for the 3G and LTE access networks as well;
• the “SuperSGU” project mentioned previously will lead not only to a lower risk of interruption of 
the service and obsolescence of the equipment but also to a decrease in operating costs and 
the planned achievement of the energy efficiency certificates in the 2-year period 2015-2016; 
• following the energy audits already carried out, work is also planned on the Bologna, Padua 
and Pomezia DPCs;
• the installation of more efficient ceiling lights will continue at a rate of around 1,000 replace -
ments a week;
• the optimisations achieved on the consumption of gas for heating of non-industrial premises 
will be extended to other buildings across the country.
During 2014, Telecom Italia was awarded Energy Efficiency Certificates (in Italian: Titoli di Efficien -
za Energetica - TEE) for 27 projects relating to previous years, corresponding to around 47,000 
Tonnes of Oil Equivalent (TOEs) per year saved and an estimated financial value, over 5 years, of 
49 million euros. The certificates, also known as white certificates, certify the achievement of ener -
gy savings in the final use of energy as a result of work and projects carried out to improve energy 
efficiency. Established by ministerial decree of 20 July 2004, these certificates are issued by GSE4 
to reward entities carrying out innovative projects resulting in a significant saving of electricity or 
fuel. One White Certificate corresponds to 1 TOE saved, and to a negotiable financial value. In fact 
distributors of electricity and natural gas - so called “obliged entities”, who are  required to achieve 
specific annual quantitative targets for primary energy saving – can meet the reduction target 
requirements both by means of energy efficiency projects granting white certificates and by the 
procurement of EEC from other parties on the Energy Efficiency Certificates market5. 
During 2014, the ISO 50001 certification, obtained in 2013 with an audit of the Rome Parco de’ 
Medici offices, was extended to the Bologna Corticella premises, which house offices and a major 
telephone exchange. ISO 50001 is a voluntary standard applicable to all kinds of organisations, 
public and private, which establishes the requirements to be fulfilled by organisations and man -
agement models that aim to improve energy efficiency; it promotes the best energy management 
practices and supports projects and initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Also with regard to certifications:
• in addition to the ISO 50001 certification, the Bologna Corticella site also achieved the ISO 
14064 certification. The main aim of the ISO 14064 standard is to provide organisations with 
tools and procedures based on a scientific and systematic approach, in order to quantify, mon -
4 Gestore dei Servizi Energetici, GSE S.p.A. – www.gse.it.
5 Gestore del Mercato Elettrico, GME S.p.A. - www.mercatoelettrico.org138
ENVIRONMENTitor, record and validate or verify inventories of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions or projects 
related to cutting these emissions;
• experiments were completed on the Rozzano 2 data centre to define its energy certification level 
or Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)6. The value of the PUE indicator for Rozzano 2 was deter -
mined to be 1.66 in February 2014: this is a very good value that ranks among the best in the 
industry in Europe. Towards the end of the year, activities were launched to measure the PUE 
indicator of the Cesano Maderno, Turin, Pomezia and Rozzano 1 and 3 data centres as well.
ECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR
[G4-EN5]  The Telecom Italia Group measures its own energy efficiency by using an indicator that 
establishes a relationship between the service offered to the customer, in terms of bits transmit -
ted, and the company’s impact on the environment represented by joules of energy consumed. 
The factors taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice traffic of the fixed/mobile 
networks and energy consumption for industrial purposes (transmission and climate control in ex -
changes), domestic purposes (electricity for office use, air conditioning and heating in the offices) 
and vehicles. The following charts show the values and the trend of the eco-efficiency indicator 
over the past three years for the Domestic and Brazil BUs.
6 The PUE indicator is the parameter used internationally to measure the energy consumption and requirements of data centres. 
It was promoted by the US industrial consortium The Green Grid and compares the consumption of IT components to the total 
consumption directly associated with the operation of server rooms. The closer this index is to 1, the more the use of energy in the 
DC is efficient for the purpose of delivering ICT services.139
Eco-efficiency
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000
2014 2013 20122,5242,8283,543bit/jouleEco-efficiency Indicator - Domestic BU
In 2014, the value of this indicator calculated for the Domestic BU once again exceeded expec -
tations and the commitment continues with the establishment of a target for 2015 of 4,700 bit/
joule, with an increase of +32% compared to the figure for 2014 (see 2015 Objectives in the 
Appendix).
bit/jouleEco-efficiency Indicator - Brazil
0100200300400500600700
2014 2013 2012527
344585140
ENVIRONMENTThe Eco-efficiency indicator calculated for Brazil also continues to improve over time: in 2014 has 
grown by 11% compared to 2013 and 70% compared to 2012. 
The values of the indicators calculated respectively for Italy and Brazil are not directly comparable 
because the two organisations are very different in operational and environmental terms: e.g. in 
Brazil the traffic is primarily mobile and, as previously mentioned, no heating fuels are used due 
to  particular climate conditions.
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
[G4-EN15], [G4-EN16], [G4-EN19]  Greenhouse gas emissions by Telecom Italia and the Group con -
sist almost exclusively of carbon dioxide and are due to the use of fossil fuels for heating, trans -
port, electricity generation, purchase of electricity produced by third parties and staff travel (for 
business trips and commuting between home and work). In addition to these, dispersals of hydro -
chlorofluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons (HCFCs and HFCs) from air conditioning plants are 
also considered and converted into kg of CO2 equivalent.  
For atmospheric emissions as well, use is made of the Global Reporting Initiative - GRI Version 
4 - guidelines, which refer to the definitions of the GHG Protocol, distinguishing between direct 
emissions (Scope1: use of fossil fuels for transport, heating, power generation), indirect emis -
sions (Scope2: purchase of electricity for industrial and civil use) and other indirect emissions 
(Scope3). Unless otherwise stated, the atmospheric emission figures given in this Report have 
been calculated based on the emission factors made available by the GHG Protocol7.
The following table shows the total CO2 emissions of the Telecom Italia Group.
7 Emissions relating to the consumption of electricity purchased from mixed sources in the Italian market in 2012, 2013 and 2014 have 
been calculated by using the 2009 emission factor published by the GHG Protocol - which considers the national energy mix - equal 
to 386 grams of CO2/kWh. For Brazil, the average emission factors for 2012, 2013 and 2014 have been used, as calculated and pu -
blished by the Ministério da Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação  (Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation), of approximately 65.3, 
96 and 135.5, grams respectively of CO2/kWh. This trend displays an increasing tendency by Brazil to use fossil fuels to generate 
electricity.141
Atmospheric emissions
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation
compared to the previous 2 years
Group Domestic Brazil Media
CO2 emissions from transport kg 52,408,809 92% 7% 1%
CO2 emissions from heating kg 41,174,283 100% 0% 0%
Emissions of CO2 equivalents 
for HCFC/HFC(*) dispersalskg 7,357,860 100% 0% 0%
CO2 emissions from electricity 
generation by cogenerationkg 36,858,508 100% 0% 0%
CO2 emissions from electricity 
generation using dieselkg 2,851,373 81% 16% 3%
Total direct emissions of 
CO2 - under Scope 1 GRIkg 140,650,833 97% 3% 0%
2014 v. 2013 (11)% (11)% (4)% 2%
2014 v. 2012 (3)% (3)% 3% (24)%
CO2 emissions from purchases 
of electricity generated by 
mixed sourceskg 79,005,678 4% 83% 13%
Total indirect emissions of 
CO2 - under Scope 2 GRIkg 79,005,678 4% 83% 13%
2014 v. 2013 (90)% (100)% 69% 39%
2014 v. 2012 (90)% (100)% 176% 5%
CO2  emissions from
work-home commuting(†) kg 65,983,516 94% 6% 0%
CO2 emissions from air travel(‡) kg 11,370,398 55% 45% 0%
Total other indirect 
emissions of CO2 - under 
Scope 3 GRIkg 77,353,914   88% 12% 0%
2014 v. 2013 (4)% (6)% 14% 5%
2014 v. 2012 (4)% (5)% 8% 1%
Total CO2 emissions kg 297,010,425 70% 26% 4%
2014 v. 2013 (70)% (78)% 54% 36%
2014 v. 2012 (70)% (78)% 118% 3%
(*) Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), in terms of equivalent CO2 emissions are determined by 
reference to specific Global Warming Potential (GWP) parameters for the two gases: the index is based on a relative scale that 
compares the gas considered with an equal mass of carbon dioxide with a GWP of 1. The GWP of HCFC used was 1,780 and that 
of HFC was 1,300.
(†) In determining the impact of home-work commuting, reference is made to statistical data produced on the company’s personnel. In 2014 
all the companies within the Domestic BU have been included in the calculation, whilst in the past years only the main ones had been 
taken into consideration. In order to allow a proper comparison, the emissions generated in 2013 and 2012 have been re-calculated.
(‡) Emissions due to air travel were calculated by the study and research centre of American Express (the Travel Agency used by Telecom 
Italia) supported by UK DEFRA  (Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) based on the number of journeys actually made, 
subdivided by the duration of each individual journey (short or long).
The table showing emissions of carbon dioxide, particularly those under the GRI Scope 2, is 
strongly and positively influenced, compared to previous years, by the agreement signed for the 
purchase, in 2014 and 2015, of guarantees of origin which certify electricity generated by renew -
able sources. In 2014, the agreement related to almost 100% of the electricity purchased by the 
Domestic BU.142
ENVIRONMENTWATER
[G4-EN8]
Water Consumption
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation
compared to the previous 2 years
Group Domestic Brazil Media
Consumption of water drawn 
from artesian wellsm3139,087 100% 0% 0%
Consumption of water 
provided by water supply 
companiesm34,628,029 95% 5% 0%
Consumption of water drawn 
from other sourcesm322,475 0% 100% 0%
Total water consumption(*) m34,789,591 95% 5% 0%
2014 v. 2013 (2)% (3)% 9% (27)%
2014 v. 2012 (16)% (17)% 17% (98)%
Water consumption has fallen compared to previous periods, which is particularly significant com -
pared to consumption in 2012 and reflects the efforts made to reduce waste and speed up mainte -
nance. Water continues to be an important indicator of environmental performance and a correct 
approach to the use of natural resources.  
PAPER
Paper for office use
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation
compared to the previous 2 years
Group Domestic Brazil Media
Non-recycled paper purchased kg 1,569 100% 0% 0%
Recycled paper purchased kg 0 0% 0% 0%
FSC certified paper purchased kg 350,700 87% 13% 0%
Total paper purchased kg 352,269 87% 13% 0%
2014 v. 2013 (3)% (1)% (16)% 103%
2014 v. 2012 (24)% (21)% (30)% (89)%
Purchases of paper for office and commercial use (telephone bills) continue to be directed at 
product types that meet the highest environmental standards based on the responsible manage -
ment of forests according to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC, see fsc.org) requirements. 
The reduction in paper consumption for office use shown in the table is in line with a historical 
trend resulting from work done to raise awareness about the responsible use of paper in the 143
workplace and rationalisation of energy use through the “printing on demand” project, which pro -
vides for the use of shared high performance printers and printing methods that save energy 
and consumables. Activities continued with the aim of achieving overall reductions in the use of 
paper for business purposes, including the promotion among customers of electronic invoices 
and statements. 
WASTE
[G4-EN23]  The data shown in the table refer to the quantity of waste consigned8 and recorded by law9. 
Waste consigned7
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation
compared to the previous 2 years
Group Domestic Brazil Media
Hazardous waste kg 4,033,285 100% 0% 0%
Non-hazardous waste kg 9,017,050 95% 5% 0%
Total waste consigned(*) kg 13,050,335 97% 3% 0%
2014 v. 2013 (21)% (20)% (41)% (3)%
2014 v. 2012 (32)% (32)% (36)% (87)%
Waste sent for recycling or 
recoverykg 12,617,183 99% 1% 0%
% Waste sent for recycling or 
recovery97% 99% 39% 0%
(*) The data does not include the Domestic BU telephone poles because these are not disposed of as ordinary waste but under the 
framework agreement signed in 2003 with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Production Activities and the production 
and recovery companies, subject to the favourable opinion of the conference of State-Regions-Autonomous Provinces. In 2014, 
Telecom Italia decommissioned 120,156 poles weighing a total of 9,612,420 kg.
Waste data varies over time according to the quantities and types delivered to the companies 
contracted to treat it. The most important item of data for Telecom Italia’s purposes is the ratio 
between waste produced and consigned for recycling/recovery, which reached a significant level.
Ministerial Decree No. 65 of March 8th, 2010 (published in the Gazzetta Ufficiale on May 10th, 
2010) implemented the collection of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) by all 
Telecom Italia sales channels as of June 18th, 2010, resulting in the company’s registration as a 
“distributor” in the national Register of environmental managers. 
Telecom Italia has entered into contracts aimed at recovering used, faulty and end-of-life products 
and materials, in order to allow components and raw materials to be reclaimed. In 2014, this al -
8 “Waste consigned” refers to the waste delivered to carriers for recycling or reclamation or disposal.
9 Slight variations compared to the situation on December 31 may occur until the following March 30, because the source of the data 
is the records of waste loaded and unloaded, which are consolidated once the actual weight at destination has been verified. The 
information is supplied to the producer of the waste within 3 months of consignment, which is the reason for the potential variations 
in the data.144
ENVIRONMENTlowed the landfill disposal of 1,200,000 products to be avoided and tangible financial benefits to 
be gained from their recovery.
The various management activities allowed logistics and network products (121,653 items) and 
commercial logistics products (156,527 items) to be regenerated, components and raw materials 
(824,213 items) to be sent for recovery and used products (95,104 items) to be resold.
This activity has a dual purpose: contributing to a reduction in WEEE produced while at the same 
time generating a financial benefit resulting from the difference between the cost that would be 
incurred for the purchase of new equipment and the cost of regeneration. 
ELECTROMAGNETIC EMISSIONS
The actions of the Telecom Italia Group on the subject of electromagnetic emissions are essentially:
• careful management of its equipment during its entire life cycle and in compliance with current 
regulations and internal standards of efficiency and safety;
• deployment of, and constant research into, the latest technological instruments for checks 
and controls.  
Systematic monitoring of the levels of electromagnetic emissions in installations aims to ensure 
that legal limits are respected and high safety standards are maintained for workers and the 
general population. According to the checks carried out in Italy, the electromagnetic emissions 
generated are well within legal limits. 
As part of the certification of mobile phones sold on the market under the TIM brand, TILab 
performs tests on all technologically innovative products to check the SAR (Specific Absorption 
Rate) declared by suppliers. This parameter estimates the quantity of electromagnetic energy 
per unit of body mass absorbed by the human body in the event of exposure to the electromag -
netic field generated by mobile handsets and other wireless devices. Telecom Italia certifies and 
sells through its sales network only mobile handsets with a SAR value lower than the limit set by 
European legislation. In determining this conformity Telecom Italia complies with the instructions 
given in the ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines 
and subsequent declarations of conformity10. This qualification, which is carried out during the 
pre-marketing stage, when Telecom Italia does not often have the SAR value declared by the 
supplier, makes the test more valuable than a simple quality control check.
Joint activities are also taking place with a number of ARPAs (regional environmental protection agen -
cies) to assess the electromagnetic fields generated by RBSs, considering the actual power trans -
mitted based on traffic and power control mechanisms, in accordance with changes to the Prime 
Ministerial Decree of 8/7/2003 contained in the Decree Law on Growth 179/2012. Similar attention is 
paid to the emissions from mobile handsets using the frequency bands operated by Telecom Italia. 
10 Guidelines for Limiting Exposure to Time-Varying Electric, Magnetic, and Electromagnetic Fields (up to 300 GHz). Health Physics 
74 (4): 494-522; 1998; Statement on the “Guidelines for limiting exposure to time-varying electric, magnetic and electromagnetic 
fields (up to 300 GHz)”. Health Physics 97(3):257-259; 2009.145
COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING
ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION 
As active and responsible members of the community, the Group’s companies are committed to 
observing and ensuring the observance of the laws in force in the countries in which they oper -
ate and adopt the organisational tools needed to prevent the violation of legal provisions11. The 
effectiveness of these tools is demonstrated by the fact that during 2014 no significant financial 
penalties12 were imposed on the Group’s companies for violations of environmental legislation in 
the areas in which they perform their activities. This statement applies to the Domestic BU and to 
the Media BU as well as to the Brazil BU and has also been true of the previous two years,  
Similarly, there are no non-financial administrative sanctions or environmental dispute resolutions 
via conciliation mechanisms to be reported for 2014 or the previous two years.  
In Brazil, there is no arrangement for environmental disputes to be resolved by conciliation. 
CLIMATE CHANGE
The Green Economy is recognised as the driving force for sustainable development and the 
eradication of poverty.
The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector can make a significant contribu -
tion to developing the economy, improving energy efficiency and combating climate change, as 
demonstrated by several studies and analyses of the ICT industry, recently confirmed by the 
SMARTer 202013 Report published in December 2012 by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative.
The Group’s approach to the fight against climate change is based on three synergistic levels 
of action:
• reducing its own direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases;
• limiting the emissions of other sectors and customers in general by supporting virtualisation 
and the provisions of services that promote new ways of working, learning, travelling and living;
• contributing to disseminating a culture based on a correct approach to environmental issues 
inside and outside the Company.
11 Principles stated in the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct.
12 Significant financial penalties for the Group are considered to be those that exceed 500,000 euros; for its own accounts, Brazil 
applies an amount of 100,000 reais.
13 The report entitled “GeSI SMARTer 2020: The Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future” is an update of the SMART2020 report 
published in 2008.146
ENVIRONMENTREDUCTION OF EMISSIONS
The environmental impact of Telecom Italia in terms of CO2 emissions is essentially determined, as 
shown in the preceding paragraphs, by direct emissions from the use of fossil fuels, indirect emissions 
through the procurement of electricity and other indirect emissions due for example to home-work 
commuting and air travel by staff. For details of current activities aimed at reducing emissions see the 
Environmental performance/Energy and Environmental performance/Emissions section.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE
The risks associated with climate change for the telecommunications sector have implications of 
a physical, economical and regulatory nature, with major repercussions even on the image and 
reputation of the company. Climate change causes changes in meteorological models that can 
result in extreme situations.
In Italy, in particular, considerable flooding has occurred in recent years, which has had a devas -
tating impact on vast areas of land, cities and infrastructure.
Telecom Italia’s installations, network infrastructure and Data Centres are spread across the coun -
try and the company believes that flooding is one of the most serious  physical risks and the one 
most likely to occur. The evaluated effects consist of damage ranging from reduced use to loss of 
properties and, in extreme cases, total loss of the ability to provide the service to customers.
In order to prevent or limit the potential damage, Telecom Italia’s new exchanges and buildings are 
built at a safe distance from rivers and bodies of water in general and, in order to ensure continuity 
of service, the network is designed considering appropriate levels of resilience and redundancy.
In Italy, the situation of the network infrastructure, particularly in areas where there is a heightened 
hydro-geological risk, is monitored using the company’s Ci.Pro. (Civil Protection) system, which 
uses a database of information relating to the territory and infrastructure, which is continuously 
updated with a view to planning the work required as quickly as possible.
Lastly, the physical risks to which company assets are in any case subject, are managed by insur -
ance cover that takes into account the value of the structure and equipment as well as any effects 
that these catastrophic events would cause for the service. 
Changeable weather conditions increasingly give rise to extreme meteorological conditions and 
TIM Brasil has developed technologies and applications for effective and continuous monitor -
ing, particularly in areas at greatest risk. The Company has also invested heavily in advanced 
infrastructure and technologies, not only to guarantee the continuity and quality of the service 
offered to customers, but also to improve efficiency and reduce the consumption associated 
with its operations.
At the moment, most electricity in Brazil - 76.9% in 2014 according to data from the Balanço En -
ergético Nacional, BEN - is generated by hydroelectric plants. Long periods of drought can lead 
to a dramatic reduction in the availability of electricity, to an increase in its cost and to increasing 
recourse to fossil fuels. Hydroelectric generation has fallen by 5% compared to the previous year 147
and this lower availability of water in water basins may lead to the rationing of energy and signifi -
cant fluctuations in the cost per kWh.
In Brazil, in legislative terms, the national policy on climate change, which was defined in 2009 and 
is governed by decrees 7,390/2010 and 7,643/2011, supplemented by sectoral plans for mitigation 
and adaptation to climate change, provides for greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced by be -
tween 36.1% and 38.9% by 2020. The telecommunications sector is not currently involved directly, 
but it might be in a not too distant future. In the states of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, which 
are the ones where most of the country’s industrial and commercial activities are concentrated, 
specific state laws have been introduced on climate change: in future, TIM might also be asked 
to develop its own greenhouse gas emission reduction plan if the telecommunications sector is 
expected to contribute by setting quantitative reduction objectives, even on a voluntary basis.
A considerable amount of TIM’s emissions are associated with electricity consumption, particu -
larly by the network infrastructure. Energy industry policies tend to lead to an increase in the cost 
of energy and these increases are in turn transferred to users, and therefore to TIM (although 
the cost of electricity accounts for less than 5% of the total operating costs), which may see an 
increase in the cost of the goods and services it buys from suppliers.
Extreme weather conditions like highly frequent high intensity storms can damage the network 
infrastructure, particularly transmission towers and pylons, thus increasing the cost of manage -
ment and insurance against risks, reducing coverage, weakening the signal and interrupting the 
service.  Variations in the levels of humidity and salinity in the air can reduce the service life of 
equipment. Furthermore, an increase in the average temperature can lead to a greater consump -
tion of electricity by air conditioning and cooling systems.  Potential flooding make it difficult for 
staff to travel and do their work, thus reducing the efficiency of the system.
OPPORTUNITIES ASSOCIATED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE
The ICT sector is required to play an important part in the fight against climate change by pro -
moting the replacement of physical products and traditional services with digital products and 
processes (also see Customers/Innovative services) that can promote the virtualization of the 
company by reducing the need for people and goods to travel. In general:
• audio/video conferencing services and teleworking reduce the need for people to travel. 
• on line invoicing and payments, in addition to saving paper and therefore the energy required 
to produce and transport it, eliminate the need for transport to make payments;
• telemedicine services reduce the need for doctors to meet patients in person;
• infomobility systems, using information obtained from mobile handsets, allow the optimisation 
of traffic flows, reducing travel times and the emission of greenhouse gases;
• systems for the monitoring and analysis of consumption allow the optimisation of the energy 
efficiency of offices and dwellings.
The efficiency improvements, savings achievable in economic terms and reduced environmental 148
ENVIRONMENTimpacts associated with the use of these services are an interesting business opportunity for the 
Company, particularly considering the sensitivity of its stakeholders and citizens in general to 
the need to achieve significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to ensure a sustainable 
future for the planet and society. One example is illustrated in the box and relates to the Digital 
Territory Programme.
In Brazil too, climate change can affect the behaviour of investors, who increasingly tend to give 
priority to companies that are transparent about how they manage emissions and show that they 
know how to assess and anticipate potential risks and seize opportunities.  As a demonstration of 
its commitment, in 2015 TIM Participações S.A. was again included in the BM&FBovespa’s Cor -
porate Sustainability Index (ISE) for the seventh year running, and in January 2014 in the Carbon 
Efficient Index,  ICO2, for the fifth year running. 
TIM Brasil believes that in the not too distant future Brazilian legislation will make it compulsory 
for various industrial sectors to report their greenhouse gas emissions. For this purpose, its emis -
sions have been quantified and communicated transparently since 2008, the CDP questionnaire 
was completed in 2007 and the company has been involved in the national EPC (Empresas pelo 
Clima) programme since 2010 and this could be a competitive advantage. 149In the context of public sector services, in 
accordance with the Italian Digital Agenda or 
ADI (Agenda Digitale Italiana) and European 
Directives, Telecom Italia has developed its 
offer of Smart Services: a range of services for 
energy efficiency and digital services in urban 
areas which achieved revenues of 1,016,000 
euros in 2012 and 1,140,000 euros in 2013,  
Also in 2013, Telecom Italia launched a 
rationalisation of its Smart Services offer, 
which it combined with Urban Security and 
Nuvola It Energreen, which deliver new 
services dedicated to security, the environment 
and efficient energy management, providing a 
comprehensive response to the needs of cities 
and surrounding areas. The aim is to promote 
the “smart city” model to improve quality of life 
by developing innovative digital services. The 
programme thus defined (Digital Territory) in 
2014 produced revenues of 2 million euros. 
The following offers1 will be part of the Telecom 
Italia Digital Life Programme and become the 
Service Elements for the creation of Smart Cities:Smart Town  for the integrated management of 
local infrastructure networks (for a description 
see Customers/Innovative services). 
Energy saving is estimated within a range of 
values between 15% (light produced by high-
efficiency lamps, e.g. LEDs) and over 30% in 
the case of light produced by old style lamps 
(e.g. sodium vapour or incandescence). Added 
to these values is the option of varying lighting 
by switching on and/or reducing the intensity of 
individual lamp posts.
Assuming that average per capita energy 
consumption in Italy is 107 kWh2 and applying a 
20% reduction (the replacement of conventional 
lamps with high efficiency ones is in progress 
in many towns) a town of 100,000 inhabitants 
would be able to achieve a total annual saving 
of 2,140,000 kWh, corresponding to 827 t of 
CO2 emissions avoided3.DIGITAL TERRITORY PROGRAMME (2012–2014) AND
ITS DEVELOPMENT INTO DIGITAL LIFE (2015–2017)
1 The actual names of the services offered may vary once work is under way.
2 Source: blog of the Commissioner for Spending Review of the Italian Government.
3 Using the 2009 emission factor for Italy calculated by the GHG Protocol, which is  around 0.386 kgCO2/kWh.150ENVIRONMENT
Smart Building  for the smart management 
and automation of buildings. (for a description, 
see Customers/Innovative services). 
The energy saved can be estimated at around 
10%, if only the Metering & Reporting function 
is implemented, but it can rise to over 50% for 
specific energy efficiency projects.
Nuvola IT Urban Security  for the integrated 
management of security and control of urban 
areas (for a description see Customers/
Innovative services ).
Nuvola IT ENERGREEN , for the remote 
management of energy consumption, 
implemented on Telecom Italia assets and 
services for the purpose of saving energy. The 
services proposed are the following:• On-site energy audit: on-site analysis for 
energy efficiency
• Metering & Reporting
• Efficiency strategy: advanced reporting and 
Energy Management consulting services
• Energy Cost Management Services
• Special Projects: ad hoc energy efficiency 
improvement work.
The energy saved can be estimated at around 
10%, if only the Metering & Reporting function 
is implemented, but it can rise to over 50% for 
specific energy efficiency projects.
The revenue trend (in millions of euros) 
assumed by Telecom Italia for this programme 
over the next three years is the following: 
2015: 4.5 
2016: 6    
2017: 8 151
ICTs can influence the price, efficiency and relative convenience of products and services, even -
tually affecting the demand for services and increasing the overall demand for energy. They can 
also accelerate the obsolescence of products and require the resulting technological waste to be 
managed. It is the responsibility of the ICT sector, and therefore also of Telecom Italia, to consider 
these effects, focusing on research and development to create products with a low environmental 
impact throughout their entire life cycle (see Customers/Product responsibility). 
In 2014, Telecom Italia handled centrally around 817 audio conferences and 5,219 video con -
ferences between its offices in Rome and Milan. Using the specific automatic booking portal for 
audio and video conferencing services, employees independently held 34,165 video conferences 
(+25% compared to 2013) and 81,727 audio conferences (+14% compared to 2013). The use of 
these communication systems is estimated to have allowed a significant amount of carbon diox -
ide (and other pollutants) associated with the use of means of transport14 to be avoided.
TELECOM ITALIA GREEN
At the end of the 1990s, Telecom Italia launched a series of internal research and development 
activities to build terminals with a reduced environmental impact.
In order to improve the environmental efficiency of products offered to private and business 
customers alike, attention has to be paid to their energy aspects, optimising consumption while 
meeting the needs of the services delivered and applying “Design For Environment” rules that 
reduce their environmental impact, particularly during the production phase and the end-of-life 
management of equipment. 
Pursuing and expanding this logic, the Telecom Italia Green logo has been created to identify both 
Telecom Italia’s “green” initiatives and projects and eco-friendly products. 
For products and initiatives that bear this logo, information is provided about the features and 
specific solutions adopted, as a result of which their eco-friendliness and/or environmental benefit 
can be demonstrated. In the case of products, this information appears in the environmental dec -
laration contained in the packaging, drawn up in accordance with the UNI EN ISO 14021 stand -
ard, as well as in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, where information 
can also be found about the “eco-friendly” features of initiatives and projects.
14 On average, around 10 people take part in each video conference and half of these would have travelled to take part in the meeting. 
It can be estimated, solely for video conferences carried out between the management offices in Rome and Milan, that there has 
been an overall reduction in emissions of more than 1,500 tons of carbon dioxide. 152
ENVIRONMENTThe Green range includes a number of products developed with the assistance of suppliers and 
dedicated to business and consumer customers alike. 
 
The most recent environmental declarations issued relate to 3 new products launched in 2014, i.e.:
• the TIMvision decoder, which provides an electricity saving of more than 65% compared to the 
similar previous generation model, has a high energy efficiency (over 84%) power supply and is 
supplied in packaging with paper and cardboard parts obtained from 100% recycled material;
• the Cordless Facile Start telephone, which provides an electricity saving of more than 60% 
compared to a previous generation product with the same functions and includes an additional 
ECO mode which allows an additional energy saving of 10% to be achieved; the cardboard 
used to package the product is non-plasticised and 100% recycled;
• the “Sirio.” (Sirio dot) fixed telephone manufactured by ATLINKS which, despite including ad -
vanced functions, provides an electricity saving of over 90%: in fact it has no power supply 
and works with the voltage and current supplied remotely, with no impact on the customer’s 
electricity use; the total weight of the pack has been reduced by 22% and the cardboard used 
is non-plasticised and 80% recycled.
Starting from 2015, initiatives and eco-friendly products will be characterized by the new logo TIM 
eco-friendly ; the new image is part of a rebranding process aimed at positioning TIM as a unique 
brand for fixed and mobile.
The role of a major Company
in the communities of the countries
in which it operatesCOMMUNITY156
COMMUNITYSTRATEGY
The Group companies intend to contribute to the prosperity and growth of Communities by deliv -
ering efficient and technologically advanced services. 
Consistent with these objectives, and their responsibilities towards the various stakeholders, the 
Group companies view research and innovation as priorities for growth and success. 
As private entities requiring cost-effective management, Group companies take the social impact 
of telecommunications services into account in their decision-making activities, responding to the 
needs of the Community, including the weakest members of society. 
The Group looks favourably on and, where appropriate, supports social, cultural and educational 
initiatives aimed at the advancement of the individual and the improvement of living conditions. 
[G4-DMA Local Communities]
• Innovation managementi
• Network coverage and Disaster Recovery ii
• Anti-corruption programmes
Relevant company policies: 
Code of Ethics and Conduct of the 
Telecom Italia Group, Anti-Corruption 
Policy, Internal Control Reporting 
Procedure, Board of Auditors’ Reporting 
Procedure, Telecom Italia Group 
Guidelines for voluntary contributions to 
the community, Guidelines concerning 
the relations between Telecom Italia 
and Local Administrations and other 
Local Entities,  Guidelines concerning 
stakeholder engagement in Telecom 
Italia , available at www.telecomitalia.com.Effectiveness and monitoring:  in order to 
monitor the effectiveness of management 
processes and ensure the monitoring 
required by business procedures and 
internal control structures, the company 
uses some numerical KPIs. This chapter 
sets out the ones that relate to training 
on anti-corruption procedures and on 
corruption uncovered in the company and 
among its suppliers. Also important are 
the KPIs that relate to local broadband 
infrastructure coverage, as set out in the 
Customers chapter.
I This subject is also dealt with in the Customers chapter.
II This subject is also dealt with in the Customers chapter and in Being sustainable: risks and opportunities.MATERIAL ISSUES IN THIS CHAPTER157
The following table summarises the Group’s Community investment strategy, which is also 
planned according to the inclusion and materiality principles of the AccountAbility 1000 standard: 
(see Sustainability and Governance/Reporting): 
1 In this chapter, only those products/services provided at no charge are reported, while those which, although they have a signifi -
cant impact on the community, are provided for payment, are included in the  § Customer chapter.
2 The guidelines for voluntary contributions to the community are available on the telecomitalia.com, website, sustainability section, 
under codes and policies, environmental and social policies.
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS
In the projects they implement with Communities, the Group companies interact with:
 
• civil society: all citizens and people with special needs (young people, elderly people, disabled 
people, etc.), their representative associations and non-profit organisations in general;
• institutions: local authorities and central, national and supranational institutions;
• university and research institutions;
• traditional media and social media.The two main areas of 
intervention as regards 
investment in the community are 
the following: 
• voluntary activities consistent 
with the Group’s core business, 
associated with the provision of 
ICT services1;
• activities aimed at the general 
development of the community, 
mainly including the activities of 
the Fondazione Telecom ItaliaTelecom Italia identifies the 
projects to be implemented by 
the following means:
• consultation with the 
stakeholders and direct contact 
with civil society organisations;
• partnership projects with 
stakeholders and associations;
• benchmarking against the other 
European TLC operators;
• involvement in industry 
associations;
• sharing knowledge of industry-
related issues with the other 
Group Functions;
• external lobbying in response 
to social emergencies (e.g. 
earthquakes).Each project is implemented in 
4 stages: 
• planning: which identifies the 
objectives to be achieved, the 
beneficiaries of the project, 
the timescales of the individual 
activities, the overall duration 
of the initiative, the methods 
used to monitor the project and 
the budget. 
• selection: 
– through public tenders, as 
in the case of many projects 
pursued by the Fondazione 
Telecom Italia;
– by direct decision of the 
Company, following the  
stakeholder, consultation 
process, consistent with 
the guidelines for voluntary 
contributions to the 
community2;
• management: normally 
administered through 
partnerships or framework 
agreements. Sometimes cash 
disbursements are made, 
leaving the management of 
the activity to the beneficiary 
organisation/association.
• Control: takes place in different 
ways according to the specific 
features of the individual projects.MACRO AREAS
OF INTERVENTIONPROJECT
IDENTIFICATIONPROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION158
COMMUNITYRELATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES
[G4-DMA Local Communities] Telecom Italia undertakes on a daily basis to ensure that its relations 
with public administration and local government bodies are lasting and satisfactory, in the belief 
that this is the only way to create the conditions for both parties to grow, allowing local authorities 
to improve the quality of life of their citizens and Telecom Italia to achieve its business objectives.
In order to achieve this, Telecom Italia prioritises respect for the rights of local communities in its 
operations and offers to provide solutions suited to the needs expressed by local authorities on 
issues related to communication technologies, identifying requirements that arise spontaneously 
and informing local authorities about technological innovations that can improve quality of life.
Telecom Italia has a central department entirely dedicated to managing relations with local au -
thorities which, amongst other things, coordinates relations between local offices and local au -
thorities, particularly through the “local accounts”. Furthermore, working with other relevant sec -
tors in dealing with specific issues, this central department 
• determines the criteria used to select the local authorities with which to establish relations, and 
the ways in which these relations are to be managed assesses 
• the risks and opportunities arising from such relations 
• establishes priorities  
• contributes to drawing up agreements with local authorities
• listens systematically to all requests and reports from local authorities and directs them cor -
rectly to the relevant departments within Telecom Italia
• organises listening sessions and information meetings
• supports the other departments of Telecom Italia if they need to implement a project that has a 
local impact
• organises sessions with Local Accounts to share information about relevant matters 
• performs a facilitating role for the implementation of projects.
As the primary mission of Telecom Italia is to supply ICT services, specific attention is paid to 
organisations that are involved in these services, in particular those dealing with: 
• upgrading and developing networks
• improving public ICT services  
• broadband coverage 
• digital inclusion of a social type
• implementing the Digital Agenda
Joint projects between Telecom Italia and local authorities are managed in a way that specifies 
the roles and duties of each party, formal control mechanisms and measurement tools. Telecom 159
Italia promotes the formation of joint control committees, i.e. committees formed of representa -
tives of all the parties involved. The composition and objectives of the committees are determined 
according to the specific requirements of the project and provide for the presence of stakeholders 
without any kind of discrimination, in particular without gender discrimination.
In full compliance with the principles of transparency and accountability, Telecom Italia responds 
flexibly to requests, regardless of how they are received.  
[G4-SO1]  Given the ubiquity of its network, Telecom Italia Group has relations with local authorities 
across the country, wherever it operates, and always assesses the impacts of its operations and 
development plans, regardless of the type of intervention, which in any case is always carried out 
in full compliance with current legislation and with the needs of local communities.  
[G4-SO2]  The potential negative impacts arising exclusively from excavations for installing cable 
ducts or positioning radio base stations, are mitigated through the use of low environmental im -
pact technologies, such as mini-trenches, and thanks to prior agreements with local authorities, 
e.g. regarding aerial installation sites. In Brazil institutions in charge of environmental safeguard 
are regularly consulted in order to settle Radio Base Station location.
HOW THE CONTRIBUTION
TO THE COMMUNITY IS MEASURED
The contribution made to the community by the Telecom Italia Group, calculated according to the 
London Benchmarking Group (LBG) guidelines, amounted to 22.5 million euros in 2014. 
The contribution has been calculated using management data partly based on estimates. 
More than 150 major international companies subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 1994 
and is the global gold standard for the classification of voluntary contributions made by compa -
nies in favour of the community.
In accordance with the LBG model, in order to measure and represent the Group’s commit -
ment to the community, the contributions disbursed have been subdivided into three categories 
(Charity, Investments in the community, Initiatives in the community), adopting the customary 
pyramid-shaped representation, which places initiatives of a charitable nature at the top and 
initiatives which in addition to being of benefit to the community are in the commercial interest of 
the Company at the bottom. For further information regarding the LBG model and its investment 
classification criteria on the 3 levels, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com web -
site and the lbg-online.net website.160
COMMUNITYPERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF THE
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP’S
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY
Investments
in thecommunity31%
Initiativesin the community65%
Charity4% 0246810121416
Charity Investments
in thecommunityInitiativesin thecommunityLBG DIAGRAM 22.5 million euros
7.114.5
0.9
RESPONSES TO THE STAKEHOLDERS 
INITIATIVES CONSISTENT WITH THE CORE BUSINESS 
By way of example, here are some of the projects carried out in 2014 in response to the needs 
of the Community using the technologies that underlie the provision of services by Telecom Italia. 
Fund raising
Fund raising is of particular importance, especially in dealing with emergencies. For over ten 
years, Telecom Italia has been a key player in the solidarity chain associated with humanitarian, 
scientific or environmental projects which it supports by allowing people to make a donation of 1 
or 2 euros by sending a text message and of 2, 5 or 10 euros by calling a dedicated free number 
from a land line. 
The money raised are passed on in its entirety, without any deductions, either by the tax authori -
ties, who, thanks to an awareness campaign mounted by TLC companies and non-profit organi -
sations, have exempted such operations from the application of VAT, nor by the company for the 
disbursement of its costs.
On November 25, 2014, Telecom Italia and the main telecommunications operators, MVNOs, 
broadcasters and national networks, signed up to the Memorandum of Understanding with the 
Department of Civil Protection. The memorandum establishes a procedure for the immediate im -
plementation and prompt dissemination of donation telephone numbers to raise funds for people 
affected by natural disasters. 161
121 fund raising events were organised in 2014 and a total of over 21 million euros were collect -
ed.1 These include 3.6 million euros donated to support people affected by floods in Sardinia and 
the earthquake in the Philippines.
Social Responsibility Projects 
Telecom Italia has launched a programme with the dual purpose of improving the competitive po -
sition of the Company and contributing to the economic, environmental, social and cultural devel -
opment of the communities in which it operates, actively involving various different stakeholders. 
The projects run in 2014 focused on three areas of activity: digital culture, social innovation and 
environmental protection. The common denominator of all the initiatives is the establishment of 
participatory, equitable and stable relationships and replicable intervention models both inside 
and outside the company. 
Digital Culture
Telecom Italia has for a long time developed and supported digital education projects aimed at 
showing young people how to make an informed use of the Internet. During 2014, the Group 
worked with the Postal and Communication Police to implement the “Una vita da social” initiative, 
a road show designed to educate people regarding legality on the Internet, presenting students, 
families and visitors with the main pitfalls of the Web and in particular the risks children face 
when browsing the Internet, dealing with highly topical issues, including cyberbullying and online 
grooming. A bus specially fitted with multimedia technologies travelled over 9,000 km from north -
ern to southern Italy, on a tour that stopped off in 40 cities. The initiative attracted over 400,000 
students in schools and 100,000 in city squares, 8,000 teachers and 15,000 parents. The pro -
ject’s Facebook page received an equally high number of likes, with over 18,000 supporters.
In the field of digital culture, Telecom Italia also runs projects aimed at bringing high quality cultur -
al content and digital languages together, making the most of  the interaction opportunities offered 
by the Web. These include: 
• the PappanoinWeb project, established as part of the partnership with the National Academy 
of Saint Cecilia, conceived for the purpose of bringing classical music to the Web and in its 
fourth year as of 2014. Over the four years of the programme, the concerts offered have been 
watched by over 150,000 users in streaming on telecomitalia.com, particularly thanks to the lis -
tening guides, exclusive interviews and the opportunities to interact with an expert musicologist 
at the Academy during direct broadcasts. A big open air rehearsal also allowed around 2,000 
employees of Telecom Italia to experience the excitement backstage, with the protagonists, 
and to view the real difficulties of a high level musical performance;
1 The amount collected is not directly attributable to the campaigns run in the calendar year due to the time lag between invoicing 
and payment.162
COMMUNITY• the Eutopia webzine, originating from the partnership between Telecom Italia and Editori Later -
za, which fulfils the aim of drawing the public, particularly the young, into the debate about the 
prospects for a new European model of society;
• the partnership with Scuola Holden of Turin, founded by Alessandro Baricco, which aims to 
experiment with new ways of teaching and sharing ideas, knowledge, creativity through digital 
technology. The Web becomes a vehicle to allow the public to participate in master classes and 
special events happening in the School. The collaboration has allowed a pioneering multime -
dia laboratory and original dissemination projects to be set up, including the #wehaveadream 
social writing experiment.
Social Innovation
At the end of 2014, the withyouwedo fundraising platform was launched to receive requests for 
donations from public and private entities intending to implement projects in the fields of social 
innovation, environmental protection and digital culture. In addition to providing the technologi -
cal and communication support of the platform (withyouwedo.telecomitalia.com), Telecom Italia 
undertakes to make a 25% contribution (up to a maximum of 10,000 euros) to fund 9 projects.
Also renewed was the partnership with the Genoa Festival of Science, which promotes scientific 
culture internationally. Through the ScienzainWeb project, Telecom Italia provides the Festival 
with its technological and communication expertise in order to share cultural content with a bigger 
audience on the Web. The 2014 event, dedicated to Time, attracted over 200,000 visitors in per -
son and around 20,000 users connected in streaming, live and on demand, on telecomitalia.com. 
New branched networks, collaboration models and sharing of values and objectives are the cor -
nerstones for the development of social innovation. This is the context in which the Sustainable 
City partnership was born: a special project set up as part of the Economondo event in Rimini, 
which recreates an ideal city in which it is possible to come face-to-face with the models and 
factors that influence quality of life. Telecom Italia has launched EcomondoinWeb: a selection of 
streamed events allowing people to connect, even remotely, to the Città delle Reti Intelligenti (city 
of smart networks). The 2014 event attracted over 100,000 visitors in person and thousands of 
users connected in streaming, live and on demand, on telecomitalia.com. 
 In 2014, Telecom Italia became a Founding Member of the Digital Champions Association, set 
up in Italy following the establishment of the office of Digital Champion in the European Union. 
Digital Champions are appointed by each Member State to promote the benefits of an inclusive 
digital society and have three aims:
• they must act as a kind of help desk for public administrators on digital matters 
• they must defend citizens where broadband access, Wi-Fi and other rights are denied 
• they must promote digital literacy projects for everyone from children to their grandparents, by 
fund raising if necessary.163
The association aims to appoint a digital champion in each Italian municipality. Telecom Italia’s 
involvement is a demonstration of Telecom Italia’s commitment to supporting digital inclusion.
Environmental Protection
The IORiciclo (I Recycle) initiative makes it easier to return old telecommunications appliances, 
offering a discount on the purchase of new appliances in TIM stores. Promoting the shared values 
involved, in addition to the environmental benefits, the initiative aims to increase visitors to the 
over 1,200 stores already included in the TIM Valuta2 collection network and to extend the collec -
tion service to around 2,000 stores. 
INITIATIVES FOR GENERAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Telecom Italia Group companies are particularly attentive to the needs of the Community in which 
they operate and implement wide-ranging initiatives and projects dedicated to their social and 
economic development.
2 With TIMValuta you can have your mobile phone, smart phone or tablet valued without obligation at any TIM store participating 
in the initiative and immediately receive a discount to use as you prefer: to buy a new mobile phone, smart phone, tablet, dongle, 
Internet Pack or to top up your TIM phone. The initiative could be combined with IoRiciclo.164The mission of the Fondazione Telecom 
Italia (FTI) is to promote the culture of digital 
change and innovation, promoting integration, 
communication, economic and social growth.
FTI can operate, in Italy and abroad, by the 
methods and with the tools that are considered 
appropriate in each case for it to achieve its 
statutory purposes.
In accordance with this mission, three areas of 
intervention have been identified:
• Education: innovation in teaching and 
education, promoting initiatives aimed at updating the technology in Italian schools 
and introducing radical innovations in 
educational methods and tools.
• Innovation culture: becoming a reference 
point for innovation culture through an 
annual international conference, two 
university lectures and research publications 
on topics related to business and the history 
of innovation.
• Social empowerment: promoting the 
processes of change taking place in 
society through new technologies for social 
enterprises, to help them “do good well”. FONDAZIONE TELECOM ITALIA 
The Foundation’s activities take place according to the following criteria.
• FTI operates by means of 
disbursements, the criteria 
and procedures for which are 
established by the Board of 
Directors, pursuing its goals 
by allocating contributions 
to projects proposed by third 
party individuals and non-profit-
making institutions that fulfil the 
requirements set by the Board 
of Directors.  In specific areas 
of its operations, the FTI can 
act directly as the operator and 
therefore manage the projects 
themselves• FTI works to disseminate a 
culture of innovation, in order 
to promote solidarity and 
civil, cultural and economic 
development.  FTI, which 
operates free of discrimination 
based on nationality, race or 
religion, intends institutionally 
to pursue the definition, 
implementation and promotion 
of initiatives and projects, 
operating in the following 
sectors in particular:
- support for vulnerable or 
otherwise disadvantaged 
people;
- education, training and 
scientific, economic and 
legal research;
- protection, conservation and 
enhancement of historical 
and artistic heritage.• Selection takes place by 
considering the social impact 
of projects, which must be 
measurable, sustainable and 
replicable, and giving priority to 
projects which, in keeping with 
Telecom Italia’s DNA, have a high 
technological content.
• The monitoring system is 
established according to the 
specific characteristics and 
objectives of each project. 
Monitoring is a requirement for 
all projects, whether selected 
by tender or directly. As well as 
being an eligibility requirement, 
it also provides an assessment 
parameter.TOOLS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVESPROJECT SELECTION 
AND MONITORING COMMUNITY165
Open Call on communication impairments
With an open call, FTI decided to focus on language disorders, which account epidemiologically 
for over 70% of neuropsychiatric conditions in children and which the World Health Organization 
says are a warning bell for mental health, considering that in 2/3 of cases they tend to develop into 
psychiatric disorders in adolescence and adulthood unless dealt with appropriately. 205 projects 
were received and out of these 3 winners were selected. 
Volis Project
Hearing loss affects 70,000 people in Italy. The Volis project aims to develop Italian sign language 
(LIS) and verbal language comprehension tests with the help of lip reading and all the available 
language techniques that can be used with deaf or hearing children with communication or lan -
guage impairments associated with developmental disorders, such as intellectual disabilities and 
autistic spectrum disorders. These tests will be implemented on an online platform accessible to 
all the professionals involved (communication assistants, educators, teachers, speech therapists, 
psychologists, child neuropsychiatrists), subject to registration and authentication. The cloud-
based platform will record the answers given by the child being tested, producing an output that 
will be related to the relevant medical history.  This will allow the level of understanding of sign 
language by the child to be determined and any clinical treatment proposals to be made. Further -
more, the protocol created will be made available in OpenAPI mode.
SI DO RE MI Project
Autism affects 1 in 150 children in Italy. There are over 6.2 million children currently between the 
ages of 1 and 12 years old. The number of children interested by the project is therefore estimat -
ed to be around 42,000. The project provides for the development of a system that uses cloud 
computing to control sound and music generated by the gestures of children affected by autism. 
The acoustic feedback thus created is intended to emphasise and stimulate interaction with the 
surrounding world. The data related to children interacting with the system is monitored remotely 
by specialists to analyse trends in the disorder.
Cinque Petali (Five Petals) Project
Cinque Petali, a project run by the Piacenza local health authority, is dedicated to children with 
language/learning disorders. It aims to strengthen the technological tools available to support re -
habilitation and develop preventive action for children, with a view to reducing the occurrence of 
forms of behaviour during development that can develop into psychiatric disorders. The Piacenza 
local health authority intends to support all the children in its care who are affected by serious 
communication impairment with a diagnosis of developmental disorders. The project intends to 
supply 11 iPads equipped with the main compensatory computer programs (which children will 
use at school, at home and in their leisure time) with individual and customised paths aimed at 
ensuring independent communication, integration and interaction for socialising with their peers, 166
COMMUNITYnetworking and constant monitoring of the child by the healthcare system.
Tenders launched by the Foundation 
Invisible assets, places and mastery of traditional crafts
2013 saw the end of a tendering process in which the “invisible assets” of historic and artistic 
heritage were associated with the recovery and reassessment of ancient crafts. The tendering 
process aims to demonstrate that creative spirit is alive in Italy and makes the country unique. 
This spirit can be combined with the enabling technologies of the web and digital connections, 
which are a vital component of the tender, as they provide a driving force for Italian culture and 
economy as a whole, promoting the tendered project both in Italy and abroad. 
The tender process attracted great interest among non-profit-making organisations, municipali -
ties and universities.
Projects received: 478 - Towns interested: 272 - Crafts involved: 168 . In 2014, the projects under -
went a careful selection process: the criteria used to choose from among the proposals received 
are originality, degree of replicability, extent of interaction with the local community and future 
self-sustainability, as well as the use of innovative technologies. The following 8 projects were 
selected at the end of the assessment process:
• Fondazione Genti d’Abruzzo, Pescara (TessArt’è Project)
• Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, Pisa (AMica Project. Immersive Virtual Environments for Com -
municating Handicraft Skills)
• Municipality of Vigevano (Shoe Style Lab Project - History and innovation in footwear in Vigevano)
• Fondazione Valle Delle Cartiere, Toscolano Maderno (Brescia) (Toscolano 1381 Project - A 
paper, a history, a future)
• Istituto Suor Orsola Benincasa, Naples (Art in Light Project)
• Arci Genova, Municipality of Genoa, Auser Genova and Liguria (Staglieno Factory Project)
• Associazione Clac, Palermo (Crezi Food Kit Project)
• Cooperativa Sociale Centro di Lavoro San Giovanni Calabria, Verona (Digital technology to 
relaunch black art Project)
Promoting the integration of foreign citizens
In 2013 FTI launched a tender process for “Promoting the integration of foreign citizens by using 
technological platforms”. The purpose of this tender is to help towns with a resident population of 
over 50,000 inhabitants, where at least 9% of the population are foreign, to improve knowledge 
of the services available for foreign users, guiding users and operators and making it easier for 
them to use the available services by creating portals, communication points in the main meeting 
places and specific free apps.
Projects received: 25 out of 56 municipalities eligible - Regions involved out of the number eligible 
to take part: 9 out of 11.167
AgendaImpegno
For the third year running, FTI and Telecom Italia have been working with “Libera Associazione 
contro le Mafie”, an association founded by Father Luigi Ciotti, on a new project that aims to en -
courage action, contributions and discussions on important issues ranging from respect for the 
Italian Constitution to the right to work, from environmental protection to the fight against poverty, 
from respect for women to combating bullying.  This all takes place through a dedicated space on 
the Internet. The contributions were often enriched by interviews with influential people.
Initiatives involving employees 
FTI is also very careful to look within the Company with initiatives that promote the volunteering 
spirit of its employees actively engaged in social work with non-profit organisations. 
In 2014, FTI also confirmed a corporate volunteering initiative that will be launched in 2015 involv -
ing many employee “angels” from all over Italy who passionately and enthusiastically support FTI 
in its philanthropic activities. 
For further information regarding the strategy and projects of FTI go to the fondazionetelecomi -
talia.it website.The social investment strategy implemented by 
Tim Participações aims to promote the social 
inclusion of disadvantaged groups in Brazilian 
society, particularly children and teenagers, by 
running education programmes that support 
the corporate “without borders” concept even 
in the social sphere.
In 2013, the TIM Institute was founded with 
the aim of defining strategies and providing 
resources for the dissemination of science and innovation to support the development of the 
community in Brazil, particularly by means of 
mobile technology.
Four areas of activity were identified in which 
to develop projects: 
• education/teaching; 
• application;
• work;
• social inclusion.TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES
• Partnerships with 
organisations, institutions and 
public and private entities.• Implementation of educational 
projects for the social inclusion 
of young people and teenagers.
• Implementation of training 
projects to encourage daily 
use of the Internet and mobile 
phones as tools for social 
development and inclusion.• Projects are selected according to 
their relevance to the company’s 
strategies and requirements. 
• Initiatives are monitored and a 
final evaluation is carried out on 
completion. A report is drawn up 
for each project that provides 
a detailed description of the 
initiative and the results achieved, 
also in quantitative terms. TOOLS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVESPROJECT SELECTION 
AND MONITORING 
168COMMUNITY169
Maths Club
The poor quality of maths teaching is a serious obstacle to people acquiring the specific skills 
needed for innovative and technological development in Brazil. In order to overcome this, a crea -
tive and participatory way of teaching maths conceived by Bob and Ellen Kaplan at Harvard Uni -
versity has been set up called “Maths Club”. Aimed at children in elementary school between the 
ages of 7 and 9, the initiative involved about 7,000 students in 2014. 200 selected public school 
teachers from across the country were trained by Bob and Ellen Kaplan themselves in how to 
replicate the Maths Club model in their classrooms.
Science without borders
The project was launched in 2011 by the federal government to promote exchanges of Brazilian 
students and researchers with foreign universities. The aim is to develop the knowledge, innova -
tion and competitiveness of Brazil in the field of science and technology. The TIM Institute invests 
in this programme through an agreement with the National Council for Technological and Scientif -
ic Development (CNPq), an agency linked to the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT), and 
the Foundation for the Improvement of Higher Education Conditions (Capes), a public foundation 
based at the Ministry of Education (MEC). From the beginning of the programme to the end of 
2014, over 44,000 scholarships were paid out, which will have increased to over 100,000 by the 
end of 2015.
For further information about the community support projects run by Tim Participações visit the 
tim.com.br website, Sustainability section, under Community.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
Research and development activities at Telecom Italia are carried out by the Information Tech -
nology, Engineering & TILab, Innovation & Industry Relations departments, which oversee the 
analysis of new technologies and the engineering of services offered to customers.
Also particularly important are the research laboratories and business incubators.
TIM #WCAP is Telecom Italia’s open innovation structure that provides support and resources for 
ideas and projects that contribute to the future of entrepreneurship. 
Since it was launched in 2009, TIM #WCAP has brought together over 7,000 projects, supported 
220 start-ups and disbursed 4.5 million euros, and 21 start-ups have become suppliers to Tele -
com Italia, thus making a strong contribution to the whole digital economy supply chain.
Since 2013, TIM #WCAP has had 4 accelerators in the nerve centres of Italian digital innovation: 
Milan, Bologna, Rome and Catania. A total area of over 3,000 sq.m. providing start-ups with 170
COMMUNITYdedicated spaces to accelerate their development and the technical resources and infrastructure 
needed for them to grow and launch onto the market.
The 2014 programme ended with 1,600 participants, 1,300 completed projects, including 67 inter -
national applications, the award of 41 business grants worth 25,000 euros each and access to the 
acceleration path in the 4 acceleration centres.  During the course of the year, the TIM #WCAP 
programme was boosted by a major innovation: the new reward-based crowdfunding platform, on 
which projects and businesses can receive funding from the community . 
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS 
The relevant stakeholders for research and development are:
• the areas of the company involved (e.g. Marketing and Purchasing);
• the suppliers, for the joint development of solutions in accordance with the technical require -
ments of Telecom Italia;
• Research centres and universities, for cooperation and joint projects. 29 new cooperation 
agreements with Italian universities were launched in 2014 on research topics relating to new 
technologies, coding algorithms, new communication services and paradigms; the standardi -
sation bodies and forums (including NGMN, OpenIPTV Forum, OMA, 3GPP, ETSI, TM Forum, 
W3C, ITU-T) in which Telecom Italia is actively involved;
• the Ministries (Ministry for Economic Development and Ministry of Education, Universities and 
Research), the European Union and public authorities (e.g. CNR and local authorities) for pro -
jects funded through participation in competitive tenders, and partnership initiatives;
• non-governmental organisations, associations, alliances and industry forums (e.g. GSMA, 
m-health) which bring together all the entities involved in the value chain of the specific market; 
• international research and development organisations (e.g. EURESCOM and Joint Technolo -
gy Initiative).
RELEVANT ISSUES
The themes on which projects are developed are identified on the basis of the Three-Year Tech -
nological Plan, the reference document for the Group, which provides guidelines for the evolution 
of the network, platform and services. 
Published annually, following a wide-ranging process involving all the areas of the company 
involved, the Plan identifies the main external factors (regulations, standards, vendors, other 
market operators) that may influence the company’s strategies and highlights the emerging and 
cross-cutting technologies in other sectors that may be of interest to the Group.
Projects and initiatives in this field can be divided into 4 macro-areas:
• New generation networks
• Future Internet applications171
• Positive environmental impacts
• Positive social impacts 
New generation network projects 
• Telephone app:  “Home and office cordless” for Wi-Fi voice calls via FIBRE and ADSL Modem, 
including functions such as access to the contacts directory integrated with the original one 
of the device, viewing of recent landline calls (received, made, missed) and access to supple -
mentary services and voice mail. 
• The 187 app has been boosted by new functions intended to speed up the provision of techni -
cal and sales support to customers.
• Light Cabling: as part of the “SKY via Telecom Italia” project, allowing the SKY video decoder 
to be connected with the Telecom Italia Fibre modem, a non-invasive cabling solution has been 
identified that can be used when neither traditional cabling nor a Wi-Fi connection are feasible. 
• Access Gateway (modem/router) for ADSL and Fibre services: in particular some Wi-Fi ADSL 
and Fibre Modems have undergone technological improvements and extensions of their func -
tions with particular attention paid to privacy issues. 
• TIM Vision has also benefited from the introduction of telemetry, to monitor quality of service, 
and a new design with an optimised user interface. 
• During the year, a commercial trial was launched for the sale of a smart home service associ -
ated with the purchase of a monitoring/video surveillance kit that uses proprietary technologies 
for both the application software and the connectivity with the sensors. 
• As part of the activities done to support Open Access engineers, Augmented Reality apps 
were developed to guide installation/maintenance activities on the new generation network. 
The “PermutO” app for Android was devised and distributed to engineers to assist anyone 
required to carry out a replacement in an exchange to do his work correctly, with simple, clear 
and always available instructions.
• An activity is under way to develop the so-called “Capillary Networks”, which are a new seg -
ment of the multi-service access network for meters and sensors in the world of the IoT3, 
integrated with fixed and mobile network assets and with the engineering, design, planning 
and management processes of Telecom Italia. The Capillary Networks are the first concrete 
element for the development of Smart Urban Infrastructures, the enabling platforms for the 
development of new services characterising the Smart Cities of the near future.
• With regard to the mobile access network, the necessary simulation and experimental ac -
tivities were completed in 2014 to introduce the Carrier Aggregation service, allowing the in -
troduction of Advanced LTE4 in the Telecom Italia 4G network. For the first time in Italy, this 
allowed customers to experiment on a live network the potential of developments in the 4G 
mobile network, demonstrating a connection speed “in the field” of up to 180 Mb per second. 
3 IoT: Internet of Things.
4 Long Term Evolution, also known as G4, is an advanced, high speed mobile telephony standard.172
COMMUNITYMarketed under the 4G+ brand, the service became commercially available in 60 cities at the 
end of 2014. The launch of Advanced LTE based services is a stage in the process undertaken 
by Telecom Italia to develop the new 4G LTE network in which TIM is a leader thanks to its 
coverage of over 2,500 towns and cities, accounting for 74% of the Italian population. 
Future Internet application projects 
Proximity technology services that make life easier for users
• The TIM Wallet Consumer/Business service allows physical wallets to be replaced by virtual 
ones on mobile phones using NFC technology5. Purchases are made or access is gained to 
sites by placing the phone close to a reader, such as a POS or turnstile. Already tested by 
Telecom Italia employees, the application has been marketed under the TIM Wallet brand. In 
particular, Mediolanum payment cards and a co-branded TIM SmartPAY card as a collaboration 
between Telecom Italia, VISA and Intesa Sanpaolo have been launched, plus the Badge app for 
access to company offices. In some cities, the app also allows bus tickets to be purchased with 
you phone credit. Other cards from other banks will be available in future. Furthermore, virtual 
coupons available to spend at commercial retailers have been tested on a group of employees.
Smart applications for the Internet of the future
• Telecom Italia is actively involved in creating the Future Internet platform (FI-WARE) and ser -
vices, also through cooperation projects funded by the European Union (Future Internet Public 
Private Partnership - FI-PPP), to enable and support customers in creating and using services 
based on advanced Internet technologies. Telecom Italia is also promoting these technologies 
through the involvement of smart cities which, as ideal users of the experimental FI-WARE 
(FI-Lab) environment, can make their data available in an open format and promote the devel -
opment of services and applications for the benefit of citizens. In this respect, a demonstration 
app has been created with partners connected to the city of Turin (Polytechnic of Turin, Torino 
Wireless) to produce textual and graphic information on the degree of safety perceived by 
citizens based on non-emergency reports made to the city’s police. An interactive graphic test 
questionnaire was given to citizens during the event entitled “La notte dei ricercatori” [Night of 
the Researchers] on September 26.
• Telecom Italia has directed the end-to-end design and implementation of mobile solutions for 
EXPO 2015 with a smart city app prototype for Expo 2015 and an app for the “Padiglione Ita -
lia” (the Italian Pavilion). The smart city app supplies information, services and entertainment 
during the event, regarding the participating countries, the city and the country, the partners 
and players involved. The purpose is to establish an ongoing relationship with the visitor, using 
LTE mobile broadband connectivity. The Padiglione Italia app allows the use of information and 
multimedia content and enables an innovative “virtual tour” mode. It is currently being used to 
5 Near Field Communication: a technology that supplies short range bi-directional wireless connectivity (up to a maximum of 10 cm).173
show what Padiglione Italia will look like - starting with a model - and in 2015 it will be used by 
visitors to the actual pavilion that will house the exhibition. Both apps are leveraging innovative 
technologies created by Telecom Italia in the field of augmented reality and visual searching. 
• Following the launch of the Android version at the end of 2013, the iPhone and iPad version of 
FriendTV is now available in the app store. FriendTV is a guide for the main television chan -
nels, strongly integrated with social media, which allows users to participate in real time in the 
most highly commented programmes on the Web. The app was designed and developed as 
part of the SocialTV project, which aims to leverage the spread of “second screen” services 
and real time interactivity conveyed through social media. 
• Telecom Italia has contributed to developing the new ISO/IEC MPEG “Compact Descriptors for 
Visual Search” international standard and holds four of the patents in the regulatory and inform -
ative part of the new standard. The visual search technology was implemented on the Duser 
server and on the build.it framework, allowing cloud services to be requested. MPEG CDVS 
was also implemented on mobile devices using GPU to speed up image and video analysis by 
ensuring a high degree of parallelisation of calculations. These technologies are used by mobile 
apps to allow information on the image framed by the photo camera to be obtained without the 
help of codes. They are also the basis of Visual Intelligence, the extraction of information from 
multimedia content, which constitutes the great majority of data sent via the Internet.
• Building on its collaboration with RAI in broadcasting live interviews conducted on the 4G 
mobile network using the Smart Reporter product, and on dedicated web streaming events 
for business customers (LiveOnLTE), Telecom Italia is designing a Cloud platform, called 
Cloud Reporter, to allow consumer or business customers to create their own streaming vid -
eos live on the Web. This is a portal which will allow a Live video streaming channel to be set 
up independently and in a few steps to allow everyone to follow it using their web browser. 
Video content is produced very simply by smart phones or tablets or using consumer video 
cameras, webcams and a PC. Filming can take place on the move, making the most of the 
4G mobile network. The service is also intended to create professional events using high end 
cameras and the Smart Reporter product (portable encoder carried in a backpack) developed 
from experiments conducted with RAI. The target market for the service is both Consumers 
and Small Businesses and enhances the offer of broadband connectivity from TIM (4G LTE) 
and Telecom Italia (ADLS and Fibre). In addition to providing a specific service, Cloud Re -
porter provides APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) for other services to be built that 
involve managing a video resource for the purpose of streaming via the Internet. These APIs 
are offered via the Build.it platform, which provides the building blocks for Cloud functions 
to be created. Cloud Reporter is also therefore an evolved Building Block which, by combin -
ing other Build.It components, offers a specific service logic for processing video files to be 
streamed via the Internet.
• TIM CheckApp is the free app that Telecom Italia provides for customers to understand and 
manage the apps on their smartphones, ensuring that a context that is not without its potential 174
COMMUNITYpitfalls (in terms of security, privacy and usage, all critical aspects) is more accessible and un -
derstandable for all categories of customers. With TIM CheckApp, customers are made aware 
of the potential dangers of each app, in terms of privacy, and can view data usage (mobile and 
Wi-Fi) by each individual app on their device.
Development of big data solutions6 
The Joint Open Lab Trentino SKIL (Semantics & Knowledge Innovation Lab) has developed the 
CitySensing big data platform which, using advanced data analysis technologies, processes the 
flow of data from the Telecom Italia mobile network and social networks to monitor urban phe -
nomena, such as the possible pedestrianisation of areas, mobility, etc., during particular events. 
These technologies are currently used by Telecom Italia in many application contexts, including 
monitoring the flow of tourists, preferences regarding travel on public transport or support to pub -
lic administration in urban planning activities.
Mobile Territorial Lab (MTL)7 is the SKIL project for the processing of personal big data: the 
combined data that individuals generate via their smartphones and that transform people into 
local sensors, as theorised in the smart city models. MTL has developed advanced transparent 
personal data management technologies, including My Data Store, an example of personal data 
store which was one of the top reference cases at the World Economic Forum8. 
Working with local institutions in Trentino, SKIL is experimenting with advanced solutions for cit -
izen services based on personal data, one example being the joint monitoring of air quality with 
the involvement of citizens using personal sensors. 
One of the Open Innovation initiatives was the first Telecom Italia Big Data Challenge 20149, 
which brought together over 1,100 participants from around the world to discuss the creation 
of smart city projects using large amounts of geo-referenced data. A panel of judges consisting 
of representatives from academia, industry and the media assessed the best three projects: a 
method for predicting energy consumption based on mobile network traffic, a web application for 
classifying urban areas based on phone and other traffic, and a visualisation which shows the im -
pact of vehicle traffic and the weather on levels of pollution in the city of Milan. Given the success 
and effectiveness of the initiative in promoting the Big Data topic internationally, Telecom Italia is 
now committed to organising another event in 2015. 
Projects with positive environmental impacts 
• The smart mobility innovation project continues with the development of application proto -
types aimed at testing the solutions developed, focusing first of all on tests conducted with the 
6 Definition coined by the Computer Community Consortium in 2008 for a set of diverse pieces of information that is so large and 
complex as to require capture, processing, management, analysis and display tools that differ from conventional ones.
7 www.mobileterritoriallab.eu.
8 http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_IT_UnlockingValuePersonalData_CollectionUsage_Report_2013.pdf.
9 www.telecomitalia.com/bigdatachallenge.175
participation of employees in Italy, with a view to then extending this to Brazil. In particular, a 
prototype ride sharing and multimodal transport app for commuting, smart parking solutions 
and company care management, with the aim of optimising and reducing the flow of vehicles, 
are being developed. 
• In the field of Internet of Things (IoT) applications, 2014 was the year in which gas metering 
was launched for domestic meters (over 20 million), a field in which Telecom Italia is able 
to supply network and management solutions. Telecom Italia also participated in a tender 
launched by AEEG10 Electricity, Gas and Water System Authority, which it won with IREN, for 
multi-service trials aimed at extending the use of gas metering networks to other metering and 
smart city services. Testing and assessment campaigns have been launched on new genera -
tion IoT networks for services with low transmission speed requirements, high coverage and 
extremely low cost and consumption.
• Telecom Italia is the coordinator of the INTrEPID “INTelligent systems for Energy Prosumer 
buildings at District level” project, a pilot project for which was launched with the involvement of 
various users in Italy and Denmark. The pilot project provides for the use of remotely controlled 
Wi-Fi fridges, a series of energy monitoring sensors available for various technologies and the 
use of an IoT platform and business intelligence modules to generate suggestions for users, 
aimed at saving energy. The project is being carried out with external Partners including ENEL 
Ingegneria e Ricerca, Honeywell and RSE (Ricerca sul sistema energetico).
• Telecom Italia, Enel Distribuzione and Indesit Company conducted an experiment with var -
ious users to verify the environmental benefits of improving the end customer’s awareness 
of electricity consumption. Customers were supplied with a prototype web app and electricity 
metering devices, including a device for communicating directly with the Enel electricity meter. 
During the testing period of around twelve months – thanks to the active involvement of us -
ers through appropriate feedback and newsletters - an average reduction in consumption of 
around 9% was recorded which, nationally, would allow residential consumption to be reduced 
by 5.6 TWh, leading to a fall in CO2 emissions of around 3 million tonnes. 
• Working with partners in the Energy@home Association and the i3P Incubator of the Poly -
technic of Turin, Telecom Italia organised a Hackathon at the end of November on the topic of 
the Smart Home: a competition for business ideas and fast prototyping involving 115 people, 
including Italian start-ups, university students and young researchers. Over a weekend, par -
ticipants created prototypes of their ideas, integrating pre-commercial products from Ener -
gy@home companies: the Enel electronic meter, Indesit’s connected household appliances, 
Telecom Italia’s broadband gateway and home automation devices. The winning project was 
Hiris, developed by 3 Italian start-ups: thanks to a wearable device connected to the home 
network, like a watch or a bracelet, which reacts to a series of preset movements, Hiris allows 
objects which are themselves connected to the network to be remotely controlled, meaning 
10 Electricity, Gas and Water System Authority.176
COMMUNITYthat shutters can be raised with a single gesture, the temperature of the home thermostat can 
be changed or lights can be switched on and off. 
• Experiments have been launched at the Telecom Italia Data Centre in Rozzano where service 
robotics are applied to environmental monitoring to save energy and prevent potentially anom -
alous heat situations known as hot spots.  
Projects with positive social impacts  
• The guiding principle behind the “Robot a corte” project is to develop an online cultural herit -
age enhancement model in which the asset becomes a real catalyst to attract public interest 
in the heritage of a particular area. This is done by training and professionalising the operators 
(tour guides and entertainers). The first robotics experiment has been launched at the Rac -
conigi Castle where, thanks to the “Virgil” robot, visitors can view areas that are not currently 
open to tourists. 
• The digital island innovation project is continuing on two fronts: by setting up an internal pro -
totype within Telecom Italia, for the purpose of creating an open platform for testing smart city 
services, and through the project funded by Smart Metro Quadro. In particular, a public work -
shop was organised, with the involvement of the city of Turin, for the purpose of determining 
the best scenarios for the use of digital islands.
• Collaboration was consolidated with the eco-design department of the faculty of architecture of 
the Polytechnic of Turin with the aim of promoting a systemic approach to designing solutions, 
even in research projects, so that all the relevant elements are taken into account (materials, 
processes, lifecycle of the solution), including the impact on the ecosystem. 
• The innovative LIVEonLTE has been set up to test the new TIM 4G network as a means to 
send live video, with no satellite link or radio bridges, using a simple smartphone. LIVEonLTE 
continues as LIVEon4G, an official TIM channel. 
• Telecom Italia and Anonima Fumetti, working with the Accademia Albertina di Belle Arti in 
Turin, are bringing comics to the Web with UltraMe, an innovative publishing project that inte -
grates the creativity of young artists and professionals in the field with the advanced multime -
dia technologies developed by Telecom Italia. 
• In the Telecom Italia Joint Open Lab S-Cube “Smart Social Spaces” new technologies and ser -
vices are being tested for future smart spaces, where Internet technologies, proximity wireless 
connections (Bluetooth Low Energy, Wi-Fi Direct, LTE-Direct) and smart and wearable objects 
(smart screens, smart glasses, smart watches, etc.) are being studied and used to create new 
ways of interacting and communicating between people, objects and physical spaces them -
selves. These technologies will allow users to make immediate use of strongly personalised 
and contextualised services and information, making it easier for citizens to participate in the 
creation of smart cities, and will enable new forms of communication mediated by physical 
spaces. During events, such as Expo 2015, smart communication between visitors, citizens 
and organisers will be a key element for the success of the event itself. 177
Commitment to Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) with European projects and field tests
• In the field of health, development of the Fisio@Home application continued for the remote 
rehabilitation of patients affected by orthopaedic problems. Working with JOL WHITE, which 
perfected the Android app and developed the respective data collection platform, each pa -
tient’s work plan can now be determined, checking performance and communicating with the 
patient by messaging and video calls. 
• Vrehab, the monitoring and telerehabilitation¬ system for patients with Parkinson’s disease 
¬developed with CNR-IEIIT in Turin, the University of Parma and the Italian Auxology Institue 
of Verbania, has entered the validation phase. The system allows the patient’s state of health 
to be validated by analysing the movements of the upper and lower limbs. Patients who took 
part in the trial are members of the Amici Parkinson Piemonte Association (AAPP) and the 
tests were conducted at the offices of the Association with around 80 people. With the support 
of the Association, a trial is being organised in patients’ homes. 
• Telecom Italia is also focused on the world of the elderly. The aim of the European WIDER 
(green groWing SMEs: The Innovation and Development in the energy sector in mEd aRea) 
project is intended to achieve better management and sharing of knowledge for small and 
medium sized companies on the subject of ecosmart dwellings for the elderly. Telecom Italia is 
part of the scientific committee and contributes to guiding technical and technological activities 
• Using Cassiel 2.0, remote assistance is provided to elderly people, monitoring them and re -
ceiving alarm signals in cases of emergency. The data collected by sensors located in dwell -
ings are processed to perform behavioural analyses with a view to improving quality of life. The 
complete solution also supports video calling and a reminder service called RicordaTI to moni -
tor all kinds of events that must not be forgotten, such as drug therapies. With the involvement 
of pharmacies in entering dosages on the system, and using a simple tablet app, the system 
also becomes usable by people with mild cognitive impairments. 
• WebSensor is a prototype for remote monitoring of progress in Parkinson’s disease developed 
with the support of neurologists. A set of sensors worn on the feet and hands monitors the 
exercises performed by the patient and sends the respective data to a platform that processes 
them and supplies parameters that can be used to assess the status of the disease. 
• A prototype called PAPI has been developed for the remote rehabilitation of patients affected 
by slight cognitive function deficits. The system provides a kit of interactive games for Android 
tablets, designed with neurologists to simulate the patient’s various cognitive functions. The 
games communicate with a remote server to send data relating to the patient’s performance 
and to download the game settings. The games are being tested on 30 people over 65 in the 
area of Pisa, working with NeuroCare in Cascina (Pisa).
• Phaser is a project funded by EIT ICT Labs to prevent cardiovascular diseases. The consorti -
um includes Philips, which provides a special sensorised watch to detect the quality of sleep, 
the heart beat and an estimate of stress levels. The system works out a cardiovascular risk in -
dex with a series of associated suggestions and an indication of the stress level, taking a series 178
COMMUNITYof static and dynamic parameters detected by the watch and by electromedical equipment as a 
basis. The first service prototype benefits from the advice given by the team of epidemiologists 
at Imperial College London and cardiologists at Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, Pisa. To achieve 
the greater involvement of patients, the service is also delivered with gamification techniques, 
creating teams that challenge one another to achieve personalised objectives.
Solutions for “scuola 3.0” (“school 3.0”)
• As part of the collaboration between Telecom Italia and the Regional Education Department of 
Piedmont, a training course was held for secondary school teachers to teach them how to use 
the platform to publish programs or “robotic apps” in a social environment involving support 
and discussion among the network of schools. This was a preparatory course for the launch of 
field tests with a school during the next school year. 
• SOCIETY (SOCIal Ebook communiTY), the multidevice collaborative reading tool with which 
Telecom Italia supports young people affected by specific learning disabilities (SLD), was rede -
signed between 2013 and 2014 to make the experience of using the service generally simpler 
and more interactive. This was made possible thanks to the feedback from teachers and stu -
dents during the trial taking place in schools across Italy and thanks to a number of interviews 
specifically conducted with students affected by SDL. The value of people as a business success factorTELECOM ITALIA 
PEOPLE182
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLESTRATEGY 
In a competitive context, where business, technological and consumption models undergo con -
tinuous major transformations, the change necessary to successfully overcome the market chal -
lenges must include the valuation of people and the development of their professional skills.
The Group’s People Strategy for the three-year period 2014-2016 is focused on the motivation 
and skills of people and the organisation underlying their working activities. The activities and 
processes involving staff, from management to training, from remuneration to organisation, have 
undergone a major rethink, involving numerous managers from all over the company. Thus nine in -
ter-departmental working groups have been formed (the so-called “Workshops”), with people from 
the operating lines, from the other departments and associated companies, tasked with the goal 
of calibrating and modulating motivational, training and organisational processes and techniques.
Telecom Italia Workshops
1. NEW PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT MODEL
4. DEVELOPMENT OF THE 
ORGANISATIONAL IDENTITY
7. ACTIVATION OF A 
MANAGEMENT MODEL 
THAT CREATES VALUE FOR 
PEOPLE2. NEW SKILL 
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
5. DEVELOPMENT AND 
DISSEMINATION OF A 
PAYING FOR VALUE MODEL
8. DEVELOPMENT OF A 
TOTAL REWARDING MODEL3. CONSTITUTION OF THE 
KNOWLEDGE HUB
6. IDENTIFICATION AND 
DISSEMINATION OF A 
PROCESS DESIGN AND 
FUNCTION MODEL
9. DEVELOPMENT OF 
A PERFORMANCE 
MANAGEMENT MODELTo prepare paths for valuing pe -
ople and allowing them to grow, 
renewing the career plans archi -
tecture
To identify the common traits of the 
organisational identity and promo -
te values and actions hinged on 
increasing a sense of belonging, 
and renew the trust enjoyed by the 
company and its people
To develop management respon -
sibility models and a management 
aimed at valuing people and their 
skills, increasing levels of caring 
and motivationTo identify and acquire new cut -
ting-edge skills in terms of the 
market and technological evolu -
tions
To prepare a model for measuring 
the work factor, based on the con -
cept of value as the ratio of cost, 
productivity and quality
To use all levers available, not 
just remuneration, to value merits 
and to recognise and satisfy the 
specific needs and motivations of 
peopleTo direct the knowledge manage -
ment processes and oversee the 
generation and dissemination of 
knowledge
To map out the business pro -
cesses and introduce a single 
method for design, planning and 
operation, through the identifica -
tion of an international standard 
(E-TOM)
To identify a new leadership and 
performance measurement mo -
del that appraises individual me -
rits and the separate skills of all 
people of the Group183
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS
The people who work in the Group are clearly the figures with the greatest interest in the success 
of their relationship with the Company and, with them, the trade union representatives. In the 
same way, the families of employees are significantly involved in this relationship and, to a lesser 
extent but in any case to an important degree, the communities within which the Telecom Italia 
people go about their daily lives. The Group’s size also justifies a major involvement not only of 
the Public Institutions and Entities dealing with matters relating to the world of work, but also of 
the Government itself.
[G4-DMA Employment], [G4-DMA Labor/Management Relations], [G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety], 
[G4-DMA Training and Education], [G4-DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunity], [G4-DMA Equal Remuneration 
for Women and Men], [G4-DMA Labor Practice Grievance Mechanisms]
• management of the workforce, generational renewal
 and promotion of talent; 
• health and safety at work
Relevant company policies:  Code of 
Ethics and Charter of Values; Three-year 
People Strategy; Social Responsibility 
Policy on child labour, forced labour, 
health and safety, freedom of association 
and the right to collective bargaining, 
discrimination, disciplinary procedures, 
working hours and pay; Equal 
Opportunities Charter. In this context, 
the agreements reached with the trade 
union representatives and, in particular, 
the Collective Labour Agreements, are 
essential.Effectiveness and monitoring:  in order to 
monitor the effectiveness of processes 
and ensure the monitoring required by 
the numerous internal procedures and 
company-trade union committees, the 
Company uses some numerical KPIs. 
This chapter explains those relating to 
the structure and the evolution of the 
workforce, training, health and safety, 
remuneration, non-conformities and 
work-related reports. The KPIs for which 
the Company has established numerical 
targets have been given as an appendix 
to the report. More specifically, the 
training targets, and in particular those 
relating to training on health and safety, 
and accident-related targets, are listed.MATERIAL ISSUES IN THIS CHAPTER184
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLETELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE: CONCISE FIGURES1
[G4-9]  A summary of the numbers relating to the Group people can be seen in the table below: 
(units) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 Changes
Italy 52,878 53,152 (274)
Abroad 13,138 12,467 671
Total personnel on payroll 66,016 65,619 397
Agency contract workers 9 4 5
Total personnel 66,025 65,623 402
Non-current assets held for sale - abroad 16,420 16,575 (155)
Total 82,445 82,198 247
Excluding personnel concerned with non-current assets held for sale (Telecom Argentina Group) 
and supervised workers, the Group’s workforce has increased by 397 units compared to 31 De -
cember 2013.
These changes are due to 
• exit due to sale of the Olivetti I-Jet business unit (8 units);
• entry into the scope of consolidation of the company Rete A (12 people);
• net turnover (net of changes to scope) up by 393 units, as detailed below by individual Busi -
ness Unit:
(units) Recruited Departed Net change
Domestic 822 1,119 (297)
Brazil 5,216 4,515 701
Media and others 2 13 (11)
Turnover 6,040 5,647 393
The people in the Telecom Italia Group, net of “Non-current assets held for sale and temporary 
contract workers”, can be broken down in various ways:
1 Unless otherwise stated, the data shown in the tables contained in the Telecom Italia People chapter relate to all the Telecom Italia 
Group companies (see Sustainability and Governance/Reporting).185
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:
EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION
BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY
Middle
managers7%
Office staff92%
Seniormanagers1%TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:
EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION
BY ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION
Graduates25%
Diplomas69%
Other6%
Distribution of employees and new employees by geographic area
Distribution of Telecom Italia Group employees 
by geographical area
(units) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 31.12.2012Changes 
(14/13)
Italy 52,878 53,152 54,380 (274)
Abroad 13,138 12,467 11,961 671
Total 66,016 65,619 66,341 397
Distribution of intakes of Telecom Italia Group employees 
by geographical area
(units) 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 31.12.2012Changes 
(14/13)
Italy 575 410 896 165
Abroad 5,224 4,901 5,818 323
Total 5,799 5,311 6,714 488
For more information on the characteristics of Group personnel, please refer to the appendix to this 
chapter, which, in compliance with the requirements of standard GRI G4, gives the KPIs relating to 
the workforce [G4-10], [G4-LA1], [G4-LA3], [G4-LA6], [G4-LA13], [G4-LA9] . In reading the KPIs, note that: 
• [G4-10e]  Telecom Italia does not use self-employed workers to go about its business activities, 
although it is possible that, on an occasional basis, some consultancy type activities may be 
entrusted to self-employed professionals.186
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE• [G4-10f]  The Group’s activities do not vary seasonally, hence changes in the workforce  are 
correctly shown by the annual trends. 
• [G4-LA3a]  All employees are entitled to parental leaves.
GENDER BALANCE
[G4-DMA Equal Remuneration for Women and Men]  Like all sectors whose core business is closely linked 
to the research and development of new technologies, in the decades following the wars, telecom -
munications continued to have a mainly male workforce in terms of its engineering and technology 
maintenance staff. As women have embraced the world of work and, in a parallel fashion, scientific 
and technological culture and studies, their presence has gradually grown within companies, seeing 
them take on more important roles with higher salaries.  In Telecom Italia S.p.A., for example, the 
female workforce has grown by 8% in 12 years, and on a Group level, in this same period, it has 
grown by 9%.  
Despite this, there is still a long way to go before true gender balance can be achieved. This is 
why in Telecom Italia,
• the Group’s By-laws require the least represented gender in the BoD to account for at least one 
third of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next unit in the event of a fraction; 
• the current development model pays close attention to ensuring that individual growth paths, 
starting from the time of employment, do not contain any restrictions relating to gender or age 
differences, and particular attention is paid to the female component, where skills and perfor -
mance are equal. 
[G4-LA12a]  Members of the Board of Directors by gender and age
31.12.2014 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Men < 30 0 0 0
Men 30 -50 4 1 2
Men > 50 4 9 12
Women < 30 0 0 0
Women 30-50 0 0 0
Women > 50 5 1 1187
[G4-LA12b]  Members of the Group’s professional categories by gender and age
Year 2014 Year 2013 Year 2012
Men 733 3,459 37,616 41,808 744 3,387 37,244 41,375 784 3,464 37,756 42,004
Women 135 1,254 22,819 24,208 132 1,201 22,911 24,244 142 1,237 22,958 24,337
Total 868 4,713 60,435 66,016 876 4,588 60,155 65,619 926 4,701 60,714 66,341
Up to
32 years0 22 10,600 10,622 0 31 11,022 11,053 0 32 12,344 12,376
From 33 
to 45113 1,271 19,823 21,207 133 1,375 21,552 23,060 192 1,616 23,267 25,075
over 45 755 3,420 30,012 34,187 743 3,182 27,581 31,506 734 3,053 25,103 28,890
Total 868 4,713 60,435 66,016 876 4,588 60,155 65,619 926 4,701 60,714 66,341
The generational imbalance is mainly due to the Italian component that, due to adverse market 
conditions and in order to guarantee work for its employees, has in the past renounced the gen -
erational renewal comprising new important hiring campaigns.
PEOPLE CARING 
Telecom Italia is firmly convinced that social and economic sustainability depends first and fore -
most on respect and attention for the people working in the Group. On the basis of this belief, 
numerous initiatives are taken to ensure that people can go peaceably about their work and, as 
far as the Company is able to assist in this respect, their day-to-day personal lives. A group of 
people in the Company is dedicated entirely to listening to the needs expressed by employees 
and to developing initiatives which can satisfy them. Thus, thanks to the investigations and infor -
mation collected, and after having held meetings and focus groups with employees, four areas 
have been identified for the development of specific initiatives:
• improving the balance between working life and free time, supporting employees and their 
families in their requirements;
• contributing towards volunteering initiatives taken by employees;
• promoting diversity in the workplace;
• promoting psychological and physical well-being. 
The main initiatives taken in 2014, under the scope of “Work-life balance” were:
• 20 Nurseries - in addition to the 10 nurseries (in 8 cities), 10 discount agreements were signed 
with an equal number of external nurseries at the Turin, Rome, Padua, Bologna and Trento;
• Company loans - 393 loans disbursed for various requirements, 161 loans for home purchases 
and renovations and 182 granted to new parents with children under three years of age;
Senior 
Managers
Middle
Managers
Office Staff/
Workers
Total
Senior 
Managers
Middle
Managers
Office Staff/
Workers
Total
Senior 
Managers
Middle
Managers
Office Staff/
Workers
Total188
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE• Time-saving - handling of official formalities, laundry/shoe repairs, newsagents, wellness area 
and specific agreements (relating to property, travel and holidays, banks and financial insti -
tutes, pay TV, car hire, transport and miscellaneous);
• Stays for employees’ children;
• Initiatives relating to sport, art, culture, entertainment and historical events;
• Mobility management to assist people with commuting between home and work.
In order to contribute towards volunteering initiatives taken by employees, 2014 activities were:
• long-distance child adoption - approximately 1,000 employees have renewed their commit -
ment to help CIAI (Centro Italiano Aiuti all’Infanzia), Comunità di Sant’Egidio and Save the 
Children, subscribing to long-distance adoption programmes;
• Telecom Blood Donors Group - 70 blood donation days were organised;
• 204 “banchetti della solidarietà”  (solidarity stalls) were set up by charities in company premis -
es, with the involvement of employees. 
In 2014, Telecom Italia continued an intense programme of activities and projects connected with 
Diversity Management, with a view to valuing diversity as a form of enrichment and stimulus, as 
well as seen as a vehicle in an inclusive climate that is open to contribution by all:
• in partnership with the charity I-Ken and the training consortium S.A.F.IM, in September, Na -
ples hosted the launch of the “Diversity on the Job” project, with 8 traineeships dedicated to 
people suffering from severe social alienation. The project was financed by the Ministry of 
Employment, the Department for Equal Opportunities and Italia Lavoro, using European Union 
funds, with the aim of offering three months’ work experience to people excluded from the 
world of work due to human and social discrimination. In our case, in particular, these are peo -
ple who are discriminated against due to their sexual orientation and/or gender identity. The 
8 people who have been assigned to the Company as trainees have been included in various 
operational departments in Naples; 
• in Rome, the first “Telecom Italia Factory” has been opened, devoted to optimising diversity 
and the culture of discussion and differences. It is a versatile place, open both within the com -
pany and externally. It is a space that is open to everyone, where knowledge can be given 
and received, where people can meet, workshops, performances, debates, study and working 
groups can be organised, where perspectives can be expanded and other people’s differences 
be adopted as one’s own;
• in November, Telecom Italia took part in the most important European event of the year on 
non-discrimination and equal opportunities policies: the “Shaping the future of equality policies 
in the EU” conference organised by the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European 
Union and European Commission. The event started with the viewing of the video on diversity 
created by Telecom Italia;
• in the area of gender diversity, and in collaboration with TIMReading, a free e-book has been 189
developed entitled “LeadHERship al femminile” [Feminine leadHERship]; using text and imag -
es, it tells of 22 meetings with successful woman role models held in the company in 2013. The 
e-book was released on 25 November to celebrate the International Day for the Elimination of 
Violence against Women;
• In the field of “age diversity”, in order to ensure the full integration and promotion of the skills 
of senior employees in the Company and overcome age-related stereotypes, two role model 
meetings were organised (in Milan and Naples) involving 120 employees;
• in collaboration with other companies, three “Welfare Labs” were organised: Parental Leave 
Management, Remote Working, Welfare Plan and Taxation;
• The Comunico-IO project continued with the aim of promoting communication between the hear -
ing impaired and other employees, improving their ability to operate fully independently using 
state-of-the-art technological tools. In previous years, the 57 employees involved in the project 
had been supplied with a mobile phone - with Comunico-IO application software on the Android 
platform - and a high definition web cam, which interact with a computer running the internal chat 
and Internet access services. In 2014, the new Comunico-IO Desktop applications were unveiled 
(extension to PC use of the version of Comunico-IO for smartphones). The project has also been 
extended with the Comunico-IO IPO APP that enables the sight-impaired to use a smartphone.
To promote psychological and physical well-being [G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety] , the Peo -
ple Caring Centre (PCC) counselling service continued, provided by professional psychologists 
across the country. Since the service was launched (January 2011), 386 employees,  by telephone 
or email, have enquired about the operation of the service. In total 254 people have used the PCC: 
• 221 have started a counselling process;
• 62 company cases have been referred to the Head of People Caring Department and taken 
under the care of the People Value Department.
In the People Caring Centre intranet area, information, advice and suggested reading lists were 
published, to help improve psychological well-being. A new “wellness area” has also been creat -
ed on the intranet, gathering together all services offered by Telecom Italia for personal health, 
accident prevention and physical well-being, in collaboration with the Fondazione Telecom Italia 
and the Fondazione Veronesi.
OTHER INITIATIVES FOR EMPLOYEES 
[G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety]  ASSILT (supplementary healthcare association for the 
employees of Telecom Italia Group companies), funded by the Group companies, by employ -
ee members and retired members, is a non-profit-making organisation providing services to its 
members and beneficiaries that are supplementary to those provided by the Italian national health 
service, including - together with public healthcare establishments - collective and individual re -
search, knowledge-gathering initiatives and health prevention activities, and the promotion of 190
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLEhealth education initiatives to protect the health and physical well-being of its members.
In 2014, the association disbursed refunds totalling approximately 58 million euros (around 
610,000 cases). As of December 31, 2014, the Association had 154,000 members, including 
51,000 employees, 34,000 pensioners and 69,000 family members.
ASSIDA provides senior management staff with refunds for the cost of supplementary health 
services to those provided by the Italian national health service. As of December 31, 2014, the 
Association had 4,000 members in service or retired, in addition to family members, making a 
total of more than 8,900 assisted members.
[G4-EC3]  TELEMACO is the national complementary pension fund for employees in the telecom -
munications industry, established in 1998 as a non-profit association and operative since October 
2000; its objective is to ensure that those subscribing are able to maintain their standard of living 
when retiring, thanks to the creation of supplementary social security, over and above the public 
provisions.
It is intended for workers, office staff and middle managers of companies that apply the national 
telecommunications contract, for employees on permanent, apprenticeship or placement con -
tracts and for people who are physically supported by the workers subscribing to the Fund.
Subscribing employees of Group companies numbered just over 40,000 in late October, whilst 
total subscribers come to approximately 60,000 and there are 175 associated companies.
CRALT is the recreational club for employees of the Telecom Italia Group and organises sight-see -
ing, sports, cultural and recreational activities for its members, employees, pensioners and their 
families. By entering into specific agreements, CRALT also allows members and their families to 
purchase goods and services at particularly good prices, which can also be settled in instalments. 
One of the most significant of these is the agreement and the resulting contribution provided for 
the purchase of school and university books for the children of members, as a valuable contri -
bution to household purchasing power. As of December 31, 2014, there were 43,759 members, 
including 37,551 employees and 6,208 pensioners.
[G4-LA2], [G4-DMA Employment]  All Group workers, whether full or part-time, on permanent or fixed-
term contracts, enjoy the same benefits, whilst, in Italy, the supplementary welfare institute is 
extended to workers on apprenticeship or placement contracts, as well as to employees on per -
manent contracts.191
NEW SKILLS AND DEVELOPMENT
One of the most important times in people’s working lives is when they stop to consider what they 
have completed, their relevance to the Company and future prospects. The performance analy -
sis process provides the opportunity to make this kind of reflection, aimed at identifying areas of 
strength and improvement, as well as helping employees to enhance their individual performance 
through an open discussion with their manager. 
[G4-LA11]  The method used in Telecom Italia to assess performance is frequently analysed and 
reshaped, so as to ensure that the assessment reveals a correct, complete profile of the person 
assessed, their needs and prospects. For example, the process that resulted in the 2013 per -
formance review had been partially revised with respect to previous editions, in view of the evi -
dence that had emerged from a survey in which all employees could take part, and specific focus 
groups that involved a panel of evaluators and evaluatees from the various areas of the compa -
ny2. Thereafter, the method used was further analysed with an investigation that involved 1,200 
employees. In actual fact, the new Group People Strategy provides for a detailed examination 
aimed at developing a renewed performance management model. Thus a specific “workshop” 
has been established with the task of preparing a new performance system; this will be imple -
mented on a Group level early 2015 and is set to involve all professional and managerial levels, 
enabling individual merits to be appraised  from several viewpoints, on the basis of a competence 
model that is the same for everyone. The results will feed into the other development systems in 
an integrated way. 
2 The process is repeated regularly each year and involves all employees of the domestic BU, apart from managers with MBOs, who 
are assessed according to the targets of said MBOs (in the future they too will be subject to the same assessment methods as the 
other employees).  In one case, to assess 2011 performance, a campaign was missed for organisational purposes. In Brazil too, 
assessment campaigns are repeated each year, involving all employees who have worked at least 149 days in the company. For 
the Brazilian call centre operators, performance is assessed by means of an ad hoc programme.192TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE
The idea on which the Model is based is that 
leadership can be spread, i.e. can be exercised 
by everyone in relation to their activities. The 
Model therefore targets the whole of the company 
population, so as to allow everyone to contribute 
towards the major, necessary evolution of skills, 
in order to achieve the transformation process 
undertaken by the company.
The three key concepts of the Telecom Italia strategy and culture underlying the Leadership 
Model are: 
• The future can be constructed and guided: 
LEADING THE FUTURE . 
• Value takes shape and is created through 
people and their everyday interaction with 
customers: LIVING VALUE .
• Our value can be multiplied if we network: 
LINKING NETWORKS .THE TELECOM ITALIA LEADERSHIPMODEL
 - VISION BASED ON INNOVATION AND INVESTMENT - DEVELOPMENT OF THE NETWORKS - FINANCIAL STRUCTURE ENHANCEMENT– DIFFUSED ULTRA-BROADBAND NETWORK - 4G FOR 80% POPULATION – OPRATIONAL EFFICIENCY OF VALUE SERVICES Leading 
TURNARO UND
INKING
NETWORK S LIVINGVALUELEADING
THE FUTUREL
INKINGNETW ORKS L IVINGVALUELDONʼT W AIT FOR 
THE FUTURE. LETʼS 
CREA TE IT TOGETHER.
WHO WE ARE,WHAT WE KNOW , 
WHAT WE DO.
WE C AN MUL TIPLY ALL THIS.
LETʼS CONNECTOUR PEOPLE AND 
OUR CUS TOMERS 
ARE OUR GREA TEST 
COMPETITIVE ASSE T.193the 9 skills, translated into observable conduct, 
will be included in the all-new performance 
management system as from this year.
Performance management is part of a broader, 
more extensive Development Model hinged on 
the value of the person through the creation of transparent, fair, inclusive and differentiated 
assessment and development systems able 
to reveal capacity, aptitude and knowledge 
of the individual and encourage continuous 
improvement of people and the organisation.The 9 Skills  comprising the new Telecom Italia Leadership Model ensue from these three dimensions:194
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLETalent in action was another initiative taken to identify talent within the company. Initially, this 
involved a survey whereby employees could identify their most worthy colleagues. In complete 
transparency, each person identified was able to view his/her profile in terms of characteristics 
and quantity of feedback received. Subsequently, the process of identifying the pool of “talent in 
action” was split into two stages:
• drawing up the “top ranking reputation” list with the aim of ensuring the continued comparability 
of individual data and the same opportunities; 
• drawing up the “talent in action” list, in which, in addition to the reputation data, representing 
the view of the professional community, individual elements, such as performance, were taken 
into consideration,  representing the career history of each individual.
Those on the “talent in action” list were contacted to launch the individual enhancement process by 
participating in an on-line self-assessment system aimed at creating a snapshot of their profession -
al profile in terms of skills and motivation. By September, everyone on the “talent in action” list will 
have put together their enhancement plans, which will include “on-field” and motivational training.
In addition to performance assessment and talent scouting, potential and skill assessment activ -
ities  to map the skills needed for specific positions and internal recruiting activities to enhance 
internal expertise also take place. For internal recruiting activities, in addition to the job posting 
tool, a project posting process was tested which gives people the opportunity to apply to run fixed-
term projects exploiting their skills and acquiring others. 
As regards External Recruiting activities, starting from the second half of the year, the “2014 
Recruitment Plan” was launched, enabling 203 young new employees to be hired on permanent 
contracts. These new additions, 28% of whom came from the stabilisation of higher apprentice -
ship paths and 72% from the external market, brought the portfolio of company skills into line with 
the technological and business evolution of the reference market. More specifically, computing, 
engineering and technological skills were added, divided up into 20 different professional profiles.  
The new additions were both recent graduates (34%) aged an average of 26 years old and junior 
professionals (66%) with an average age of 30 years old. The basin consisted of one third women 
and two thirds men and was characterised by a medium-high level of education insofar as 75% of 
people had a specialised university degree, mainly in TLC Engineering, Computing, Electronics 
or Economics (Business, Management or Marketing). 
In Brazil, the main selection programmes implemented in 2014 were: 
• “Jovem Aprendiz” (Young Apprentice), a programme to promote the training of young people 
between the ages of 16 and 24 for potential employment in the Company. An administrative 
training course is provided for young people to prepare them to enter the world of work. This 
path naturally takes place in complete compliance with the law;195
• “Talentos sem Fronteiras” (Talents without frontiers), intended to scout the market for young 
graduates in order to create a talented team of people who can be trained to build the company 
management team of the future. In 2014, 13 young talented people were recruited in strategic 
areas of the business;
• “Estágio sem Fronteiras” (Internships without frontiers), selects talented interns with the aim 
of offering young university students an opportunity to develop in diverse ways and prepare 
for the labour market, as well as to increase their potential for finding permanent employment 
in the company and possibly access the “Talenti senza Frontiere” programme. TIM selected 
around 120 young people in 2014. 
COLLABORATION WITH UNIVERSITIES
Telecom Italia has launched a new relationship model with leading universities and national and 
international research centres, which focuses on enhancing talent to transfer innovation to the 
company. The goal is to strengthen and accelerate Telecom Italia’s ability to innovate while at the 
same time contributing to the development of young people by offering them the opportunity to 
gain new skills and experiences.
Initiatives include:
• financing of scholarships to help young engineering and economics graduates achieve a post -
graduate qualification - 100 doctorate scholarships have been assigned for the development 
of specific research projects of interest to the company, the subjects of which range from cloud 
computing to geomarketing, from big data to e-health, from LTE to robotics, including issues 
related to web law and economics. For the 2014-2015 academic year, over 20 doctoral schol -
arships are envisaged;
• collaboration with postgraduate study courses - 5 master’s courses have been launched, of 
which for one, “Smart Solutions-Smart Communities”, developed jointly with Scuola Superiore 
Sant’Anna, 80% of the participants in the first edition are expected to be hired;
• a permanent national and European observatory on issues connected with the transition from 
school to work and the development of new skills for young people;
• sponsorship of the Tim Chair in Market Innovation at the Bocconi University of Milan, as part 
of the Master’s Degree in Economics and Management of Innovation and Technology. The 
programme includes the main technological product and service development, creation and 
marketing models;
• support of the CReSV (Centro Ricerche su Sostenibilità e Valore [Sustainability and Value 
Research Centre]) for the improvement of innovative and sustainable business models; 
• collaboration with secondary schools, under the scope of the “Network Scuola Impresa” 
(school business network) project. The project, which was launched in 2009, aims to create a 
structured relationship with senior schools, particularly in order to enhance our internal skills, 
get in touch with young people across the country and promote the company’s image.196
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLETRAINING AND KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT 
[G4-LA10]  
For a telecommunications company that wagers its future on offering cutting-edge technological 
and commercial solutions, training and managing its people’s knowledge is a must.
Telecom Italia training activities are guided by the desire: 
• to strengthen leadership styles in order to provide managerial skills that can support the stra -
tegic development of the company in the coming years;
• to enhance the individual and collective skills needed to compete in the new business scenar -
ios, paying particular attention to the specialised skills needed in the sector;
• to provide people with the capacity to cope with everyday challenges;
• to accompany and support the transformation of organisational identity and culture.
[G4-LA10]  All the Group’s training programmes aim to provide tools for professional growth that will 
then remain as part of the employee’s personal baggage both within and outside the company3. 
In Italy, the main training programmes implemented in 2014 fell into five main groups:
• Management education, involving 1,250 Group managers between 2014 and 2015. The pro -
gramme was set up to support the Business Plan by disseminating and strengthening agreed 
forms of leadership behaviour;
• Induction training, a programme designed for new employees, with the aim of speeding up 
professional growth and consolidation of skills through a gradual inclusion route;
• Space for growth, a programme offering many of the company’s workforce support by strength -
ening specific behavioural areas, including communication, change, team work, problem solv -
ing and focus on results:
• Post skill assessment training, which includes training aiming to update competences and 
develop new skills;
• Talent in action (see Telecom Italia People/New skills and development), a development and 
training project intended for those chosen following the “talent in action” survey, seeking to 
define individual action plans. 
Extensive training plans have also been developed on topics of compliance and safety, intended 
for the whole of the company workforce. [G4-HR2], [G4-HR4], [G4-HR5], [G4-HR6], [G4-HR7]  An on-line 
course on Human Rights is currently being prepared, ready for delivery in 2015 to all Domestic 
Business Unit employees.
3 At present the Group does not have any courses running for career-end management, also because the need has never been 
highlighted by workers or their trade union representatives.197
In Brazil all new recruits are required to attend training courses on company-wide issues, such 
as ethics and sustainability. In 2014, basic training and refresher courses were also carried out 
dedicated to Sales and Call Centre staff.  
  
[G4-LA9]  The tables below show Group training hours by professional category. A comparative 
focus of training by gender is given in the appendix.
2014
Hours
TotalsHours
Per headParticipation1Participants Coverage2
Total 2,837,986 42.99 453,968 63,023 95.5%
Senior Managers 23,966 27.61 4,238 800 92.2%
Middle Managers 133,036 28.23 17,293 4,284 90.9%
Office Staff/Workers 2,680,983 44.36 432,437 57,939 95.9%
2013
Hours
TotalsHours
Per headParticipation Participants Coverage
Total 3,765,649 57.39 453,188 63,806 97.2%
Senior Managers 23,091 26.36 2,387 675 77.1%
Middle Managers 114,123 24.87 14,214 3,902 85.0%
Office Staff/Workers 3,628,435 60.32 436,587 59,229 98.5%
2012
Hours
TotalsHours
Per headParticipation Participants Coverage
Total 2,276,006 27.4 356,858 62,760 75.5%
Senior Managers 45,563 37.9 4,618 1,029 85.5%
Middle Managers 151,305 23.3 16,266 4,482 69.0%
Office Staff/Workers 2,079,138 27.6 335,974 57,249 75.9%
1 Shows the overall number of participation in training sessions, in the various forms provided (classroom, online, training on the job).
2 Refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total, i.e. the % of human resources who took part in at least one training 
session compared to the total number of human resources in each individual category (senior managers, middle managers, office 
workers).
[G4-HR2] 
Training connected with respect for human rights mainly related to compliance with the Code of 
Ethics and Organisational Model 231 (see Sustainability and Governance ), with rules relating to 
health and safety at work and privacy matters. 198
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLENumber of hours of training on human rights1
2014 2013 2012
Domestic 397,414 394,682 82,674
Media 950 755 4,304
Percentage of employees trained on human rights1
2014 2013 2012
Domestic 94.12% 94.36% 26.91%
Media 93.18% 53.57% 51.93%
1 The figure relating to the Brazilian BU will be provided as from the next FY.
[G4-HR7] All personnel operating in the Security Department of Telecom Italia are trained and 
updated on national and European Community legislation and regulations governing company 
safety, and go about their duties in complete compliance with all current company procedures 
and policies in force. More specifically, in order to protect the Company’s human, tangible and 
intangible resources and infrastructures, Security staff analyse risks and reports of safety inci -
dents, preventing loss and limiting damages, interfacing with the Civil Protection Department and 
the other institutional entities responsible for managing emergencies or major events involving 
the various company assets. Security personnel do not perform crowd control duties nor escort 
people or values, which is instead a task institutionally assigned to the police force.
In addition to the more traditional training activities, 2014 saw the addition of Knowledge Manage -
ment, aimed at making it easier, in a stable manner, for the company as a whole to establish the 
way it learns (learning organisation), initiating the exchange and mutual “contamination” of ideas, 
knowledge and solutions. 
The first knowledge management project was the mapping of the formal and informal places where 
the Group’s internal know-how is developed. Mapping took place through semi-structured inter -
views with key staff, aimed at understanding how knowledge is generated and spread. Particular 
emphasis is placed on the “idea generation” process and the gathering of the Group’s best practice. 199
INTERNAL COMMUNICATION 
In a complex organisation, unilateral communication is no longer sufficient to encourage involve -
ment and develop thought. For this reason, there is a gradual “conversion” of the traditional 
communication channels to more innovative ways of favouring two-way communication inspired 
by web 2.0 logic, promoting the exchange of ideas, dialogue and discussion between members 
of the corporate community.
 
In this respect, the Intranet and the company portal are fundamental tools as they allow everyone 
to get involved, provide information and implement formal and informal forms of “listening”, such 
as climate surveys, blogs and open virtual communities. In this way, discussion and debate are 
encouraged on internal issues linked to the business and more general current topics, including 
environmental and social issues, making structured channels available for the purpose of collect -
ing contributions and proposals.
“2.0” communication initiatives have been added alongside the more traditional forms of relation -
ships that in any case continue to be important. Below is a list of the main traditional and other 
communication activities carried out during the year:
• the format of a road show held throughout Italy was particularly innovative, with 50 editions 
involving more than 8,000 people to present the People Strategy programme;
• as usual, awards were given for the “Archimede” project, which every year rewards the best 
innovative ideas to optimise the processes and services supplied, gathering proposals from 
the people directly involved in operational processes; 
• in two editions of the Parli@mone format, broadcast via video-streaming to the whole compa -
ny, the company management pursued dialogue with people;
• a new internal communication events system has been launched, which on a cascade basis will 
involve the whole Company, with a structured system for monitoring participation and results;
• meetings were organised for around 4,000 field engineers, designers, on-line technicians and 
managers, as well as members of the Caring Services Division;
• in the context of the School of Industrial Relations  programme, which involves significant net -
working activities with social partners, the academic world, the media and Group managers, a 
meeting and interview were held with Raffaele Bonanni, in January 2014, general secretary of 
CISL trade union;
• as regards the company Intranet, the move has been made to a new social platform that allows 
exchanges, sharing, the creation of working groups and direct interaction on the network, en -
suring people’s active involvement;
• Sincronizzando  is the Telecom Italia newsletter that evolved in 2014 into a webzine. The webzine 
allows contributions from managers, colleagues and external colleagues to be included and pro -
motes online interaction between the editorial office and the readers. All the articles have asso -
ciated wikis, tag clouds and online sharing methods allowing readers to make direct comments;200
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE• the ninth edition of the climate survey was carried out in Italy and Brazil, involving around 
66,000 people. The 2014 form included a specific section dedicated to identity. The results 
have been analysed and the process for disseminating them and assigning responsibility for 
action plans, established according to the results recorded, is underway. 
In Brazil, 2014 saw numerous internal communication initiatives taken in order to promote integra -
tion between people in the workplace, bring them into line with the company’s strategic objectives 
and improve psychological and physical well-being. For example, the Diversidade Tim  campaign 
aimed to promote diversity and proper, prejudice-free integration, whilst the Campanha de se -
gurança  disseminated the key notions of health and safety in the workplace within the company.
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The Health and Safety at Work Management System implemented by Telecom Italia ensures that 
the company complies in full with national legislation and agreements reached with trade unions; 
it also establishes numerous initiatives aimed at ensuring increasing safety for workers.  
[G4-LA5]  In Italy, the reference legislation is the Consolidated Law on Health and Safety at Work, 
which, amongst other aspects, specifically requires participation and consultation on the matter 
with the workers’ representatives.  The regulation requires the workers’ safety representative to 
be elected or designated by the workers from the trade unions present in the company. 
[G4-LA8], [G4-LA5]  The number and method of designation or election of workers’ safety represent -
atives, together with the salaried working hours and the tools used to fulfil duties, are established 
during collective bargaining. The legislation is applied throughout Italy and, in particular, as con -
cerns Telecom Italia S.p.A., Health and Safety Committees have been established. According to 
the agreements stipulated with the trade union organisations, these Committees play a participa -
tory and collaborative role aimed at guaranteeing joint analyses and discussion by the company 
party and the union party of all matters relating to health and safety at work, on a national and 
territorial level. To this end, the agreement establishing the Committees states that both the Joint 
National Health and Safety Committee (CPSSN) and each of the four Joint Territorial Health 
and Safety Committees (CPSSTs) shall number three members appointed by the company and 
three members appointed by the trade unions signing the agreement. Apart from the specific 
duties assigned by the agreement to the Committees, the CPSSN has the task of coordinating 
and instructing the CPSSTs, which, in turn, act as an interface with, and support, the workers’ 
representatives.  
[G4-LA7]  In Telecom Italia S.p.A., working activities have been classified as low and medium risk, 
in line with the definitions provided by the reference legislation, in accordance with the ATECO 
classification of the National Statistics Institute. There are no high-risk activities present in the 201
company. No significant numbers of cases have been recorded for any occupational disease. Nor 
indeed are there any high-risk activities carried out in the other Group associates.
[G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety]  In terms of risk assessment, special care was taken over 
evaluating work-related stress: in May, the “Accompagniamo il cambiamento” [Accompanying 
change] project that had been carried out in 2013 and 2014, drew to a close; its aim had been 
not only to assess the individual work-related stress factors but also to define the impact of the 
constant organisational changes on the psychological and physical health of some customer care 
and technical workers. Both during analysis and when identifying improvement measures, the 
company was monitored by a research team consisting of the Occupational Medicine Section of 
the “Tor Vergata” University of Rome and an expert partner; the project saw the active involve -
ment of all managers of the departments concerned.
The project was designed and developed to analyse the organisational context and investigate 
workers’ experiences, with the ultimate aim of conceiving and proposing possible instruments by 
which to manage, communicate and monitor the effects of company change, so as to provide 
a valid aid both to the managerial line and the working population involved. To this end, it was 
necessary to directly involve a very large sample of employees (approximately 2,300), who col -
laborated not only towards identifying the most critical areas, but also in proposing interventions 
to make improvements. Moreover, the analysis and assessment also saw the active participation, 
alongside the research team, of a group numbering 12 employees with relevant experience and 
competence, from different areas of the company. The group received specific training on the 
analysis and management of work-related stress and worked alongside consultants in on-field 
activities. Telecom Italia thus sought to constitute its very own in-house basin of experts who can 
provide a permanent supervision of future activities regarding the assessment of the stress risk 
and, more generally, of psychological-social work-related risks, in support of all and any initiatives 
taken relating to psychological and physical well-being.
At the end of the investigation, the critical areas (organisation, training, communication, optimi -
sation of human capital) in which action is required and the specific improvements to be made, 
launched as from the second half of 2014, were identified. For each action, the timescales for 
implementation and the efficacy indicators were defined. The plan of action was shared with the 
trade union representatives and was thereafter published on the company intranet, so as to ena -
ble all workers concerned to view and monitor its progress.
The path undertaken has been considered a best practice by sector experts and institutions on a na -
tional and international level. In this respect, Telecom Italia has become a partner of the 2014-2015 
“Healthy Workplaces Manage Stress” campaign promoted by the European Agency for Safety and 
Health at Work. The partnership means becoming part of an international network of businesses in 
order to pool experiences and projects on the matter and thereby help ensure greater awareness. 202
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLEAs regards prevention and with the aim of identifying any critical areas in which to intervene with 
improvements, as from 2013, an analysis and investigation method has been defined based on 
the preparation of information documents in the case of accidents at work with a large number 
of days’ absence initially forecast or with particular dynamics.  The activities carried out last year 
on the scope of on-field technicians made it possible to intervene in the risk assessment update 
process, identifying and introducing further protection and control measures. In 2014, the analysis 
was extended to cover the whole company, providing further elements of assessment and ideas 
for improvement under the scope of the operational organisation. 
In 2014, the Company continued with its significant commitment to providing safety training. The 
programmes involving the workers were differentiated according to whether the tasks at hand 
were classified as low or medium risk and envisaged four hours of on-line training for everyone 
as well as 1,206 classroom sessions, each of four or eight hours that, in 2014 alone, involved 
approximately 44,000 employees. 
As regards the management, July saw the launch of the path organised over two training days 
aimed at further investigating the company’s current organisational structure as regards safety 
and the managerial role played in prevention. The project involves approximately 1,400 senior 
and middle managers in positions of responsibility; it will draw to a close in June 2015. 
Finally, as each year, on road and off road safe driving courses were held for approximately 650 
personnel using company cars. 
In terms of discussion, the benchmarking activities promoted by Telecom Italia with the involve -
ment of the main companies of the Italian networks (Enel, Poste Italiane, Ferrovie dello Stato, 
Terna, Anas, Autostrade per l’Italia, Vodafone, etc.) continued, with regular meetings to discuss 
matters of health and safety and workshops, organised on a rotation basis by each company, with 
the participation of sector experts and institutional entities. The meetings and workshops aim to 
share the best practices adopted by the companies adhering to the working party and identify 
shared solutions to problems common to the networked companies.
In Brazil 
[G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety]  At TIM Brasil, all newly hired employees receive training on 
health and safety in the Company. Controls are also regularly run to identify the risks and related 
control measures, the results of which are given in the document entitled “Environmental Risk Pre -
vention Programme”. This document, which is prepared for each TIM site, is updated once a year, as 
established by the law. 
Each year, the Internal Accident Prevention Week is held, during which employees are informed 
on the risks relating to the workplace and the related control measures.203
[G4-LA5]  TIM Brasil sites with more than 50 employees set up internal committees for the preven -
tion of accidents at work (Cipas). There are 10 of these committees across the country. These 
committees are made up of employees, 50% of whom are elected by employees in roles of 
responsibility and the remaining 50% by employees without roles of responsibility. In company 
sites with fewer than 50 employees, one employee is specifically trained to follow these activities.
[G4-LA8]  As a rule, in Brazil the collective agreements establish that information shall also be given 
on the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases, and TIM Brasil adopts this practice.  
Moreover, SINTTEL, one of the unions representing workers in the telecommunications sector in 
Brazil, has committed to collaborating with TIM Brasil to carry out studies and campaigns relating 
to worker health and safety. 
Accidents
million euros 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 31.12.2012
Number of accidents (excluding travel) 566 538 577
Severity index(*) 0.33 0.21 0.15
Frequency rate(*) 8.96 8.34 8.10
Average duration in hours 130.36 132.83 97.46
Unproductivity index(*) 1.38 1.40 0.94
Accidents per 100 workers 1.30 1.23 1.23
* The indices of severity, frequency and unproductiveness are respectively:
- the number of conventional working days lost due to accident per thousand hours worked;
- the number of accidents per million hours worked;
- the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked.
Details on accidents, occupational diseases and absences required by standard GRI-G4 [G4-LA6a] 
are given in the appendix to this chapter. The types of injuries recorded were, in decreasing order: 
falls, road accidents, sprains, pulled muscles, handling of materials, impacts and other minor types.
In the period 2012-2014, one death occurred (in 2014, a man) as a result of a road accident dur -
ing working hours. 
As regards occupational diseases, the reports made to INAIL during the year of reference and 
processed for acknowledgement, were considered. 
In 2014, the occupational diseases reported by workers mainly concerned cases of “inappropriate 
posture and repeated micro traumas” and “psychological/psychosomatic illness”. The vast majority 
of the procedures for acknowledgement of the occupational diseases reported by workers, by INAIL, 
are still in progress and, in our experience, acknowledgement is only granted to very few cases.
[G4-LA6b]  In the only part of the Company where the core business is partly performed by suppli -
ers’ employees (IT Telecom), no accidents or occupational diseases have been reported.204
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE[G4-LA6c]  Telecom Italia has a procedure in place describing the rules and requirements of each 
subject in the “genesis” process, the management and closure of reports of incidents at work and/
or while travelling involving workers for which companies are required to pay an INAIL [Italian 
national institute for insurance covering accidents at work] premium. The procedure establishes 
that when an injury occurs, the worker shall send an injury certificate to his manager and to the 
HR management. The latter shall then submit a report of the injury to INAIL, which, after suitable 
checks, shall either confirm or reject the injury. If the injury is not recognised, the days for which 
the worker is absent will automatically become days of absence for ordinary sickness.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS 
[G4-HR4], [G4-DMA Employment]  Telecom Italia has always entertained open, transparent relations 
with the trade unions and workers’ representatives, in the belief that it is only through continuous, 
constructive dialogue that the best possible balance can be struck with respect to the expecta -
tions of all stakeholders.
[G4-11]  All Group workers, both in Italy and in Brazil, are covered by Collective Labour Agreements 
reached with Trade Union Organisations and all personnel are guaranteed the possibility of attend -
ing union meetings, in terms of paid leave and company space to enable them to be held, as well 
as of freely participating in consultation procedures for the election of trade union representatives. 
In no Group operations is the right to union participation at risk or disputed.  Amongst other things, 
union agreements lay down the ways in which these rights can be enforced and establish the bod -
ies in charge of controlling compliance therewith. [G4-LA4]  Organisational changes with significant 
effect on employment levels and personnel are discussed with the trade union representatives and, 
in some cases, an ad hoc agreement is stipulated, in which case said agreement shall specify the 
terms and conditions of the reorganisation. [G4-HR5], [G4-HR6]  Collaboration with the workers’ repre -
sentatives, together with the internal control systems and procedures, has meant that no violation or 
risk has been reported with regards to the application of the Group’s Social Responsibility policies 
protecting the essential rights of employment, such as the ban on forced labour or child labour4. 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.
The Telecom Italia S.p.A. system of relationships has evolved according to a well-established 
participatory system. Participation is perceived as a value to be sought in all kinds of discussion, 
not only in negotiations. In 2014, information sessions and discussions with the unions were 
intensified (particularly through specific permanent or ad hoc joint committees), with the task 
of carrying out a detailed examination of issues identified by the national coordination office for 
Unitary Workplace Union Structures (RSU) including work shifts, telework, new forms of work and 
geolocation of field engineer vehicles. 
4 In terms of child labour, the policies allow for some, completely legal exceptions, such as, for example, training contracts for which 
incentives are provided by the Brazilian government.205
The search for constant dialogue and constructive discussion with the unions led to major agree -
ments being reached with the unions and the national coordination office for Unitary Workplace 
Union Structures (RSU) aimed at reconciling the needs of the business with those of the people 
who work in the Company. 
One example of collaboration between the Company and the trade union representatives to 
achieve solutions sustainable for both parties is the agreement signed between the Company 
and the union representatives of the Group’s senior management.
The agreement provides for executives to contribute, in various ways, to the charges borne by employ -
ees subject to solidarity contracts, charges which have actually increased as a result of the reduction 
in the wage subsidy introduced by the Stability Law in 20145. The application of this agreement will 
provide financial resources estimated at around 4 million euros, which will be added to an additional 
4 million euros made available by the Company as a result of productivity gains. The full amount will 
go towards paying the contributions owed by employees registered with the closed complementary 
welfare funds. Non-registered colleagues will receive equivalent one-off amounts in their pay packets.
The business transformation plan for the re-launch of the retail sales channel was also fully ex -
plained to the trade unions and, during intensive discussions, an agreement was reached on the 
process for implementing it, with the common goal of identifying sustainable solutions for people, 
particularly in order to safeguard their professional status.
The Company and the unions have also identified agreed solutions for the introduction of new 
work shifts for people working in the Caring Services 191 service, which will contribute to manning 
the service more intensively and fulfilling the needs of the relevant customers. In this context, 
a series of tools has been provided to guarantee a better work-life balance for people, such as 
accepting requests from mothers with children of pre-school age to transfer to part-time work and 
introducing a specific electronic notice board to make it easier for operators to swap shifts. 
As a tangible measure taken to support internal employment levels, the company has developed 
a significant plan for insourcing activities of added value, agreed with the Trade Union Organisa -
tions. This has led to the opportunity to access professional requalification paths, accompanied by 
significant, specific training programmes, thereby assuring a “second working life” for hundreds 
of people affected by the change. The optimisation of use of the resources, together with the 
increased productivity qualified by the union agreements mentioned above, has allowed Telecom 
Italia to successfully insource during the two-year period 2013-2014 for approximately 2,860 full-
time equivalents, thereby exceeding the envisaged target.
5 Solidarity Contracts are agreements that provide for working hours to be reduced in order to avoid downsizing. For the workers to 
whom the contract will be applied, provision is made for INPS [social security] to make up part of the remuneration not received 
due to the reduction in working hours.206
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLEBRAZIL
Meetings to discuss changes to the collective agreement - ACT 2014/2016 began in August and 
ended in November.  Negotiations took place with the two national Federations (FENATTEL and 
FITTEL), which together represent the country’s 27 trade unions. The meetings with workers for 
the new collective agreement were held in November throughout the country and, on a national 
level, the conditions proposed and voted in these meetings were then approved. In addition to 
some changes of an economic nature, the agreements related to the inclusion of 23 new cor -
porate clauses, including the transformation of the days of December 24 and 31 into holidays, 
recognition of de facto couples (both homosexual and heterosexual) and their children (including 
adopted) and the right to permits for female workers who were victim to domestic violence. 
REMUNERATION POLICY 
The Group remuneration policy is established in such a way as to guarantee the necessary levels 
of competitiveness of the company on the employment market. Competitiveness translates into 
supporting the strategic objectives, pursuing sustainability of results in the long-term and striking 
a correct balance between the unitary needs of the Group and the differentiation of the various 
reference markets. What follows is a remuneration structure that by way of priority seeks to guar -
antee a correct balance of the fixed and variable components and the short and long-term aspects, 
alongside benefit systems and other instruments such as the Employee’s Share Ownership Plan.
More specifically, the fixed component reflects the breadth and strategic nature of the role per -
formed, measured against the market, and appraises the distinctive subjective characteristics 
and strategic skills of the employee. The short term variable remuneration (MBO) on the other 
hand aims to establish a transparent link between pay and the degree of fulfilment of annual 
targets. To this end, the targets are fixed according to qualitative and quantitative indicators that 
represent and are consistent with the strategic priorities and business plan, measured according 
to pre-established and objective criteria. Furthermore, in order to make the management incen -
tive scheme more challenging, in 2014 a “gate” mechanism was introduced, i.e. a threshold for 
access to company objectives only:  in the event of a failure to achieve the “gate” objective, this 
mechanism prevents the bonus associated with the achievement of other business objectives 
being awarded.
The long-term variable component aimed at achieving consistency between the interests of man -
agement and those of shareholders, by sharing in the business risk, with positive effects expected 
in terms of growth in the value of the company’s shares. To this end, on 26 June 2014 the 2014-
2016 Stock Option Plan was launched, involving the Managing Director, the Top Management 207
and a selected number of other managers6. 
It should also be stressed that the 2014 meritocratic policy was included within a broader over -
view of Total Rewarding, whereby the more classic compensation instruments (fixed and variable 
remuneration and benefits) were accompanied and integrated by not directly monetary compo -
nents (development and training).
Finally, possible instruments of the remuneration policy include the Employee’s Share Ownership 
Plan or PAD ( Piano di Azionariato Diffuso ), aimed at supporting employee motivation and rein -
forcing a sense of belonging. In June 2014, the company launched a new PAD under which all 
permanent employees of Telecom Italia S.p.A and its subsidiaries with registered office in Italy 
could buy shares with a 10% discount on the market price. Compared to the similar initiative 
launched in 2010, the new PAD included a few innovations: increase in the maximum investment 
(3,000 to 5,000 euros) and the option to pay by using the employee severance indemnity.
Furthermore, if the shares were held and the owner remained in employment, one free share 
(bonus share) was awarded for every three shares bought.
The operation was highly successful: approximately 18,000 employees subscribed to it (twice the 
2010 figure) and more than 96 million shares were requested for subscription (as compared with 
the 54 million available).
Below are the main types of objectives connected with sustainability present in the company MBO system
Stakeholder
of referenceTargets subject to incentives% of managers
(to whom the target 
applies)
Customers - Customer satisfaction
- Quality of the service delivered
- Quality of the service perceived by consumer and business 
customers 
- Quality of the service perceived by other national fixed and 
mobile telephony operators99%
22%
99%
9%
Human Resources - Health and safety of employees
- Programmes of training and professional growth
- Welfare activities (People Caring) and the wellbeing of employees  3%
Environment - Consumption of materials, energy 2%
Shareholders and 
Institutions- Quality and speed of company information delivery1%
The Community - Organisation of corporate events
- Quality of corporate initiatives/projects1%
Details on the remuneration required by standard [G4-LA13]  are given in the appendix to this chapter.
6 [G4-54], [G4-55]  The ratio between the annual total compensation of the highest paid individual and the median annual total compen -
sation for all employees was not disclosed for confidentiality constraints. It was judged to fall under the category of information subject 
to the Policy for the Classification and Management of confidentiality Information in that the datum, once disclosed and if not properly 
understood, could cause the company a reputational damage. Telecom Italia provides some indications, useful to the calculation, in the 
standard table form used in the Report on Remuneration (page 24) and in the Annual Financial Report (page 274). 208
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLEREPORTS RECEIVED THROUGH
THE INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURE
[G4-LA16]  Below are the reports received through the Internal Control Reporting Procedure (see 
the Sustainability and Governance chapter/Corporate Governance Outline) on work-related mat -
ters for the three years 2014-2012 
2014 substantiated 2013 substantiated 2012 substantiated
Total number of reports 
regarding work matters 
received through the 
formal mechanisms in the 
reference period7 0 3 0 14 4
Handled during the 
reporting period7 0 3 0 14 4
Resolved during the 
reporting period7 0 2 0 14 4
Total number of reports 
regarding work matters 
received previously, 
which were resolved in 
the reference period1 0 0 0 0 0
In Brazil, the Reporting Procedure has been in place since 2014, during which year seven reports 
were received on work-related matters, of which six were found to be substantiated. They were 
all managed and resolved during the year.
APPENDIX - DETAILED TABLES
Below is the analytical data for the company workforce, broken down according to the indications 
given in standard GRI G4. The Group figure includes not only the Domestic, Brazil and Media 
Business Units, but also other minor entities, for a total of very few units. In accordance with the 
principle of relevance, no specific column has been added for these entities.209
[G4-10a]  Employees by contract type and gender
2014 2013 2012
Permanent contract Permanent contract Permanent contract
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 41,753 24,166 41,313 24,182 41,887 24,235
Domestic 35,793 17,180 35,988 17,266 36,399 17,402
Brazil 5,884 6,957 5,256 6,884 5,073 6,549
Media 66 22 58 25 404 276
2014 2013 2012
Fixed-term contract Fixed-term contract Fixed-term contract
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 55 42 25 21 74 62
Domestic 55 40 24 18 61 54
Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0
Media 0 0 1 0 13 6
[G4-10b]  Employees on permanent and fixed-term contracts, by type and gender
Employees on permanent contracts
2014 2013 2012
Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 39,742 15,039 2,011 9,127 39,155 14,945 2,158 9,237 39,625 15,005 2,262 9,230
Domestic 34,783 11,107 1,010 6,073 34,904 11,201 1,084 6,065 35,226 11,353 1,173 6,049
Brazil 4,884 3,905 1,000 3,052 4,183 3,715 1,073 3,169 3,988 3,392 1,085 3,157
Media 66 21 0 1 58 23 0 2 401 255 3 21
Employees on fixed-term contracts
2014 2013 2012
Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 8 8 47 34 2 3 23 18 16 11 58 51
Domestic 8 6 47 34 1 0 23 18 3 3 58 51
Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Media 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 13 6 0 0210
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE[G4-10c]  Employees on the payroll and supervised workers, by gender
Employees on payroll 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 41,808 24,208 41,338 24,203 41,961 24,297
Domestic 35,848 17,220 36,012 17,284 36,460 17,456
Brazil 5,884 6,957 5,256 6,884 5,073 6,549
Media 66 22 59 25 417 282
Supervised workers 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 3 6 1 3 21 19
Domestic 3 5 1 3 1 3
Brazil 0 0 0 0 0 0
Media 0 1 0 0 20 16
[G4-10d]  Employees by geographic area and gender 
2014 2013 2012
Italy Abroad Total Italy Abroad Total Italy Abroad Total
Men 35,706 6,102 41,808 35,876 5,499 41,375 36,682 5,322 42,004
Women 17,172 7,036 24,208 17,276 6,968 24,244 17,698 6,639 24,337
Total 52,878 13,138 66,016 53,152 12,467 65,619 54,380 11,961 66,341
[G4-10e]  Employees of suppliers working at the Group offices and whose activities
are part of the core business of Telecom Italia1
2014 2013 2012
External FTE on site 985 1,869 3,452
1 The only core business operations that require a significant working contribution from the employees of suppliers at the company
 offices relate to the development of IT platforms. The data in the table refers exclusively to these cases.211
[G4-LA1a]  New employees by age and geographic area
2014 2013 2012
<30>=30 
<=50>50 <30>=30 
<=50>50 <30>=30 
<=50>50
Group 3,917 1,779 114 3,795 1,409 87 4,976 1,602 54
Domestic 241 258 82 186 172 51 555 227 23
Brazil 3,675 1,511 30 3,606 1,237 34 4,414 1,334 28
Media 1 10 2 1 0 2 4 41 3
[G4-LA1a]  New employees by gender and geographic area 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 2,781 3,029 2,111 3,180 2,699 3,933
Domestic 384 197 245 164 431 374
Brazil 2,387 2,829 1,863 3,014 2,237 3,539
Media 10 3 2 1 28 20
[G4-LA1b]  Turnover by gender and geographic area 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 2,350 3,058 2,416 3,010 4,046 3,693
Domestic 583 306 719 344 2,279 703
Brazil 1,763 2,752 1,695 2,664 1,720 2,990
Media 2 0 1 1 46 0212
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE[G4-LA1b]  Turnover by age and geographic area
2014 2013 2012
<30>=30 
<=50>50 <30>=30 
<=50>50 <30>=30 
<=50>50
Group 3,283 1,682 443 3,450 1,588 388 3,621 1,785 2,333
Domestic 129 355 405 267 451 345 239 454 2,289
Brazil 3,151 1,326 38 3,183 1,133 43 3,382 1,284 44
Media 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 46 0
[G4-LA3b]  Employees who benefited from parental leave, by gender 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 191 1,796 177 1,775 131 1,856
Domestic 81 1,244 71 1,290 51 1,415
Brazil 110 549 106 483 74 413
Media 0 2 0 1 6 27
[G4-LA3c]  Employees who returned after having benefited from parental leave, by gender1 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group * * 175 1,759 130 1,807
Domestic * * 71 1,278 51 1,399
Brazil * * 104 473 73 407
Media * * n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
1 Please note that in the table, the year of return of employee x has not been calculated according to the year in which x effectively 
returned, but according to the year in which x took leave. Therefore, if x took leave in 2013 and returned in 2014, his return is in any 
case reported in the 2013 column. This is why the data for the 2014 column is still partial and not yet able to be published.
*  The data will be available from end 2015.213
[G4-LA3d]  Employees at work after a year from the end of parental leave, by gender1 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group * * 145 1,586 115 1,620
Domestic * * 70 1,260 49 1,363
Brazil * * 75 326 66 253
Media * * n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
1 Please note that in the table, the year of continued work of employee x has not been calculated according to the year in which x 
was at work after 12 months of leave, but according to the year in which x took leave. Therefore, if x took leave in 2013 and after 12 
months was still at work in 2014, his continuation at work is in any case reported in the 2013 column. As we do no yet know which, 
of the employees who went on leave in 2014 will still be at work after 12 months, we are unable to calculate the figure for 2014 .
* The data will be available from end 2015.
[G4-LA3e] (return to work rate) Percentage of employees returned to work after parental
leave out of total employees benefiting from leave (LAc/LAb) 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group * * 99% 99% 99% 97%
Domestic * * 100% 99% 100% 99%
Brazil * * 98% 98% 99% 99%
Media * * n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
* The data will be available from end 2015.
[G4-LA3e]  (retention rate) Percentage of employees at work after 12 months from the end
of parental leave out of total employees benefiting from leave (LAd/LAb) 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group * * 83% 90% 88% 90%
Domestic * * 99% 99% 96% 97%
Brazil * * 72% 69% 90% 62%
Media * * n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
* The data will be available from end 2015.214
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE[G4-LA6a]  Injury rate out of total workforce* (number of injuries over hours worked) 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 8.12 3.63 7.70 3.19 7.73 3.63
Domestic 9.57 4.80 8.75 4.16 8.49 4.43
Brazil 0.88 1.40 1.63 1.17 2.61 1.69
Media 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 n.a. n.a.
* Temporary workers are not considered in this type of record. Their incidence on a Group level is in any case very small (9 people 
as at 31.12.2014).
[G4-LA6a]  Days lost over workforce* (days of injury over working hours) 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 0.29 0.07 0.17 0.07 0.12 0.06
Domestic 0.35 0.10 0.20 0.09 0.14 0.08
Brazil 0.01 0.01 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.02
Media 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 n.a. n.a.
* Temporary workers are not considered in this type of record. Their incidence on a Group level is in any case very small (9 people 
as at 31.12.2014).
[G4-LA6a]  Absenteeism rate out of total workforce*
(total hours of absenteeism over working hours) 
2014 2013 2012
Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman
Group 6.39 10.28 6.87 12.52 6.85 12.99
Domestic 7.14 11.74 7.58 15.07 7.49 15.26
Brazil 2.34 7.27 2.44 6.72 2.29 7.00
Media 12.01 13.01 10.90 10.77 n.a. n.a.
* Supervised workers are not considered in this type of record. Their incidence on a Group level is in any case very small (9 people 
as at 31.12.2014).215
[G4-LA6a] Occupational disease rate out of total workforce**
(number of cases over workforce) 
2014
Man Woman
Group 0.03 0.01
Domestic 0.04 0.02
Brazil 0.00 0.00
Media 0.00 0.00
* The figure on occupational diseases has only been recorded as from 2014, hence it has not been possible to also include data for 
2013 and 2012. 
** Supervised workers are not considered in this type of record. Their incidence on a Group level is in any case very small (9 people 
as at 31.12.2014).216
TELECOM ITALIA PEOPLE[G4-LA9]  The following tables report training carried out in Telecom Italia S.p.A., broken 
down according to gender
2014
Total
hoursPer-head
hoursParticipations* Participants Coverage**
Total 1,458,591 33 266,328 43,388 98.2
Senior Managers 20,576 30.8 3,870 660 98.8
of whom women 4,508 42.9 834 105 100
of whom men 16,068 28.5 3,036 555 98.6
Middle Managers 63,113 19.6 12,991 3,072 95.6
of whom women 17,356 19.9 3,652 818 94
of whom men 45,757 19.5 9,339 2,254 96.2
Office Staff/Workers 1,374,902 34.1 249,467 39,707 98.6
of whom women 263,838 22.2 80,882 11,702 98.3
of whom men 1,111,064 39.1 168,585 28,005 98.7
2013
Total
hoursPer-head
hoursParticipations* Participants Coverage**
Total 1,405,825 31.7 218,038 42,946 96.8
Senior Managers 17,967 26.5 1,964 509 75.2
of whom women 3,980 39 426 91 89.2
of whom men 13,987 24.3 1,538 418 72.7
Middle Managers 73,971 23.8 9,210 2,784 89.6
of whom women 21,158 25.8 2,693 731 89.1
of whom men 52,813 23.1 6,517 2,053 89.8
Office Staff/Workers 1,313,887 32.4 206,864 39,667 97.7
of whom women 323,310 26.9 63,652 11,539 96
of whom men 990,577 34.7 143,212 28,128 98.4
2012
Total
hoursPer-head
hoursParticipations* Participants Coverage**
Total 1,324,216 29.7 160,703 34,342 77
Senior Managers 29,458 42.3 3,045 658 94.5
of whom women 5,150 49 502 103 98.1
of whom men 24,308 41.1 2,543 555 93.9
Middle Managers 62,503 20.5 5,904 2,153 70.5
of whom women 16,765 21.1 1,684 553 69.5
of whom men 45,738 20.3 4,220 1,600 70.9
Office Staff/Workers 1,232,255 30.2 151,754 31,535 77.2
of whom women 276,704 22.9 48,934 8,076 66.7
of whom men 955,551 33.2 102,820 23,459 81.6
* Shows the overall number of participation in training sessions, in the various forms provided (classroom, training on the job, on line).
* * Coverage refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total, i.e. the % of human resources of TI SpA who took part in 
at least one training session in each individual category (senior managers, middle managers, office staff/workers).217
[G4-LA13a]  Ratio of women/men according to basic salary and ratio of women/men
according to remuneration, broken down according to each professional category
Italy (Telecom Italia S.p.A.) 2014 2013 2012
Senior ManagersGAS 0.92 0.93 0.91
TAR 0.92 0.93 0.90
Middle ManagersGAS 0.95 0.95 0.95
TAR 0.94 0.94 0.94
Office Staff/WorkersGAS 0.95 0.94 0.97
TAR 0.94 0.96 0.97
Brazil 2014 2013 2012
Senior ManagersGAS 0.76 0.78 0.74
TAR 0.73 0.80 0.73
Middle ManagersGAS 0.94 0.94 0.95
TAR 0.94 0.94 0.96
Office Staff/WorkersGAS 0.61 0.58 0.59
TAR 0.62 0.58 0.58
GAS= Gross Annual Salary, comprising recurring fixed remuneration.
TAR= Total Annual Remuneration, comprising the Gross Annual Remuneration + bonuses awarded during the reference year (the 
bonuses may refer to individual or group incentive systems or take the form of special awards or meritocratic policy awards).The importance of correct information for allSHAREHOLDERS220
SHAREHOLDERSSTRATEGY
The Group companies are fully aware of the importance of supplying accurate information about 
their activities to the financial market, investors and the community in general. 
Subject to the need for confidentiality in the running of thebusiness, communication with the fi -
nancial market is carried out in a way that ensures transparency, fairness, clarity, promptness and 
equality of access to information, ensuring equality of treatment for all categories of shareholders, 
as required by the Bylaws. The external communication of information is governed by specific 
internal procedures, in line with the regulations in force. 
The Company has set up dedicated channels of communication with shareholders, bondholders 
and other stakeholders interested in receiving information about the financial and non-financial 
aspects of the Company (see Financial communication). 
RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS
The  Investor Relations department manages relations with the main stakeholders : institutional 
and retail investors (including small shareholders’ associations), bondholders, socially responsi -
ble investors, equity and credit analysts. 
Their shared expectations - together with the certainty of a prompt and comprehensive response 
to their requests for information - relate to:
• confirming the objectives reported to the financial market through the strategic plan;
• strengthening the Group’s position in the markets in which it operates.
The Investor Relations team also considers the expectations expressed by each stakeholder 
category, and in particular:
Stakeholders Needs
Institutional and retail investors • Positive financial and operational performance by the company
• Positive total shareholder return (stock market performance of the shares and 
dividends distributed)
• Good reputation of the Group’s brand
• Involvement in the Group’s activities and initiatives
Socially responsible investors • Attention paid to the social and environmental impacts of the company’s 
business and to the Group’s governance
• Positive total shareholder return
• Good reputation of the Group’s brand
Bondholders and credit 
analysts • Stability of the yield from the investment
• Certainty of repayment of the debt at maturity
• Improvement of creditworthiness 
Financial analysts • Positive financial and operational performance by the company
• Direct contact with Investor Relations in order to obtain detailed information 
promptly
• Contact with the Group’s Top Management as an opportunity for a more detai -
led examination of matters relevant to the Group’s business221
The shareholding structure as of December 31, 2014 is shown below1.
0.1%
Others shareholdersabroad14.5%
Other shareholders
Italy
22.3%TELCO SPA
1.2%Telecom Italia Group
3.5%Institutionalshareholders Italy3.0%
Legal entities abroad
0.8%
Legal entities Italy
54.6%
Institutional
shareholders abroad
[G4-13]
An examination of the share capital structure in the three-year period 2012–2014 shows an in -
crease in 2014 in shares held by foreign institutional investors (+5.3pp) and a decrease in the 
shares held by Italian institutional investors (-1.8pp). The shares held by foreign legal entities, 
during this three-year period, fell gradually to half its previous level (from 6.01pp in 2012 to 3.02pp 
in 2014); the shares held by Italian legal entities however remained unchanged.
As for the categories of other Italian and foreign institutional investors, there was a growth in 
interest in 2013 and a return to 2012 levels the following year. Changes were more pronounced 
among other Italian investors, small among other foreign investors.
FINANCIAL COMMUNICATION
In the course of 2014, the Company organised quarterly conference calls,  road shows and meet -
ings abroad in the Group’s corporate headquarters (reverse road shows)  as well as attending 
industry conferences. During these events, the Company met over 600 investors. In addition to 
these there are the direct contacts and telephone conversations that the Investor Relations team 
has on a daily basis. Furthermore, in order to improve communication with the stakeholders, con -
sidering the growing importance of this issue over the last 12 months, Telecom Italia organised 
meetings and detailed discussions on corporate governance matters. 
The responses given by the Group to the financial market are based on criteria of relevance, in -
formation sensitivity, consistency and topicality in respect of the Group’s structure and the actions 
undertaken to achieve the  targets of the strategic plan. 
1 Source: Register of shareholders as of December 31, 2014, supplemented by communications received and by other available 
information.222
SHAREHOLDERSFinancial communication also considers the needs of investors linked to Socially Responsible 
Investing (SRI), which favour in their investment choices companies that pay attention to ethical, 
social and environmental factors as well as financial ones. Interaction with this category of inves -
tors is developed through individual contact and conference calls. 
As regards relations with individual (retail) shareholders  - more than 400,000 holders of ordinary 
shares - Telecom Italia’s strategy aims to strengthen communication channels in order to respond 
quickly and effectively to queries regarding the performance of shares and the Group strategy as 
a whole. The messages and ideas that emerge from dialogue with retail investors are collected 
and reported to Top Management. 
In this respect, the “TI Alw@ys ON” (telecomitaliaclub.it) Shareholders’ Club was launched in 
2006 as a virtual meeting place between the Company and its individual investors. Access to the 
Club is not exclusive. Non-shareholders can also simply register to receive the same services 
provided to shareholders. Both registration and delivery of the services are completely free of 
charge. The following services are currently available:
• sms alert, which provides a daily report of the closing price and percentage variations of Te -
lecom Italia’s ordinary and savings shares compared to the previous day, as well as the daily 
percentage variations in the FTSE/Mib index;
•  weekly stock market report, sent every Monday morning, which summarises performance 
in the week ending the previous Friday, with a focus on the Italian index, the European TLC 
industry and global stock markets, providing a weekly update on changes in the advice given 
by analysts on ordinary shares;
• Quarterly newsletter: available on the website, contains the main messages drawn from the 
press releases published when the Group’s results are released. 
With regard to on line financial communication, the telecomitalia.com website is constantly upda -
ted and innovated.224
225
TOWARDS THE TELECOM ITALIA 
CORPORATE SHARED VALUE MODEL
“The concept of Corporate Shared Value (CSV) can be defined as the set 
of policies and operating practices that strengthen the competitiveness of a 
company while improving the economic and social conditions of the community 
in which it operates. Sared value creation focuses on identifying and expanding 
the connections between economic progress and social progress.”
Michael E. Porter, Harvard University
Companies are increasingly aware of the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
as a strategic lever for their long-term success. In recent years, there has been a perceived need 
to bring closer and integrate social responsibility with business activities, using it as a source of 
opportunity to create value for society and the business itself. At the same time, tools are needed 
to enable stakeholders, including shareholders, to perceive the contribution that sustainability can 
make to the company’s operating results and to the community in terms of social value.
In this context, best practice has in recent years launched a process of evolution towards the 
concept of Corporate Shared Value (CSV). The culmination of this process is the integration of the 
sustainability approach conventionally adopted by companies as part of their overall corporate 
strategy, turning it into a vehicle for creating economic and social value.
Given the interdependence between business success and the company’s social contribution, 
CSV can also be viewed as the ability to create economic value in ways that allow both the 
company and society to benefit, so as to reconcile economic and financial success with social 
progress by responding to the needs expressed by society (“social needs”).
In this context, Telecom Italia, already a pioneer in the field of corporate sustainability in Italy, is 
currently engaged in defining a new corporate strategy based on creating shared value, develop -
ing the existing CSR model into a new CSV model.226
This process will allow Telecom Italia steadily to improve its response to emerging social needs, 
particularly through its business activities, strengthening its position as an innovative company 
that is able to provide real solutions to the needs of the community in which it operates and 
guarding against the social and environmental risks that are likely to affect business performance.
The new approach adopted by Telecom Italia therefore defines a different way to respond to the 
social needs expressed by stakeholders, as well as the economic ones of the Company, and to 
interpret the role of the business in society based on an awareness that there can be no long-term 
economic development unless it guarantees an improvement in social welfare and the protection 
of natural resources at the same time. The latter consideration is particularly relevant for Telecom 
and the ICT sector in general, especially where digital technologies are concerned, as these are 
increasingly emerging as a key factor and enabler for the country’s economic and social growth. 
With its ability to connect people and to ensure an effective exchange and processing of infor -
mation, digital technology in fact allows new solutions and opportunities to be developed which 
have an impact on the economic and social life of citizens and companies, employment and 
environmental protection.
Telecom’s activities therefore respond to the objective of providing the country with innovative in -
frastructure, IT skills, products, services and ICT solutions that meet the needs of society. Further -
more, the Company is strengthening this commitment through its active contribution to achieving 
the country’s digitisation objectives as defined in the Italian Digital Agenda, developed by the Ital -
ian government by transposing the directives set out by the EU in the European Digital Agenda.227
THE TELECOM ITALIA CSV MODEL
According to this logic, Telecom Italia is engaged in defining a CSV Model that expresses the 
strategy adopted to help create shared value through its business activities by devising and im -
plementing projects that generate economic value for the Group (“Business Value”) and social 
value for the community (“Social Value”). 
Based on an analysis of the country’s main needs (“social needs”) and of the objectives set by 
the Digital Agenda, Telecom Italia has identified areas of intervention that can respond to these 
needs, through technologies, skills and specific projects. 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
DIGITAL CULTURE
SHARED VALUEDIGITISATION, CONNECTIVITY
AND SOCIAL INNOVATION
SOCIAL NEEDSSocial need
priorities
for the Country
Telecom Italia’s
strategicintervention areas
CSV driver:Business & SocialValue driver
KPIs
Growth (revenue)
Efficiency
(Reduction of costs) 
Risk ManagementBUSINESS VALUE
Digitization
Contribution to the Country’s
wellbeing 
Innovation ability
Environmental protection
Support to universities
Economic growth for the Company
and the community
Knowledge disseminationSOCIAL VALUE
Employment
 Digital
Inclusion
Reputation
 Revenue
 Saving
 Emissions228
ANALYSIS OF TELECOM ITALIA’S SOCIAL NEED PRIORITIES
Telecom Italia launched an analysis of the main mega trends and social need priorities of the 
country to which the Company, as an ICT industry operator, is best able to provide a concrete and 
effective answer. 
The analysis focused above all on examining the aspects considered by the Italian Digital Agen -
da, since it is closely linked to the ICT sector, as well as on several Italian and international stud -
ies, including: the ISTAT document on “Fair and Sustainable Well-being” in Italy, the OECD “Bet -
ter Life Initiative” document, the European Commission’s Europe 2020 Strategy and the World 
Economic Forum’s Global Risks 2014 document. 
Global social, economic and environmental trends were also analysed. These macro trends, 
defined by the term “megatrends”, are outlined in several international studies (including the 
KPMG Future State Report, the Oxford Economics Digital Megatrends 2015 and the UN Mille -
nium Development Goals 2014) and they express the main global changes in the social sphere 
(e.g. the changing socio-demographic mix), the political and economic sphere (e.g. the growing 
economic interconnection between countries and the shift in the global centres of power) and the 
environmental sphere (e.g. climate change and the increasing scarcity of resources), which are 
generating significant changes within the various countries, with the consequent emergence of 
new challenges and needs for society229
Socio-
demographic mix  1
Enablingtechnology2
Importanceof the individual3
The gradual increase in life expectancy and the consequent ageing of the population create 
a need to establish new 
balances between young and 
old and to review existing welfare systems.  Technological innovations are creating new opportunities that push governments to identify 
strategies to make the most of 
digital innovations and review the 
management of issues related to security and privacy. Advances in education, health and technology have facilitated the development of individual 
skills, leading to a greater 
demand for "active 
participation" and transparency in the public decision-making process. 
Increasing
expenditureon healthcareIntegrationof young peopleHigher standardsof educationFaster disseminationof informationthrough social 
Convergenceof public andprivate interestFocuson IT securityAgeingpopulationIncreasingspending powerIncreasinglyconnectedpopulation
Pension systemsunder pressure Transformationof communicationBig Data
New socialservice models
Transformation
of transportNew opportunitiesfor companies
The world's economic systems 
are gradually aligning themselves with increasingly correlated dynamics, resulting in a globalisation of opportunities and risks. The ability of governments to control the growth of debt and find new tools with which to deliver public services will influence their ability to respond to the main social, economic and environmental challenges.Emerging economies are having an increasing influence on the global economy, establishing themselves as new centres of gravity for both production and consumption.
Economicinterconnection4
Publicdebt5
Shift of economicpower6
Increasingly
complexcommercialand investmentrelationshipsGreater risksof contagion frominternational economicor financial eventsEmergenceof a multi-polarworld balanceEconomicopportunities fromnew marketsIncreasingexposure to globalmarket risksLimited abilityto respond to thegrowing demand fornew servicesTradeand investmentsthat support growthEmergingcountries drivingglobal growthInnovationas a source forsustainable growthReductionin commercialbarriersIncreasingly importantinternational andinter-governmentalfiscal relationshipsAgeing populationincreasingpublic debt
Less ability to respond to futureinternational economicshocks
Increasing greenhouse gases 
are causing profound climate changes resulting in increasingly unpredictable changes in the ecosystem that endanger the stability of the natural and urban system.The combined effect of demographic growth, economic growth and climate change is leading to a gradual increase in the scarcity of natural resources.By 2030, urban systems will have established themselves as the engine of global development, creating big challenges for innovation and the sustainability of urban models and giving rise to new opportunities for sustainable socio-economic development. 
Climatechange7
Resourcesscarcity8
Urbanisation9
New challenges
for globalcollaborationAdaptationto phenomenaresulting fromglobal warmingDramatic andunpredictableimpactson ecosystemsIncreasinglyimportant roleof cities
Increasingdemand for water Nationalisationof resourcesPressureon food productionCompetitionfor metalsand minerals
Increasingdemand for energy
Interrelationshipbetween urbanenvironment andnatural environmentIncreasingurban povertyUrbanisationcaused byglobal developmentNeed for largescale urbaninfrastructureKEY GLOBAL MEGATRENDS...SOCIAL
SOCIAL
SOCIALECONOMIC
ECONOMIC
ECONOMICENVIRONMENTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL230
...AND THE COUNTRY’S KEY SOCIAL NEEDS
Research and 
innovation for 
companiesAdequate standards 
of education and 
trainingHealth
of citizensQuality
of workEfficiency and 
transparency 
of politics and 
institutions
Research and 
innovation are an 
indirect determinant 
of well-being. They 
form the basis for 
social and economic 
progress and make 
a fundamental 
contribution to 
sustainable and 
lasting development. Education, training 
and skill levels 
influence people’s 
well-being and 
open up otherwise 
precluded 
opportunities. Health is a central 
element in life 
and an essential 
condition for 
individual well-
being and people’s 
prosperity. Adequately 
remunerated 
activity, which is 
reasonably secure 
and corresponds to 
the skills acquired, 
contributes decisively 
to people’s well-
being. Having work 
commitments that 
allow work to be 
reconciled with 
family and social life 
also has a positive 
impact. A transparent 
relationship with 
public and private 
institutions operating 
in the political, 
economic and social 
field, their efficiency 
and the level of 
appreciation of their 
operation strengthen 
institutional and 
interpersonal trust. 
Economic
well-beingProtection of the 
environment and 
the landscapeQuality
of servicesGlobal economic 
and geopolitical 
balanceSafety
For the purposes of 
overall well-being, 
earning capacity 
and economic 
resources are the 
essential means by 
which an individual 
can maintain a 
decent standard of 
living. The environment 
and the impacts 
upon it (climate 
change, scarcity 
of resources, 
emissions, etc.) 
have an effect on 
current and future 
generations. It 
is increasingly 
necessary to adopt 
new sustainable 
business models.The availability of 
good quality public 
services (social 
and health care, 
justice, children’s 
services, etc.) and 
access to them 
are fundamental to 
guaranteeing people 
a minimum standard 
of well-being and 
equal opportunity  The stability 
of geopolitical 
relationships 
between countries 
is an important 
element for concrete 
and ongoing social 
developmentA subjective 
perception of 
serenity and an 
objective experience 
of safety in one’s 
daily life are key to 
building individual 
and collective well-
being. The subject 
of digital security 
is also becoming 
increasingly 
important.Innovative and secure IT infrastructure
Developing new IT infrastructure and paying 
constant attention to its security are the cornerstone 
for the development of innovative solutions to 
respond to the main requirements expressed by 
society, and to guarantee continuous growth. The development of  new
ICT infrastructure is the strategic
enabling factor for the introduction
of  new products and services with which 
to respond to the other social needs231
Thanks to the initiatives launched, particularly in response to the Italian Digital Agenda and by vir -
tue of the industry in which it operates, Telecom Italia has a bearing on the well-being development 
factors described above and therefore contributes to meeting the needs of the country through its 
products, solutions and services. Investments in broadband and ultrabroadband infrastructure, in 
research and development and in network security, the development of smart solutions and servic -
es to improve people’s quality of life (e.g. in the context of digital healthcare, justice, smart cities) 
and education (e.g. in the field of digital schools and digital inclusion), are just some of the activities 
in which the Company is involved. Innovative ICT solutions contribute to increasing the digitisation 
of the country (citizens, businesses and government bodies) and improving its efficiency, with sig -
nificant impacts on costs, on the development of economic opportunities and on the environment.
CSV GOVERNANCE AND CULTURE
The definition of a form of governance and internal dissemination of a CSV culture are fundamen -
tal to ensuring the full integration of sustainability with the Company’s business, fostering its fully 
integrated, cross-cutting management throughout the company structure. Based on these consid -
erations, the process launched by Telecom Italia also provides for the involvement of all the main 
departments of the company that are able to support the implementation of the CSV model, from 
identifying areas of intervention to monitoring the results of projects undertaken.
To complete the governance system, a corporate CSV policy will be drawn up and appropriate 
internal communication processes established to create a framework of values to be used as a 
reference by the whole Company.
THE STRATEGIC AREAS OF INTERVENTION
FOR CSV CREATION
In practice, the new Telecom strategy involves implementing projects that can generate an eco -
nomic benefit for the company while being beneficial for society and the environment, in such a 
way as to reconcile economic and financial success with social progress.
Telecom Italia has identified three strategic areas of intervention which contribute to creating value 
for the Company and community in response to the Social Needs and objectives of the Italian Digital 
Agenda (as already reported in Marcella Logli’s letter page III): 
• Digitisation, connectivity and social innovation . The development and implementation of 
innovative IT infrastructure is the cornerstone for the economic and social development of the 
country. With their ability to connect people and to ensure the effective exchange and pro -
cessing of information, ICT solutions contribute to making the country (citizens, companies, 
government bodies) more digitised and efficient, with a significant impact on costs, on the de -
velopment of economic opportunities, on the quality of services and on the environment. In this 
context, Telecom stands as a digital ecosystem “enabler”, connecting companies, government 
bodies and local communities in general, so as to create positive synergies for development. 
• Environmental protection . Generating shared value requires the environment to be protected 232
and respected. These are two of the most important challenges that companies are required to 
deal with across the globe. In this context, Telecom Italia is committed to implementing activi -
ties aimed at reducing the environmental impact of its activities and those of its customers, in 
addition to promoting more “sustainable” lifestyles.
• Digital culture . For growth and social development to be achieved in the digital era, all citizens 
must be able to acquire the digital skills they need to make full use of the benefits offered by the 
Web and new technologies.  To this end, it is important to improve digital skills and reduce gaps and 
the cultural digital divide (e.g. between generations). In the knowledge that an effective schooling 
system and adequate standards of education and training play a fundamental role in the growth and 
socio-economic development of the country, Telecom Italia is committed to implementing projects to 
support digital education and schooling, including by supplying infrastructure and tools.
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL VALUE - KPI s
Each of these strategic areas of intervention is broken down into specific areas of action, within 
which projects are implemented that create value for the business and society. The value gener -
ated by each project is measured by means of a financial and non-financial KPI dashboard which 
expresses the value generated for Telecom Italia and the community.
Within these strategic areas of intervention, projects are identified and subsequently implemented 
that are able to achieve the greatest possible amount of shared value, assessing what the value 
creation factors are for the Company (particularly in terms of increased revenue, the enhance -
ment of intangible assets and the reduction of costs and socio-environmental risks) and for socie -
ty (in terms of satisfying the social needs to which the project is intended to respond).233
PROCESS OF CONSOLIDATION OF THE VALUE GENERATED 
BY SELECTED CSV PROJECTS - BUSINESS AND SOCIAL VALUE DRIVERS
Consolidation KPIs related to the analysed 
projects that generate an increase in revenue for the Company and KPIs associated with increased assets
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects 
that allow the company to achieve an 
increase in its reputation valueConsolidation KPIs related to the analysed 
projects that generate a decrease in costs for the CompanyThe generated value consolidation process has allowed 3 Business Value and 7 Social Value descriptive drivers to be identified. 
BUSINESSDRIVERS3
SOCIALDRIVER7REPUTATION INCREASECOST
REDUCTIONREVENUE
AND ASSETS
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects that generate positive impacts on the country's wealth and employment
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects 
that generate innovationCAPACITYTO INNOVATE
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects associated with environmental protectionENVIRONMENTALPROTECTION
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects that are intended to increase digitisation in the country and digital culture(e.g. school, etc.)DIGITISATION
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects that provide support to the world of universities and researchSUPPORTFOR UNIVERSITIES
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects that generate a positive impact on the spending power of businesses and households PROFITABILITYOF BUSINESSESAND HOUSEHOLDS
Main KPIs related to the analysed projects that are intended to provide training and 
disseminate knowledge within the CompanyDISSEMINATIONOF KNOWLEDGEWELFARE
OF THE COUNTRY234
235
APPENDIX
RESULTS FOR 2013 AND 2014 
The results achieved are shown below, compared to the objectives published in the previous sustain -
ability Report for the year 2014 and in relation to the Customers stakeholder only, for the year 20131.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. – Customers2
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEActivation time for voice service (pre-paid service) 
– Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum period laid down in the contract % 97 100 ● 97
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEActivation time for voice service (post-paid service) 
– Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum period laid down in the contract % 97 100 ● 97
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEConsumer customer assistance services  – Average 
response time of the operator to incoming callssec. 35 27 ● 35
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices received within the 
survey period and the number of invoices issued in 
the same period  (post-paid service)% 1.2 0.44 ● 1,2
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey 
period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in 
the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.2 0.25 ● 1,2
CUSTOMERS  
INTERNETActivation time for broadband Internet access services 
– Percentage of valid orders completed within the date 
agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)% 95 97.7 ● 95
CUSTOMERS  
INTERNETActivation time for broadband Internet access services 
–  Average time of supply (active telephone lines)days 9 7● 9
CUSTOMERS  
INTERNETBroadband Internet access service faults  – Average 
repair timehours 26 17 ● 26
CUSTOMERS  
INTERNETDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet 
access services (received during the survey period) and 
the total number of invoices issued in the same period% 1.0 0.36 ● 1,0
CUSTOMERS
IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time 
of operator response to incoming callssec. 70 76 ● 70
CUSTOMERS
IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service 
(received during the survey period) and the total 
number of invoices containing charges regarding this 
service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.0 0.38 ● 1,0
CUSTOMERS
IPTVAvailability of IPTV service - Average unavailability 
of the servicehours/
year36 6.9 ● 36
2 The full list of mobile service quality indicators, and the respective objectives for 2013, are available at tim.it. The full list of quality 
indicators for fixed network and IPTV Internet access services, and the respective objectives for 2013, are available at telecomitalia.it.
*  Status Target: ● achieved - ● not achieved.
1 The actual figures of the above mentioned objectives for 2014 will be available in July 2015 on the websites stated in note 2.
Unit of
measurement
2013
Target
2014
Target2013*
Target status2013
Final resultArea
of reference
Indicator236
Telecom Italia S.p.A. – Other stakeholders
HUMAN RESOURCES  
TRAININGTraining in health, safety and environment 
issues1Training 
hours105,000 375,364 ●
HUMAN RESOURCES  
TRAININGTraining – Training hours per head1Training 
hours per 
head28 33 ●
HUMAN RESOURCES  
TRAININGTraining – coverage (percentage of 
employees out of the entire workforce who 
have taken part in at least one training 
session)2% 80 97.94 ●
HUMAN RESOURCES  
ACCIDENTSAccidents per 100 workers Number 1.28 1.30 ●
THE ENVIRONMENT 
ENERGYEco-efficiency indicator3bit/joule 3,100 3,543 ●
THE
ENVIRONMENT
ENERGYSelf-generation of energy from cogeneration GWh 115 85 ●
THE ENVIRONMENT 
ELECTROMAGNETIC 
EMISSIONSSAR qualification4% 100 100 ●
THE ENVIRONMENT 
ELECTROMAGNETIC 
EMISSIONSSAR qualification of other technologically 
innovative devices (USB memory sticks, 
tablets and routers) marketed under the 
TIM brandNumber 10 10 ●
1 The data includes classroom, online and on-the-job training.
2 The data has been calculated on 2014 average headcount.
3 The indicator has been calculated for Domestic BU. For further information on the eco-efficiency indicator see The Environment/
Energy.
4 This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification. The percentage has been calcu -
lated on the most widespread and  technologically innovative models of mobile phone handsets.
Unit of
measurement
2014
Target
2014
Target status2014
Final resultArea
of reference
Indicator237
TIM Brasil   
HUMAN
RESOURCESTraining (total hours: in class, 
online and on the job) provided 
to its own employees, outsourced 
employees and internsTraining 
hours1,000,00011,087,215 ●
HUMAN
RESOURCESSustainability training (percentage 
of employees, outsourced 
employees and interns out of the 
total workforce who have taken 
part in at least one training session 
on sustainability issues)% 30 72 ●
THE
ENVIRONMENTCollection of mobile phones, 
batteries and other accessories to 
be sent for recyclingTons 13 0.922 ●
THE
ENVIRONMENTRatio between recycled waste and 
the total waste generated in the 
offices% 68 58 ●
SUPPLIERSSuppliers assessed under 
sustainability criteriaNumber 50 53 ●
1 In 2013 sustainability report a typo indicated a 2M training hours target for 2014, more likely to be extimated in 1M.
2 In 2014 the mobile phone, battery and accessory collection program has not been relaunched. In 2015 a communication plan will be 
addressed to the points of sale in order to train the personnel and to favor recycling among public. Moreover an internal campaign will 
aim to collect phones, batteries and accessories through TIM Brasil personnel.
Unit of
measurement
2014
Target
2014
Target status2014
Final resultArea
of reference
Indicator238
2015 AND MULTIANNUAL TARGETS
2015 and multiannual targets are shown below. 
TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A. – CUSTOMERS  
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEActivation time for voice service (pre-paid service) 
– Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum period laid down in the contract % 97
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEActivation time for voice service (post-paid service) 
– Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum period laid down in the contract % 97
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEResidential customer assistance services  – Average 
response time of the operator to incoming callsseconds 35
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices received within the 
survey period and the number of invoices issued in 
the same period  (post-paid service)% 1.2
CUSTOMERS 
MOBILEDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey 
period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in 
the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.2
CUSTOMERS 
INTERNETActivation time for broadband Internet access 
services – Percentage of valid orders completed 
within the date agreed with the customer (active 
telephone lines)% 95
CUSTOMERS 
INTERNETActivation time for broadband Internet access 
services –  Average time of supply (active telephone 
lines)days 9
CUSTOMERS 
INTERNETBroadband Internet access service faults  – Average 
repair timehours 26
CUSTOMERS 
INTERNETDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet 
access services (received during the survey period) 
and the total number of invoices issued in the same 
period% 1.4
CUSTOMERS
IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time 
of operator response to incoming callsseconds *
CUSTOMERS
IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV 
service (received during the survey period) and 
the total number of invoices containing charges 
regarding this service (issued during the same 
survey period)% 1.0
CUSTOMERS
IPTVAvailability of IPTV service - Average unavailability 
of the servicehours /
years36
* AGCom resolution no. 79/09/CSP, which establishes targets for call centres, is currently being updated.
Unit of
measurement
2015
TargetArea
of reference
Indicator239
Telecom Italia – Other stakeholders       
HUMAN RESOURCES  
TRAININGTraining in health, safety and environment 
issues1Training 
hours375,364 100,000
HUMAN RESOURCES  
TRAININGTraining – Training hours per head1Training 
hours per 
head33 27
HUMAN RESOURCES  
TRAININGTraining – coverage (percentage of 
employees out of the entire workforce who 
have taken part in at least one training 
session)% 97.9475
HUMAN RESOURCES  
ACCIDENTSAccidents per 100 workers Number 1.30 1.28
THE
ENVIRONMENT 
ENERGYEco-efficiency indicator2bit/joule 3,543 4,700
THE
ENVIRONMENT
ENERGYSelf-generation of energy from cogeneration3GWh 85 131
THE ENVIRONMENT 
ELECTROMAGNETIC 
EMISSIONSSAR qualification4% 100 100
THE ENVIRONMENT 
ELECTROMAGNETIC 
EMISSIONSSAR qualification of other technologically 
innovative devices (USB memory sticks, 
tablets and routers) marketed under the 
TIM brandNumber 10 5
1 The data includes classroom, online and on-the-job training.
2 The indicator has been calculated for the Domestic BU, net of Olivetti Group activities.
3 The target is now extended to the whole Domestic BU; it must be noted, however, that cogeneration plants currently only exist in 
Telecom Italia S.p.A. See the Multiannual Targets table.
4 This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification. The percentage has been calcu -
lated on the most widespread and  technologically innovative models of mobile phone handsets.
Unit of
measurement
2015
Target2014
Final resultArea
of reference
Indicator240
TIM Brasil – 2015 Targets
HUMAN
RESOURCES  Training (total hours: in class, online and 
on the job) provided to its own employees, 
outsourced employees and internsTraining 
hours1,087,215 900,000
HUMAN
RESOURCES  Sustainability training (percentage of 
employees, outsourced employees and 
interns out of the total workforce who have 
taken part in at least one training session 
on sustainability issues)% 30 N/A1
THE
ENVIRONMENTCollection of mobile phones, batteries and 
other accessories to be sent for recyclingTons 0.92 2
THE
ENVIRONMENTRatio between recycled waste and the total 
waste generated in the offices% 58 68
SUPPLIERSSuppliers assessed under sustainability 
criteriaNumber 53 60
1 The target is not set for 2015 because a new methodology for targeting sustainability issues training is under definition.
Domestic BU – Multiannual Targets – Environment and Digital Inclusion
THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
ENERGYTotal electricity 
procured or 
produced*GWh 1,942 2,000 ● 1,980 1,918 1,896
THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
ENERGYSelf-generation 
of energy from 
cogenerationGWh 115 85 ● 131 146 146
THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
ENERGYEco-efficiency 
indicatorbit/
joule3,100 3,543 ● 4,700 5,500 6,000
THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
ATMOSPHERIC
ENERGYReduction of CO2 
emissions from 
the purchase and 
generation of 
electricity compared 
to 2013Tons 11,000 720,250 ● 695,000 680,000 680,000
DIGITAL
INCLUSIONLTE coverage** % 28.10 ~75.00
DIGITAL
INCLUSIONNext Generation 
Plan (fixed 
telephony) 
coverage***% 77.00 >95.00
* The 2014 final results refer to the Domestic BU, net of Olivetti Group activities. Multiannual targets refer to the Domestic BU, includling 
Olivetti Group activities. Such a significant reduction in CO2 emission is due to the agreement signed for the purchase of guarantees 
of origin which certify electricity generated by renewable sources, covering almost 100% of the company’s energy consumption in Italy.
** The percentage refers to the resident population. Coverage values are subject to change based on ISTAT and urbanisations updates.
*** The percentage is determined by the ratio between the number of properties connected with “cabinets” reached by access optical 
fibres (or which can be served directly from an exchange if within acceptable distances) and the total number of properties that have 
or have had active telephone lines in the past.
Unit of
measurement
2015
Target2014
Final resultArea
of reference
IndicatorUnit of
measurement
2015
Target2014
Final resultArea
of reference
Indicator
2014
Target
Status
Target
2016
Target
2017
Target243
GRI CONTENT INDEX
FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” - COMPREHENSIVE  [G4-32]
GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GENERAL STANDARD 
DISCLOSURESPAGE NUMBER OMISSIONSEXTERNAL
ASSURANCE
STRATEGY AND ANALYSYS
G4-1 I, III, IV, V, VI, VII yes, page 254
G4-2 58, 59, 60, 63 yes, page 254
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3 12 yes, page 254
G4-4 12 yes, page 254
G4-5 13 yes, page 254
G4-6 12 yes, page 254
G4-7 13 yes, page 254
G4-8 12 yes, page 254
G4-9 12, 13, 14, 184 yes, page 254
G4-10 185, 186, 209, 210 yes, page 254
G4-11 204 yes, page 254
G4-12 103 yes, page 254
G4-13 12, 13, 104, 221 yes, page 254
G4-14 31, 59, 60, 63 yes, page 254
G4-15 35 yes, page 254
G4-16 35 yes, page 254
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17 12, 49 yes, page 254
G4-18 51 yes, page 254
G4-19 51 yes, page 254
G4-20 52 yes, page 254
G4-21 52 yes, page 254
G4-22 12 yes, page 254
G4-23 53 yes, page  254
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24 43 yes, page  254
G4-25 43 yes, page  254
G4-26 43, 44, 51 yes, page  254
G4-27 44 yes, page  254
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagement
244
GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GENERAL STANDARD 
DISCLOSURESPAGE NUMBER OMISSIONSEXTERNAL
ASSURANCE
REPORT PROFILE
G4-28 50 yes, page  254
G4-29 50 yes, page  254
G4-30 50 yes, page  254
G4-31 256 yes, page  254
G4-32 243 yes, page  254
G4-33 253 yes, page  254
GOVERNANCE
G4-34 28, 29, 34 yes, page  254
G4-35 28, 29, 30, 34 yes, page  254
G4-36 29, 30, 34 yes, page  254
G4-37 31, 35 yes, page  254
G4-38 28, 29 yes, page  254
G4-39 29 yes, page  254
G4-40 28, 29 yes, page  254
G4-41 31 yes, page  254
G4-42 29, 30, 34 yes, page  254
G4-43 29 yes, page  254
G4-44 29 yes, page  254
G4-45 31 yes, page  254
G4-46 31 yes, page  254
G4-47 29, 34 yes, page  254
G4-48 30, 34 yes, page  254
G4-49 32 yes, page  254
G4-50 32, 33 yes, page  254
G4-51 33 yes, page  254
G4-52 33 yes, page  254
G4-53 33 yes, page  254
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagement245
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagementGENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GENERAL STANDARD 
DISCLOSURESPAGE NUMBER OMISSIONSEXTERNAL
ASSURANCE
GOVERNANCE
G4-54 207 The ratio between the annual 
total compensation of the highest 
paid individual and the median 
annual total compensation for all 
employees was not disclosed for 
confidentiality constraints. It was 
judged to fall under the category of 
information subject to the “Policy for 
the classification and management 
of confidentiality information” in 
that the datum, once disclosed and 
if not properly understood, could 
cause the company a reputational 
damage.yes, page  254
G4-55 207 The ratio between the percentage 
increase in annual total 
compensation of the highest 
paid individual and the median 
percentage increase in annual total 
compensation for all employees 
was not disclosed for confidentiality 
constraints. It was judged to fall 
under the category of information 
subject to the “Policy for the 
classification and management of 
confidentiality information” in that 
the datum, once disclosed and 
if not properly understood, could 
cause the company a reputational 
damage. yes, page  254
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56 37 yes, page  254
G4-57 32 yes, page  254
G4-58 32 no246
GRI CONTENT INDEX
FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” - COMPREHENSIVE
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
DMA
AND INDICATORSPAGE NUMBER OMISSIONSEXTERNAL
ASSURANCE
CATEGORY: ECONOMIC
INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
G4-DMA 16, 19, 21, 24, 115 yes, page  254
G4-EC7 16, 19, 22, 25, 79 yes, page  254
G4-EC8 16, 22, 23, 25, 79 yes, page  254
CATEGORY: ENVIROMENTAL
COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA 43 yes, page  254
G4-EN29 43 yes, page  254
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
EMPLOYMENT
G4-DMA 103, 106, 183, 190, 204 yes, page  254
G4-LA1 185, 211, 212 yes, page  254
G4-LA2 190 yes, page  254
G4-LA3 185, 186, 212, 213 yes, page  254
LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
G4-DMA 183 yes, page  254
G4-LA4 204 yes, page  254
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
G4-DMA 183, 189, 201, 202 yes, page  254
G4-LA5 200, 203 yes, page  254
G4-LA6 185, 203, 204, 214, 215 yes, page  254
G4-LA7 200 yes, page  254
G4-LA8 200, 203 yes, page  254
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
G4-DMA 183 yes, page  254
G4-LA9 185, 197, 216 yes, page  254
G4-LA10 196 yes, page  254
G4-LA11 191 yes, page  254
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
G4-DMA 183 yes, page  254
G4-LA12 186, 187 yes, page  254
EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN
G4-DMA 183, 186 yes, page  254
G4-LA13 185, 207, 217 yes, page  254
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagement247
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
DMA
AND INDICATORSPAGE NUMBER OMISSIONSEXTERNAL
ASSURANCE
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
HUMAN RIGHTS
INVESTMENT
G4-DMA 63, 102 yes, page  254
G4-HR1 102 yes, page  254
G4-HR2 196, 197 yes, page  254
NON DISCRIMINATION
G4-DMA 63, 66, 109 yes, page  254
G4-HR3 69 yes, page  254
FREEDOM ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
G4-DMA 63, 104 yes, page  254
G4-HR4 104, 106, 196, 204 yes, page  254
CHILD LABOR
G4-DMA 63, 109 yes, page  254
G4-HR5 104, 106, 196, 204 yes, page  254
FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR
G4-DMA 63, 109 yes, page  254
G4-HR6 104, 106, 196, 204 yes, page  254
SECURITY PRATICES
G4-DMA 63, 109 yes, page 254
G4-HR7 105, 196, 198 no
INDIGENOUS RIGHTS
G4-DMA 63, 69, 109 yes, page 254
G4-HR8 69 yes, page 254
ASSESSMENT
G4-DMA 63, 65 yes, page 254
G4-HR9 65 yes, page 254
SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
G4-DMA 63, 103, 104, 106, 109 yes, page 254
G4-HR10 103, 105 yes, page 254
G4-HR11 104, 106, 107 yes, page 254
HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-DMA 63, 67 yes, page 254
G4-HR12 68 yes, page  254
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagement248
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
DMA
AND INDICATORSPAGE NUMBER OMISSIONSEXTERNAL
ASSURANCE
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
SOCIETY
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
G4-DMA 156, 158 yes, page  254
G4-SO1 159 yes, page  254
G4-SO2 159 yes, page  254
ANTI-CORRUPTION
G4-DMA 39, 40, 42 yes, page  254
G4-SO3 39, 41 yes, page  254
G4-SO4 41 yes, page  254
G4-SO5 42 yes, page  254
PUBLIC POLICY
G4-DMA 42, 112 yes, page  254
G4-SO6 42 yes, page  254
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
G4-DMA 42, 122 yes, page  254
G4-SO7 42 yes, page  254
COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA 42 yes, page  254
G4-SO8 42 yes, page  254
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY
G4-DMA 42 yes, page  254
G4-SO11 42 no
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagement249
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
DMA
AND INDICATORSPAGE NUMBER OMISSIONSEXTERNAL
ASSURANCE
CATEGORY: SOCIAL
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
G4-DMA 92 yes, page  254
G4-PR1 92 yes, page  254
G4-PR2 93 yes, page  254
PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING
G4-DMA 72, 73 yes, page  254
G4-PR3 93 yes, page  254
G4-PR4 94 yes, page  254
G4-PR5 75 yes, page  254
MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS
G4-DMA 72 yes, page  254
G4-PR6 88 yes, page  254
G4-PR7 95 yes, page  254
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
G4-DMA 72, 97 yes, page  254
G4-PR8 97 yes, page  254
COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA 72 yes, page  254
G4-PR9 94 yes, page  254
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagement250
ADDITIONAL NON-MATERIAL GRI INDICATORS
INDICATORS DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
ECONOMIC
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Direct economic value generated and distri -
buted (G4 EC1)15 yes, page  254
Coverage of the organization’s defined 
benefit plan obligations (G4 EC3)190 yes, page  254
ENVIRONMENT
ENERGY
Energy consumption within the organization 
(G4 EN3)133 yes, page  254
Energy intensity (G4 EN5) 138 no
Reduction of energy consumption (G4 EN6) 133 yes, page  254
WATER
Total water withdrawal by source (G4 EN8) 142 yes, page  254
EMISSIONS
Direct Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – 
SCOPE 1 - (G4 EN15)140 yes, page  254
Energy indirect Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions – SCOPE 2 - (G4 EN16)140 yes, page  254
Reduction of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emis -
sions - (G4 EN19)140 yes, page  254
EFFLUENTS AND WASTE
Total weight  of waste by type and disposal 
method (G4 EN23)143 yes, page  254
SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES
Percentage of new suppliers that were scre -
ened using labor practices criteria (G4 LA14)105 yes, page 254
Significant actual and potential negative im -
pacts for labor practices in the supply chain 
and actions taken (G4 LA15)106 yes, page  254
LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
Disclosure Management Approach about 
the subject32, 183 yes, page  254
Number of grievances about labour practi -
ces filed, addressed, and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanisms (G4 LA16)208 yes, page  254
in accordance with the assurance standards, ISAE 3000, the external assurance refers to a limited assurance engagement253
AUDITOR’S REPORT [G4-33]
254
255
256
[G4-31]
CONTACTS
Corporate Social Responsibility
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Via G. Negri, 1
20123 Milano
Tel.: +39 02 8595 4824
www.telecomitalia.com
Send your suggestions to:
groupsustainability@telecomitalia.it
Design: www.thebrandshop.it
