Sustainability
Report20081Sustainability Report 2008
ContentsContents
Chairman’s Letter 3
Introduction References and Governance
Charters, Codes and ValuesReporting and PlanningResultsPlacement in the indexesEconomic value generated and  distributedStrategy2009 ObjectivesHot TopicsStakeholder Involvement78
1012141516182122
External stakeholders CustomersSuppliersCompetitorsInstitutionsThe EnvironmentThe Community273640444660
Internal stakeholders Human ResourcesShareholders 71873Sustainability Report 2008
Chairman’s LetterChairman’s Letter
The year we have left behind us was, for Telecom Italia, a year of unswerving concentration on the operational 
management of the Group, aimed at re-balancing costs and revenues, reinforcing the generation of earnings and reducing indebtedness. This management effort took much energy and required great discipline in the use of resources. However, this did not push our commitment to all the stakeholders into second place. On the contrary, this was further strengthened by its closer integration with the activities of the business, and by the establishment of the Telecom Italia Foundation with regard to socially-purposive interventions.These pages, as ever, present a thorough and detailed panorama of actions taken in support of sustainability, which encompass the entire company in its many parts.One example is the progress we are achieving in the environmental sphere. Starting with our own activities. In 2008, the Group’s indicator of energy effi  ciency – which sets the service offered to the customer, expressed in terms of bits transmitted by our networks, against its impact on the environment, measured in terms of total energy consumed – was once again improved, by as much as 35%. The growth in traffi  c was not the only factor contributing to this result. Also very signifi  cant was the overall reduction of electricity consumption, the fi  rst in the last four years. This would not have been possible without the continuous work of rationalisation, modernisation and technological innovation of the network infrastructure, and experimentation with new systems of energy production. Optimising consumption, modernising the fl  eet of company cars and converting the thermal plant have, indeed, reduced the direct and indirect emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by about 20,000 tons.Indubitably, telecommunications in general, and broadband in particular, can play a very important role in the environmental cause, with signifi  cant repercussions too on social front at the national level. Just think of the passage from paper to digital form of communications between the public administration, citizens and businesses, eliminating the distances and the necessity for travel. Think of the benefi  ts inherent in the services of telemedicine, e-learning, telepresence, tele-working and, when travel is unavoidable, infomobility services for traffi  c management, transport and logistics. Now think of the possibilities of using the sensors and connections within the network for the more effi  cient control and management of every use of energy resources.Another sphere of great social importance in which we are working, very often in close collaboration with local public authorities, is that of reducing the digital divide, in order to avoid the creation of new forms of discrimination towards those who fi  nd it diffi  cult or impossible to access information technology. This is an issue we are tackling both from the geographical point of view, by extending network and broadband coverage into the more marginal areas, and from the cultural point of view, by promoting a wider awareness of digital technologies among the weakest strata of society.This year, the Telecom Italia Foundation has become an integral part of the Group’s Sustainability strategy. We have entrusted to it the task of reinforcing our commitment to the community, supporting ideas and projects in the fi  elds of education, culture and society, targeted at improving people’s quality of life and also contributing, in this way, to the promotion of innovation and modernisation within the country, which is an objective of the whole company.We are proud to note that the determination with which we pursue this goal led to Telecom Italia’s place being confi  rmed in 2008 in all the main global sustainability indexes, which only include the most deserving companies, selected through a rigorous process of evaluation. A further cause for satisfaction was the recent admission of Tim Participações to the ISE index (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial), managed directly by the San Paolo stock market in Brazil. Another important acknowledgement has been the co-leadership role taken by the Group in the “laboratory” which – as part of the Alliance between the European Commission and companies launched in March, 2006, designed to make Europe a pole of excellence in corporate responsibility – is working to develop the criteria and methodology for the effective communication of non-fi  nancial performance. Still in the area of communication and reporting, it should be noted that Telecom Italia was judged by the Carbon Disclosure Project to be the best company in all Italy for the measurement and representation of information regarding the emission of greenhouse gases.This sheaf of positive assessments represents a further stimulus in pursuing our commitment to sustainability, continuing to disseminate, in all the countries in which we operate, the principles of the Global Compact, the initiative launched by the United Nations in 2000 to promote the protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working conditions, and to fi  ght corruption.Ahead of us, the foreseeable future will continue to be characterised by the particularly diffi  cult international economic situation. This will put the corporate system under strong pressure, forcing businesses to concentrate on the fundamentals of management to a much greater degree than in the recent past. Those who, like us, see sustainability as going hand in hand with the creation of value, will draw from this renewed motivation, which will certainly make a positive contribution in confronting complex circumstances. This will bring benefi  ts for the company’s results, but, fi  rst and foremost, it will bring benefi  ts for all those who demand from Telecom Italia that contribution of innovation and modernisation that will be the solid foundation upon which recovery and new prospects for development can be constructed.
Gabriele Galateri di Genola 
PresidentIntroduction7Introduction
References and governanceFor twelve years Telecom Italia Group has been analysing its own performance with regard to 
those interested parties on whom it depends and who infl  uences by its own activities, that is, the stakeholders: Customers, Supplier, Competitors, Institutions, the Environment, the Community, Human Resources and Shareholders.The inclusion, as of 2003, in the ‘Report on Operations’ of information concerning activities that regard stakeholders is confi  rmation of the Group’s willingness to present its fi  nancial data along with non-fi  nancial information.
References and Governance
In defi  ning and implementing its own Sustainability strategy and programmes, Telecom Italia 
Group makes reference to the guidelines issued by the main global organisations of guidance and standardisation in Corporate Responsibility . 
In 2002, Telecom Italia endorsed the principles of the Global Compact, the main point of reference 
at the worldwide level, which was launched in 2000 by the UN to promote the protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corruption practices.   
The System of Sustainability Management also takes into account international regulations and the main standards in the area:
 the Recommendations and Communications of the European Commission;
 the OCSE guidelines directed at multi-national enterprises; 
 the principles of the international research institute, AccountAbility, on Assurance and on 
Stakeholder Engagement;
 the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 certifi  cates for the Quality and Environmental Systems of 
Management;
 the principles of the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on respect-
ing the fundamental rights of workers;
 the Social AccountAbility 8000 standard (SA8000), aimed at promoting respect for human 
rights and working conditions by companies and their supply chains.
The Group’s Corporate Governance, aligned with the highest national and international standards , 
is founded on the central role of the Board of Directors and the independent administrators, on the transparency of management decisions, on the effectiveness of the Internal Control System and on the strict regulations on potential confl  icts of interest. Within the scope of the Internal Control System is the Organisational Model of Legislative Decree June 8, 2001, no. 231, designed to prevent the commission of specifi  c offences, including corruption, extortion and corporate crimes. More detailed information is contained in the “Annual Report on Corporate Governance.”For twelve years, the 
Group has been analysing its own performance with regard to the stakeholders. 8Introduction
Charters, Codes and ValuesThe Board of Directors’ meeting of November 7, 2008, decided to group the monitoring of activi-
ties in the fi  eld of Sustainability under the oversight of the External Relations Department, thus giving it a supervisory and coordinating role, and by establishing the Telecom Italia Foundation. The Board of Directors also decided to take on responsibility for scrutinising all sustainability activities through the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee that will check sustainability activities, including projects managed by the Telecom Italia Foundation to ensure they are consi-stent with the Group’s ethical values. 
Charters, Codes and Values
The commitments undertaken by the Group towards its stakeholders are based on a system 
of Charters and Codes which are available on the www.telecomitalia.it website (Sustainability/Our 
model/Policies), and on the Group Intranet, which ensures easy access for all employees. The pil-lar of the system is the Code of Ethics, which is the primary element of the organisational model, and the overall Internal Control System of Telecom Italia Group, founded on the conviction that ethics in the conduct of business is a prerequisite of the success of that business.  The Code lays out the goals and guiding principles at the centre of business activities with regard to the main stakeholders with whom the Group interacts. Respecting the Code is a requirement for governing bodies, managers and employees of all the companies of the Group, as well as for collaborators and third parties in business relationships with the Group, within the boundaries of their compe-tences, functions and responsibilities.
The Charters of Services expound the principles of conduct with regard to customers, and the 
commitments undertaken by the main companies of the Group in terms of the quality of the services offered to customers. The Charters of Services are available on the company websites 
( www.187.it;  www.191.it;  www.adsl.alice.it;  www.tim.it and  www.la7.it).Alongside the Charter of Services of Telecom Italia S.p.A., the General Conditions of Subscription regulate the contractual relationships for the fi  xed voice telephony service, published together with the Charters of Services on the websites  www.187.it and  www.191.it and on the opening pages of telephone directories.
Moreover, in compliance with the Resolutions concerning quality issued by the Italian Commu-nications Authority, objectives set annually for each service are published on the related web sites (fi  xed and mobile voice telephony, Internet access services and IP-IPTV technology pay-TV services).
The System of Values adopted by Telecom Italia is the benchmark for the conduct of all those who work for the Group, creating a sense of belonging to a single organisation. The various corporate processes and systems for development and rewards, for the assessment and training of staff, are inspired by the Charter of Values, thereby orienting individual attitudes within the whole Group in a common direction.
 Customer focus
 To consider the customer as the main employer, and customer satisfaction as the core 
value.  To be ready to listen to both internal and external customers’ needs, and to take steps to anticipate and respond rapidly to emerging requirements. 
 Taking responsibility
 To participate in the achievement of tangible results and to accept delegation as an op-
portunity, without referring problems to management that are within the individual’s sphere of competence.  
 Innovation
 To ensure the development of innovative solutions and promote new ways to improve the exist-
ing processes and systems in order to reinforce the positioning of the company in the market.   
 Proactivity  
 To make things happen, rather than reacting to events. To seize and develop any opportuni-
ties, even if initially unpromising, that the individual may encounter within their sphere of activity, and to advance proposals and initiatives that may be useful in achieving the goals of the company and the Group.9Introduction
Charters, Codes and Values Time management
 To consider time as an important resource that impacts on the costs of the services provid-
ed and on the loyalty of both internal and external customers. To meet needs and problems and handle multiple, sketchy inputs, working out timely and practical solutions. 
 Integration
 To work together with team spirit, minimising disputes and maximising the effectiveness 
of the exchange of information and professional contributions, working towards a common goal on behalf the company and the Group. 
 Transparency
 To ensure ethically-correct business conduct; to maintain internal and external relations 
that are correct and honest, favouring the circulation of information.  
 Professional excellence
 To continuously improve one’s own abilities, taking responsibility for one’s own professional 
growth in order to contribute to the success of the company and the Group. 
Other policies adopted by the group, which are available in the Sustainability section of the web-
site, concern:
The social responsibility of the Telecom Italia Group which regulates compliance with labour stand-ards within the Group, in particular child labour, forced labour, health and safety, freedom of as-sociation, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and pay.Relations with suppliers in Telecom Italia Group’s acquisitions process  which governs the negotiat-
ing ethic of the Group (transparency, the separation of roles, fairness and traceability) and the re-quirements that Telecom Italia demands of its suppliers in the area of working and environmental standards.  TV self-regulation code aimed at the protection of minors with respect to television services. 10Introduction
Reporting and PlanningReporting and Planning
 Reporting
The performance analysis and the associated reporting of the results are based on a multi-
stakeholder approach, and upon around 200 KPI (Key Performance Indicators), defi  ned on the basis on the analysis of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines, the demands of stakehold-ers and the checklists of the leading rating agencies, with the aim of inclusion in the indexes of sustainability indexes.The methodology adopted to measure investments in the Community is that defi  ned by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG).For the purposes of the sustainability report, subsidiary companies included in the area of con-solidation have been taken into account, unless otherwise stated (see the “The Environment” chapter), excluding Discontinued operations/Non-current assets held for sale. The selection of matters to be published in the sustainability report has been made on the basis of the principles of materiality, responsiveness and completeness as defi  ned by AccountAbility, in line with the GRI guidelines: the information reported concerns the relevant impact (in economic/environmental/social terms) of the Group’s activities on stakeholders.
With the integration of Sustainability data within the TI Group Annual Report, begun in the fi  nancial 
year  2003, the Group has anticipated the application of European Directive 51/2003, adopted in Italy under the Legislative Decree of February 2, 2007, no. 32. 
The following table lists the chapters/paragraphs and pages which make direct or indirect refer-
ence to the principles of the Global Compact and the respective GRI indicators.  Regarding the GRI Application Levels, defi  ned by the G3 guidelines, the A+
(1) level requirements have been followed. 
(1) The attainment of level A+ is subject to confi  rmation by GRI.The performance 
analysis and the associated reporting are based on a multi-stakeholder approach.11Introduction
Reporting and PlanningGlobal Compact Principles GRI indicators with 
reference to GC  Chapter/Paragraph referring to GC 
PrinciplesPage number
1.   Businesses should support 
and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.HR1-7, LA4, LA7-9, 
LA13, PR1, PR8References and Governance, Results, 
Strategy, 2009 Objectives, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, 
The Environment, The Community, 
Human Resources7, 12, 16, 
22, 36, 46, 
60, 71
2.   Businesses should make sure 
that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1-7 Hot Topics, Suppliers, Human 
Resources 21, 36, 71
3.   Businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargainingHR1-3, HR5, LA4-5 Human Resources 71
4.   Businesses should uphold 
the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.HR1-3, HR7 Suppliers, Human Resources 36, 71
5.   Businesses should uphold 
the effective abolition of child labour.HR1-3, HR6 Suppliers, Human Resources 36, 71
6.   Businesses should uphold the 
elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.HR1-4, LA2, LA13 Hot topics, Stakeholder Involvement, 
Suppliers, Human Resources 21, 22, 
36, 71
7.   Businesses should support 
a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.EC2, EN18, 
EN26, EN30Results, 2009 Objectives, Hot topics, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, 
The Environment12, 18, 21, 
22, 36, 46
8.   Businesses should undertake 
initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.EN1-5, EN8, EN16-17, 
EN17, EN20, EN22-23, 
EN26-27, EN30, PR3Results, 2009 Objectives, Hot topics, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, 
The Environment 12, 18, 21, 
22, 36, 46
9.   Businesses should encourage 
the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.EN5-7, EN18, 
EN26-27, EN30Hot Topics, The Environment, The 
Community21, 46, 60
10. Businesses should work against 
corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.SO2–4 Charters, Codes and Values, 
Suppliers, Shareholders8, 36, 87
 Planning
The Sustainability Plan is based on a procedure that is broken down into four phases: 
identifi  cation of the areas for improvement in sustainability performance; 1. 
comparison between the areas for improvement and the projects the Group plans to carry 2. 
out for the purposes of its business, with particular attention to investment projects; defi  nition of targeted actions to be taken in the areas for improvement where no projects 3. 
have been conducted  previously, or those where the planned projects do not have suffi  -cient, positive impact in terms of sustainability; monitoring those areas in need of supervision in order to maintain the performance level 4. 
attained. 
The identifi  cation of the improvement goals is based on:
 commitments required by international organisations – such as the UN, ILO, OECD – and regula-
tory bodies, tailored to the Group through its Code of Ethics and other charters and policies;
 general issues assessed by analysts for the purpose of admission to the sustainability 
indexes;
 stakeholders’ requests (conveyed through associations, the media, direct contacts, etc.);
 benchmarking with peers.
Projects that require rilevant investment, presented for approval by the appropriate Committee, are accompanied by an assessment schedule in which their impact, in terms of the Sustainability of the investment, is stated. 
The Project Managers identify whether the projects for which they are seeking 
approval have positive, negative or neutral impact in terms of sustainability, regarding certain key areas identifi  ed for each stakeholder. These reports are taken into account within the decision-
making process that leads to the approval of investments, and they provide a useful summary for assessing the overall impact of the Group’s investment choices in terms of sustainability. 12Introduction
ResultsResults 
A summary of the main initiatives undertaken in 2008 is given below.
 To better assess performance in terms of energy consumption, Telecom Italia has de-
veloped an indicator that shows the relationship between the services offered to the customer, simplifi  ed as the measurement of bits transmitted, and the company’s impact on the environment in terms of energy consumption. The improvement in eco-effi  ciency compared to 2007, measured by these indicators, is approximately 35%. Further informa-tion can be found in chapter The Environment/Energy.
 
  The numerous initiatives to optimise the use of electricity brought an overall reduction 
in consumption of 1.08% compared to the previous year. The improvement in the mix of electricity provision (a reduction in the acquisition from traditional sources, an increase in the acquisition from renewable sources and in-house electricity production through co-gen-eration), the modernisation of heating plant and the company car fl  eet, paved the way for a reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide of 1.39% compared to 2007. Further information can be found in chapter The Environment/Energy and Atmospheric Emissions.
 In the 2008 edition of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Telecom Italia was listed as 
the best Italian company, among those included in the “Global 500” index, for the com-munication of data related to climate change. CDP is an international initiative, now in its sixth year, which provides instructions on how to measure and represent greenhouse gas emissions, encouraging companies to focus on risk management and the emerging opportunities in the fi  eld of climate change. Further information can be found in chapter The Environment/Climate change.
 Telecom Italia is one of the top ten companies of the “S&P Mib40” index in the Accounta-
bility Rating 2008, developed by AccountAbility and other partners in order to measure the Sustainability performance of companies. The assessment is based on four fundamental subject areas: integration between business strategy and non-fi  nancial objectives, govern-ance and management systems, stakeholder involvement, tangible outcomes including actions in the area of sustainability (operational performance).
 Meetings with SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) investors have continued in 2008. 
These are operators who, in their choice of investments, favour those companies that pay particular attention to ethical, social and environmental issues, without detriment to the economic-fi  nancial performance. A special road show dedicated to SRI investors was held in two different European markets (Frankfurt and Paris), organised by a joint team includ-ing the Investor Relations and Group Sustainability departments. Investors expressed their general appreciation of the Group’s Sustainability model and made some sugges-tions for future developments.
 Within the context of the Alliance between the European Commission and companies, 
launched on March 22, 2006 with the aim of making Europe a pole of excellence in CSR, various “laboratories” have been set up, that are working groups wish bring companies and stakeholder representatives together, with the support of the European Commission.  The objective of these laboratories is to explore and develop shared, operational solutions that permit measurable progress in the Alliance’s priority areas, among which is an improve-ment in the quality of the reporting processes.  In this framework, the “Sustainability and non-fi nancial performance assessment” laboratory, of which Telecom Italia is  co-leader , was 
established, with the aim of defi  ning an advanced reporting model for non-fi  nancial perform-
ance to meet the needs expressed by investors and other stakeholders. To encourage a dialogue on the subject, a wide-ranging consultation process was begun through a cycle of meetings (focus groups) in Italy (Rome and Milan) and abroad (Frankfurt, Paris, Stockholm and Utrecht) which involved companies, investors, academics, representatives of the Euro-pean Commission and stakeholders. In furtherance of the consultation process, an Internet site (www.investorvalue.org) has been launched, where it is possible to express an opinion on the preliminary results from the laboratory, which were presented on December 4, 2008, in Brussels, in the presence of representatives from the Institutions, academia, the busi-ness world and NGOS. Against that backdrop, the workshop got the explicit appreciation of the Vice President of the European Commission, Günter Verheugen.13Introduction
ResultsIn the following table, the results achieved in the year 2008 are given in comparison with the 
goals set out on 12/31/2007.
Area Indicator(1)Unit
of MeasurementTarget
2008Final balance
2008Target 
Status 
2008
CUSTOMERS Punctuality of appointments 
for  visits by technicians to 
customers’ premises  % 98 96.5
HUMAN RESOURCES Employee satisfaction (2) 
measured by the questionnaire, 
“Group Photo”Average level of
satisfaction≥ 6.21 6.35
HUMAN RESOURCES Training – Italian companies(3)Training hours per 
head(4)30.5 32.7
HUMAN RESOURCES Training – Italian companies(3): 
coverage (percentage of people 
who have taken part in at least 
one training exercise)% 85 71.5
THE ENVIRONMENT Eco-effi  ciency indicator(5)bit/Joule 1,130 1,177
THE ENVIRONMENT Energy saving from low-
consumption lighting system  
(10 sites)  kWh 3,000,000 480,000
THE ENVIRONMENT Energy saving by optimizing 
the electricity yield of 50 sub-
stations through  power factor 
correction(6)kvar/h 1,950,000 11,019,600
THE ENVIRONMENT Number of cells in  UMTS Radio 
Stations in which a second 
carrier has been installed  (7)Number of cells 600 2,837
THE ENVIRONMENT SAR Qualifi  cation(8)- Italy % 100 100
THE ENVIRONMENT SAR Qualifi  cation(8) - Brazil % 25 25
THE ENVIRONMENT SAR Qualifi  cation(8) - Bolivia % 40 -(9)
THE ENVIRONMENT Other corporate offi  ces with 
differentiated waste  Number of offi  ces 100 123
THE ENVIRONMENT Reduction of paper 
consumption% 3 7
THE ENVIRONMENT Purchased recycled paper (10)% 60 53.7
THE ENVIRONMENT Conversion of 15 diesel-fi  red 
boilers with new generators/
heat pumps(11)Tons of CO2 not 
emitted200 200
THE ENVIRONMENT Substitution of Euro3 vehicles 
with Euro4 vehicles(12)Tons of CO2 not 
emitted2,700 2,986
SUPPLIERS Increase of audits 
on suppliers regarding Ethics 
and Sustainability  % 10 12
DIGITAL DIVIDE ADSL Coverage (13)% 96 95.8
DIGITAL DIVIDE IPTV Coverage (13)% 54 53.8
DIGITAL DIVIDE UMTS Coverage (14)% 81 80.7
DIGITAL DIVIDE HSDPA Coverage (14)% 81 80.7
Target status :  achieved;  partially achieved;  not achieved.
(1) Unless otherwise stated, targets refer to the activities of Telecom Italia S.p.A.
(2) The target was defi  ned for 2007 and the results made offi  cial during 2008. The data is calculated on a scale of 1 to 10.
(3) Italian companies: Telecom Italia S.p.A., BU Media, BU Olivetti, Elettra S.p.A., TI Sparkle, Telecontact Centre S.p.A., Path.Ne t S.p.A., Loquendo S.p.A., Matrix S.p.A.
(4) The data includes training in the classroom, on line and on the job.
(5) Further information on the indicator can be found in The Environment/Energy. 
(6) The power factor variation of the medium- and low-tension transformer sub-stations consists in the insertion of a device that, to the equivalent of 
active power used, allows the reduction of the losses in the transport network and thereby optimizes consumption. 
(7) In high traffi  c conditions, using two radiofrequency carriers rather than one, the total power emitted by the station is reduce d. Since the target fi  xed 
for 600 cells was exceeded in the fi  rst quarter of 2008, the target has been extended to 2,500 new cells with second UMTS carri er. 
(8) The percentage is calculated for the most popular and technologically innovative cellphone handsets.  SAR: Specifi  c Absorption Rate.  
(9) The Entel Bolivia company, from April 1st, 2008, has been outside the Group’s scope of consolidation.  
(10) Measured with respect to the total amount of paper purchased for offi  ce use.
(11) New plant is mainly fuelled by gas.
(12) A reduction of around 30% in CO2 emissions is obtained by using Euro4 vehicles rather than Euro3 vehicles.
(13) The percentage refers to fi  xed telephone lines. 
(14) The percentage refers to the residential population. 14Introduction
Placement in the indexesPlacement in the indexes
The Sustainability indexes are stock indexes in which securities are selected not only on the 
basis of economic-fi  nancial parameters but also in the light of social and environmental criteria. The selection process is carried out by specialised rating agencies that assess companies on the basis of publicly available information and questionnaires, taking account of opinions expressed by the media and stakeholders. The selection process is extremely rigorous and only companies deemed worthy are given a place in the indexes.Inclusion in these indexes is of strategic importance to companies, both for the positive repercus-sions for their reputation and for the fact that, in addition to the pension funds and ethical funds, there is an every increasing number of “traditional” investors who favour sustainability companies, especially if they are included in certain indexes, considering them to be less risky and more promising in the medium to long term. Taking part in the process of evaluation is, moreover, a timely moment for refl  ection within the company on the results achieved, and the suggestions of the rating agencies at the end of the process often prove to be useful in planning improvement actions in the future. 
Telecom Italia has been included in both categories in the Dow Jones Sustainability indexes: 
 Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes (DJSI World), which include 320 leading Sustain-
ability companies at the worldwide level; 
 Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indexes (DJSI STOXX), which include 162 leading Sus-
tainability companies at the European level.
Telecom Italia has been included in all the relevant indexes (benchmark and tradable) of the Fi-
nancial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good):
 FTSE4Good Global (752 companies), of which the top 100 companies in terms of capitali-
sation make up the FTSE4Good Global 100 - tradable index; 
 FTSE4Good Europe (314 companies), of which the top 50 companies in terms of capitali-
sation make up the FTSE4Good Global 50 - tradable index; 
 FTSE4Good Environmental Leaders Europe, which include 40 listings selected from the FT-
SE4Good Europe on the basis of results achieved in matters of environmental protection. 
Telecom Italia is also included in the following indexes:
 Ethibel Sustainability Indexes (ESI): 
– Excellence Europe, comprising 197 listings; – Excellence Global, comprising 169 listings; – Pioneer Global, comprising 186 listings. 
 Advanced Sustainable Performance Index (ASPI) Eurozone, made up of 120 companies; 
 KLD Sustainability Indexes: 
– Global, comprising 664 listings; – Global ex US, comprising 476 listings; – Europe, comprising 223 listings – Europe Asia Pacifi  c, comprising 197 listings.
 E.Capital Partners Indexes (ECPI): 
– Ethical Global, comprising 300 listings, with respective tradable index including 100 
components;
– Ethical Euro, comprising 150 listings, with respective tradable inde x including 100 
components; 
– Ethical EMU, comprising 150 listings; – ECPI Global TOP 30; 
 Axia 
– Ethical, comprising 40 listings;– Euro Ethical, comprising 40 listings;– CSR, comprising 30 listings.
Tim Participações, the stock market quoted holding of Tim Brasil Group, has been included in 
the ISE (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial) index, run by Bovespa (the San Paolo stock ex-15Introduction
Economic value generated and distributedchange) together with the Brazilian Environment Ministry, UNEP and other fi  nancial Sustainability 
organisations. The index is composed of the listings of 30 companies that have obtained the high-est scores in terms of Sustainability, selected on the basis of a questionnaire submitted to the 150 most traded companies of the Bovespa.
Economic value generated and distributed
Some of Telecom Italia Group’s main economic, assets and fi  nancial data are reported below. 
Telecom Italia Group – main consolidated operating and ﬁ  nancial data
(million euros) 2008 2007
Revenues 30,158 31,013
EBITDA 11,367 11,668
EBIT 5,463 5,955
Profi  t for the year   2,215 2,455
Total equity 26,856 26,985
- attributable to the equity holders of the Parent   26,126 25,922
- attributable to the Minority Interest 730 1,063
Net fi  nancial debt 34,039 35,701
Investments:
- Industrial 5,365 5,370
- Financial 6 637
Headcount at  year-end  77,825 82,069 
The economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders(1) follows. Since 2008, the method 
of presentation recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has been adopted, with ap-propriate adaptation. Data regarding the previous fi  nancial year have been recalculated for com-parison purposes.
(million euros) 2008 2007
Direct economic value generated
a) Revenues and other income 30,514 31,419
b) Interest payable and dividends paid 329 295
c) Capital gains (capital losses) from disposals 
    of non-current activities 35 5
d) Direct economic  value generated (a+b+c) 30,878 31,719
Economic value distributed 
e) Operating costs 14,508 15,513
f) Employee costs 4,220 3,822
g) Shareholders and providers of capital  4,009 5,259
h) Taxes and duties 2,126 1,164
i) Economic value distributed (e+f+g+h) 24,863 25,758
Economic value retained (d-i) 6,015 5,961
(million euros) 2008 2007
Wages and salaries 2,677 2,651
Social security costs 958 932
Provisions for employees’ severance and retirement 71 71
Other expenses 514 168
Employee costs 4,220 3,822
(1)  The value distributed to the stakeholder, The Community, is not shown in the table but can be found in the relevant chapter.  16Introduction
Strategy(million euros) 2008 2007
Acquisition of external goods and services 13,876 14,255
Other operating costs(*)1,277 1,815
Change in inventories (114) (11)
Internally generated assets (531) (546)
Operating costs 14,508 15,513
(*) Mainly consists of devaluations and expenses connect to the management of non-fi  nancial credits of 744 million euros 
(951 million euros in 2007) and contributions and fees for TLC activities of  315 million euros  (283 million euros in 2007), net of “Other taxes and duties” of 419 million euros (416 million euros in 2007) included in the item “Taxes and duties.”
(million euros) 2008 2007
Dividends distributed 1,668 2,840
Interest payable 2,341 2,419
Shareholders and providers of capital   4,009 5,259
(million euros) 2008 2007
Income taxes 1,707 748
Indirect taxes and duties 419 416
Taxes and duties 2,126 1,164
      regarding Italian activities 1,780 944
      regarding activities abroad  346 220
Strategy
Sustainability strategy for 2009-2011
The Group acts out of the conviction that business activities should be carried out taking into 
account the expectations of the stakeholders, in line with the principles established by the inter-nationally recognised standards to which the Group refers (Introduction/References and Govern-ance). The business must be oriented towards the pursuit of fi  nancial results without losing sight of the environmental and social context  in which it operates.
The Sustainability strategy for the three years 2009-2011 is founded on:
 attention to quality of the service, which is monitored constantly by the responsible depart-
ments (Customers/Customer Satisfaction); 
 attention to energy effi  ciency and the development of solutions aimed at reducing environ-
mental impact (The Environment/Energy);
 commitment in support of the communities in which the Group operates, promoting ideas 
and projects aimed at improving people’s quality of life through the Telecom Italia Founda-tion (The Community);
 integration of Sustainability data within the Group Annual Report, in confi  rmation of the 
Group’s intention to present its fi  nancial performance jointly with non-fi  nancial information intention (Introduction/Results);
 evaluation of the impact in terms of Sustainability of the business projects presented for 
approval by the Group’s Investment Committee, through an assessment schedule fi  lled by 
the relevant project manager (Introduction/Reporting and Planning);
 the involvement of the stakeholders in the company activities (Strategy/Stakeholder In-
volvement);
 development of the reporting in order to achieve greater adherence to the guidelines of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);
 the defi  nition of quantitative objectives in line with the most important issues of Sustain-
ability (Introduction/Objectives 2009);17Introduction
Strategy integration of sustainability and innovation: a specifi  c section is dedicated to matters of 
business responsibility within the technological plan, the document in which the company defi  nes its strategy in terms of the evolution of the transmission network;
 confi  rmation of the international commitments in the area of sustainability, including mem-
bership of the Global Compact, and support for the Alliance of March, 2006, with the Euro-pean Commission (Introduction/Results). 
The strategy defi  ned for the individual stakeholders is reported at the beginning of the dedicated 
chapters.
To ensure aspects concerning sustainability receive appropriate consideration in decisions by the 
Group’s management, objectives regarding the system of variable remuneration have been defi  ned and are reproduced for stakeholders in the following table.
Stakeholder  Target for incentive
Customers -  Customer Satisfaction
-  Quality of the service delivered
Human Resources -  Company staff attitude surveys
-  Health and Safety of employees
-  Programmes for training and professional growth 
-  Welfare and wellbeing activities for employees
The Environment -  Consumption of raw materials, energy and gas 
-  Emissions
Market and Institutions -  Compliance with laws, regulations and codes  
-  Quality and timeliness of company information
The Community -  Organisation of cultural events
-  Quality of intiatives/projects for the Community18Introduction
2009 Objectives2009 Objectives
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Area  Indicator Unit of 
measurementYear end 
2008Target
2009
THE COMMUNITY Telecom Italia Foundation – Forecast 
fi  nancial commitment in relation to 
the Group’s EBITDA  %(1)0.05
HUMAN RESOURCES - TRAINING Training in Health and Safety Training hours 87,141 90,000
HUMAN RESOURCES - TRAINING Training – Italian companies(2) Training hours 
per head(3)32.7 33
HUMAN RESOURCES - TRAINING Training – coverage of Italian 
companies (number of people who 
have taken part in at least one 
training exercise out of the total 
population)% 71.5 71.5
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
ECO-EFFICIENCYEco-effi  ciency indicator(4)bit/Joule 1,177 1,410
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
ELECTROMAGNETISMSAR qualifi  cation(5)% 100 100
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
ELECTROMAGNETISMNumber of UMTS Radio Station cells 
with second carrier installed(6)Number of cells 2,837 2,500
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
NATURAL RESOURCESFSC certifi  ed paper purchase for 
offi  ce use(7)%0 90
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
NATURAL RESOURCESUsed paper sent for recycling  Tons 10,835 13,540
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
ATMOSPHERIC IMPACTReduction of CO2 emissions from the 
substitution of diesel boilers with 
plant causing less impact (8)Tons 200 200
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
ATMOSPHERIC IMPACTReduction of quantity of ozone 
depleting gases used in air 
conditioning equipment and 
refrigerating systems kg 4,000 6,400
THE ENVIRONMENT – 
ATMOSPHERIC IMPACTReduction of CO2 emissions from the 
substitution of Euro3 vehicles with 
Euro4 vehicles(9)Tons 2,986 1,630
CUSTOMERS - DIGITAL INCLUSION ADSL coverage(10)% 95.8 96.5
CUSTOMERS - DIGITAL INCLUSION IPTV coverage(10)% 53.8 54.8
CUSTOMERS - DIGITAL INCLUSION UMTS and HSDPA coverage(11)% 80.7 82.4
(1) The Telecom Italia Foundation was constituted in 2008 but became operational in 2009.
(2) The data includes all the companies of the Group in Italy.  
(3) The data includes training in the classroom, on line and on the job.
(4) Further information on the eco-effi  ciency can be found in The Environment/Energy.  
(5) This regards the percentage of cellphones that have undergone SAR (Specifi  c Absorption Rate) classifi  cation. The percentage is calculated on the 
most popular and innovative models of cellphone handsets.  
(6)   In high traffi  c conditions, using two radiofrequency carriers rather than one, the total power emitted by the station is red uced.
(7)   Measured against the total paper purchased for offi  ce use. FSC = Forest Stewardship Council.
(8)   Most new plant is fuelled by gas.  
(9) The use of Euro4 vehicles produces a reduction of around 30% of the CO2 emitted compared to Euro3 vehicles. The objective has been calculated 
on the basis of the emissions of models of vehicles substituted.
(10) The percentage refers to fi  xed telephone lines.   
(11) The percentage refers to the residential population.  
The qualitative objectives regarding Suppliers are contained in the appropriate chapter.  19Introduction
2009 ObjectivesTelecom Italia S.p.A. - Customers
Area Indicator(*)Unit of 
measurementTarget
2009
CUSTOMERS - MOBILE Activation time for voice service – Prepaid service 
– Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum terms provided by contract% 97
CUSTOMERS - MOBILE Activation time for voice service – Post-paid – 
Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum terms provided by contract% 97
CUSTOMERS - MOBILE Customer assistance services – Average time of 
response by operators to incoming calls  Seconds 40
CUSTOMERS - MOBILE Complaints about charges – Ratio between the 
number of complaints about invoice charges received 
in the survey period and the number of invoices 
issued in the same period (post-paid service)  % 1.8
CUSTOMERS - MOBILE Complaints about charges – Ratio between the 
number of complaints about pre-paid cards received 
in the survey period and the average number of SIM/
USIM active in the same period (pre-paid service) % 5
CUSTOMERS - INTERNET Activation time for broadband access – Percentage of 
valid orders completed within the date agreed with the 
customer (active telephone line) % 90
CUSTOMERS - INTERNET Activation time for broadband access – Average time 
of supply (active telephone lines)Days 11
CUSTOMERS - INTERNET Malfunctions in broadband internet access services – 
Average time of repairsHours 34
CUSTOMERS - INTERNET Customer assistance services – Average time of 
response by operators to incoming calls  Seconds 105
CUSTOMERS - INTERNET Disputed charges  – Ratio between the number of 
complaints about invoice charges relating to all 
Internet access services (received in the survey 
period) and the total number of invoices issued in the 
same period % 1.5
CUSTOMERS – IPTV Activation time for the IPTV service – Percentage of 
valid orders completed within the date agreed with the 
customer% 78
CUSTOMERS – IPTV Customer assistance response times – Average time 
of response by operators to incoming calls  Seconds 105
CUSTOMERS – IPTV Disputed invoices – Ratio between the number of 
complaints about invoice charges related to IPTV 
service (received in the survey period) and the number 
of invoices containing charges related to the same 
service (issued in the same survey period)% 1.6
CUSTOMERS – IPTV Availability of the IPTV service – Average unavailability 
of the service hours/year 50
(*) The complete list of Telecom Italia’s quality objectives laid down for 2009 is available on the Group’s Internet site on wich also the outcomes for 2008 
will be published.
 20Introduction
2009 ObjectivesTIM Brasil
Area  Indicator Unit of 
measurementYear end 
2008Target
2009
HUMAN RESOURCES Employee satisfaction measured by the 
questionnaire “Group Photo”(1)Average level of 
satisfaction7.36 7.5
HUMAN RESOURCES Reduction in staff turn-over  % (monthly) 2.8 2.2
HUMAN RESOURCES Reduction of the absenteeism rate % 3.4 3.2
HUMAN RESOURCES Training (number of total hours: in class 
+ on line + at work)Hours of training 732,815 715,000
HUMAN RESOURCES Training – Coverage (number of people who 
have taken part in at least one training 
exercise out of the total population)% 95.2 95.2
HUMAN RESOURCES Training – Sustainability (number of managers 
who have taken  part in at least one training 
exercise on the subject of Sustainability out of 
the total population) %1 47
THE ENVIRONMENT Reduction in the total paper purchased 
(for offi  ce use only)  %0 2.1
THE ENVIRONMENT Ratio between recycled waste and the total 
waste generated by offi  ces %4 1 43
THE ENVIRONMENT Cellphones, batteries and accessories 
collected and sent for recycling  Tons 10 11
THE ENVIRONMENT SAR qualifi  cation - Brazil(2)%2 5 25
SUPPLIERS Percentage of the main suppliers evaluated  
with Sustainability criteria %0 30
(1) The data is calculated on a scale of 1 to 10.
(2) This is the percentage of cellphones  that have undergone SAR (Specifi  c Absorption Rate) qualifi  cation. The percentage is calcu lated on the most 
popular and innovative models of cellphone handsets.  21Introduction
Hot TopicsHot Topics 
Sustainability concerns all the company’s processes but certain matter are of particular im-
portance and are consequently given special attention in implementing the model of Corporate Responsibility defi  ned by the company. These are the “hot topics” of Sustainability which have been identifi  ed by Telecom Italia Group on the basis of:
 requests made by the Sustainability rating agencies for admission to the indexes they man-
age, through questionnaire assessing the Group’s performance;
 requests from investors during the dedicated road shows or one-to-one contacts;
 analysis of the media and reports published by the specialist agencies;
 benchmarking of Sustainability activities carried out by other companies, in Italy and abroad.
Subject Stakeholder Telecom Italia’s commitment Reference
Customer Care Customers, 
Human ResourcesAttention to the needs of the customers 
and the improvement to the level of their satisfaction are among the principal objectives of Telecom Italia and are the subject of numerous projects and initiatives. Customers/Focus on 
Customers/Customer Satisfaction
Digital Divide Customers, 
Institutions, The CommunityThe dissemination of telecommunications 
technologies can create social and geographical discrimination. The risk of exclusion is high above all for certain population bands, including the elderly, the sick and disabled.  Telecom Italia has undertaken numerous initiatives to ensure the wide availability of the new technologies. Customers/Digital Divide, 
The Community/Main activities 2008 
Radio Base Stations
and electromagnetismCustomers, 
Institutions, The Environment, The CommunityTelecom Italia uses technological 
solutions that allow the optimization of electromagnetic emissions, and adopts co-sharing solutions with other operators. The Environment/
Electromagetic and noise emissions 
Energy and climate 
change Customers, 
Supplier, Institutions, The Environment, The CommunityThe Group undertakes to reduce its 
emissions through energy saving, recourse to alternative energy sources and promoting the dematerialisation of goods and services.  The Environment/Climate 
change
Supply chain and 
product responsibilitySuppliers, 
The Environment, The CommunityWith the globalisation of the markets and 
supply, control of the supply chain has become an essential element in the sustainability of businesses.The Group is taking a series of actions aimed at protecting the environment and working standards and promoting the principles of the Life Cycle Assessment checks. Suppliers/Main initiatives 
in Sustainability, The Environment/ Product responsibility/Environment Project 
Innovation Customers, 
Institutions, The Environment, The CommunityThe competitive context and the evolution 
of technologies in the ICT sector mean that the capacity to innovate is an important, competitive lever. The new TLC services can contribute to ever greater improvement in the public’s quality of life, and in diminishing the environmental impact of human activities.   Customers/Research and 
innovation in e-security, Experimentation with innovative services  - The Community/Research and Development
WEB content Customers, 
Institutions The proliferation of the Internet is a great 
opportunity but it can also be a source of danger, above all for minors. Telecom Italia has undertaken a series of measures for their protection.  Customers/Research and 
innovation in e-security, Protection of Minors
Intangibles All The accurate representation of the 
intangibles generated internally assumed a growing importance in the dialogue between companies and investors. Telecom Italia is co-leader of the laboratory evaluating the non-fi  nancial performance activated within the context of the Alliance with the European Commission launched in March, 2006.Introduction/Results22Introduction
Stakeholder InvolvementStakeholder Involvement 
The involvement of the stakeholders in the decision-making process of the business forms 
part of the Sustainability strategy pursued by Telecom Italia and is achieved mainly through the following initiatives:
Stakeholder Instrument used Chapter
Customers Collaboration with consumers’ associations, which in some cases 
has involved directly the top management, is based on meetings designed to guarantee the protection of customers’ rights regarding products and services supplied by the Group, and to inform the associations about organisational changes that could impact on customers. 
To value and support those who work in the call centres, the 
“Campus” and “Tuo” projects were launched. Based on the social network concept, the projects are founded on the wide involvement of interested operators. Customers/
Relations with the consumers’ associations  
Customers/
Customer Satisfaction
Suppliers The fi  rst e-community of the main suppliers, presently active just for 
the fi  rms operating in the network works sector, has been launched, with the aim of improving communication with and among the suppliers, mainly on subjects regarding social and environmental sustainability.
The second survey into the level of satisfaction with Purchasing 
Department, and with Telecom Italia in general, has been carried out among the Group’s main suppliers. The on line questionnaire, made up of 28 questions, remained active for two weeks, and the analysis involved 688 suppliers with access to the Supplier Portal. 
From 2006, Telecom Italia Group has participated in the study 
and strategic direction workgroup into Sustainability and Integrity in Relations with Suppliers (SIRF) which involves some of the most important Italian companies operating in the services and manufacturing sector. Suppliers/
Main sustainabilityinitiatives 
Competitors The Group participates in the activities of numerous associations 
with competitors at the national and international levels.  
At the conclusion of the dialogue that was entered into, Telecom 
Italia assumed precise commitments with regard to AGCOM to improve the effectiveness of the administrative separation, introduced in 2002, between the Wholesale Area, that sells services to other operators, and the Retail Area. These commitments take into consideration the proposals for the integration and modifi  cations put forward by AGCOM, the considerations of 
consumers’ associations and competing operators. 
The implementation has continued of the agreement signed 
between Telecom Italia and Vodafone Italia to share mobile network access sites as regards the passive infrastructure. In 2008, co-siting was in effect in 1,350 sites.Competitors/
Organisations and associations
Competitors/
Commitments regarding the access network  
The Environment/
Electromagnetic and noise emissions
Institutions To reduce the digital divide, numerous agreements have been 
signed with the Public Administration, among which is the Protocol of Understanding with the Liguria Region and the Letter of Intent withe the Umbria Region. They aim at developing broadband through public support for the development in demand of network services.  
In 2008, the activities of supervision and communication to prevent 
the dissemination of child pornography have been intensifi  ed. The companies of the Group have formed a management team to deal with abuse called “Abuse Desks”, which collaborates with the competent authorities in identifying and reporting any cases of child pornography on the Group’s networks. Customers/
Digital Divide
Customers/
Protection of Minors
The Environment Together with the main players in the sector, Telecom Italia has 
taken part in defi  ning a Code of Conduct, supported by the European Union through the Joint Research Centre (JRC) and ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association) for the containment of energy consumption by BroadBand and Data Centre equipment. The Environment/
Energy23Introduction
Stakeholder InvolvementThe Community Many initiatives in support of the Community have been planned 
and realised in partnership with Institutions and NGOs, in order to direct efforts towards meeting the needs of the Community. Among these were:
the “Solidarity Ponies”, an initiative arising out of the • 
collaboration with Social Policies Councils and Volunteer Associations of the  towns involved, and aimed at providing free assistance at home to the over 65s;“Music in schools”, in partnership with the Brazilian • 
government: a programme to promote the social inclusion of socially at-risk children and adolescents through the teaching of music; “!Sou ligado” (I am connected!), a project born out of the • 
partnership with the non-governmental organisation, Visão Mundial, to improve the economic activities of small and medium businesses through the use of mobile telephones. The Community/
Main activities in 2008
Human Resources In May, 2008, the sixth edition of the survey on staff attitude was 
undertaken involving all Group personnel in Italy and abroad.  On a scale of 1 to 10, satisfaction levels were registered at 6.35 in Italy, 5.8 in Germany  and 7.36 in Brazil.
The community on the Intranet, created in 2007 and dedicated to the 
Group’s social solidarity initiatives, has seen an increase in employee participation in every section. Forums have been staged to share and collect suggestions and ideas from employees on subjects such as Service Quality (the “Improvement by small steps” Project) and innovation in products and services (Next Open Innovation). All the participants of Next Open Innovation also forms part of the community of those who try out the most advanced TLC services. From the end of 2006, in partnership with Marketing department, the listening project, “The Lighthouse” was launched to involve employees in putting forward ideas and opinions in subjects of interest to the company, and to try out the Group’s new products and services.  So far, the “Lighthouse” club has attracted 2,500 members, taking part in trying out services such as “Alice Messenger”, “Wireless Connection Manager”, “Ikids” and “Dynamic TV”.Human Resources/
Internal communication
Shareholders
The company has organised more than 200 formal meeting with the 
market in addition to the regular contacts through direct meetings and telephone conversations. One road show was aimed specifi  cally at SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) investors and was staged in two European markets (Paris and Frankfurt.) 
The fi  nancial channel of communication with individual (retail) 
shareholders is operational through the Shareholders’ Club “TI Alw@ys ON” (www.telecomitaliaclub.it). Launched in 2006, the Club is open to anyone who wishes to receive information on the progress of the shares on the markets and how Group is developing its business. Even those who do not own shares in the Company can, in fact, sign up for basic access to the shareholders’ club and obtain the same free services available to shareholders.  
Telecom Italia is co-leader of the laboratory evaluating the non-fi  nancial 
performance activated within the context of the Alliance with the European Commission launched on March 22, 2006. To encourage dialogue on the subject, a process of consultation has been launched with companies, investors, representatives of academia and stakeholders through a round of meetings (focus groups) in Italy and abroad. In order to carry out the consultation process, an Internet site (
www.investorvalue.org ) was launched through which it was possible to 
express an opinion on the documentation produced by the laboratory up until February 28, 2009. Shareholders/
Financial communication
Shareholders/
Financial communication
Introduction/
Results
Further information about the projects shown in the table is available on the Sustainability channel 
on the Group’s Internet site.External
stakeholders27External stakeholders
CustomersCustomers
 Strategy
The companies of the Telecom Italia Group base the excellence of their products and services 
on their care of customers and their willingness to meet their requests. The objective sought is to ensure an immediate, effective response to customers’ needs, modelling conduct on proper busi-ness conduct, transparency in dealings and contractual commitments, courtesy and collaboration, the underlying viewpoint being that the customer has a central role, in full compliance with the principles of conduct wich are detailed through appropriate company procedures. In such a con-text, collaboration with Consumer’s Associations, through the stipulation of agreements in specifi  c areas, is highly prized, also through the stipulation of agreements in specifi  c areas.
 Focus on Customers
Some of the main initiatives undertaken by the Group to increase customer satisfaction are 
listed below. 
  The “Evolution” project has the goal of ensuring customers meet with clarity and a defi  nite 
schedule for the activation of telephone lines and data services. The front-end operator will agree the date and time of visits by technicians to the customer’s premises; in the event an appointment has to be changed, due to a request from the customer or technical diffi  cul-ties, a new date will be fi  xed, in full agreement with the customer. The project, launched in 2006, has reached its targets concerning telephony services (residential and business cus-tomers), and broadband (residential customers). Further developments will allow greater fl  exibility in the management of appointments, and the further extension of the procedures to certain broadband services (“Alice Business”) for business customers in order for the project to encompass all customers. 
  The “187.it” portal is an important tool available to Telecom Italia’s residential customers. In 
addition to information about the services, customers may access other options, including: 
  – Invoice viewing
 Customers may view their accounts for the last six two-month periods on line, receive 
clarifi  cation about all the items in the accounts, send queries to Customer Service and receive replies within 24 hours, obtain a complete list of calls, analyse information about traffi  c, check on the status of payments, receive an email advising on the avail-
ability on line of the last invoice issued, and ask for online billing only quitting paper. 
Customers who pay their bills by banker’s standing order and who, between July 15, 2008, and January 13, 2009, opted for online billing, received an hour of free local calls every six months, and are entered in prize draws.The excellence of our 
products and services is based on the care we give to our customers and our willingness to meet their needs.28External stakeholders
Customers  – Your line
 The service allows customers to consult and change on line  their personal data, the 
information displayed in the telephone book, consent to privacy agreements, the ad-dress where the bill is sent, barred call numbers, the way wich they have chosen for their phone line the bill is sent, the services and the discount packages available. 
  – Your records
 The service makes it possible to follow the progress of requests being processed.
  – On line payments 
 Customers may pay their bills on line at no extra charge. 
 A call centre in 9 languages has been established, which distributes information on the list 
of subscribers, chemists’, restaurants, hotels, travel conditions, fl  ights and trains, weather 
forecasts, the cinema and even about socially useful matters such as residence permits, visas, and searches for accommodation and jobs.  
  For micro-business and business customers, the “191.it” website has been enhanced with 
a Human Digital Assistant (HDA) which helps and guides customers in navigating and solving problems on line .    
  For those services that can be accessed through the telephone numbers 187 and 191, the 
option has been introduced of creating a personal IVR (Interactive Voice Response) code with which it is possible to use all the services, even if the call is made from a fi  xed telephone 
number other than the subscriber’s own, or from a mobile. The code protects the client’s privacy. In addition, customers are offered the option of activating a new service, “TI Alert”,  
which sends a message in the event the level of usage goes over a certain threshold.
  For corporate customers, an integrated fi  xed line/mobile toll free number has been intro-
duced, 800.191.101, which replaces the old customer care numbers. Using the number, large and medium-to-large companies can get in touch with their dedicated operators. A new multi-channel platform supports email messaging in addition to the telephone assistance.  
  Mobile telephone Customer Care has been enhanced with new automatic (“non-human”) 
functionalities, such as the self-diagnosis of problems and email messaging, with special emphasis on the multi-channel aspect, that is, the possibility to make use of such services from a cell phone or a computer. Steps have been taken to improve the technology controlling the effi  ciency of the call centres, and new initiatives have been launched for the training, de-
velopment and provision of incentives for personnel in direct contact with customers.  Finally, various projects dedicated to the evolution of the platforms wich are used in the process leading to customer assistance have been completed.  
  Technical Assistance for Alice services
  – Consumer Assistance Portal
 The technical assistance portal, “aiuto.alice.it”, is constantly updated with the informa-
tion necessary to allow customers to independently resolve problems that may emerge during the roll-out of new offers or products. The portal is integrated with auto-diagnostic software, “Alice ti Aiuta” (Alice helps you), which guides the customer through the resolu-tion of the problem, or else allows the transfer of information gleaned during the diagnos-tic phase to a technical assistance operator. A virtual assistant helps the client navigate the portal. In addition, in the course of the year, the option of checking progress on reported faults by customers was made available.  
  – Business Assistance Portal
 The new assistance portal aimed at Business customers, ‘aiutobusiness.alice.it’, was 
launched in October. The site contains information and guides to independently resolv-ing problems connected to broadband services. A virtual assistant is available at the portal.
 Customer Satisfaction
Telecom Italia listens to its customers through a system that encompasses both their overall 
assessment over time of all contacts with Telecom Italia, and their specifi  c evaluation of the most recent contacts (for example, the activation of an ADSL line, a request for information or a compli-ant). These assessment are used to improve the organisational processesdures with the aim of supplying a service that is ever more responsive to customers’ needs.  29External stakeholders
CustomersThe Customer  Satisfaction surveys carried out by the company are of two kinds:
 The “refl  ective” survey is based on the overall, considered perceptions of the customer, 
and is not therefore connected to a moment in time when contact was made for some spe-cifi  c reason. This method permits the analysis of the causal relationships that determine the customer’s level of satisfaction. This survey, similar to the one used for the ACSI (Ameri-can Customer Satisfaction Index), yields an indicator which is stable and has a predictive capacity, and that can be used to make comparisons between sectors and countries. This indicator furnishes important suggestions about the levers that can be employed to im-prove the levels of Customer Satisfaction. This type of survey has been extended to cover all categories of customers, consumer and business;
 The “reactive” survey is conducted immediately after the specifi  c event that is the object 
of the inquiry (a contact with the Call Centre). Those interviewed are asked to express, with the experience of the call still fresh in their minds, an overall assessment of the service re-ceived (overall satisfaction) and an assessment of the individual aspects of the experience (for example, the time of the wait to speak to an operator, courtesy and competence).
The information contained in the following two tables was obtained through the fi  rst of the two 
kinds of surveys listed above and refers to the 2008 progressive weighted average. 
   Customer segment Satisfaction with 
access service (*)Satisfaction 
with billing (*)
Fixed telephonyConsumer 7.98 7.14
Business 7.59 6.56
 Customer segment Satisfaction with 
network coverage (*)Satisfaction 
with billing (*)
Mobile telephonyConsumer 8.34 7.60
Business 8.10 6.97
(*)  Average satisfaction on a scale of 1-10, where 1 means “completely unsatisfi  ed” and 10 “completely satisfi  ed”. 
The information contained in the following table was obtained through the second of the two kinds 
of surveys listed above and it refers to the 2008 progressive weighted average.  
Customer satisfaction with Customer Care
Customer segment Overall 
satisfaction (*)Courtesy 
of operator (*)Competence 
of operator (*)
Fixed telephonyConsumer (1)6.63 8.34 7.67
Business (2)6.09 8.13 7.23
Mobile telephonyConsumer(3)7.50 8.74 8.16
Business(4)6.49 8.31 7.32
(*)  Average satisfaction on a scale of 1-10, where 1 means “completely unsatisfi  ed” and 10 “completely satisfi  ed”.  
(1) Assistance provided by the 187 service for information, commercial and administrative calls, connections/disconnections, purch ases, subscriber 
switches, claims and reminders.
(2) Assistance given by the 191 service for information, marketing and administrative calls, connections/disconnections, purchases , subscriber 
switches, claims and reminders.
(3) Assistance given by the 119 Service for information, commercial and administrative calls, changes and claims.
(4) Assistance given by the Mobile Business Toll Free Number for information, commercial and administrative calls, changes and cla ims.
In addition to surveys about the fi  xed and mobile telephone services, particular attention is paid 
to the satisfaction levels of ADSL customers. Surveys were conducted in 2008 among broadband customers to discover their levels of awareness and their opinions of consumers, the potential for future demand, and any opportunity to introduce innovations and widen the ADSL offer. 30External stakeholders
CustomersCustomer satisfaction within the management incentives scheme 
Telecom Italia’s short-term management incentives scheme provides, among the targets for all 
those within the scheme, one linked to customer satisfaction. This target is measured through the Customer Satisfaction indices for fi  xed and mobile telephones, which are weighted averages of the specifi  c, basic indicators for each customer segment, monitored through the above mentioned “refl  ective” fi  rst surveys (“ACSI compliant”).
The involvement of the call centre operators
To support and help the people who work on Customer Care processes, two projects based on 
the concept of the “social network” were conducted, which were a real help, both in the rapid dis-semination and sharing of information among personnel and in bringing the customer’s voice within the company:  
 CAMPUS is an educational social network for people who respond to the toll free numbers 
for residential and business customers for mobile services. The project is characterised by the extent of customisation that the system allows each participant; operators man-age their own profi  le containing both company and personal information. These profi  les are linked to and accessible from every other content produced on the same platform (in forums, blogs etc.). The outcome is a snapshot, updated in real time, of the person’s competence, immediately available both to managers and other colleagues, without pass-ing through an intermediary. Alongside the information entered by the operators, a network of “experts” guarantees ready answers to the various subjects that can arise in handling customers’ requests.
 TUO (meaning “your”, an acronym for the Italian for Find, Use and Organise) is a digital 
platform supporting call centre operators engaged in the continuous process of searching for and identifying the information required to better help customers. In developing the plat-form, customer care telephone operators were consulted, and their experience unleashed a wealth of valuable suggestions about how to deal with any problems connected to handling customer calls, in the most direct, simple and effi  cient way. TUO is a dynamic tool that of-fers users the option of inserting their own suggestions and those of the customer, and of creating a social network of collaboration among colleagues, who are the components of a virtual community sharing knowledge and solutions.
 Certiﬁ  cations
Those aspects of the company that have a signifi  cant impact on the products and services of-
fered and, more generally, on the community, are subject to certifi  cation, in order to ensure the adop-
tion of procedures and conduct that are in line with the expectations of the relevant stakeholders. In particular, the care of customers and the quality of the products and services offered is rec-ognised by the certifi  cate UNI EN ISO 9001:2000, concern for the environment is the basis of the certifi  cate UNI EN ISO 14001:2004, health and safety at work is certifi  ed under the provi-sions of the regulation BS OHSAS 18001:2007 and data security is certifi  ed under regulation ISO 27001:2005.In the following table, the certifi  cates obtained by the various Departments/Companies of the Group, for particularly signifi  cant company procedures and activities, are listed. More information is available on the website www.telecomitalia.it (Sustainability/Our model/Cer-tifi  cation).31External stakeholders
CustomersCompany  Certifi  cate Department
Telecom Italia S.p.A.ISO 9001 Departments:  Domestic Fixed Services(*) and Top Client & ICT Services(*), 
Open Access, Domestic Mobile Services(*) - Sales Consumer(*), Technology & 
Operations, PurchasingCompanies checked: TI Sparkle, Elettra Tlc, Path.Net, Loquendo, Telsy
ISO 14001 Departments: Technology & Operations, Purchasing - Real estate and Facility Management acquisition, Domestic Fixed Services - Customer Operations (Front End and Back Offi  ce of Customer Care: offi  ces in Rome and Naples)Companies checked: TI Sparkle, Elettra Tlc
ISO 27001 ICT departments of Technology & Operations
OHSAS 18001 Domestic Fixed Services - Customer Operations (Front End and Back Offi  ce of Customer Care: offi  ces in Rome and Naples) 
Olivetti S.p.A. ISO 9001 Departments: Business & Market Development, Product & Technology 
Development, Industrial Operations, Market Communication
ISO 14001 Olivetti Plant of Arnad (AO)
Brazil ISO 9001 Company: Tim Brasil s.a., Tim Nordeste s.a.
(*)   At the end of 2008, the Domestic Fixed Services Department, Top Client & ICT Services, and Domestic Mobile Services were reo rganised into the 
Consumer Market Department, Business Market, and Top Client Market & Network IT Services; during 2009, the certifi  cates present ly held by these 
organisations will be brought into line with the new organisational parameters.
The following certifi  cations are planned for 2009:
 Certifi  cate UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 for the Open Access Department  –
 Certifi  cate BS OHSAS 18001:2007 for the Italian sites of Sparkle (one of the Group’s fully  –
owned subsidiaries). 
 Digital Divide
The spread of information and communications technology creates considerable opportunities for 
progress for the public. Telecom Italia is aware of the need to manage this development in the best possible way, more and more taking on the role of “market maker” and assuming the responsibility of coordinating the actions of all the actors in the broadband ecosystem, in order to avoid exposing the Community to the risk of a technological divide due to geographic and socio-cultural reasons. 
 
Geographical Digital Divide
In 2006, in line with a new model for development based on public incentives, Telecom Italia 
launched an important Anti Digital Divide Plan, aimed at covering, at low cost, the largest pos-sible number of towns which either generate low revenues or are not as yet provided with optical infrastructure. The Plan provides for the best combination of a mix of innovative, technological solutions on one hand and, on the other hand, of methods of raising the necessary investments. At the end of 2008, 96% of Telecom Italia’s total fi  xed lines were within ADSL coverage, and around 54% were covered by IPTV.  As regards the accessibility of BroadBand on mobiles, the percentage of residents covered by Telecom Italia through UMTS at the end of 2008 was 80.7%. The same percentage was able to access another important mobile technology, HSDPA, which allows speeds of 3.6 Mbp/s.From the point of view of local investment, cooperation with regional authorities takes place ac-cording to two principal means of intervention: the fi  rst is “contributive” i.e., based on direct fi  nan-cial incentives (in accordance with the regulatory framework in matters of state aid), the second is “collaborative”, based on supporting potential demand. Examples of both types of intervention are listed below.Under the contributive model, adopted in recent years in Tuscany and Sardinia and repeated in Sar-dinia in 2008, the operator is given a contribution for the extension of BroadBand coverage to areas of so-called market failure (the Scottish model). In this case, the commitment of Telecom Italia (the 
contracting operator) is to create and maintain, for a period of at least 15 years, a fi  bre optic infra-
structure for the inclusion of businesses and residencial areas still trapped in the Digital Divide. The collaborative model includes some of the main agreements signed by Telecom Italia during 2008, among them the Protocol of Agreement with Liguria and the Letter of Intent with Umbria. Both have the objective of increasing the development of broadband through public support to the growth of demand network services. In order to manage Digital Divide issues, Telecom Italia, 32External stakeholders
Customersthrough a Digital Divide workgroup, in 2008 has continued the development and implementation 
of an IT platform which supports both operations and decision-making, known as the “Digital Divide Project” (DDP) . The DDP contains the complete map of ADSL, ADSL 2+, 20M/IPTV coverage across 
Italian territory. The DDP is used not only for the daily management of the requests and complaints that are intrinsic to broadband, but also to steer, as far as possible, network operations towards those localities most exposed to the Digital Divide.   The year 2008 ended with “Digital Divide Day”. The event, organised within Telecom Italia, saw the participation of the Chief Executive Offi  cer and the President. The workshop was the opportunity to exchange ideas on the phenomenon, and the occasion made even more evident the primary role assumed by the company in overcoming the digital barrier.  
Socio-cultural Digital Divide
The Digital Divide, in the generic sense of divergence in the accessibility of the new opportuni-
ties offered by the new ICT technologies is not only a specifi  c problem of ADSL coverage, but it must also be seen under a different point of view, that is, with references among economic and social categories.  In this light, the main areas for intervention by the Telecom Italia Group in order to reduce the socio-cultural digital divide are:
 dissemination of the culture and services of ICT;
 support for the elderly and the disabled;
 interventions in the developing countries where the Group operates.
Further information on the individual areas of intervention can be found in chapter, The Community. 
 Research and innovation in e-security
Research and development in the information security sector have mainly focused on:
 the planning and development of innovative tools for monitoring and protecting the new net-
work and service infrastructure, with particular attention on the Next Generation Network (NGN) and the Next Generation Data Centres (NGDC);
 experimentation and development of technologies for the automatic management of data 
protection under various risk scenarios and security targets;  
 services for the integrated protection of work stations and mobile handsets; 
 innovative solutions for user authentication to ensure secure access to systems and serv-
ices. In this sphere, of particular interest are the results obtained by installing, on the lat-est generation of terminals, strong authentication technology. This is a type of recognition based on at least two factors, in the wake of what has been done in the past for biometric recognition (for example, facial recognition), that allows the development of innovative serv-ices linked to tele-ticketing or mobile payment in ways which are more secure and easer to use, above all for those less familiar with using the traditional mechanisms of security;
 new algorithms for the protection of sensitive data. 
Further information on the activities carried out to improve data security from the point of view of the protection of privacy is available in the Shareholders chapter.
 Research and development of innovative services
The main tests on innovative services, designed by the laboratories of Telecom Italia Group in 
collaboration with research institutes and universities in Italy and abroad, are listed below. 
Assistance Services
Telecom Italia’s e-Health platform permits the distribution of services in the health sector at lo-
cal, regional and national levels. The principal tele-medical services provided by the platform are: 
 Tele-assistance: Remote assistance services for the elderly or those in diffi  culty, by control-
ling parameters such as heart rate, body temperature and movement. The service includes the option of asking for help manually through a Panic Button, or automatically through sen-sors placed strategically in the home. Communication with the service centre is achieved through the use of ZigBee technology, incorporated in the videophones or mobile handsets. 
 Tele-monitoring: the monitoring of diabetic, cardiac and bronchial patients etc., operating 
both in the home and outside.  33External stakeholders
Customers Geofencing service: support that gives patients with mental disabilities outside mobility 
through the identifi  cation of safe areas and the use of the localisation functionalities of the handset and the mobile network.
 Tele-consultation: an integrated system of video communication that allows, in addition to 
audiovisual communications, remote transmission of data and bio-images (radiography, scans, CAT , etc.)  
 The creation of electronic health fi  les and digital clinical records for local health agencies 
and hospitals.
Further information about assistance services can be found in the section, The Community/Main activities 2008/Business Basics. 
E-Learning
These are solutions enabling fully-developed didactic services based on collaboration, com-
munication and the active involvement of end users. Telecom Italia is a provider of complete solu-tions, developed on a platform of fl  exible and scalable services, which bring together: 
 computer applications including e-learning, collaboration, video conferencing, e-knowledge 
management and e-gaming that take advantage of integration with Virtual Reality environ-ments like Second Life;
 specialised consultancy training content  supplied by the main content providers and by 
consultancy companies. 
E-Tourism
A platform for the management and provisioning of tourism services, meant for fi  rms working in 
the fi eld and for local authorities. The platform offers interactive maps, multi-channel portals, smart 
ticketing and a virtual tourist guide, available on mobile phones, with information about points of in-terest, be they artistic or practical (consulates, tourist offi  ces, police stations, means of transport).
Tele-working
These are tele-working solutions whose principal features are Virtual Private Network access, 
Security functionalities, video-communications and Web 2.0 applications.  Future developments will open up the use of virtual environments and telepresence.
E-Government
A platform for the process of digitalization of Public Administration services such as, for ex-
ample, services to manage citizens’ data, tax management, land registry management, wireless management of the operations of the municipal police. 
Infomobility 
Telecom Italia and Magneti Marelli have launched a consortium for new infomobility services in 
order to develop and market an open technological platform that guarantees a constant connec-tion with information and entertainment services, which will help drivers make more responsible choices, thus reducing traffi  c congestion (ecodriving). The system will permit integration between the automotive and ICT environments, thanks to an in-car digital system that allows the vehicle to communicate with the software applications of various service  providers. This application can 
be used by public authorities to supply information on the condition of the roads, and by compa-nies with fl  eets of company cars to track the location of vehicles and put them in touch with each other.Among the solutions and certifi  ed services are: 
 Information on the road network and traffi  c conditions, payment services, navigation servic-
es. An example is the management of traffi  c on motorways, in partnership with Autostrade S.p.A.
 Electronic management of paid parking spaces: the location of the user of the service is 
monitored through their mobile terminals so that the system can tell the user the best park-
ing spaces and the routes to get to them, identifying any parking permits and applying the 
correct tariff.
 Dynamic management of the access of motor vehicles to regulated urban areas through 
personal mobile phone systems or devices placed in the vehicles. 34External stakeholders
Customers Protection of Minors
To protect minors from adult content and, more generally, from content that may harm their psy-
chological and physical development (for example, violent or racist content or content that offends religious sentiment), the Group’s companies have taken the following actions. 
 Guidelines have been issued for the classifi  cation and control of content distributed by 
the Group. These guidelines cover not only content that is offered directly but also content offered by third parties providing their own services on space acquired within Telecom Italia’s portals.
 Filtering systems and procedures governing adult material offered by the Group on the In-
ternet have been defi  ned. These measures are designed to prevent minors accessing the adult content available on the Group’s portals.
 In order to allow Customers, and in particular minors, to explore the web in a secure manner, 
Telecom Italia provides the Alice Total Security service which, thanks to antivirus software, a centralised fi  rewall and Parental Controls, protects internet navigation from any attacks or 
digital threats.  In addition, specifi  c software for minors is available, called Alice Magic Desk-
top, which, as well as allowing children to use the computer in a simple and entertaining way, also allows parents to control and choose the sites that minors can access, and to manage the address book so that it is only possible to exchange emails with known persons. 
 Regarding premium services, Telecom Italia restricts access to services with obscene con-
tent – which are not part of the services offered by the Group – to users with Personal Identifi  cation Numbers (PIN).
 The Group’s television services do not transmit content that would require fi  ltering sys-
tems. Methods of transmission are in accordance with the current regulatory framework and conform to the guidelines above.
In 2008, operations to combat child pornography were intensifi  ed. 
On Telecom Italia’s institutional portal, a themed area has been created, dedicated to the Protec-tion of Minors and aimed at informing and making fi  nal users aware of the values and objectives pursued in order to protect minors. In this area, a form is available to report, even anonymously, any illegal activities involving child pornography encountered while navigating the Internet. Furthermore, a specifi  c internal document has been drawn up with the aim of speeding up the identifi  cation of cases of presumed child pornography and immediately activating the procedure of informing the competent authorities. 
The point of contact between the users of the services distributed and the company, for reporting 
abuse or the improper use of services, is provided by the Abuse Desk operational centres. In ad-dition to solving the problems raised by the reports made by users about abuse involving services offered by the Group, the Abuse Desks, which are divided into types of services (residential and business), also inform the competent authorities of relevant incidents, such as the existence of child pornography on the Group’s networks, through a Postal Police representative. 
For the interactive services, like Chats, Forums and Blogs, offered by the Group’s service suppli-
ers, a system of prevention has been put in place based on the presence of moderators, who are charged with the task of identifying and reporting the existence of illicit material and blocking its dissemination.
 Relations with Consumer’s Associations 
Telecom Italia Group pays the utmost attention to the protection of consumers’ interests, and 
to its relations with the associations that represent them, in the context of reciprocal, steadfast collaboration and transparency of information.Collaboration with consumer associations was begun in 1983. Over the years, various agreements have been reached and Telecom Italia Group actively collaborates with the major national associa-tions that protect consumers’ interests. Such collaboration involves meetings aimed both at guaranteeing the protection of customers’ rights relating to new products and services supplied by the Group, and presenting the main organisational development projects that might impact on customers (for example, the reorganisation of some 35External stakeholders
Customerscustomer care procedures on the ways in which customers are informed concerning the option of 
enabling/barring non-geographic phone numbers through an appropriate PIN code).The company’s senior executives regularly meet with consumer associations to ensure a recipro-cal exchange of information and to agree the principal measures to be adopted in order to resolve problems that customers may encounter.Telecom Italia regularly conveys the following information to the associations:
 Conto Telecom Italia which includes information updated monthly, reported in the “Telecom 
News” section of Conto Telecom Italia, about price changes, launches of new services and offers, institutional information and, in general, useful information for the customer;
 On line with You, which gives a summary of institutional information, usually about tar-
iff changes and initiatives  undertaken to comply with specifi  c regulations, published by 
Telecom Italia in the major national newspapers.
The recent updating of the Charter of Services and General Conditions of Subscription should also be noted, on the basis of which, from 18/11/08, the commitment was made to inform customers of the time scheduled for visits by technicians to customers’ premises. As a consequence, the provision contained in the General Conditions of Subscription regarding the method of assessing compensation in the event the terms of contract are breached, including failure to keep the time scheduled, has been placed alongside other commitments in the Charter of Services.   In its role as founding member, the Group participates in the Consumers’ Forum, which brings together consumer associations, businesses and research institutes to discuss consumer related matters.
Conciliation
One outcome of the collaboration with the associations is the equal conciliation procedures 
which, since 1991, have brought the resolution of around 60,000 disputes with customers.These procedures operate under the “parity” model, which provide for direct responsibility on the two parties: the customer, who mandates full negotiating power to resolve the dispute to the rep-resentative of the association he/she chooses; and the company, which participates through its own representative, also furnished with an equivalent mandate. The discussions on the request for conciliation takes place under the auspices of the conciliation secretaries, which are hosted in Telecom Italia offi  ces all over Italy. The procedure is completely free of charge for the customer. Starting with the presentation of the demand, and for 45 days thereafter, Telecom Italia ceases any operations regarding the customer and undertakes to produce within that term a proposal to resolve the dispute. The dispute is concluded with the drawing up of the minutes of conciliation, which the customer may choose to sign or not. In the event both parties sign, the conciliation decisions come into force immediately. A customer who decides not to sign the minutes is free to pursue any normal legal procedures they consider appropriate. The conciliation procedure is avail-able to Telecom customers only if and when the normal complaints procedures have concluded in an unsatisfactory manner, and in any case does not preclude the consumer from the option of taking the normal legal/administrative steps.In the course of 2008, the Protocol of Understanding was also signed by Codacons and by the “Consumer Counter” Association of San Marino.In this way, the number of signatories to the Protocol has risen to 19, bearing witness to the ef-fi  ciency of the conciliation instrument for the Group’s customers/consumers.During 2008, the European Commission and some important Italian service companies displayed great interest in Telecom Italia’s conciliation procedures. 36External stakeholders
SuppliersSuppliers
 Strategy
The companies of Telecom Italia Group ensure that the acquisition process is aimed at the pro-
curement of products and services under the best possible market conditions, at the same time guaranteeing the prerequisites of quality, safety and respect for the environment. The process of acquisition is based on a competitive comparison of the technical/economic offerings of suppli-ers, selected on the basis of well-founded company procedures at Group level, and bearing the hallmark of ethical dealings.The Group is committed to guaranteeing the quality of the acquisition process and its continual im-provement, in the light, too, of green procurement, obtaining the respective certifi  cation of quality. 
 General matters
The process of selection, assessment and control of Telecom Italia Group‘s suppliers is achieved, 
for high risk categories of commodities, through a pre-contractual phase of evaluation in which the economic/fi  nancial and technical/organisational characteristics of the potential supplier are assessed, with a view to inclusion on the Group’s Register of Suppliers.The Groups requires of every supplier a declaration of commitment, on behalf of the company in question and any authorised sub-contractors, collaborators and employees, to observe the princi-ples of ethics and conduct contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. Thereafter, companies on the Register of Suppliers which, following competitive tendering, have received acquisition orders, are usually subject to controls throughout the course of supply, which range from Vendor Rating (the systematic assessment of the supply) monitoring to Incoming Qual-ity Control (mandatory for the acceptance and use of the goods acquired).Further details on these activities can be found in the section “Acquisti” of the Supplier Portal(
http://suppliers.telecomitalia.it/ ).
 Controls
In the course of the year, in the technical fi  eld, around 17,000 checks have been carried out on 
the execution of work, which focused in the main on the installation phase of new equipment, the distribution of services and work, and the maintenance of the network.
A summary of the main controls carried out on suppliers in the Purchasing Department during 
2008 now follows: 
 Supplier Evaluation: 1,070 evaluations have been carried out on 557 suppliers, of which 
119 produced negative outcomes, and 126 in which judgement was reserved for a speci-fi  ed period of time.The purchasing process 
takes account of the best market conditions and respect for the prerequisites of quality, safety and the protection of the environment.37External stakeholders
Suppliers Subcontractor Evaluation: 354 evaluation checks carried out, with 32 negative outcomes;
 Vendor Rating monitoring: 80 six-monthly reports issued, concerning 344 suppliers and 43 
categories of acquisition.
 Technical-organisational audits at the suppliers’ headquarters for Incoming Quality controls 
regarding products and services: 503 product batches were checked, of which 52 were blocked for non-conformity.
 Technical-organisational audits at the suppliers’ headquarters for evaluation procedures: 
203 checks were carried out on 142 suppliers, of which 23 produced negative outcomes, and 17 in which judgement was reserved for a specifi  ed period of time.
 Technical/organisational audits at the headquarters of high-risk subcontractors (equipment/
operational activities) for evaluation procedures and authorisations of use on the part of supplying businesses: 147 checks on 121 suppliers were carried out, of which 5 produced negative outcomes, and 10 in which judgement was reserved for a specifi  c period of time.
 Main Sustainability initiatives 
The following initiatives were undertaken during 2008:
 the “Guidelines for the Evaluation of the Life Cycle of the Products”, (issued at the end of 
2006), were applied to 22 products. These guidelines allow the assessment, through an eco-compatibility index, of how far acquired goods, that are managed or marketed by the Group, meet the prerequisites of the key environmental requirements; and that they are designed, realised, used and discarded in such a way as to facilitate the management of the entire life cycle, from the environmental and economic point of view.
 The product families to which the guidelines are applied are defi  ned on the basis of the 
volume acquired, their impact on the company’s reputation, the economic and legal risks and dangers. They are:–  products that are intended for marketing (telephone terminals, switchboards, fax ma-
chines, modems);
–  offi  ce products (computers and peripherals, photocopiers, paper, consumables such as 
toners, batteries, etc.);
–  network apparatus and materials (poles, mobile phone antennas, cabinets, accumula-
tors, power stations)
 In acknowledgement of the commitment undertaken in 2008, the aforementioned evalua-
tion of the life cycle of the products of 56 suppliers has been integrated with other checks, aimed at assessing, more generally, the initiatives adopted in the areas of Ethics and Sustainability, such as observance of the principles of Ethical Business conduct, and with procedures to ensure the health, safety and rights of workers. These checks also have the objective of promoting the suppliers’ commitment to pursue, together with their own suppli-ers (sub-suppliers of the Group), Sustainability throughout the entire supply chain. 
 Checks have been carried out on the suppliers of subsidiary companies abroad. In particu-
lar, the main suppliers of the subsidiary, Hansenet Telekommunikation GmbH (Germany), have signed up to the principles of Telecom Italia Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct.
 The Group’s Purchasing Department completed, in November, 2008, the certifi  cation pro-
cedure confi  rming its conformity with the prerequisites of the standard ISO 9001:2000 of the “Management System for Quality”, already obtained by some departments in 2007 and now extended to the entire Department. This initiative involved the mapping of the Management processes with the identifi  cation of more than 193 performance indicators that permit the monitoring and improvement of the administration of services supplied to internal clients and suppliers. Furthermore, the Facility Management department obtained the ISO 1400 certifi  cation.
 A second survey was carried out (the fi  rst was conducted in 2007) into the level of satisfac-
tion of the Group’s main suppliers in the Purchasing Area, and in Telecom Italia in general. The on-line questionnaire, made up of 28 questions, was live for two weeks, and the analy-sis involved 688 suppliers with access to the Supplier Portal. The overall average outcome of around 290 questionnaires compiled (with around 43% participation compared to 34% in 2007) was equal to 69/100 (71/100 in 2007). 
 Since 2006, Telecom Italia Group has participated in the work of a study and strategic 
direction group for the Sustainability and Integrity in Dealings with Suppliers (SIRF), which 38External stakeholders
Suppliersinvolves some of the most important Italian companies operating in the service and manu-
facturing division. Following the formalisation of the rules of conduct and the criteria for carrying out the supply procedure, through specifi  c guidelines drawn from the international standards in the area of business responsibility, an assessment was also carried out in 2008 (with reference to the year 2007). Telecom Italia Group’s conformity rating with the SIRF Guidelines, which are produced by a leading independent evaluation company and based on rising scale, was also “optimum” for the year 2007, with an overall improvement in the valuation (the total points were 87.40% against 83.42% in 2006).
 The fi  rst e-community of the main suppliers of the network works’ division has been brought 
on line with the aim of improving communications with and between suppliers, chiefl  y on subjects regarding social and environmental sustainability. The initiative involved the net-work works’  division, which has always been the object of particular attention precisely because of the importance of the question of safety at work that the activity presents.
 In order to guarantee a more effi  cient exchange of information, the e-community has even 
been given its own Internet site, called “TelecHome”, which can be reached through the Supplier Portal by using the appropriate log-in credentials. In this way, the improvement of the interchange within the e-community has been ensured, also thanks to multimedia tools, aimed at:–  integrating best operational practices adopted in specifi  c subject areas;–  publishing the results obtained, in terms of the environmental and social certifi  cation 
attained;
–  carrying out electronic voting campaigns on various initiatives, for the purpose of their 
evaluation.
 Subjects dealing with the correct execution of certain activities with a high risk of accidents 
were discussed during the year. This has permitted the creation of documents listing the best operational methods to be adopted, which has been shared among the participants, and has, thereby, become a valuable resource for the e -community.
 Furthermore, discussions have begun on the management of manufacturing waste, a 
subject that impacts directly on the environmental sustainability of businesses and, con-sequently, of Telecom Italia.
 A second e-community has also been launched for the ICT partner division, which has its 
own discussion site. This too is focused on the subject of social and environmental sustain-ability. The fi  rst theme chosen for discussion regards the method for reducing the energy-consumption and environmental impact of the ICT solutions.
 An overall vendor rating indicator has been defi  ned which considers intersecting aspects of 
the various suppliers, with more general attention on the stakeholder sphere. 
 The indicator has four components:
–  the category vendor rating (40% weighting);–  the Social and Environmental Sustainability index (20% weighting);–  competitiveness (30% weighting);–  the regularity of invoicing (10% weighting).
 The evaluation of the overall level of the performance of the chief suppliers will be carried 
out annually and will allow the creation of a framework of reference that will be useful for the acquisition strategy and for interventions with the said suppliers.
 In particular, the evaluation of the Sustainability Index is arrived at by considering the 
indexes of accidents and contributory propriety, as well as the environmental and social certifi  cation, the level of proactivity in the e-community  and the adoption of initiatives to 
save energy and reduce environmental impact.
 The initial, experimental application to suppliers in the network works’ division has re-
vealed certain areas for improvement in the businesses, including the development of the awareness among the suppliers on the subjects in question, and the pursuit, specifi  cally, of the goal of “zero accidents”. 39External stakeholders
SuppliersTable summarising the 2008 Results vs 2008 Objectives and 2009 Objectives.
Subject 2008 Targets Status 2009 Targets
ISO 9001 and ISO 
14001 certifi  cationCompletion of the ISO 9001 certifi  cation 
of TI Group’s Purchasing Department and ISO 14001 certifi  cation of the Facility Management activities of the same Department.Achieved Maintenance of the ISO 9001 
certifi  cation of TI Group’s Purchasing Department and ISO 14001 certifi  cation of the Facility Management activities of the same Department.
E-community project The development of an e-community 
project through the creation in the Supplier Portal of a multimedia environment for:
publicising policy, standards, − 
specifi  c goals and best practices in the fi  eld of Sustainability;stimulate the initiation of  − 
Sustainability projects;organise electronic voting − 
campaigns for suppliers, on our own Sustainability projects and those of the suppliers.Achieved Development and extension of 
the e-community to more groups of suppliers.  
 Supplier evaluation The calculation of a Global Vendor 
Rating index that takes account of suppliers’ performance  in the fi  eld of environmental and social SustainabilityAchieved Introduction of environmental 
criteria, with a weighting no less than 10%, in the bidding process for some of the main products for marketing. 
Controls on Telecom 
Italia suppliersAn increase of 10% in the scheduled 
checks on suppliers in the areas of Ethics and Sustainability, currently carried out by audit with monitoring conducted on a self-evaluation basis.  Achieved
Controls on suppliers of 
subsidiary companies  The extension of checking activities on the 
main suppliers of the subsidiary, Hansenet Telekommunikation GmbH (Germany) and the requested adherence to the principles of TI Group’s Code of Ethics.  Achieved40External stakeholders
CompetitorsCompetitors
 Strategy
The Group’s companies are committed to promoting fair competition, a factor considered to be 
in the interests of the Group and all those who operate in the market, customers and stakeholders in general.      
 Organisations and associations 
Cooperation with competitors at the national level
Confi  ndustria and National Partner Associations
Telecom Italia is involved in the management of association relations, coordinating lobbying and representation activities with Confi  ndustria and its member associations.The initiatives at the national and local levels, which in some cases are the subject of consultative agreements with competitors, consist of actions and meetings about business development and protecting the company’s interests in the fi  elds of economics, regulations, trade unions and labour.   
The Group is a member of 100 territorial Associations and of the following Federations/Associa-tions in the sector: Confi  ndustria Servizi Innovativi, Asstel, Assoelettrica.
Association in support of the Committee on Minors in TV
In 2003, Telecom Italia Media and MTV signed up to the Code of Self-Regulation for the Protection of Minors in TV . To actively support the work of the Committee in charge of meeting the commit-ments assumed under the Code, an Association was constituted, to which Teleocm Italia Media, Rai, Mediaset, Radio and Television Association and Aeranti-Corallo subscribed. Within the Com-mittee, Telecom Italia Media acts as Vice president representing broadcasters. 
Ugo Bordoni Foundation
Together with other operators in the sector, the Group participates in the Ugo Bordoni Foundation (FUB), which conducts, amongst other things, research, studies and consultation in the communi-cations and information technology sector. The FUB, which by law is entrusted with the technical supervision of experimentation in the fi  eld of digital terrestrial transmission and interactive serv-ices, runs many projects in collaboration with the Ministry of Communications and with other public and private organisations. The contributions Telecom Italia has made to the Bordoni Foundation are included in level 3 of the LBG model, described in “The Community” chapter.
DGTVi
Telecom Italia Media is a member of DGTVi  (National Association for Digital Terrestrial Television) together with Rai, Mediaset, D-Free, Aeranti-Corallo and FRT . Since March 2008, Mediaset has acted as president. 
In 2008, the Association’s activities were concentrated both on the concluding phase of the conver-The companies of the 
Group are committed to the promotion of fair competition.41External stakeholders
Competitorssion from analogue television to digital terrestrial that took place in Sardinia on October 31, and on 
the work begun under the auspices of the task-forces created for each region, which will manage the conversion to digital in 2009: Valle d’Aosta, Piedmont, the provinces of Trento and Bolzano, Lazio and Campania. It should be noted that Telecom Italia Media takes an active part in each task-force.  The Association organised the fourth national conference on digital terrestrial television, which was held in Rome on January 20
th and 21st, 2009. 
National Committee for a Digital Italy – (CNID)
Telecom Italia Media and Telecom Italia take part in the work of the CNID, which brings together all the representatives of the value chain in the digital market. The Committee is chaired by the Undersecretary of State for Communications with two vice presidents (AGCOM and DGTVi) and directs its operations through four different operational groups of the following areas: Networks Technology and Development; Monitoring and Data; Communications and Customer Assistance; Specifi  c Problems in the Public Broadcasting Service.
FRT
Telecom Italia subscribes to the Radio and Television Federation (FRT) in its role as a member of the Presiding Committee. Besides the national and satellite broadcasters, FRT brings together 150 local radio stations.
The Audiovisual and ICT District
Telecom Italia participates in the District, a Consortium of around 60 enterprises that operate in the information technology, telecommunications, networking and media sectors. Supported by the Municipality of Rome, the Union of Industrialists and the Rome Chamber of Commerce, it was established in Italy to represent companies that operate in the multimedia sphere.
HD Forum
Telecom Italia and Telecom Italia Media are founding members of the Forum on High Defi  nition (HD Fo-
rum), which pursues the objective of promoting and disseminating high defi  nition technology in Italy. 
Membership of the Forum enables constant updates about the activities of competitors (in particu-lar, Sky, Mediaset and Fastweb) in the high defi  nition fi  eld and the promotion of initiatives address-ing the questions of regulation and standardisation.   
Auditel
Telecom Italia Media is a partner in Auditel with a shareholding of 3.33% with a representative on the Board of Directors and another on the Technical Committee. Auditel is the only recognised body in Italy for the measurement of viewing fi  gures, including those used by advertising agencies, who base the value of advertising slots on individual television channels on the basis of the rat-ings recorded by Auditel.   
ANFoV
Telecom Italia is a member of ANFoV , the Association for the Convergence of Communications Services which encompasses network operators, Internet service providers, authors, publishers, equipment and terminal manufacturers, suppliers of content, hardware and software platforms, systems integration, access and services, with the aim of encouraging round-table discussions in the search for suitable strategies for the development of an integrated market. 
Collaboration with competitors at the international level
At the international level, Telecom Italia Group collaborates with various organisations and as-
sociations, among which are:
 ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association): an association in the sec-
tor among whose objectives are the development of a competitive and effi  cient European Telecom-
munications market through co-ordination amongst operators and dialogue with institutions; 
 GSMA (GSMA Europe): an association that brings together European mobile phone opera-
tors, whose objectives include the development of the mobile phone and associated services market in Europe, with particular attention to the regulatory aspects; 
 ITU (International Telecommunications Union): a United Nations agency whose objective is 42External stakeholders
Competitorsto promote the establishment, jointly among Governments and the private sector, of interna-
tional technical standards, of operating procedures for wireless services and of programmes for the improvement of the telecommunications infrastructure of developing countries;
 EIF (European Internet Foundation): a foundation aimed at supporting public policies for the 
rapid development of the internet, broadband and information technology: it brings together European parliamentarians, telecommunications operators and manufacturers, software provider, Internet service providers and content providers; 
 ERT (European Round Table of Industrialists): a forum that brings together 45 European indus-
try leaders in order to promote the competitiveness and growth of the European economy; 
 ESF (European Services Forum): an association comprising European operators in the serv-
ices sector, with the aim of promoting the industry’s interests, European services and the liberalisation of services at the global level within the WTO; 
 EABC (European American Business Council): an association whose objective is to support 
and enable a transatlantic dialogue on industrial matters relevant to the European Union and the USA;  
 BRUEGEL (Brussels European and Global Economic Laboratory): European study centres 
dedicated to the critical analysis of the international economy, the principal industrial sec-tors and the role of the EU in the global context;
 ETP (European Telecommunications Platform): brings together TLC operators and manufac-
turers with the aim of promoting and discussing common topics in the fi  eld of telecommu-nications; 
 BIAC (Business and Industry Advisory Committee): represents the industrial associations 
of OCSE countries.
Moreover, the Telecom Italia Group has launched a series of collaborative projects with Telefonica 
designed to deepen reciprocal awareness of the regulatory framework of the two, respective, domestic markets, and to identify opportunities for further investigating economic and regulatory matters regarding the same geographical area.
 Commitments regarding the access network
At the end of the dialogue that was undertaken, Telecom Italia assumed certain precise com-
mitments with regard to AGCOM in order to improve the effi  ciency of the administrative separation, introduced in 2002 (Resolution 152/02/CONS) within the Wholesale Area, for the sale of services to other operators and to the Retail Areas.The commitments take account of the proposals for integration and change put forward by AGCOM, the considerations of consumers’ associations and competitors, and substantially anticipates certainly principles included in the provisions of the European Commission’s Recommendation on NGA (Next Generation Access). The commitments
(2) are subdivided into 14 groups, to which 3 methodological commitments have 
been added (Variation, Deadline, Modulation). They have the following objectives:
 to signifi  cantly integrate and reinforce the current regulatory framework in the area of equal 
treatment, both technical and fi  nancial, with regard to the production procedures of whole-sale access services, by the Open Access Department, charged with the management of the access network;
 to make transparent the fi  nancial conditions of internal transfers (the so-called transfer 
charge) for SPM (Signifi  cant Market Power) services supplied by Open Access to Telecom Italia’s marketing departments, though a separate, Open Access accounting record, which is required to check the equivalence of the transfer charges with the corresponding fi  nan-cial conditions applied to operators;
 to ensure the satisfaction of operators and end customers, also by reducing disputes though the 
development and qualitative improvement of the fi  xed access network and related services;
 to make the evolution of Telecom’s fi  xed access network more transparent for operators, 
through the communication of the technical plans for quality and the development of the infrastructure;
 to ensure the maintenance of the conditions of competition in the transition to the new 
(2)  A complete list of commitments may be obtained at www.agcom.it .43External stakeholders
Competitorsgeneration networks, in order to guarantee the creation of an open network on the basis of 
the principles that emerge from the European regulatory framework and, in particular, the proposed European Commissions Recommendation mentioned earlier. 
The assumption of these commitment is consistent with the evolution of the strategic directions 
of Telecom Italia, targeted at ever greater attention to the needs of wholesale and retail custom-ers, and ever more constructive relations with AGCOM. Moreover, Telecom Italia’s commitments are positioned in a scenario of remarkable openness in the access market with 3.85 million lines already unbundled (at the end of 2008). The commitments will prove to be suitable in favouring the effective development of competition and will in large part overcome the potential “competitive risks” arising from any possible condi-tions of privilege in access to the fi  xed network, including an increase in the degree of competitive-ness in all retail and wholesale markets linked to the access network. 44External stakeholders
InstitutionsInstitutions
 Strategy
Telecom Italia Group is determined to continue its collaborative and transparent relations with 
international and national institutions in order to promote an exchange of views on matters of mutual interest, and to ensure the Group’s viewpoint is correctly represented.
 Relations
The regulatory activities of the national institutions, both central (Parliament, Government) 
and local (Regions, local Authorities and Independent Authorities in the sector), are constantly monitored by the Group. The procedure of approval for the principal legislative acts is monitored in those areas of interest. To this end, Telecom Italia interacts with the competent national Institu-tions (Parliamentary Commissions, the Ministry of Economic Development and other Ministries and Local Authorities), and with the European Commission and its Regulatory Committees, that is, the Council, the European Parliament and the ERG (European Regulators Group). 
 National legislative activity
The main legislative measures of interest to the Group that were approved, or were in the 
course of being approved, during 2008, are the following:
 Law No. 31 of February 28th, 2008, enacting the Decree Law No. 248/2007 extending 
the terms provided by the legislative measures on fi  nancial matters (the so-called  “Bill of the thousand extensions”). The law introduces the possibility of exclusion, for television broadcasters in particular fi  nancial situations, such as La7 and MTV , from the obligation, introduced under the fi  nancial law 2008, of contributing to European audiovisual projects.
 Legislative Decree May 30 2008, No. 109, enacting directive 2006/24/EC regarding the 
retention of telephone voice and data traffi  c, including unanswered calls (the so-called  
“Frattini directive”). The decree signifi  cantly amends the current legislation, providing, for providers of telecommunications, new periods of retention of such data for judicial pur-poses. Law no. 186/2008 “Enactment of decree law no. 151/2008 introducing measures on the matter of crime prevention and detection”, amended the legislative decree in ques-tion, postponing until March 31, 2009, the date from which telecommunications suppliers would have to be in compliance with certain provisions, among which are those regarding the retention of unanswered call records.  
 Law No. 101 of June 6, 2008, enacting the decree law of April 8, 2008, No. 59 (known as 
the “Save Infringements” decree) introducing urgent measures to implement Community obligations. In particular, article 8 i) makes the activity of a network operator dependent 
on the issuing of a general authorisation under the Code of Electronic Communications, The Group intends to 
maintain collaborative and transparent relations with national and supranational Institutions. 45External stakeholders
Institutionsand provides for the conversion of licenses currently held by network operators into such 
authorisations. The penalty procedures covering advertising matters were also amended, and made more severe. In accordance with article 8 i), the Ministry of Economic Develop-ment also issued the Ministerial Decree of September 10, 2008, fi  xing the timetable for the fi  nal transition to digital terrestrial television. The provision sets the dates by which, over a period of four and a half years, that is, until 2012, the 16 technical regional sectors in which Italy has been subdivided will progressively move to exclusively digital television broadcasting.
 
 Law No. 133 of August 6, 2008, “Enactment of the decree law of June 25, 2008, No. 112, 
containing urgent measures for economic development, rationalisation, competition, the stabilisation of the public fi  nances and the equal distribution of taxes.” The provision, an integral part of the Government’s triennial economic package, contains, amongst other measures, provisions to streamline the authorisation procedures for building the infrastruc-ture for electronic communications (the recourse to the Declaration of the Start of Opera-tions), measures to facilitate the laying of fi  bre optics, and the free use of existing civic infrastructure, owned by local Authorities and authorised public agencies. 
 Article 19 of the Bill of the thousand extensions, approved by the Council of Ministers, No. 
31 of December 18, 2008, not yet published in the Gazzetta Uffi  ciale, postpones until July 1, 2009, the date (contained in the 2008 Budget and already amended by the economic package 2009) starting from wich it will be possible to launch joint legal proceedings for damages against businesses (so-called “class actions”).
 The Bills under “Measures for economic development, semplifi  cation, competitiveness, 
including matters of civil proceedings” at the government’s initiative, “connected” with the 2009 Budget, that are now under examination by Parliament, contain:– regulations aimed at the development of broadband and designed to enable the adap-
tation of the electronic communications networks, public and private, by means of a programme that incorporates EU, public and private funding. In particular, it provides for the allocation (for the period 2007/2013) of 800 million euros to funds for infrastruc-ture projects in Underdeveloped Areas (FAS). Of particular importance is the measure encouraging the mini-trench excavation technique for the installation of broadband in-frastructure;
– the widening of the technological areas under the “Plan for Industry 2015” regarding 
Projects of industrial innovation, which is also extended to the ICT sector. Also of impor-tance is the regulation on the obligations, on the part of providers of telecommunica-tions services, to inform customers about commercial offers available on the market, in order to improve transparency towards the customer.   
 European legislative activity
The Group has concentrated on the following issues: 
 the monitoring of the activities of the European Parliament and the EU Council of Ministers 
on the Community’s new regulatory framework for electronic communications (the review of the four Directives – Access, Authorisations, Universal Service and Privacy);
 the process of adoption of the Directive on electronic payments in the internal market; 
 the proposal to amend the regulation on international roaming services and the process of 
adoption of the amendments to such regulation;
 the analysis of the texts of the Recommendation on regulated access to NGN,  and on fi  xed 
and mobile terminals; 
 the analysis of the activities and decisions of the European bodies charged with the imple-
mentation of the regulatory framework (the sector Committee – Cocom and the European Regulators Group – ERG); 
 monitoring the evaluation of the European Commission of the provisions made by national 
authorities in markets liable for the imposition of the prior obligations identifi  ed by the Recommendation 2007/879/EC. 46External stakeholders
The EnvironmentThe Environment
 Strategy
The environmental strategy of the Group’s companies is founded on the following principles: 
 optimising the use of energy sources and natural resources;
 minimizing negative environmental impact and maximizing positive impact;
 pursuing the improvement of the environmental performance; 
 adopting procurement policies that take account of environmental issues; 
 disseminating a culture promoting the correct approach to environmental issues.
 Environmental performance
The information on environmental performance has been drawn up from management data and, in 
accordance with the principle of relevance, only those subsidiary companies have been included in the consolidated accounts that fulfi  l both of the following two prerequisites: revenue  greater than 300,000 euros and more than 40 employees, excluding discontinued operations/non-current assets held for sale.The environmental performance data reported in the following pages cover:
 energy; 
 atmospheric emissions;
 water;
 paper;
 waste.
 Energy
The energy consumption of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and of the Group as a whole are shown below, 
calculated according to the accounting procedures established by the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI G3 Guidelines. 
Direct consumption for heating and transport and indirect consumption for the acquisition and 
consumption of electricity are shown below.The Group intends 
to optimise the use of natural resources, improve environmental performance and disseminate a culture of environmental awareness.47External stakeholders
The EnvironmentHeating systems
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20082008
vs 20072008
vs 2006
Energy consumed in diesel fuel MJ 142,647,530 -4.36% -11.80%
Energy consumed in methane fuel MJ 684,483,906 -5.11% -5.74%
Total energy for heating MJ 827,131,436 -4.98% -6.84%
Heating systems
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)  
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
Brazil (*)Media Olivetti
Total energy for heating MJ 950,005,158 91.45% 0.27% 8.28%
(*) In this table, and in the subsequent tables in this chapter, the Domestic/BroadBand/Brazil heading includes domestic activitie s of fi  xed and mobile 
TLC, as well as the related support activities, BroadBand services in Germany and the Netherlands and the activities of Tim Bra sil Group.
 Following the Bolivian government’s Decree of May 1, 2008, which provided for the nationalisation of the shares of Entel Boliv ia held by Telecom 
Italia Group, Entel Bolivia has been excluded from the scope of the 2008 reporting.
Vehicles
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20082008
vs 20072008
vs 2006
Unleaded petrol consumption l 10,164,548 -27.63% -40.16%
Diesel consumption l 14,509,532 34.58% 62.12%
Total energy consumption (*)MJ  844,539,630 0.96% -2.45%
(*)  Represents the conversion into MegaJoules of the consumption of unleaded petrol and diesel expressed in litres. The data also  includes LPG 
consumption (330 liters, equal to 9,890 MJ)
The increase in the consumption of diesel and the reduction in the consumption of petrol are to 
be ascribed to the gradual change in the composition of the company fl  eet, which has favoured 
cars with diesel engines. Energy consumed in diesel fuel
Energy consumed in methane fuelTotal energy for heating in MJ
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
100.00%
80.00%60.00%40.00%20.00%
0.00%Total energy for heating in MJ
TI Group
Domestic/BroadBand/Brazil
Media
Olivetti48External stakeholders
The EnvironmentVehicle
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)  
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
Brazil Media Olivetti
Total energy consumption MJ 1,337,027,854 98.04% 0.62% 1.34%
Number of vehicles and distance travelled   
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20082008
 vs 20072008
 vs 2006
Total number of company vehicles no. 21,448 -0.51% -3.09%
Number of low-emission vehicles(*)no. 21,097 -0.52% -3.11%
Total distance travelled km 313,946,775 0.63% -0.12%
(*)  Vehicles fuelled by unleaded petrol, eco-diesel, bludiesel, GPL (meeting the Euro4 standard or higher), electricity or fuelle d by other combustibles 
with comparable or lower emissions. 
Number of vehicles and distance travelled (*)
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)  
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
BrazilMedia Olivetti
Total number of vehicles no. 23,252 98.42% 0.60% 0.98%
Total distance travelled km 351,955,120 97.28% 0.97% 1.75%
(*)  The data shown refer to travel time and to the number of all vehicles (including ships) of the Group (industrial, commercial,  used by senior and 
middle management) both owned and hired. Only where usage is signifi  cant and continuous, vehicles (and travel times) owned or i n use by the 
sales force of Tim Partecipações have been included.16,000
14,00012,00010,000
8,0006,0004,0002,000
0Total fuel consumption (litres) - Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Unleaded petrol consumption
Diesel consumption
0.80%
0.60%0.40%0.20%0.00%
- 0.20%Total distance travelled - Telecom Italia S.p.A.
2008
vs 2007
2008
vs 200649External stakeholders
The EnvironmentElectricity consumption for transmission and civil/industrial plant. 
Purchased or produced energy   
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20082008
 vs 20072008
 vs 2006
Electrical energy from mixed sources (*)kWh 2,093,422,340 -1.34% 0.79%
Electrical energy from renewable sources kWh 37,219,674 16.31% 24.07%
Total electrical energy kWh 2,130,642,014 -1.08% 1.13%
(*)   Electrical energy acquired from mixed sources is equal to 2,079 GWh. Self-produced electrical energy is equal to around 
14 GWh and is supplied by a co-generation plant which also produces almost 4 GWh of thermal energy, with an associated consumption of methane gas equal to m
3 3.39 millions. 
Purchased or produced energy   
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
BrazilMedia Olivetti
Total electrical energy kWh 2,561,248,540 97.99% 1.13% 0.88%
Telecom Italia S.p.A. has launched a series of projects aimed at optimising energy consumption 
and encouraging the use of renewable energy sources. Among these were:
 decommissioning obsolete technologies and platforms, rationalising the network infra-
structure and updating plant technology; 
 co-generation systems;
 using alternative climate control systems in the exchanges and raising temperatures;
 using information technology resources in shared, virtual environments;
 remote control and measurement of energy of the exchanges’ rooms; 
 the separation of climate control in offi  ces, exchanges and Base Transceiver Stations; 
 the regulation of the power factor of plant to reduce the reactive energy drawn by the net-
work;
 sharing Base Transceiver Stations thanks to co-siting agreements with other Operators;
 reduction/rationalisation of premises;
 experiments with traditional and innovative photo voltaic equipment;
 experiments with mixed energy sources (wind and photo voltaic);
 the acquisition of energy that is certifi  ed as being from renewable sources.
Beginning in 2009, a plan to reduce the acquisition of electricity within Telecom Italia S.p.A. will be undertaken based on the following actions:
 supervision of energy consumption through the installation of timers and remote monitor-
ing systems for the continuous control, in real time, of telephone centres;
 modernising of the fuel and climate control systems; Olivetti
Media
Domestic/BroadBand/BrazilTotal electrical energy (%)
TI Group
2.00%
1.00%0.00%
-1.00%-2.00%-3.00%-4.00%-5.00%-6.00%-7.00%-8.00%Purchased or produced energy - Telecom Italia S.p.A.
2008
vs 20072008
vs 200650External stakeholders
The Environment increasing energy production through tri-generation plant;
 reduction in areas requiring climate control, through sectioning;
 raising the temperature of the telephone centres and Radio Base Stations.
Telecom Italia is among the promoters of the EE IOCG (Energy Effi  ciency Inter-Operator Collabora-
tion Group), a work group made up of operators active in the sector at the global level (operators and suppliers of equipment), aimed at speeding up the spread of low-energy consumption devices to encourage the development of effective  technological options through agreed actions of stand-ardisation.
The commitment to contain energy consumption also takes the form of collaboration in the defi  -
nition of the Codes of Conduct on the energy consumption of Broadband equipment and Data Centres, promoted by the European Union through the Joint Research Centre (JRC) and ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association). The objective of the initiative is to defi  ne guidelines and consumption targets for equipment that are designed to minimise energy consumption without interfering with technological development and the quality of the services. 
Eco-efﬁ  ciency Indicator
Telecom Italia S.p.A. measures its own energy effi  ciency by using an indicator that establishes 
a relationship between the service offered to the customer, simplifi  ed as the measurement of bits transmitted, and the company’s impact on the environment in terms of energy consumed. The factors taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice traffi  c of the fi  xed/mobile networks and industrial energy consumption (for transmission and climate control in the centres), domestic (electricity for offi  ce use, air conditioning and heating in the centres) and consumption for transport. 
The following table shows the trend of the eco-effi  ciency indicator in recent years.
Year kbit/kWh bit/Joule Increase % year 200x vs. 200x-1
2004 777,248 216 +58%
2005 1,311,676 364 +70%
2006 2,175,006 596 +63%
2007 3,144,283 873 +45%
2008 4,237,038 1,177 +35%
In 2008, the indicator’s value was around 35% higher than 2007, exceeding the target set (1,130 
bit/Joule). The annual increase is progressively diminishing: energy effi  ciency measures and the rise in traffi  c already achieved have reduced the margin for further improvement. The commitment is being carried through with the defi  nition of the target for 2009: 1,410 bit/Joule (+20% compared to 2008).
 Atmospheric emissions
The emissions of greenhouse gases by Telecom Italia are due to the use of fossil fuels, the 
purchase of electricity and hydrofl  uorocarbons (HCFCs) in air conditioning equipment. 
As with the classifi  cation of energy consumed, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3) guidelines 
are followed which refer to the defi  nitions of the GHG Protocol(3) distinguishing between direct 
emissions (Scope1: use of fossil fuels for heating, transport(4) and co-generation) and indirect 
emissions (Scope2: purchase of electricity for industrial and domestic use(5)).  
(3) The GHG Protocol, instituted in 1998 within the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Develo pment, supports 
business on the subject of greenhouse gas emissions through methods of calculation and investigation aimed at promoting innovat ion and the 
acceptance of responsibility for climate change.  
(4) Emissions of CO2 connected to the use of fossil fuels for powering motor vehicles and heating systems have been calculated following the direct ions 
of the UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Businesses and Non-Co mmercial 
Organisations – www.uneptie.org).
(5) To calculate the emissions from the acquisition of electrical energy, the GHG Protocol method has been used. This takes into c onsideration the energy mix of 
individual countries. The national GHG coeffi  cient, expressed in grammes of CO2/kWh, are as follows: Italy 405; Germany 349; the Netherlands 387. For Brazil, 
the coeffi  cient worked out by the local Energy Ministry has been used, which is equal to 29 grammes of CO2/kWh, and which is held to be more accurate. 51External stakeholders
The EnvironmentAtmospheric emissions
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20082008
 vs 20072008
 vs 2006
Emissions of CO2 from purchased electrical energy 
produced from mixed sources  kg 842,189,133 -2.00% 0.12%
Emissions of CO2 from co-generation  kg 5,100,000 - -
Emissions of CO2 produced for heating   kg 54,977,728 -4.96% -6.99%
Emissions of CO2 produced for vehicles kg 61,451,387 2.29% -0.39%
Total emissions of CO2kg 963,718,248 -1.39% 0.18%
Atmospheric emissions
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
BrazilMedia Olivetti
Emissions of CO2 from purchased electrical 
energy produced from mixed sources  kg 902,476,843 98.35% 1.29% 0.36%
Emissions of CO2 from co-generation kg 5,100,000 100% - -
Emissions of CO2 produced for heating   kg 63,050,162 91.48% 0.26% 8.26%
Emissions of CO2 produced for vehicles kg 98,059,571 97.99% 0.64% 1.37%
Total emissions of CO2kg 1,068,686,576 97.91% 1.17% 0.92%
CO2 emissions are calculated using the conversion co-effi  cient worked out by the GHG Protocol for 
Italy of 405 g CO2/kWh.
Scope3 defi  nes the indirect atmospheric emissions that are not included within the bounds of Scope2. It is estimated that these emissions by Telecom Italia S.p.A. amount to:
 68 million kilogrammes of CO2 for travelling between home and work;
 16 million kilogrammes of CO2 in business travel by air;
 4 million kilogrammes of CO2 relating to electricity generation, controlled by suppliers, at 
the Radio Base Stations;
 40 million kilogrammes of CO2 relating to the dispersal of hydrochlorofl  uorocarbon (HCFC) gases.
HCFC gases, in addition to qualifying as greenhouse gases with high global warming potential(6), 
damage the ozone layer. From January 1st, 2010, use of new HCFCs in maintenance will be forbid-
den, while the use of regenerated HCFCs is allowed until 2014. From 2015, the use of recycled and regenerated HCFCs will be forbidden.
(6) The Global Warming Potential (GWP) is the measurement of how much a specifi  c gas contributes to the greenhouse effect. This ind ex is based on a 
relative scale which compares the gas under consideration with an equal mass of carbon dioxide whose GWP is by defi  nition equal  to 1. The GWP 
of the HCFC used is equal to 1,780.1.00%
2.00%0.00%
-2.00%-4.00%-6.00%-8.00%Emission change - Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Emissions of CO2 from purchased electrical energy from mixed sources
Emissions of CO2 produced for heating
Emissions of CO2 produced for vehicles2008 su 2007
2008 su 200652External stakeholders
The EnvironmentInterventions to adapt and replace these substances with others less damaging to the environ-
ment have been undertaken for some time within Telecom Italia.
Climate change 
The necessity of reducing CO2 is based on scientifi  c evidence supporting the cause/effect link 
between the emission of greenhouse gases and climate change. The TLC sector can play an important role in putting forward technologies and encouraging ben-efi  cial behaviour to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the Telecom Italia Group is well aware of this. The approach pursued by the Group in fi  ghting climate change is based on action on two levels:
  reducing direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases;
  encouraging and supporting the dematerialising of goods and services. 
The following activities aimed at the reduction of atmospheric emissions by Telecom Italia S.p.A. were undertaken in 2008. 
  The replacement of Euro3 standard vehicles with Euro4 vehicles. The modernisation of the 
fl  eet involved more than 5,200 cars and brought a reduction of around 30%, that is, of the amount of emissions that would have been produced by the cars removed (equal to a little over 3,000 tons of CO
2 emissions avoided).
  Modernisation of the oil-fi  red thermal power stations with mainly gas-fi  red plant. Conver-
sions carried out during 2008 brought a reduction in CO2 emissions of 200 tons. 
  Projects to optimise energy consumption have brought an overall saving, compared to 2007, 
of 1.39% in CO2 emissions, the equivalent of 12,000 tons. This result is due to the acquisition 
of electricity from mixed sources, in-house energy production from co-generation plant, an in-crease in the acquisition of renewable energy and greater effi  ciency in the use of fossil fuels.
As regards dematerialisation, the Group supplies products and services that permit the elimina-tion or reduction of greenhouse gases generated by the transport of people or objects. Some examples follow
(7):
  Video and audio conferencing services avoid the need for the transport of personnel. 
  TLC services allow tele-working with a consequent reduction in commuting by employees. 
  The use of on line invoicing and payments, in addition to saving paper, and therefore the 
energy required to produce and transport it, eliminates the need for transport for making payments.
  Tele-medicine services, described in the relevant paragraph in the chapter, The Community, 
allow the reduction of the requirement for doctor and patient to physically meet, reducing the use of transport and the consequent emission of greenhouse gases. 
  Infomobolity systems, described in the paragraph “Research and experimentation with in-
novative services” in the chapter, Customers, by using information received from mobile handsets, allow the more effi  cient management of traffi  c, reducing journey times and there-fore the emission of carbon dioxide.
The Group has also attained important results in the measurement and presentation of green-house gas emissions, which has been acknowledged by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP is an international initiative, now in its sixth year, which provides instructions on how to measure and represent greenhouse gas emissions, encouraging companies to focus on risk management and the emerging opportunities in the fi  eld of climate change. The Group has taken part in this initiative since 2005, and this year it achieved the best results among those Italian companies that belong to the “Global 500” index: with a score of 81 points out of 100, the Group’s performance was described as “remarkable” by the organisers. With specifi  c commitment on the issue of climate change, Telecom Italia took part in various initia-tives promoted by the bodies that concern the ICT sector, among which:  CSR Europe, EE IOCG, ITU, ETNO, ETSI, GeSi, Sodalitas. 
(7) It has been estimated that 100 million audioconferences in place of physical travel could save more than 2 million tons of CO2  emissions; that 
10 million tele-workers spending only two days a week at home would bring a saving of almost 11 million tons of CO2 ; and that if 10 million us-
ers received their invoices for telephone services on line instead of the traditional paper version would bring a saving of aro und 11,000 tons of  
CO2. The examples are indicative and are intended to give a concrete idea of the potential of TLC services. They are based on proj ects, verifi  ed by 
independent third parties, carried out on small scale by members of ETNO within the scope of the initiative “Saving the climate  @ the speed of light” 
developed together with WWF ( www.etno.be/sustainability ). 53External stakeholders
The Environment Water
Water consumption by Telecom Italia S.p.A and the Group as a whole is shown below. 
Water consumption
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20082008
 vs 20072008
 vs 2006
m3 4,542,774 9.53% 7.64%
Water consumption
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
BrazilMedia Olivetti
m3 5,884,493 82.83% 0.42% 16.75%
 Paper
Paper consumption by Telecom Italia S.p.A and the Group as a whole is shown below. 
Paper for ofﬁ  ce use
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A 2008 2008
 vs 20072008
 vs 2006
Non-recycled paper purchased kg 311,305 -20.48% -59.83%
Recycled paper purchased kg 356,139 7.44% 4,516.19%
Total paper purchased  kg 667,444 -7.68% -14.72%
Telecom Italia S.p.A. has obtained the reduction in paper acquisition through consumption contain-
ment initiatives. Buying recycled paper in place of wood fi  bre paper for offi  ce use was begun at Telecom Italia S.p.A. at the end of 2006: this explains the remarkable percentage increase com-pared to that year. The collection of differentiated waste in offi  ces, underway in nearly all company premises, allowed the recycling of 10,835 tons of used paper. 100.00%
80.00%60.00%40.00%20.00%
0.00%Water consumption - TI Group
Domestic/BroadBand/Brazil
Media
Olivetti54External stakeholders
The EnvironmentThe last months of 2008 saw the acquisition, for offi  ce use, of paper with low environmental im-
pact from forests certifi  ed and managed according to the rigorous environmental standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). In 2009, Telecom Italia S.p.A. undertook to buy FSC certifi  ed paper for 90% of the total for offi  ce use. Starting in February, 2009, in order to limit the environmental impact of the invoicing process, FSC certifi  ed paper has been used for printing and sending the Telecom Italia bills to consumer and business customers. 
Paper for ofﬁ  ce use
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
BrazilMedia Olivetti
Non-recycled paper purchased kg 404,952 94.32% 4.81% 0.87%
Recycled paper purchased kg 466,105 99.33% 0.67% -
Total paper purchased  kg 871,057 97.00% 2.60% 0.40%0.00%
-2.00%-4.00%-6.00%-8.00%
-10.00%-12.00%-14.00%-16.00%Total paper purchased (kg) - Telecom Italia S.p.A.
2008
vs 2007
2008
vs 2006
Olivetti
Media
Domestic/BroadBand/BrazilTotal paper purchased (%) - TI Group
Non-recycled paper purcased
Recycled paper purchasedRecycled and non-recycled paper purchased
TI Group55External stakeholders
The Environment Waste
The data shown in the table refer to the quantity of waste consigned(8) and legally accounted 
for(9). 
Waste consigned (*)
Changes %
Telecom Italia S.p.A 2008 2008
 vs 20072008
 vs 2006
Hazardous waste kg 5,120,123 75.73% 80.35%
Non hazardous waste kg 10,784,584 -16.92% 39.78%
Total quantity of waste kg 15,904,707 0.07% 50.70%
Waste for recycling/reclamation kg 14,106,145 -9.33% 40.64%
Ratio between recycled/reclaimed waste 
and total waste88.69% -9.39% -6.67%
(*) The data does not include telephone poles. 
The increase in dangerous waste at Telecom Italia S.p.A. is due to the disposal of lead batter-
ies and excavated earth and rocks from reclamation. The increase in excavated earth and rocks caused a diminution of the ratio between the quantity of refused sent for recycling/reclamation and the total waste consigned.
Waste consigned
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group 2008 Domestic/BroadBand/
BrazilMedia Olivetti
kg 19,603,617 92.73% 0.82% 6.45%
The differentiated disposal of waste in offi  ces was successfully carried out during 2008 and extend-
ed to branches with fewer than 100 employees. Another 123 premises have been included and, up to now, the service is active in 230 premises on Italian territory. In four locations, an experiment was launched in which collection bins have been placed in the rooms rather than the corridors. 
(8) By “waste consigned” is meant waste delivered to carriers for recycling or reclamation or disposal. From checks carried out in 2007 in the fi  eld 
of technological waste on around 6,000,000 kg of waste delivered to carriers for recycling  and reclamation, 97% was recycled a nd reclaimed 
effectively while the remaining 3% was disposed of.
(9) There may be slight variations in the situation as at December 31 until the following March 30, in so far as the source for the  data are the records 
of loading and unloading of waste that are made once the actual weight has been checked at destination. The information was sup plied to the 
producer of the waste within 3 months of the consignment and this explains the possible variations in the data.20,000,000
15,000,00010,000,000
5,000,000
0Waste consigned (kg) - Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Hazardous waste
Non Hazardous wasteTotal quantity of waste
Waste for recycling and reclamations56External stakeholders
The EnvironmentIn addition, to contribute to the reduction of waste produced, Telecom Italia S.p.A. reclaimed 
490,000 of its devices during 2008: 247,000 modems, 19.000 set top boxes for IPTV , 139,000 fi  xed telephones and 85,000 mobile handsets. 
Regarding the application of European regulations on the transport by road of hazardous goods 
(ADR – “Agreement concerning the international carriage of Dangerous goods by Road ”), training 
programmes have been held for those in charge of the Services of Prevention, Protection and Environment, and personnel working in those areas. Specifi  c controls were conducted during the collection of waste by the carriers. 
Regarding electrical and electronic apparatus waste (RAEE), regulated by the Decree Law 151/05, 
Telecom Italia S.p.A. acts in some cases as producer and in all cases as distributor of specifi  ed equipment and is responsible for organising the management of its end-life cycle, as far as as-pects which involve TI S.p.A.To effectively supervise the area of RAEE, in expectation of the enactment (still incomplete) of the decrees, implemented under the cited Decree Laws, that are required to make the procedure operational, Telecom Italia S.p.A. has set up a working party which has carried out, amongst other things, the following activities:
 membership of the consortium that is specialised in managing the end-life cycle of equip-
ment (Consorzio Re-Media) has been formalised;
 the collection and selection procedures for RAEE  have been defi  ned for each direct sales 
channel;
 appropriate clauses on the issues of RAEE and RoHS(10) have been inserted in the terms 
and conditions of purchase contracts. 
Following the Agreement Programme for managing obsolete wooden telephone poles, signed in 
2003, upon the favourable opinion of the autonomous State-Region-Province Conference, with the Ministry for the Environment and Protection of the Territory, and production and reclamation companies, the decommissioning also continued in 2008 with the substitution or elimination of 152,060 poles. 
 Electromagnetic and noise emissions
The concerns of the Telecom Italia Group on the subject of electromagnetic emissions are es-
sentially:
 the careful and proper management of its equipment during its life cycle, with regard to the 
applicable regulations and internal standards of effi  ciency and safety;
 the deployment of, and constant research into, the latest technological instruments for 
checks and controls. 
Within the Telecom Italia Media Group, systematic monitoring has continued of the levels of elec-tromagnetic emissions in the installations of La7, MTV and Telecom Italia Media Broadcasting in order to guarantee that legal limits are respected, and high safety standards are maintained. In particular, Telecom Italia Media Group checks that:
 the levels of electromagnetic fi  eld produced by the emissions from its plant are always 
lower than 20 V/m in locations accessible by people outside the company, while in residen-tial areas, near nurseries, schools and anywhere occupied for a period greater than 4 hours a day, the level of electromagnetic fi  eld is always below 6 V/m. 
 the level of exposure by workers does not exceed the value laid down by Directive 2004/40/EC, 
recently brought into Italia law by Decree Law 257/2007.
Based on the controls carried out on Italian soil, the electromagnetic emissions generated by La7 
and MTV are within the legal limits, with levels signifi  cantly lower in the case of digital television 
transmissions, which allows a reduction of the electromagnetic emissions of around 75%, com-
pared to traditional analogue methods. 
(10) European Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of prescribed hazardous substances in electrical and elecrtronic ma-
chinery (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive).57External stakeholders
The EnvironmentThe Group also optimises emissions from mobile telephone Radio Base Stations (SRB). In 2008, 
the target of installing secondary carriers in order to reduce the power of the overall fi  eld of SRB emissions, during periods of maximum voice traffi  c, was attained and exceeded. The use of two radio frequency carriers, also linked to the development of “High Speed” coverage, allows the total power emission from the station to be reduced by 15% for the same amount of traffi  c. The reduction of the theoretical power of the electromagnetic fi  eld emitted has been verifi  ed through laboratory testing carried out in TILab.
Similar attention is paid to emissions from mobile handsets operating on the GSM bands 900Mhz, 
DCS 1800Mhz and UMTS. In 2008, 100% of the models of technologically innovative cell phones widely distributed in Italy, and 25% of the models of Brazilian handsets, have been subjected to the SAR qualifi  cation.
The agreement with Vodafone to share the mobile network access sites has continued (in 2008, 
this concerned 1,000 sites) in terms of the passive infrastructure: telephone poles and pylons, electrical and climate control equipment, and civil infrastructure. This accord meets the express position of the Code for Electronic Communications, promoting the more effi  cient use of the net-work infrastructure in urban and rural areas. The agreement lays down that each operator, while retaining ownership of its own equipment, shall offer to host the others at the radiomobile stations on all national territory, with the aim of optimising the coverage of the mobile network.
The issue of electromagnetism and the study into its possible effects on biological systems has 
been the subject in recent years of a wide ranging debate involving the scientifi  c community and public opinion. More in-depth information is available at the Internet site 
www.telecomitalia.it (Sus-
tainability/Hot Topics/Electromagnetism Impact). 
In the area of the reduction of noise pollution, checks have been carried out on noise emissions 
by company equipment and, in the course of 2008, 96 sites, where critical levels were discovered, have been rectifi  ed. 
 Product responsibility
To improve the company’s Product Stewardship profi  le, products/services marketed by Telecom 
Italia S.p.A. are also examined under the following criteria:
 health and safety of consumers; 
 labelling of products and services;
 marketing communications;  
 respect for privacy;
 conformity with applicable regulations;
 environmental impact of the product.
Marketed products are subject to a technical test aimed at ensuring their conformity with European Directives and the National Laws of Implementation. Among the main regulations are:
– the EU regulations on the protection and safety of customers in using the equipment; – the RoHS regulation which prohibits the use of certain substances in electrical and elec-
tronic equipment; 
– the RAEE  regulation on the management of product end-life cycle.
Quality tests are conducted on products to check they comply with the environmental and safety 
requirements agreed with suppliers. See the preceding paragraph for checks conducted on mobile phone handsets.  
During 2008, the methodology of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was applied to 22 products intend-
ed for marketing (cell phones, fi  xed telephones, fax machines and printers) under the auspices of the Green Procurement project. The LCA approach allows, amongst other things, the evaluation of the environmental and energy burden of products/services during their entire life cycle.
In addition, Telecom Italia has conducted, in collaboration with the University of Palermo (the De-
partment of Chemical Engineering of Processes and Materials), an analysis of materials used to 58External stakeholders
The Environmentconstruct the shells of cordless telephones and associated wiring, as part of the development of 
a new mobile handset with reduced environmental impact. The analyses, carried out using the LCA methodology, compared a copolymer of fossil origin (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, ABS) with a biodegradable polymer from renewable sources (poly-lactic acid, PLA). The evaluation regards three macro-categories: Human Health, Eco-system and Exploitation of Resources. PLA has less overall impact and could replace the ABS normally used in the production of handsets.
 Training/Information
Actions undertaken in support of a widespread environmental culture constitute an essential 
stimulus for the informed collaboration and commitment of each person in the sustainable devel-opment of the Group’s activities. Issues of general interest have been covered, placing particular emphasis on the specialised training of personnel. 
Articles designed to spread information on specifi  c issues have been published on the company In-
tranet, within the “Environment Project” site. The contents have been formulated to give a general treatment and focus attention on the problems and opportunities regarding Group of activities. These are the issues covered:
 Business and the Environment: a connection that should be understood
 Environment Project  
 Environmental Management System  
 Life Cycle Assessment 
 Mobility Management
 Energy conservation and renewable energy 
 Reduction of emissions
 Electromagnetic pollution
 Green Procurement
 Waste management
 Soil pollution
 Reduction of the consumption of paper and the replacement of virgin paper with recycled 
paper.
An article was published in the internal magazine “noi.magazine” covering the development of the 
Integrated Management System of Safety and the Environment in customer care, and the publica-tion of the bulletin “noi.fl  ash,” dedicated to the issue of business responsibility, has continued, with articles on differentiated waste and sustainable mobility. 
The fi  rst edition of the seminar, “Management of Environmental Emergency”, was held. It was de-
signed specifi  cally to increase awareness, within the company, of the prevention of soil pollution and promote an understanding of the correct management of possible diesel leaks. 
The online information campaign has continued, aimed at all staff, informing them of initiatives in 
the environmental fi  eld, such as, for example, the celebration of the World Environment Day, the start of trials of differentiated waste paper collection and the survey on home-work commuting.
 Environmental Management Systems  
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) contribute to the management in a sustainable 
way of the production and support processes, and are a stimulus to continuous improvement in environmental performance. 
Over the years, the Group has promoted the creation of systems and instruments to ensure the 
effective management, prevention and continuous reduction of environmental impact in the area of working processes. The Group’s Environmental Management Systems developed thus far have attained ISO 14001 certifi  cation; in addition, there is an Integrated Safety and Environment Sys-
tem in two customer care centres (Rome and Naples), which have attained ISO 14001 and OHSAS 
18001 certifi  cation.59External stakeholders
The EnvironmentFollowing organisational changes, an Environmental Management System has been put in place 
in the new Property Purchase and Facility Management Departments, with subsequent ISO 14001 certifi  cation. In addition, a new project has been implemented, aimed at integrating the activities converged in the Technology & Operations Department, in the Integrated Management System for Safety, Quality and Environment, already ISO 14001 certifi  ed. 
The environmental certifi  cates attained or confi  rmed in the course of the year are reported in the 
chapter, Customers/Certifi  cation. 
 Environment Project 
Begun in 2004, the Environment Project is aimed at guaranteeing the improvement of the com-
pany’s performance on the main environmental issues. The project works through an Operations Committee, tasked with making proposals, and a Steer-ing Committee, which approves the projects proposed, ensuring the necessary fi  nancial backing. In the course of 2008, both Committees underwent certain changes in their composition due to the company reorganisation. New working groups have been established, centred on: green procurement; environmental ac-counting; the prevention of soil pollution and the reclamation of contaminated sites; and the management of telephone poles.  The work of other groups has continued, concerning: Telecom Italia Media Broadcasting’s System of Environmental Management; the organisation of the management of waste from electrical and electronic machinery; intervention on climate control equipment containing ozone-harmful gases; the prevention and reduction of noise pollution; the map and disposal of asbestos; the optimisa-tion of energy consumption; the reduction of paper consumption and the gradual replacement of virgin fi  bre paper with recycled paper; the promotion of differentiated collection of waste; the reduction of the emissions produced by the fl  eet and heating equipment; the optimisation of the management of the intensity of electromagnetic fi  elds emitted by Radio Base Stations; the SAR qualifi  cation for cellphone handsets; the promotion of cultural initiatives; and environmental train-ing and information. The “Environment Project” site on the company Intranet has been used to better display the con-tents of the initiatives, and a section has been developed that is dedicated to employees’ queries on environmental issues. 60External stakeholders
The CommunityThe Community
 Strategy
The intention of the Companies of the Group is to contribute to the economic wellbeing and 
growth of the community by supplying effi  cient and technologically advanced services. Consistent with these objectives, and the engagements undertaken with stakeholders, research and innova-tion are considered to be priority factors for growth and success. Compatible with its role as a private company and the associated demands of an economically effi  cient management, the Group takes into consideration the social impact of TLC services, meeting the needs of even the weakest members of society. The Group looks favourably on and, where appropriate, supports social, cul-tural and educational initiatives aimed at the advancement of the individual and the improvement of living conditions. 
 Classiﬁ  cation of the contributions according to the LBG  
Contributions made by the Telecom Italia Group to the Community during 2008, according to 
the guidelines of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG), amounted to around 36 million euros (32 million euros in 2007), equal to 1.25% of the Pre-tax Profi  ts. The calculation of the contributions was carried out using management data, in part based on estimates.More than 100 major international companies subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 1994 and represents the gold standard at the global level in the classifi  cation of voluntary contributions by companies in favour of the Community.In line with the LBG model, in order to measure and represent the Group’s commitment to the community, the contributions paid out have been subdivided into 3 categories (Charity, Community Investment, Initiatives in the Community), adopting the usual pyramid diagram:    The Group takes 
into consideration the social relevance of TLC services.61External stakeholders
The CommunityThe criteria used to assign the contributions to the various levels of the pyramid now follow. 
Charity  
Support to a wide range of “social” issues in response to the needs and appeals of community organisations, increasingly through partnerships between the company, its employees, customers and suppliers.Contributions to national/international organisations not based on a 
specifi  c medium/long term program.Sponsorship of causes or events, not part of a marketing strategy.Company matching of employee giving and fund-raising.Costs of supporting and promoting employee involvement.Costs of facilitating giving by customers and suppliers.
Investments in the Community
Long-term strategic involvement of the company to address a limited range of “social” issues.Memberships and subscriptions.
Grants and donations based on a specifi  c medium/long term program.
Initiatives in the Community
Activities in the Community usually by commercial departments to support directly the success of the company, also in partnership with philanthropic organizations.Sponsorship of events, publications and activities promoting brand or 
corporate identity.Cause related marketing, promotional salesSupport to scientifi  c and University research and to philanthropic 
organizationsCare for consumers with special needs.Civil Protection activities.
Business Basics
Core business activities for the production of socially useful goods and services in a manner that is ethically, socially and environmentally responsible acceptable.Optimization of the electromagnetic fi  eld.
Reduction of the Digital Divide.Energy saving initiatives.Reduction of the visual/acoustic impact of telephonic apparatus.Electronic healthcare initiatives.Products and services for the disabled and elderly. Charity 5.70%
Investments in the Community 37.15%Initiatives in the Community 57.15%Allocation by % of the contributions 
to the Community by Telecom Italia GroupLBG diagram
36 milion euros
Charity
2
Investments
 in the Community
13
Initiatives in the Community
21
Business Basics62External stakeholders
The Community The Telecom Italia Foundation 
The Telecom Italia Foundation was established during 2008 and became operational in 2009.
The Foundation is a manifestation of Telecom Italia Group’s Sustainability strategy in relation to the community. With its establishment, Telecom Italia is determined to strengthen the Group’s commitment towards the communities in which it operates, promoting ideas and projects designed to improve people’s quality of life. Specifi  cally, the Foundation is active in the following areas: 
 in the social fi  eld, developing educational and support projects dedicated to the vulnerable 
and disadvantaged categories and bands of the population; 
 in developing projects dedicated to education, training and scientifi  c research; 
 in protecting the artistic and historical heritage, developing innovative ways and means of 
enjoying and disseminating knowledge. 
The Foundation’s president, Professor Joaquín Navarro-Valls, will be supported by a Scientifi  c Steering Committee, composed of experts in various fi  elds, in defi  ning the operational plan of activities. The Telecom Italia Foundation – whose offi  ces are in Rome – is a business foundation of the distributive kind, with a management fund tied to the profi  tability of the Telecom Italia Group. The fi  nancial commitment for 2009 is the equivalent of 0.5 per thousand of the consolidated EBTIDA for the year 2008.
 Main activities in 2008
Some of the Group’s activities, subdivided according to the LBG method, are reported below.
LEVEL 1 – Charity
SMS, solidarity calls and Clicksolidarity
In 2008, numerous fund-raising activities were carried out through SMS and telephone donations in support of non-profi  t organisations and associations. The money raised was passed on in its entirety, without any deductions, either by the tax authorities, who, thanks to an awareness campaign mounted by TLC companies and Onlus, have exempted such operations from the application of VAT ,  nor by the company for the disbursement of its costs.More than 90 fund-raising activities were carried out during 2008. Among these were:
 Cancer Research Day 2008, in support of the Italian association, AIRC (Associazione Ital-
iana per la Ricerca sul Cancro);
 The “Poinsettia 2008” initiative, in support of the leukaemia association, AIL (Associazio-
ne Italiana per la Lotta alle Leucemie);
 The Research into Rare Diseases Project, in support of the Telethon Foundation.
As part of its fund-raising activities for Telethon, Telecom Italia launched Clicksolidarity, a new way of donating to fund-raising campaigns by non-profi  t associations. This system operates alongside the other mechanisms, such as, for example, the SMS solidarity, which has revolutionised fund-raising in recent years. This is a method of payment via the Internet under which 5 or 10 euros may be donated by clicking on the appropriate icon. The sum is then debited directly on the Alice ADSL bill. Sums donated through Clicksolidarity are also exempt from VAT .
LEVEL 2 – Investments in the Community 
!Sou Ligado  
Begun in 2004 in partnership with the non-governmental organisation, Visão Mundial, the !Sou Ligado (I am connected!) project allows small and medium enterprises to use the mobile phone service to develop their businesses with the aid of ICT technology. As had been initially planned, in 2007 and 2008 the project was self-fi  nancing through the micro-credit facility and the Group did not advance further fi  nancial resources to the initiative, whose 
management has been completely passed on to Visão Mundial.
Music in schools 
Born out of the collaboration between the Group’s mobile companies in Latin America and the Brazilian government, the project began in 2003 with the aim of promoting, through musical edu-cation, the social inclusion of young children and adolescents who live in at-risk situations in 13 Brazilian cities. During the music courses, notions of civic responsibility and peaceful coexistence 63External stakeholders
The Communityare disseminated. In many cases, moreover, the musical knowledge acquired has smoothed the 
way for participants into the world of work.So far, 20,540 students from 62 public schools have benefi  ted from the project. 
Telecom Training for Life
It is a learn-through-play project directed at schools as a contribution to the cultural, civic and social growth of young people through physical education and sport. The project covers all Italy and is aimed at students in primary schools (elementary) and fi  rst (middle) and second (upper) levels of secondary 
schools. It puts at the disposal of pupils, parents and teachers a bundle of educational tools and multidisciplinary didactic materials tailor-made for the three age groups. Around 8,000 kits were pro-duced and distributed to schools during the scholastic year, 2007/2008. A competition was announced for elementary and middle schools with individual and group par-ticipation based on the principles of the Olympics. Nine students won trips to Beijing to watch the Olympic Games.
The Solidarity Ponies
This initiative was launched in 1997, in collaboration with the Social Policy Departments and several Voluntary Associations in six major Italian cities (Milan, Turin, Bologna, Rome, Naples and Palermo). Its objective is to supply free assistance in the home to people over 65. The elderly can call a telephone number, made available by the Municipalities and participating Associations, to ask for help of various kinds (general assistance, keeping them company, accom-paniment on excursions, etc.). The operators in the Municipalities are connected to an operations room and the calls are diverted to the mobile phones of volunteers, who respond quickly, even during the summer months, the most critical period from the assistance standpoint.Beyond supplying the technical instruments, Telecom Italia supports the initiative by fi  nancing the participating Non-Profi  t Associations that create and manage the social assistance network through the volunteers. During 2008, more than 35,000 calls for help were acted upon.
LEVEL 3 – Initiatives in the Community 
TIM Mobile Speak 
The result of collaboration with Loquendo (a Group company) and the Italian Association of the Blind and Visually Impaired, TIM Mobile Speak is a more developed version of TIM Talks. This in-volves a software application that allows the blind, visually impaired and the elderly to use all the functions of mobile phones thanks to an electronic voice that reads out the contents of the display, depending on the requirements and instructions of the user. The users of the service can read and write SMS and emails, compose and upload multimedia messages (MMS), call and change numbers in their address book, change the phone’s settings, manage an appointments schedule, read and write text documents, navigate the Internet and use the clock and alarm clock.The Italian Association of the Blind and Visually Impaired guarantees, in agreement with TIM, a dedicated, after-sales assistance service for the resolution of problems connected to the use of the new application.As TIM Talks was in the past, TIM Mobile Speak is available free of charge, by obtaining a new, compatible handset at Telecom Italia’s major sales outlets.
Crazy for the blog
Telecom Italia supports the Lighea Foundation, which takes care of people with psychological dis-orders and provides assistance to their families. In particular, through the initiative “Crazy for the blog”, Telecom Italia has made available its own technological resources for the creation of a blog within the therapeutic community.The diary-on-line can be accessed by all adult patients who are affl  icted with serious psychological disorders and whose illness has caused side effects such as inertia, isolation and social exclu-sion. The chance to swap ideas with the world around them, together with suitable rehabilitation and drug therapy, can be a real help in gradually getting them back into society. The positive effects from the creation of the blog are not restricted only to patients. The network also helps to break down the barriers and the fear that people often feel when faced with psychological ailments and those who suffer from them.64External stakeholders
The CommunityScience Festival
In 2008, Telecom Italia, as a Founding Partner, also supported the Genoa Science Festival, one of the most important events in Italy and Europe for the dissemination of scientifi  c culture in the Community. The 2008 edition, which focused on the subject of diversity, was visited by 250,000 people. The Telecom Italia Stand, dedicated to electromagnetic radiation, was the most successful with the public, attracting more than 40,000 visitors.
Technological innovation and services through collaboration with universities.
Telecom Italia Lab also promotes technological innovation and services through collaborative re-lationships with the academic world. In cooperation with Milan Polytechnic, as part of a master’s degree in Design, a project has been launched that is aimed at making the services distributed to the public – not just telephony - more accessible and usable.
 
Within the scope of this degree course, the “Innovative Services for Sustainable Ways of Life” labora-tory was put into operation. This designs services for groups of people who form part of the same social or environmental grouping, for example, services for foreigners who wish to join a community that faces the same problems they do. Telecom Italia has made available to this laboratory its tech-nological competence in networks and ICT services, supplying whatever is necessary for the planning and design of services based on mobile telephony and on the Web 2.0 evolution, while the Province of Milan has supplied actual social services “Case Studies” as subjects for innovation through ICT .
Business Basics
Electronic Healthcare Solutions 
Several ICT solutions that have been developed by Telecom Italia to help health service providers improve procedures for the assistance and treatment of patients are reported below.
 MYDoctor@Home : it is a service that allows patients suffering from chronic illnesses to 
monitor their own physiological parameters (body weight, blood pressure, heart rate, the absorption of oxygen by the blood cells, blood sugar levels, pulmonary function, electrocar-diography etc.) in their own homes simply by using their mobile phones. The technological platform that makes this service possible was developed by Telecom Italia.
 Appropriate portable devices directly record the parameters required by the doctor and 
then, thanks to their built-in Bluetooth technology, they automatically send the data to the network through the mobile phone. 
 By accessing the network, the doctor in charge of treatment can check the progress of 
the therapy from his offi  ce and make corrections at any moment, immediately sending the details to the patient. In a similar way, while making a house call on a patient, nursing staff can send clinical data to the doctor on the ward and immediately receive his opinion or urgent instructions, speeding up diagnosis and intervention.
 Telecom Italia and the San Giovanni Battista University Hospital of Turin (Molinette Hospital) 
have signed an annual agreement to experiment with this service with the aim of assessing its benefi  ts both in terms of improvements in patients’ quality of life and in optimizing the expenditure of the health service provider.
 MyVirtual Rehabilitation : it is a virtual reality system for the treatment of motor defi  ciency 
syndrome of the upper and lower limbs. The therapist designs a course of exercises for the patient to follow, with the aid of several sensors applied to the affected limb. The sensors are linked to a system which reproduces on a screen a pleasurable and game-like virtual environment that guides the patient through the correct execution of the movements. The system assigns points for the execution of the exercise and this gives the patient an incentive while, at the same time, providing useful information to the therapist about the progress achieved.
 The therapy can even be conducted remotely, at centres other than the hospital, or in the 
patient’s own home. An associated video-conferencing system allows a dialogue between patient and therapist.65External stakeholders
The Community Multimedia Counters : it is a solution aimed at health agencies, which:
– enables patients to pay health charges by cash, credit card or bank card, request cer-
tifi  cates and book services, even when the service till is not open;
– provides information to citizens and health workers about the list of services and the 
location of offi  ces and departments within the buildings and the hospital campus. By means of an audio link (video is also an option), it is possible to speak directly with an operator to obtain further information. The information available to health workers concerns rosters, as well as company and union communications.
Tim Mobile care
Developed in collaboration with the National Organisation for the Protection of the Deaf (ENS), TIM Mobile care is a multimedia service offering video assistance that enables the deaf to receive, free of charge in the Italian Sign Language, all the instructions required to use the mobile telephone services (for example, confi  guring email, SMS/MMS, remaining credit, details of the tariff, etc.) By connecting to the WAP 119 services and accessing the dedicated area, the deaf can navigate their way through a menu. Once the required information is selected, a video gives the necessary explanation.It is now possible, again through the WAP 119 services, to take advantage of other information services (tourism and entertainment). 
 Research and Development
For Telecom Italia Group, technological innovation is an essential and distinctive element in 
developing its competitive advantage and maintaining its leadership of a market with increasing levels of competition. Research and development directed towards technological innovation range from reviewing basic technologies in order to increase effi  ciency in the operation of networks and systems, to the complex 
operation of radically overhauling the platforms, services and architectures; the unstinting commit-ment in the fi  eld of the Operational Departments of the Business Unit to ensure the new services 
meet the needs of customers is vital, as is the continuous improvement in the levels of quality.  In addition to the TILab, Telecom Italia Group’s research and development activities are carried out by departments responsible for the Group’s technological innovation, at the Operational Units and businesses (Networks, Marketing, Information Technology, Security) and within the Group’s companies.TILab’s remit is the supervision of technological innovation for the Group, scouting for new tech-nologies and carrying out engineering operations on services and network platforms. The work carried out by TILab is the outcome of a strategic partnership with the main manufacturers of tel-ecommunications equipment and systems, and with centres of excellence in research at the most highly qualifi  ed national and international academic institutions (including Turin Polytechnic, Milan Polytechnic, the University of Berkeley and MIT). In this area, during 2008, 29 new collaborative projects were begun with the same number of universities covering research into various types of technology, encryption algorithms, services concepts and new paradigms of communication.As in the past, opportunities to generate competitive advantage and create market value for Telecom Italia Group have been pursued through the strategic management of the relationship be-tween research, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and business , aimed at the development of the 
company’s assets in patents’ rights; in this context, placing greater attention on the quality of the patents rather than their quantity, 39 new applications for patents were fi  led during 2008.
The main activities carried out by TILab are:
  in the fi  eld of mobile phone access, solutions based on femtocells have been developed 
which represent an innovative way of providing radio access, with an increased number of cells, greatly reduced in size. TILab has furthermore confi  rmed its role as the driving force in technological innovation in the fi  eld of mobile BroadBand, thanks also to experiments in the Turin laboratories on HSPA+ technology, capable of enabling in the fi  rst phase a theo-retic bite rate of 21 Mbit/s which could rise to 28 Mbit/s, thanks to MIMO technology. 66External stakeholders
The Community  In the fi  eld of widening access to broadband, the identifi  cation of solutions capable of 
supporting the development of optic fi  bre access under the various scenarios available in the coming years, with terminals in the customer’s business premises, offi  ce or home. The access network will evolve during 2009-2010 towards NGN2,  with FTTH (access via fi  bres up to the customer’s home) and FTTB (access via fi  bres up to the customer’s building).
  Innovations in the Home Network and Terminals in the fi  eld of the domestic ‘always-on’ 
BroadBand network (Digital Home Always-on Broadband) have seen the development of solutions that share the different fl  ows of multimedia content (Media Sharing on Home Network) through technologies based on the main international standards: DLNA, UPnP Forum and Open IPTV Forum. 
  Within the scope of services based on converging content and applications, the develop-
ment of innovations for specifi  c groups of clients has continued. In particular, the e-tourism solutions have been enhanced with an application that allows access to and visualisation of the tourist portal in a dynamic way, based on the profi  le of the terminal used. Further-more, the provision has been enriched with Web2.0 functionality in the generation and contextualised sharing of photos and video, with the integration of the eTourism platform (Virtual Cicero) and the management of points of tourist interest (Teamlife). These innova-tive platforms were tried out for the fi  rst time in an integrated version on the occasion of the Venice Carnival 2008, and then became operational. 
  In the fi  eld of video and multimedia services, the TIM SKY Mobile TV/Radio has been 
launched allowing customers to enjoy 10 SKY channels and 25 radio stations, for 2G and 3G users, with the conversion of the radio/TV channels from the “ON AIR” DVB broadcast-ing on IP format to that of 3GPP on IP . 
  The Group’s Technological Plan for 2009-2011 has been formulated, tracing the main in-
novations over the three years. The most important aspects regard the technological evolu-tion of the various segments that make up the network, an application and management platform, terminals and the environment of the users. 
  On the international level, TILab has pledged a substantial commitment to the task of stand-
ardisation, through which future solutions will be made possible, infl  uencing the manufactur-
ers’ road map. In 2008, on the initiative of Telecom Italia, the Energy Effi  ciency Inter Operator 
Collaboration Group was launched. This is an ad hoc working party, currently made up 18 of the principle global TLC Operators, with the aim of maximising energy effi  ciency in the tel-
ecommunications sector, interceding on standards and proposing actions to suppliers.
Finally, an outline agreement on development was jointly drawn up between the Telecom Italia 
Group and the Telefonica Group. The agreement envisages, within the range of synergic projects with Telefonica Group, technical collaboration in carrying out specifi  c research projects with Tele-fonica I+D, a Telefonica Group company that works in research and development, aimed at sharing R&D work in certain areas of common interest. The subjects of the fi  rst projects arising from this collaboration are as follows: Wireless Sensor Network Applications, Context Awareness/Ambient Intelligence Platforms & Services, Innovative Services and Applications Z-SIM Enabled, Connected Car, 3D Multimedia Technologies, Software Defi  ned Radio, e-Tourism and the observation and analysis of the main trends in technological innovation.The research and development activities carried out by the Operational Units and businesses of Telecom Italia have been directed towards developments carried out internally or sub-contracted to outside suppliers in order to create:
  software products dedicated to systems for managing both marketing offers and activities 
on behalf of customers (Business Support Systems) and for managing the functioning of networks (Operational Support Systems), Security and other IT services;
  testing and verifi  cation; specifi  cations for tenders; network architecture studies.  67External stakeholders
The CommunityThe main activities were:
  the development of a new Customer Centred platform “CRM Business”, for the commercial 
management of the clients SOHO, SME, Enterprise and Top;
  the evolution of the digital platform in support of business and implementation of new serv-
ices for the consumer and business customers, & Top. In particular, work has been aimed at supporting the following offers: Family offer; “Friend & Family”; MTV (main functionality), IPTV , “Alice CASA” (naked), “Alice Total Security”, “Alice DATA KIT” (upselling fi  xed-mobile), “TIM Affare Fatto al Lavoro”, “Offi  ce On Hand”, “Alice Affare Fatto su VoIP”, “Alice Business” (naked).Internal
stakeholders71Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesHuman Resources
 Strategy 
The companies of the Group recognise the central importance of Human Resources, in the 
conviction that the principal factor in the success of any business is the professional contribution of the people who work there, within a framework of loyalty and reciprocal trust.The companies of the Group protect health and safety in work places and hold as a fundamental principle the respect for workers’ rights in the conduct of economic activity. The management of labour relations is directed at guaranteeing equal opportunities and promoting the professional growth of each person.
 Headcount and changes 
Telecom Italia Group
The headcount of personnel at December 31, 2008, was divided as follows:
(units) 12.31.2008 12.31.2007 Changes
Italy 63,521 65,591 (2,070)
Abroad 13,229 14,509 (1,280)
Total personnel on payroll 76,750 80,100 (3,350)
Leased personnel 1,075 1,969 (894)
Total personnel 77,825 82,069 (4,244)
Non-current assets held for sale - 1,360 (1,360)
Total 77,825 83,429 (5,604)
Excluding personnel concerned with “Non-current assets held for sale” (Liberty Surf Group) and 
leased personnel, the Group’s workforce has been reduced by 3,350 units, compared to December 31, 2007. The changes can be itemized as follows:
 the departure of Entel Bolivia (-1,475 units) from the area of consolidation and the sale of 
the activities related to the company’s “On Air” strand in MTV Italia (-14 units);The Group recognises 
the central importance of Human Resources, the principal factor in the success of any business.72Internal stakeholders
Human Resources net turnover down by 1,861 units, as specifi  ed for individual Business Units:
(units) (*)Recruited Departed Net change 
Domestic 626 (2,558) (1,932)
Brazil 3,650 (3,395) 255
European BroadBand, Olivetti, Media and Others 641 (825) (184)
Turn over 4,917 (6,778) (1,861)
(*)    Excluding 26 units due to transfers within the Group.
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
(units) 12.31.2008 12.31.2007 Changes
Personnel on payroll 56,650 58,686 (2,036)
Leased personnel 635 1,273 (638)
Total 57,285 59,959 (2,674)
At December 31, 2008, Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s on-payroll personnel numbered 56,650 units.
Compared to December 31, 2007, an overall reduction of 2,036 units was registered, due to:
 the balance of 139 units moving to other Group Companies;
 net turnover down by 1,897 units, as specifi  ed:
(units) Recruited Departed Net change
Telecom Italia S.p.A.-Turn over 220 (2,117) (1,897)
Tim Brasil Group
(units) 12.31.2008 12.31.2007 Changes
Tim Brasil Group-Total 10,285 10,030 255
The headcount of personnel as of December 31, 2008 was equal to 10,285 units. Net turnover 
is detailed below:
(units) Recruited Department Net change
Tim Brasil Group-Turn over 3,650 (3,395) 25573Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesExcluding leased personnel, the number of personnel operating in Italy is equal to 82.8% of the 
Group total, and can be broken down as follows:
The distribution of personnel by geographic area, and recruitment undertaken by the Group (exclud-
ing leased personnel), are detailed below:Workers 0.5%
Senior Managers 1.8%
Middle Managers/Professionals 7.4%
Office Staff/Specialists 90.3%Telecom Italia Group - Italy:
employee breakdown by professional category
up to 32 years 9.7%
from 33 to 45 years 51.0%
over 45 years 39.3%Telecom Italia Group - Italy:
employee breakdown by age group
University Degree 17.5%
High school Graduates 68.3%
Other 14.2%Telecom Italia Group - Italy:
employee breakdown by level of education
Italy 82.8%
(of which Southern Italy 21.0%)
Abroad 17.2%Telecom Italia Group: employee
breakdown by geographic area
Italy 15.9%
(of which Southern Italy 3.7%)
Abroad 84.1%Telecom Italia Group: recruitment
breakdown by geographic area74Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesThe number of personnel operating in Tim Brasil Group is equal to 13.4% of the Group total, and 
can be broken down as follows:
Senior Managers 0.2%
Middle Managers/Professionals 3.0%
Office Staff/Specialists 96.8%Tim Brasil Group: 
employee breakdown by professional category
up to 32 years 72.7%
from 33 to 45 years 23.7%
over 45 years 3.6%Tim Brasil Group: 
employee breakdown by age group
University Degree 32.4%
High school Graduates 66.9%
Other 0.7%Tim Brasil Group: 
employee breakdown by level of education75Internal stakeholders
Human Resources Gender Balance
In 2008, the percentage of women holding senior management positions in the Group (in Italy) was 
approximately 15%, and, in middle management, the proportion was 26%. 
In 2008, the percentage of women holding senior management positions in Tim Brasil was ap-
proximately 6%, and, in middle management, the proportion of the total was 24%. In Tim Brasil, the number of women employed by the company rose from 3,263 in 2003 (54% of the total) to 5,874 in 2007 (58% of the total), and to 6,220 in 2008 (60% of the total).
 Actions in support of employees - Italy 
Welfare
The following projects and initiatives have been implemented in support of employees:
 Nurseries: another 2 nurseries have been opened (Rome and Cantanzaro) in addition to the 
seven already in operation in Rivoli (TO), Milan, Ancona, Rome (2), Naples and Palermo.
 Loans for new parents: 253 loans have been granted to new parents of children up to three 
years old.
 Children’s day: on May 23, 2008, on the occasion of Working Parents’ Day, the children 
of employees in all Telecom Italia premises were allowed to visit their parents’ workplace. Parties were held in 41 branches, with cartoons, snacks and the distribution of little gifts. 
More than 5,700 children took part.
 Christmas Day: parties were held with cartoons and little gifts for employees’ children up 
to 12 years of age.100.0
75.050.025.0
0.0Distribution of men and women
Telecom Italia S.p.A. - (2007-2008)
73.1
2007 200872.827.2 26.9
women
men100.0
75.050.025.0
0.0Distribution of men and women (in Italy)
TI Group - (2007-2008)
women
men2007 200870.6 70.329.4 29.7
100.0
75.050.025.0
0.0Distribution of men and women
Tim Brasil Group - (2007-2008)
women
men2007 200841.5 39.558.5 60.576Internal stakeholders
Human Resources Parents’ Days Off: booklets of time vouchers for 150 hours’ off annually, to be repaid 
through overtime, for employees up to level 5 with children up to 8 years of age.
 Time off to attend pre-natal classes: time off, to be repaid, up to a maximum of 12 hours a 
month, for working mothers-to-be and fathers-to-be.
 Intervention to ease the readmittance to the Company of employees following maternity 
leave: the development of management policies such as, for example, the option to work part-time for a year, which can be renewed, for mothers of children up to 8 years of age.  
 Agency Services: within the 27 company premises (Turin, Milan, Venice, Padua, Bologna, 
Florence, Rome, Naples, Bari and Palermo), counters are available for dealing with practi-calities (administration, postal services, etc.).
 Health Areas: in the company offi  ces in Turin, Milan, Padua, Rome and Palermo, there are 
areas where it is possible to follow courses in physical wellbeing.
 Laundry/shoe repairs: this service is operational in 4 premises (Milan and Rome).
 Newspaper kiosks: are available in 2 premises (Rome).
 Special deals: on line offers of products and services arising out of Telecom Italia’s part-
nership agreements, mostly within Italy (cars and motorbikes, entertainment and shows, electronic goods, sports goods, offers from fi  nancial institutions, health and wellbeing, trips and holidays, miscellaneous).
 Company loans: 463 loans have been granted, of which 62 were for buying/building homes, 
69 for home renovation expenses and 332 for various other reasons.
 Company loyalty: during 2008, 4,300 employees were rewarded for 25, 30 and 35 years’ 
service. 
The following opportunities were provided for the children of employees:
 Traditional summer camp: a 15-day stay for children aged between 6 and 12 years old; 
4,578 children took part.
 Themed summer camp: a 14-day stay for children between 10 and 17 years old, dedicated 
to the study of English or Spanish, sporting activities (football, tennis, sailing, horse-riding, volley ball, basket ball, canoeing, etc.) or dancing and the theatre. 1,353 young people took part.
 Study visit to England: a 14-day stay at colleges in 3 locations: 181 young people between 
14 and 17 years old signed up.
 Foreign study bursaries: 80 four-week visits abroad dedicated to the study of the English 
language for young people between 15-17 years old (45 in Ireland and 35 in Finland); 20 study trips for an academic year, for young people between 15-17 years old (Europe, United States and Canada).
 Reimbursement of university fees: the reimbursement of fees for the fi  rst year at University 
for children of employees of Group companies who achieved a score of 90/100 in their school-leaving diploma.
ALATEL and the Gold Pins
The Association of Senior Workers of TI Group (23,218 members, of which 3,918 are current 
employees) has continued to carry out its institutional activities, confi  rming its collaboration with Olivetti’s Gold Pins Association (3,904 members).
ASSILT
At December 31, 2008, the Association had 206,390 members, of whom 63,941 were employees, 
40,603 were pensioners and 101,846 were families. ASSILT conducts campaigns in support of preventive medicine and health education from mobile 
diagnostic units, in collaboration with public bodies and scientifi  c institutes.
In addition, the Association distributes reimbursements for integrated health services supplied by the National Health Service (471,500 were carried out in 2008, for a total of more than 50.2 million euros.)In 2008, the multidisciplinary Oncological Prevention programmes for detecting breast and skin cancers (Lazio and Piedmont) were concluded, and the programme for the prevention of respiratory allergies (Campania and Lombardy) has continued. An information campaign on correct nutrition has been conducted throughout Italy, which will end in the fi  rst months of 2009.77Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesASSIDA
At December 31, 2008, the Association had 5,650 members among managers in service 
and on pensions, along with their families, for a total of 13,400 clients. ASSIDA distributes reim-bursements for integrated health services supplied by the National Health Service (in 2008, over 60,000 reimbursements were made, for an overall total of about 20 million euros).
CRALT
CRALT organises initiatives for its members, employees and pensioners, such as:
 tourism (group and individual trips) with an average saving of 15% compared to market 
prices;
 sports (participation at national and regional meetings of the main sports);
 cultural and recreational (guided tours, painting courses, theatre and cinema evenings);
The contribution in support of members can reach up to 40%. The fees to participate in the initia-tives can be paid by instalments, as deductions from salary.At December 2008, there were 51,776 members (45,197 employees and 6,579 pensioners).
 Actions in support of employees - Brazil
Welfare
Among the initiatives carried out by Tim Brasil are the following:
 “TIM opens the doors”: is aimed at allowing children to get to know their parents’ working 
environment during Brazil’s Children’s Day; recreational activities were staged for the occa-sion for all employees’ children aged between 3 and 12 years.
 Happy Day: on their birthdays, employees have the right to a day off and to receive a birth-
day card signed by all their work colleagues.
 Gymnastics and ergonomics: in the company’s premises in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, 
São Paulo, Curitiba, Recife, Santo André, Brasilia and Belém, sessions in gymnastics for  
correct posture have been held. In the regional offi  ces in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, São Paulo and Curitiba it is possible to follow courses in physical well-being and relaxation, such as Shiatsu and Yoga, either in a gym or a dedicated area.
 Special Deals:  national and/or regional agreements for the purchase/use of goods and 
services under advantageous conditions, for car and motorbike insurance, culture and en-tertainment, restaurants, health and well-being, and the practice of sport. 
Private Health Assistance
At December 31, 2008, 18,500 people (10,300 employees and 8,200 families) subscribed to 
the programme of Private Health Assistance for Group companies’ workers.The Private Health Assistance provides both an accredited network of medical and dental services, and a system of reimbursement (within pre-defi  ned limits) for services outside the network. The 
overall cost of health services during 2008 was 12 million euros. In 2008, in addition, a programme of voluntary vaccination was carried out, aimed at preventing infl  uenza.
Supplementary Social Security
The implementation of the Private Social Security Plan for all employees was begun in Tim 
Brasil in 2006; by the end of December, 2008, the rate of enrolment reached 88% of employees, attesting to the high level of satisfaction with the service.
 Development
In the course of 2008, the implementation has continued of the development plans targeted 
at a group of key resources among senior and middle managers, and young people with high po-tential. This has taken the form of the evaluation, development and retention of these resources, 
promoting their growth over the medium term.
Several initiatives have therefore been undertaken in training and development – for individuals and groups – including, within the annual merit programme, specifi  c actions to value and protect this group. 
The defi  nition of Individual Development Plans and dedicated initiatives will be enlarged to the 
“knowledge people” who were identifi  ed during the knowledge review that was completed in 2008. 78Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesIn parallel, in the fi  rst months of 2008, the management review was completed, making available 
evaluations of around 1,800 senior and middle managers in order to make better choices in the area of “succession management”, and of planning actions of organisational and managerial development.  The evaluation of the performance of the resources, which is followed by structured feedback, is also regularly carried out in Tim Brasil. To improve the level of preparation of all managers of resources, a course in feedback and coaching was held. During the year, 98.5% of eligible col-laborators were evaluated, while 85.5% of managers of resources took part in the feedback and coaching training course. Tim Brasil has also identifi  ed high potential resources (the so-called key resources) in order to man-
age the course of development, training and organisational mobility through dedicated plans. The methodology used to evaluate the potential of the resources is the Assessment Centre, which con-sists in implementing activities designed to identify abilities and strengths, and areas for further de-velopment. The knowledge reviews and management reviews are conducted regularly in Tim Brasil.
 Recruitment
The commitment of the Group during 2008 has been directed towards the implementation of 
various activities in collaboration with the academic world, with the aim of supplying a concrete contribution that is targeted at the training and development of the abilities of the young. This contribution is achieved through various initiatives, among which are: sponsoring study bursaries and the development of employer awareness projects and actions for a total investment of around 2 million euros.In particular, during 2008, 25 initiatives were undertaken to sponsor study bursaries. Among the most important was: the Innovation Master’s, completely fi  nanced by Telecom Italia and developed in collaboration with Turin Polytechnic. Throughout the year, 11 young people from various parts of Italy took part in the second edition of the Master’s, having the opportunity to carry out their project work directly in the company. In parallel, planning was begun for the third edition; the invitation to take part attracted numerous young graduates from all over Italy, who underwent the selection process during December. From this intake, 22 young resources have been identifi  ed who will take part in the 2009 programme. Also of importance was the investment made in sponsoring 40 study bursaries, granted to partici-pants of two Telecom-TILS Masters in “Networking for Enterprise and Careers” and “Information and Communication Security”. From the two Master’s, 25 resources were hired as trainees in the last quarter of 2008, for the development of projects in the fi  eld of Technology & Operations.
The commitment to the creation of expertise has also been fulfi  lled through the hiring as trainees 
of new graduates in various disciplines from the main Italian universities. In 2008, 169 young people were welcomed into the Group, for a fi  nancial investment of around 500,000 euros.The Group has also maintained its presence in the university world through participation in work-shops, job meetings and the delivery of lectures and talks by its managers. In 2008, we took part in 12 career days held across Italy: 3 in Rome, 4 in Milan, 1 in Turin, 1 in Pisa, 1 in Bologna, 1 in Naples and 1 in Catania. 
Tim Brasil has favoured the recruitment during 2008 of personnel who were already providing 
services within the company. Among the recruitment programmes adopted are:
 “Nosso Aprendiz” , which promotes the training of young people aged between 16 and 24 for 
work in the call centres, or in customer reception in company outlets. A course of adminis-trative training has been launched for juveniles to prepare them to enter the world of work. The programme, begun in 2008, has enrolled 144 participants. 
 The “ Estagio Sem Fronteiras”  programme, which provides young university and technical 
students with the opportunity to carry out work experience in Tim Brasil, offering a chance to develop but also direct access to the jobs market, given that a high percentage (33%) of interns are recruited by Tim Brasil. Training activities are targeted at promoting business awareness and professional growth. In addition, all the trainees have been sent to take part in the “ Concurso sem Fronteiras” programme, whose objective is to put forward a project 
that could contribute to the improvement of Tim Brasil. 79Internal stakeholders
Human Resources Training 
In the Telecom Italia Group, training activities undertaken in 2008 amount, for personnel in Ita-
ly, to around 2 million hours (in classrooms, on-line and on-the-job training), as the following table shows, for direct costs of 25 million euros, excluding the costs of the work and travel expenses. In all, 71.5% of the Group’s personnel have participated in at least one training session. As regards training in health and safety matters, see the relevant paragraph. For 2009, two initiatives are planned in the environmental fi  eld, and two in the management of diversity.
Hours and participants by professional category
CLASSROOM, ON LINE,
TRAINING ON THE JOB - TOTALCLASSROOM, ON LINE TRAINING ON THE JOB
HOURS
PARTICIPANTS
COVERAGEHOURS
PARTICIPANTS
COVERAGEHOURS
PARTICIPANTS
COVERAGETOTALS
PERCAPITA
TOTALS
PERCAPITA
TOTALS
PERCAPITA
TOTAL 2,056,783 32.7 44,955 71.5 988,533 15.7 34,905 55.5 1,068,250 17.0 25,993 41.4
Senior Managers 30,012 27.0 826 74.3 29,988 27.0 826 74.3 24 0.0 3 0.3
Middle Managers 92,961 20.8 2,777 62.3 92,573 20.8 2,764 62.0 388 0.1 33 0.7
Offi ce Staff/Workers 1,933,810 33.8 41,352 72.2 865,972 15.1 31,315 54.7 1,067,838 18.6 25,957 45.3
Activities fall into two areas: the fi  rst concerning cross-Group projects, the second in training aimed 
at ensuring and upgrading business and technological expertise. 
Cross-Group projects
Following on from 2007, training sessions have been fulfi  lled on effective conduct, and on 
ICT scenarios for senior managers, middle managers and levels 6 and 7, which were designed to reinforce the spread of a uniform managerial culture.The “Bridge the Gap” Project, begun in 2007, has involved top managers in high-level training ini-tiatives, such as participation in seminars at International Business Schools and Learning Tours.The 2008 Training Plan on the Sarbanes Oxley Act - 404 has been completed, aimed at up-dating awareness about the implementation of the SOA, and about obligations arising from law 262/2006.Concerning the introduction of the new Organisation Model 231, a training programme has been developed, divided into specifi  c interventions aimed at Referents 231 and their collaborators, and at 
those resources that occupy roles within the company that have strong impact in terms of risk. In addition, two editions of the “Trainers training” course have been held in order to furnish instru-ments for the effective classroom management for Telecom Italia personnel who are asked to deliver talks during internal and external training sessions. 
Training to ensure business and technological effectiveness
Above all, this type of training involves updates on technological innovation, and empowering 
the expertise required for the Customer Care and Sales profi  les, with particular attention to the topics Quality of Services and Customer Satisfaction.
 
For the Marketing Area (sales, marketing, strategy and customer care), the fi  rst edition was held of the MAKTEL (Marketing Actionable Knowledge Through Experiential Learning) Master’s, a project aimed at junior specialists that is designed to make Telecom Italia a centre of excellence in mar-keting expertise. In addition, specifi  cally for the Marketing departments, fi  ve themed training courses have been held for the development and consolidation of specialised, management expertise.Finally, a training programme has been launched, with two initial, experimental editions targeted at the Public Affairs and Regulatory Affairs Departments, which will be extended in 2009 to other Staff Departments, aimed at improving the collaborative relationship between these Departments and the Line Departments, under the rationale of business partnership. In Tim Brasil, the average number of training hours was 72 hours per employee, augmented by e-learning.80Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesThe annual training plans for collaborators are decided at the moment of the evaluation of the 
service, once the training requirements have been identifi  ed.Managerial training initiatives in Tim Brasil have involved around 800 employees and have been predominately centred on the role of the managers, on best practice achieved in Tim, on the exper-tise gaps discovered and on instruments for competing in the market place. The development of managerial expertise is also reinforced by participation in training programmes carried out in two leading Brazilian institutions. The other initiatives carried out by Tim Brasil concern:
 behavioural training, which is designed to develop conduct and expertise, improving the 
effectiveness of collaborators; 
 specialised training based on seminars and conference, designed to develop the technical 
expertise of collaborators. In 2008, workshops were conducted on 3G technology and on portability with all collaborators;
 MBAs and post-graduate courses;
 linguistic training aimed at collaborators who have direct contacts abroad, or who fi  ll roles 
for which a good knowledge of a foreign language is necessary;
 specialised training, for the Sales Channels and Customer Care, concerning, in particular, 
promotions, products and customer assistance.
 Internal communication 
The goal of paying ever greater attention to listening to and valuing its employees has been 
pursued and reinforced by internal communication, encouraging staff to participate in company events, with special emphasis on new ways of interacting via the web. Members of the Group’s staff have been the subject of photographs, videos and stories that have enriched and empow-ered the company’s media. 
Scenarios 
In May, the meeting “Towards Telecom 2015 ” of around 100 Top Managers was held in Venice 
to debate and compare various scenarios, and discuss the future of ICT businesses.
Listening activities and projects 
In May, the sixth edition of the staff attitude survey was held, which involved Group personnel 
in Italy and abroad. On a scale of one to ten, the level of satisfaction expressed was 6.35 in Italy, 5.8 in Germany and 7.36 in Brazil.At the end of 2006, in partnership with the Marketing departments, the listening project “The Lighthouse” was launched to encourage employees to put forward ideas and opinions on matters of interest to the company, and to tests new products and services for the Group. So far, around 2,500 members are taking part in “The Lighthouse” club, involving the testing of services such as “Alice Messenger”, “Wireless Connection Manager”, “iKids” and “Dynamic TV”.
Information and company media
 noi.magazine: three issues of the magazine were published. 
 noi.fl  ash: three editions have been produced: one dedicated to the reorganisation of Tech-
nology and Operations, one on Sustainability and one on broadband.
 agenda noi.2009: produced in the main languages of the Group, with articles and pictures 
submitted by colleagues. 
 noi.tv: 88 editions of the bi-weekly news programme, “Videonews” have been produced,  
66 monographic services, as well as 208 videos and selected articles from the press. 
 Intranet: the development and launch of the company’s blog platform, with experiments 
with “noi.space” and a “wiki.”
  Intranet Hansenet: the launch and updating of Telecom Italia Kompakt.
  Radio Frizz: the Fixed Customer Care radio has been on line since April 3, 2008, with two editions 
a week.
Integration activities and projects
  The “Comunico-IO” project is intended to make communication easier for deaf employees, 
promoting integration in the company. The project has two phases:81Internal stakeholders
Human Resourcesin the fi  rst phase, already completed, non-hearing employees received tools that allow  –
them to communicate amongst themselves both in the Italian Sign Language and in Italian in written form, that is:
a mobile phone with a special, large, high-defi  nition screen capable of reproducing  -
Sign Language;a web cam; -
PC applications that allow real time “chatting”. -
In the second phase, now underway, a feasibility study is being conducted to prepare  –
technology that allows non-hearers to communicate through the automatic conversion of written texts into speech and vice versa. The technology in question has been made avail-able by Loquendo, a Telecom Italia Group company that is a leader in voice recognition.
  The “noi.perloro” community, launched in 2007 and inspired by the theme of voluntary social 
work, currently boasts the participation of hundreds of associations and Onlus. In December, 2008, “solidarity banquets” were staged in Turin, Milan, Mestre, Padua, Florence, Rome, Naples and Palermo. More than 40 of Telecom Italia’s fellow organisations participated, augmented by the involvement of Amnesty International, Save the Children and the Parents’ Oncological and Paediatrics Association (AGOP).
  The Intranet community has recorded an increase in participation by employees of 5% in 
each section in which it operates. Within the scope of the Intranet, a number of forums have been put into operation for sharing and gathering employees’ suggestions and ideas on themes such as the Quality of the Service (“Improvement by little steps”) and innova-tion in services and products (Next Open Innovation). Anyone who joins the Next Open Innovation forms part of a community of testers of the most advanced TLC services. 
  The Archimedes project, a competition of ideas with four presentational road shows plus 
the prize-giving, was launched and involved 900 employees. 
  In addition, a Quality of Services team building event (50 colleagues) was organised and 
there were four road shows for Open Access projects:  Assurance (160 colleagues), Kick 
Off and Business Review (250 colleagues).
  Three sessions of the Management Technology & Operations Meeting were held with 
1,200 employees, and the Innovation and Usability event (200 participants).
  For the Top Clients department, an event was staged at Ivrea (100 participants), and an-
other in Madrid with the Best Performers Enterprise (100 participants).
Activities and projects involving employees
 noi.shop : ten new promotions were launched of products from Telecom Italia and its 
commercial partners, aimed exclusively at employees, with more than 30,000 visitors a month.
 In May, 2008, in Turin, on the occasion of the Book Fair, the prize-giving was held for the 
2008 edition of “Have a story published in noi.magazine”, with four employees receiving prizes from the 700 stories submitted.
 For fi  xed Customer Care, a theatrical performance was staged entitled “ Isso, Essa e 
o’Customer Care ” with 190 participants.
 For the end of year festivities, cultural training visits were organised on themes such as 
innovation, quality and creativity, with the participation of around 1,000 employees in Turin, Vicenza, Parma, Rome, Caserta and Catania.
 The established tradition of Children’s Day continued in May, and this year it involved around 
6,000 children of employees in 41 offi  ces.
 Around 1,200 employees were involved in the observance of Seniority Day in Rome and 
Milan in December.
 Internal Communication’s volunteers’ network was hosted at Campus SDI in L’Aquila for 
three days of team building, with 140 participants.
 Around 100 employees were involved in an event at the Gallery of Modern Art in Rome, 
aimed at making an active contribution to the Internal Communication’s initiatives.82Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesAmong the main instruments of internal communication used in Tim Brasil are:
 TIM Express is a daily on line newsletter whose purpose is the disclosure of useful informa-
tion in a standardised, organised way, through a single email.
 The “Atmosphere” magazine is delivered every two months to all Tim Brasil’s collabora-
tors and contains, among other things, articles on best practice in the regions, national projects, new innovative services and the performance of the business. In addition, there are appropriate sections dedicated to employees with a story to tell, either about activities carried out within the company or about activities outside. 
 TIM Mobile is the company’s noticeboard. This is used every week to present the news and 
internal/external campaigns of Tim Brasil.  
Among other initiatives implemented by Tim Brasil are:
 the annual internal communication campaign, with the slogan “INOVA, UMA NOVA ERA”,  
was launched in April, 2008. The campaign is centred on four main issues Aptitude, Quality, Sustainability and Innovation; 
 sessions demonstrating Tim services were staged to familiarise employees with the new 
3G technology;
 the “Bazar Solidário”, which is repeated annually: company gadgets that were not used 
in events and actions during the previous year are offered to collaborators in exchange for food and drink products to be donated to charitable institutions. In 2008, the “Bazar Solidário” collected 2.3 tons of groceries;
 every year, on the occasion of World Environment Day (June 5), the company launches an 
internal information campaign with the aim of making Tim employees aware of their role in relation to natural resources and the environment. In 2008, the importance of simple actions was reiterated, such as practising differentiated waste collection, collecting used batteries, giving preference to the use of recycled materials, and water and energy saving. In addition, a leafl  et was distributed to all collaborators containing suggestions for the pro-tection of the environment and sustainable development;
 certain regions have set up a library room in their branches, open to all collaborators for the 
loan of books and DVDs. Books are frequently donated by employees. For the inauguration of each library, a campaign was launched to encourage colleagues to use the service.
 Health and Safety
During 2008, at Group level, certain specifi  c projects/initiatives were carried forward or begun:
 Wellbeing in the care centres project 
Under this project, begun in 2004, a survey was carried out of all operators in the Paduan call centre, later extended to the numerous call centres distributed around the entire coun-try, using a new, computerised questionnaire prepared by Turin University, which involved a sample of around 3,000 workers.Adjustments were carried out, in accordance with the Company/Union Organisations (OO.SS.) agreement on “wellbeing in the call centre”, signed on May, 2008, regarding the macro areas for improvement that were identifi  ed.Meetings have been held with outside Bodies, including the requisite meetings at regional level with other interested parties (Representatives of Workers for Safety, the Joint Environ-mental Committee, etc.).Moreover, the ergonomic/environmental campaign dedicated to the company’s call centres has been completed.
 The Drive Safely project
Nineteen editions of the theoretical-practical safe-driving course started in 2007 were staged for 681 technicians who frequently use vehicles in the normal course of their work. In addition, the awareness campaign created by the Service of Prevention, Protection and the Environment (SPPA), directed at operational personnel, has continued, with meetings 
supported with dedicated audiovisual equipment.
 Awareness campaign
New initiatives were launched, aimed at the promotion of safety in the workplace, among which were the drawing up and wide distribution of a new information leafl  et on the subject,  
and a more systematic use of internal channels of communication.83Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesIn Tim Brasil, the “Prevention of Accidents in the Workplace Week” was launched, centred 
on four main themes: the environment, accident prevention, health care and the quality of life. A competition was launched in which collaborators designed projects to improve the quality of life in the company. The best projects will be implemented starting in 2009.
 Exposure to physical agents
The evaluation of the concentration of radon gas in certain types of workplaces has con-tinued, through a scientifi  c collaboration with the Higher Institute of Health to develop an operational methodology, and an accredited laboratory.
 Exposure to biological agents
In agreement with the Higher Institute of Health, the investigation has been extended to subterranean plant where Telecom Italia’s technicians work, as part of the widest possible process of evaluation of biological risk (Legionella).
 Site Sharing Project
Common protocols for managing safety-at-work issues in shared Radio Base Stations have been completed, in agreement with Vodafone. 
Among the other activities undertaken to guarantee and promote the health and safety at work, 
the following are of particular importance:
 The up-dating of the company’s Risk Evaluation Document.
 Training in health and safety at work matters – 164,782 hours for workers exposed to 
specifi  c risks, those responsibile for emergency management, those who work at video terminals, newly recruited staff and/or those whose duties have changed. 
 In the area of health supervision, 225 inspections were carried out by competent doctors 
and the SPPA in places where video terminals are used.
 Implementation of activities for the application of the Safety Management Systems in con-
formity with the OHSAS 18001 standard in certain organisational areas.
 Carrying out controls and monitoring of buildings, plant, equipment and processes. In par-
ticular, the following have been implemented:
351 micro-climatic measurements in the call centres; –
124 measurements of noise pollution, and corrections. –
 Carrying out of 304 evacuation rehearsals to check the effi  ciency of the Emergency 
Management Plans. In Tim Brasil, 9 rehearsals were carried out.
 Up-dating of 314 First Aid Operational Plans.
 Accidents
The data on accidents regarding Telecom Italia S.p.A. are presented below in comparison with 
data referring to the preceding year.  
2008 2007
Number of accidents 932 969
Severity index (*)0.45 0.24
Frequency rate (*)9.77 10.28
Average duration in hours 127.31 136.01
Rate of unproductiveness (*)1.24 1.40
Accidents per 100 workers 1.63 1.62
(*)  The indices of severity, frequency and unproductiveness are respectively:
the number of conventional working days lost in the year for every thousand hours worked; -
the number of accidents per every million hours worked; -
the number of hours lost due to accidents for every thousand hours worked. -
   
The increase in the index of severity is due to three fatal accidents that occurred during 2008, of 
which one was work-related and two unrelated to work (road accidents). 84Internal stakeholders
Human Resources Industrial relations
The year 2008 was crowded with union appointments and the results from negotiations.
On May 14, 2008, the Company signed an agreement, defi  ning the new Productivity Bonus as 
valid until December 2011, with SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL, UILCOM-UIL and the National Co-ordinating Committee of the RSU and, on May 15, 2008, with UGL Telecomunicazioni.The amount of the Award, distributed every six months, is made up of 70% pegged to the com-pany’s economic performance (EBITDA), with the remaining 30% pegged to the level of Customer Satisfaction. It provides a system of annual distribution until 100% of the target is reached for the fi  fth level of the employee scale of 2,870 euros.In addition, negotiations are underway with the Trade Union Organisations to defi  ne a third pa-rameter of quality/productivity, differentiated for large-scale organisational areas, which will be introduced from January 1, 2009.With specifi  c understandings, the union agreement on the Productivity Bonus of Telecom Italia S.p.A. has been extended to Elettra Tlc S.p.A., IT Telecom S.r.l., Path.Net S.p.A., Telecom Italia Audit and Compliance Services Scarl.This negotiation fell within the scope of wider company negotiations that saw the signing of the renewal of the company’s regulations on reconciliation with the National Collective Work Contract. Specifi  cally, the areas covered by the agreements were: working hours and availability, various permissions, training, illness, travel expenses and luncheon vouchers, an electronic union noti-ceboard and tele-working. With specifi  c understandings, the agreement on the secondary level of negotiations of Telecom Italia S.p.A. has been extended to IT Telecom S.r.l., Path.Net S.p.A., Telecom Italia Audit and Compliance Services Scarl.
The second level agreements were later signed with SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL, UILCOM-UIL and the 
competent RSUs, both the regulatory part and the part dealing with performance-related pay for the companies: Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A., Elettra Tlc S.p.A., Loquendo S.p.A., TeleContact Centre S.p.A.At the end of a broader phase of discussions in the headquarters of the joint Company-Union Commissions, on May 14, 2008, an agreement was reached with SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL, UILCOM-UIL and the National Coordinating Committee of the RSUs on the subject of wellbeing in the call centres. The main interventions to improve working conditions in customer care were focused on the following areas: organisation of the work; valuing, training and updating personnel; working environments; reconciling the work-life balance.  On May 15, 2008, the understanding was also signed by UGL Telecomunicazioni.
Following the start, on June 26, 2008, of the mobility procedures under law no. 223/1991 for a 
total of 5,000 workers across the entire national territory, the relative agreements were reached, on September 19, 2008 at the Ministry of Labour, with SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL, UILCOM-UIL, UGL Telecomunicazioni, CISAL Comunicazione, SNATER TLC and the RSUs. These agreements allow the mobility placement, before December 31, 2010, of a maximum number of 5,000 workers, according to the priority criterion of maturation of the pension require-ments during the period of mobility and for those workers who confi  rm their willingness to accept this option. The Company will, in addition, guarantee workers an amount no less than the net dif-ference between 90% of their monthly wages and the mobility payment, in accordance with article 7 of the Law 223/91. Within the scope of the overall agreement, the Company undertakes for the two years, 2009–2010 to proceed with the placement of 600 workers and, from January 1st, 2009, to make permanent the contracts of 300 leased workers presently in force. Finally, 1,600 workers at Telecontract Center S.p.A. will be upgraded from 50% part-time working to 75%, during the period 2009–2010.
On October 28, 2008, a further agreement was signed with SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL, UILCOM-
UIL and the competent RSUs on mobility procedures under law 223/1991 for Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A. The agreement allows a maximum of 65 mobility placements during the period 2008-2010.Moreover, on December 11, 2008, Olivetti S.p.A. and Olivetti I-Jet S.p.A. have started with FIM-85Internal stakeholders
Human ResourcesCISL, FIOM-CGIL, UILM-UIL and the competent RSUs, the specifi  c mobility procedures under law 
223/1991, involving 80 and 25 employees, respectively.Following the presentation to the fi  nancial community of the Strategic Plan 2009-2011, on De-cember 10, 2008, the Plan has been presented to the leadership of the Union Organisations and follow-up meetings have been scheduled to evaluate the organisation’s development and the implications for employment.
In Tim Brasil, the collective union agreements of 2008 are coherent with the current economic, 
political and juridical scenario of the country. Three agreements have been negotiated by Tim Brasil with the two federations that represent the entire workforce, FITTEL and FENATTEL, concerning:
 economic and social conditions;
 the company’s profi  t-sharing programme;
 the hourly rate of pay. On the basis of this agreement, overtime hours may be met by a 
reduction in the normal working hours or in days off in the three months following the com-pletion of the overtime; after that period, employees will be paid for outstanding overtime. 
In 2008, the reduction of the working week from 44 to 42 hours in 2009, and 40 hours a week in 2010, was agreed in negotiations.Finally, wages will be increased by 6% from July, 2009.
 Remuneration policy
The policies and systems of remuneration have been directed during 2008 towards fairness, 
internal coherence and market competitiveness.  The management of the fi  xed component is based on the criterion of greater selectivity, aimed at 
prioritising resources with personal characteristics of excellence and holding key organisational roles. The variable component in remuneration has been established as a distinctive element, with ever closer correlation between the remunerative package and the performance and revenue of the company. The Management By Objectives (MBO) 2008 system, the sole, offi  cial instrument of short-term incentivisation aimed at the managerial group and to professionals of particular value, has rein-forced the importance given to the company’s general objectives and to those set for company departments.The harmonisation of the company’s remunerations systems of subsidiary companies abroad has continued. In particular, in Hansenet (Germany), the MBO has been applied to all management, according to the same guidelines introduced in 2008 for Italian management.
Tim Brasil guarantees that the remuneration of its employees is in line with the internal levels of 
seniority in the company and market standards. The salary policy includes fi  xed remuneration and variable remuneration which, at the organisa-tional level, may be pegged solely to the company results, or also to personal results. Other than the MBO programme and the incentive programme for the sales force, Tim Brasil has adopted the “Participação nos Lucros e Resultados” (PLR) under which a part of the company’s profi  ts are redistributed among employees, as required under a federal law. All the Group’s em-ployees, except those with the right to MBO, take part in the programme, which has proved to be a valid instrument for improving the quality of the service and productivity. During 2008, the collective contracts of all the operational companies were renewed.
 Performance Share Granting
In the course of 2008, a plan was begun for awarding shares to top management at no cost, 
dependent on the attainment of pre-established performance goals pegged to Telecom Italia’s To-tal Shareholder’s Return (TSR TI) according to two criteria, absolute (on which 20% of the full award depends) and relative (80% of the full award) as measured against variations in the share prices of European telecommunications companies on the TLC sector of the Dow Jones Stoxx index. The Plan will last for three years, from July 1st, 2008, to June 30th, 2011, with maturation of share allocation rights at the end of the period.86Internal stakeholders
Human Resources Stock Options
The instrument of stock options has been used within the Telecom Group in order to retain and 
offer long term incentives to members of management.In the course of 2008, a new stock option Plan was initiated within Telecom Italia S.p.A. (the “Top Plan 2008”), approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 14, 2008, the implementation of which was decided by the Board of Directors in the meeting of April 15, 2008. The Plan is reserved to the Top Executives of the Company and consists in granting options to acquire ordinary shares in Telecom Italia S.p.A., up to 3,000,000 for the President and 8,400,000 for the Managing Director, at the option price of 1.95 euros. The Plan envisages the maturation of the right of acquisition of shares in the course of three years from their being assigned, an exer-cise of option period of three years’ duration and, for 25% of the options, availability based on the relative performance of Telecom Italia’s Total Shareholder Return measured against the 10 main companies of the DJ STOXX TLC index.At December 31, 2008, the Group’s existing Stock Option Plans were related to options giving the right to shares in Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Telecom Italia Media S.p.A.
At December 31, 2008, the Group’s exixting stock option  Plans were related to options giving the 
right to shares in Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Telecom Italia Media S.p.A.
Telecom Italia
In the course of 2008, the deadline passed for exercising options relative to:
 the fi  rst lot of the stock option 2002 Plan;
 the fi  rst lot of the stock option 2002 Top Plan;
 the fi  rst lot of the stock option 2003-2005 Plan (ex TIM);
 all lots of the stock option 2000-2002 Plan (ex TIM);
 all lots of the stock option 2002-2003 Plan (ex TIM).
In addition, the exercising of options of existing Plans was suspended during the Shareholders’ Meeting from March 31, 2008 to April 18, 2008, in accordance with relevant Regulations.
Telecom Italia Media
In the course of 2008, the deadline passed for exercising options relative to:
 all lots of the key people stock option Plan;
 all lots of the stock option 2005 Plan.
In addition, the exercising of options of existing Plans was suspended during the Shareholders’ Meeting from March 27, 2008 to April 12, 2008, in accordance with relevant Regulations.
***
The essential elements of the stock option Plans of Telecom Italia and Telecom Italia Media are 
summarised in the Note “Further information – Telecom Italia Group’s stock option Plans” in the Consolidated Financial Statement.87Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersShareholders
 Strategy
Group companies are committed to ensuring equal treatment for all classes of shareholders and 
avoiding biased behaviour. The advantages that come from belonging to a Group must be pursued in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and without prejudice to the interest of each company in the profi  tability of its activities and the creation of value for its shareholders.
 Financial communication
In 2008, the most important event in the area of fi  nancial communication was the meeting with 
the Financial Community, which was held in Milan on March 7, and the updating of the strategic plan, which took place in London on December 3. During the latter meeting, Telecom Italia laid out for the Financial Community its strategies and objectives for the three-year period, 2009-2011.Moreover, the company organised more than 200 formal meetings with the market (fi  nancial ana-lysts, institutional and individual investors) consisting of conference calls, road shows and par-ticipation in sector conferences, in addition to regular contacts through face-to-face meetings and telephone conversations.Of particular importance was the fi  nancial communication aimed at investors with a specifi  c focus on Socially Responsible Investing (SRI), conducted in concert with the Group Sustainability depart-ment. In their choice of investments, SRI investors favour those companies that can demonstrate they pay particular attention to ethical, social and environmental issues, without detriment to economic considerations. One road show was aimed specifi  cally at SRI investors and was staged in two European markets (Paris and Frankfurt).With regard to the relationship with individual shareholders (retail) who today represent – in terms of sole possessors of ordinary shares - nearly 630,000 individuals, Telecom Italia’s strategy is aimed at widening the channels of fi  nancial communication in order to respond in an effi  cient man-ner to the ever more numerous requests for information and speedy updates on the Group.Communication with 
the market and investors  is conducted on the basis of the criteria of transparency, fairness, clarity and equal access to information.88Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersThe central tool in this strategy is the Shareholders’ Club, “TI Alw@ys ON” (www.telecomitaliaclub.it). 
Launched in 2006, the Club is a virtual meeting place for the company and its individual investors and is also open to anyone who wishes to receive information on the progress of the shares on the fi  nancial markets, and how the Group is developing its business. Even those who do not own shares in the Company can, in fact, sign up for basic membership of the shareholders’ club and obtain the same free services reserved for shareholders, which include:
 SMS alert, which every day reports the closing price and the percentage variations of Tel-
ecom Italia’s ordinary and savings shares compared to the previous day, as well as the daily percentage variations in the S&P/Mib index;
 Weekly Market report, a summary of the week’s progress, sent out every Friday evening 
within an hour of the close of trading on the markets;
 Quarterly Newsletter, commenting on the most recent fi  nancial-economic results together 
with the latest news from the Group, technological and marketing updates, interviews with managers, results from businesses abroad and future diary events.  
Telecom Italia also supplies shareholders with the Individual Shareholder Guide, a detailed docu-ment concerning the Group which is available to anyone who requests it, and can be viewed on the company website.From September, 2008, the Investor Relations department has, in addition, strengthened its or-ganisational structure through the creation of a specialised facility for managing relations with bondholders.Regarding fi  nancial communication on line, Telecom Italia’s company website (
http://www.tele-
comitalia.it ) has been further updated, resulting once again this year in an excellent placing for the 
Group in the classifi  cation drawn up by the Swedish company, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, a world leader in fi  nancial communication.
 Safeguarding privacy and data protection
Telecom Italia Group is fi  rmly committed to acting in accordance with the regulations on the 
protection of personal data (Decree Law 196/03, the so-called “Privacy Code”),To this end, Telecom Italia’s organisation model is based on central departments that supervise, at Group level, the correct application of regulations in the sector.The adoption of legal measures and the stipulations of the Privacy Guarantor is assured by con-stantly updating the regulations and policies of the Group in the light of actual experience and any organisational changes undertaken. Specifi  cally, in 2008, the Group’s guidelines were up-dated to bring operational procedures and information systems in conformity with privacy requirements in handling customer, or ex-customer, information. Furthermore, a review was held of the Group’s policies on the self-evaluation of the security measures adopted for the treatment of personal information entrusted to third parties (suppliers, consultants etc.) and new guidelines have been issued for the treatment of personal data in computer processing concerning, in particular, the handling of system-access passwords, the recording of operations carried out (audit log) and the compliance requirements for environment-specifi  c information technology systems. Regarding data protection, a wide-ranging project was launched in 2008 to further raise the level of information protection both for voice and data traffi  c, with regard also to the specifi  c rules of the Privacy Guarantor for suppliers of electronic communications services (Provision of 17/01/2008). The principal change is the introduction of robust authentication systems for digital and physical access to information systems containing data on traffi  c, including biometric recognition for those responsible for systems dedicated to services for the judicial authorities. The action plan, which will be fi  nished in the early months of 2009, provides for the adaptation of information systems, arrangements for operational processes, communication activities, training and the Help Desk.It has been continued the dissemination of a privacy culture within the company through training sessions, which, in 2008, covered, in particular, the prerequisites of compliance with regulations on the treatment of customer information in the marketing and customer care departments.The effective application of the regulations is monitored through a control system based on regular self-evaluation procedures by those responsible, and on random checks carried out by the relevant central departments, based on procedures and methodologies worked out with the contribution of the Group’s Auditing and Compliance fi  rm. In 2008, control activities were focused in particular on the sales network, in the light also of certain, general provisions adopted by the Privacy Guarantor; 89Internal stakeholders
Shareholdersas part of this process, checks were also carried out on the treatment of customer information by 
dealers and commercial partners. Other checks were carried out on customer care operations and debt recovery, as well as the implementation status of privacy compliance in certain subsidiary companies. Furthermore, a dedicated team from the Group’s Auditing and Compliance Company has carried out dozens of checks at company and third party premises (for example, suppliers of software services) on the adoption of the security measures for the protection of personal data.Finally, in accordance with rule 26 of attachment B (Technical Regulations on minimum security measures) of the Privacy Code, Telecom Italia declares it has drawn up the Data Security Plan-ning Document (DPS) for 2008. This Document lays out the technical and organisational criteria adopted for the protection of personal data, be it of a general, sensitive or judicial nature, that is processed by information technology, as well as the training schedule for those responsible for the treatment of data.
 Risk Management 
Since 2003, Telecom Italia Group has used the CRSA (Control & Risk Self Assessment) as the 
governance instrument of company risk management through which the identifi  cation, assessment and management of operational risks is achieved.The CRSA is based on the self-assessment of risk by management with the aid of qualitative and quantitative evaluations and parameters, followed by the identifi  cation of the existing control sys-tems and any proposals for their improvement.The cycle of detection and management of risk through CRSA requires the drafting of an Action Plan to deal with the Consolidated Risk Portfolio at the Central Departments/Operations/Busi-ness Unit levels, broken down into the usual operational phases:
 the defi  nition of the Group’s objectives by Senior Management;
 the elaboration of the Group’s objectives by the company structures within their own organi-
sational context;
 the identifi  cation of those risks that may impede the attainment of the objectives;
 communication of the risks to senior company management and their consolidation through 
the creation of “cross-company portfolios”;
 evaluation of the consolidated risks in terms of impact, probability of occurrence and the 
assignment of a qualitative-quantitative coeffi  cient; 
 identifi  cation of those risks considered acceptable and those which require protective 
measures;
 the development of an Action Plan incorporating the protective measures;
 the adaptation of the internal control system, with follow up actions, where necessary.
The management of the various phases is underpinned by a web-based information system that integrates the CRSA and APM (Action Plan Monitoring) systems and makes possible the manage-ment and automatic monitoring of the Action Plan defi  ned during the CRSA, in a similar way to that already carried out for the Action Plan that emerged from the audit. New strategic directions and objectives for the Group were drawn up during 2008 for the three years 2009-2011.
 Corporate governance
Hereinbelow is reproduced an excerpt from the “Annual Report on Corporate Governance” 
(hereinafter “Report”), published in an autonomous document having the same title, to which reference is made for the consultation of the complete text (also available, as well as all other corporate governance documents mentioned herein – principles, codes, procedures, charts, tables – at the Company’s website:
 www.telecomitalia.com , under “Governance”; see, in particular, under 
“Corporate Governance”, “Corporate Governance Reports”, where all the Annual Reports on Corporate Governance – starting from 2004, are reproduced). 
Structure of the paid-up capital
The subscribed and paid-up share capital on December 31, 2008 is shown in Table 1, attached 
to the complete text of the Report.The Company’s ordinary and savings shares are listed on Borsa Italiana and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, each of which corresponds to 10 ordinary 
shares or 10 savings shares as the case may be, represented by American Depositary Receipts issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank.The bonds issued by the Company that give holders the right to subscribe for newly issued shares are shown in Table 2, attached as well to the complete text of the Report.For information on Telecom Italia’s existing stock option plans and the capital increases for their implementation, see the notes to Telecom Italia’s fi  nancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Restrictions on voting rights and the transfer of securities
The bylaws contain no restrictions on the voting rights attached to Telecom Italia’s ordinary 
shares or on their being freely available, except for what is laid down in Article 22 concerning the special powers granted to the Ministry for the Economy and Finance under Law 474/1994, which include the power to oppose the acquisition of holdings of more than 3% of the voting capital.Savings shares do not carry the right to vote in ordinary shareholders’ meetings.
Signiﬁ  cant shareholdings
According to the information available, the following are the signifi  cant holdings of Telecom 
Italia’s ordinary share capital:
Declarant Type of ownership % of ordinary shares % of voting shares
Telco S.p.A. Direct 24.503% 24.503%
Findim Group S.A. Direct 5.006%   5.006%
In addition, the following have disclosed the availability of ordinary shares exceeding 2% of the 
ordinary share capital in their capacity as asset management companies:
  Brandes Investment Partners LP , which on July 23, 2008 reported a holding of ordinary 
shares equal to 4.024%;
  Alliance Bernstein LP , which on November 14, 2008 reported a holding of ordinary shares 
equal to 2.069%.
Securities giving special rights
No securities are issued giving special rights with regard to the control of Telecom Italia.
Employee share ownership: mechanism for exercising voting rights
At present there is no programme promoting employee share ownership.
Shareholders’ agreements
Telco S.p.A. (Telco) is Telecom Italia’s main shareholder. In turn Telco is owned by Intesa San 
Paolo S.p.A. (10.6%), Mediobanca S.p.A. (10.6%), Sintonia S.A. (8.4%), companies belonging to the Generali Group (28.1%) and Telefónica S.A. (42.3%).On the basis of information in the public domain, on April 28, 2007 the shareholders of Telco signed an agreement that, among other things, lays down the criteria for nominating its slate of candidates for the positions of director of Telecom Italia:
  Telefónica, if it possesses at least 30% of Telco’s share capital, will be entitled to nominate 
two candidates;
  the other shareholders of Telco, if they possess the absolute majority of its share capital, 
will be entitled to nominate the other persons on the slate, of whom three candidates chosen unanimously and the others on a pro rata basis.
The shareholders’ agreement provides for the Telecom Italia Group and the Telefónica Group to be run autonomously and independently. In particular, the directors nominated by Telefónica in Telco and Telecom Italia will receive instructions from Telefónica not to take part or vote in board meetings that discuss and propose resolutions concerning the policies, management or operations of companies directly or indirectly controlled by Telecom Italia that supply services in countries where there are legal or regulatory restrictions or limitations to Telefónica’s exercise of its voting rights.On November 19 the agreement was amended to take account of the ruling handed down by 
90Internal stakeholders
Shareholders91Internal stakeholders
Shareholdersthe Brazilian regulator for the telecommunications industry (Anatel) on October 23, 2007 and 
published on November 5, 2007 (the Anatel Decision), whereby:
  Telefónica and the directors/offi  cers nominated by Telefónica may not participate, vote 
or veto resolutions in meetings of shareholders’, the board or committees or organs with equivalent functions of Telco, Telecom Italia or any other company controlled by Telecom Italia when the subject matter concerns engaging in telecommunications activity in the Brazilian market. In addition, Telefónica may not indicate directors or offi  cers (i) of companies with their registered offi  ce in Brazil that are controlled by Telecom Italia and supply telecommunications services in the Brazilian market or (ii) of companies with their registered offi  ce in Brazil controlling such suppliers of telecommunications services;
  Telefónica must take steps to ensure that its subsidiaries supplying telecommunications 
services in the Brazilian market do not enter into certain types of relationship with the companies controlled by Telecom Italia that supply telecommunications services in the Brazilian market, on terms and conditions different from those envisaged by the provisions of Brazilian law applicable to telecommunications;
  Telefónica, including where it exercises the right to acquire shares of Telco, may not exercise 
direct or indirect control over any company controlled by Telecom Italia in Brazil;
  the parties to the agreement must give instructions to the members of the Board of 
Directors of Telco they have respectively nominated and to the members of the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia nominated by Telco for: (i) separate agendas to be prepared for the meetings of the Boards of Directors of Telco, Telecom Italia and Telecom Italia International N.V . and every other company with its registered offi  ce outside Brazil that is controlled by Telecom Italia and has investments in the Brazilian telecommunications sector in which the directors nominated by Telefónica are allowed to attend and for the meetings in which the participation of the directors nominated by Telefónica is not allowed; and (ii) a copy of the agendas and minutes of the meetings referred to in point (i) is to be delivered to Anatel within a time limit of 30 days.
The restrictions and limitations referred to above will also apply in the event of Telco’s spin-off. In accordance with the Anatel Decision, Tim Brasil Serviçios e Participações S.A., Tim Celular S.A. and Tim Nordeste S.A., controlled by Telecom Italia, fi  led their constituent instruments with Anatel on November 22, 2007 in order to comply with the measures and procedures requested by the Anatel Decision to ensure the separation of the activities of the Telecom Italia Group and the Telefónica Group in Brazil. Subsequently, on May 2, 2008, they proposed a series of additional measures in pursuit of the same aim. On July 31, 2008 Anatel approved the constituent instruments fi  led on November 22, 2007 after fi  nding full compliance with the restrictions imposed by the Anatel Decision in this respect. Approval of the additional measures fi  led on May 2, 2008 is still pending.In accordance with the above, the directors Alierta and Linares undertook not to take part or vote in meetings of the Board of Directors (or the Executive Committee) when the subject matter concerned the activity of Telecom Italia or its subsidiaries in the Brazilian or Argentine telecommunications market and − in general − whenever the interests of the Telecom Italia Group might be prejudiced.
Lastly, on December 2, 2008 the Board of Directors adopted an internal procedure that formalizes the previously existing separation between the activities of the Telecom Italia Group and the Telefónica Group on the Argentine telecommunications market.
Appointment and replacement of directors 
Article 9 of the Company’s bylaws provide for the Board of Directors to be made up of not less 
than seven and not more than nineteen members, elected on the basis of slates presented by shareholders who together hold at least 0.5% of the ordinary share capital:
  four fi  fths of the directors to be elected are chosen from the slate that obtains the majority 
of the votes cast by the shareholders, in the order in which they are listed on the slate; in the event of a fractional number, it is rounded down to the nearest whole number;
  the remaining directors are chosen from the other slates. To that end, the votes they obtain 
are divided successively by whole numbers from one up to the number of directors to be chosen and the quotients obtained are assigned to the candidates on each slate in the order specifi  ed thereon. The quotients assigned in this way are arranged in a single decreasing ranking and the candidates elected are those coupled with the highest quotients.92Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersIn appointing directors who for any reason have not been chosen pursuant to the procedure 
specifi  ed above, the shareholders’ meeting votes using the majorities required by law.
Mandates to increase the share capital and authorizations to purchase treasury shares
Until May 6, 2009 the Directors may increase the share capital in one or more tranches by means 
of cash issues of up to a maximum of 1,600,000,000 ordinary shares, all or part of which:
  to be offered with the right of pre-emption to shareholders and holders of convertible bonds, or
  to be offered for subscription to employees of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and its subsidiaries,
and may also issue, in one or more tranches, convertible bonds up to a maximum amount of euro 880,000,000.The shareholders’ meeting held on April 14, 2008 authorized the buyback of up to a maximum of 11,400,000 ordinary shares by October 14, 2009 for the stock-option plan reserved to the executive directors. The purchases must be made on regulated markets, in the manner prescribed by the applicable laws and regulations. The consideration must be between a minimum and a maximum corresponding to the weighted average of the offi  cial prices of the ordinary shares recorded by Borsa Italiana in the last ten trading days prior to the purchase, respectively decreased and increased by 10%.
Change-of-control clauses
A series of agreements to which Telecom Italia is a party require the Company to notify any 
change of control. In the fi  rst place such an obligation, provided for by national legislation on authorizations, is contained in the general licences granted to Telecom Italia for the running and supply of electronic network communications and in the general concessions/licences granted to TI Media for operating networks and providing content. A similar obligation governed by applicable local law is contained in concessions/licences to provide telecommunications services granted to foreign subsidiaries of the Group (notably in Bolivia and Brazil).Telecom Italia is also a party to agreements in which change of control entails modifi  cation or even termination of the relationship. Some of these cases, not concerning loan agreements, are subject to confi  dentiality constraints such that disclosure of the existence of the change-of-control clause would cause serious harm to the Company, which consequently invokes the right not to disclose its existence pursuant to the second part of paragraph 1.h) of Article 123- bis of the Consolidated 
Law on Finance. In other cases the agreement is deemed not to be material.There remain the following cases, all of which concern loan agreements.
  Multi-currency revolving credit facility (euro 8,000,000,000) . The loan agreement was 
concluded by Telecom Italia with a syndicate of banks on August 1, 2005 and subsequently amended. In the event of a change of control Telecom Italia must inform the agent within 5 business days and the agent, acting on behalf of the lending banks, will negotiate in good faith on how to continue the relationship. None of the parties are obliged to continue the negotiation beyond 30 days. If this time limit expires without an understanding, the facility will cease to be effective and Telecom Italia will be required to repay the amounts it has received (currently equal to euro 1,500,000,000). Conventionally, there is not deemed to be a change of control when control, as defi  ned by Article 2359 of the Civil Code, is acquired: (i) by shareholders who at the date the loan agreement was signed held, directly and indirectly, more than 13% of the voting rights in the shareholders’ meeting; (ii) by the investors (Telefónica, Assicurazioni Generali, Sintonia, Intesa Sanpaolo and Mediobanca) who on April 28, 2007 signed a shareholders’ agreement in relation to Telecom Italia shares; or (iii) by some combination of the two categories referred to above;
  Term Loan facility (euro 1,500,000,000) . The loan agreement was concluded by Telecom 
Italia with a syndicate of banks on December 8, 2004 and subsequently amended. The rules are basically the same as those of the facility referred to above. The total amount actually disbursed under this facility is currently equal to euro 1,500,000,000;
  Bond loans. The terms and conditions of the loans issued under the EMTN Programme by Olivetti 
and Telecom Italia and of the loans denominated in US dollars typically provide that, in the event of a merger or the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the issuer or the guarantor, the merging company or the company to which the assets are transferred must assume all the obligations of the merged company or the company whose assets are transferred. Failure to fulfi  l 
the obligation, without this being remedied, constitutes a default event;93Internal stakeholders
Shareholders  contracts with the European Investment Bank (EIB). The contracts concluded by Telecom 
Italia with the EIB, for a total maximum amount of approximately euro 2.5 billion, require Telecom Italia to notify the EIB promptly of changes concerning the bylaws and the distribution of the capital among the shareholders capable of leading to a change of control. Provision is made for termination of the contract in the event of failure to make such notifi  cations and when a shareholder who did not hold at least 2% of the capital when the contract was signed comes to hold more than 50% of the voting rights in the ordinary shareholders’ meeting or of the share capital if the EIB reasonably considers that this may cause it harm or compromise the implementation of the project fi  nanced.
Indemnity of directors in the event of resignation, dismissal or termination of the relationship following a takeover bid
For the Chairman and the Managing Director (Gabriele Galateri di Genola and Franco Bernabè) 
provision is made if the appointment is interrupted before the end of the mandate established by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 14, 2008 (i) for objective reasons (such as the merger of the Company or the termination of the entire Board of Directors pursuant to Article 9.12 of the bylaws), (ii) at the initiative of the Company (except in the case of just cause) or (iii) at the initiative of the interested parties for just cause (e.g. change in the position, especially with reference to the delegated powers, or signifi  cant changes in the composition of the reference shareholders), for payment of the remuneration due until the end of the mandate, supplemented by an indemnity equal to one year’s remuneration. In the case of the Managing Director, the payment also includes the variable component, calculated as the average of the disbursements already made or, in the absence thereof, as the target value.
Compliance
Telecom Italia complies with Borsa Italiana’s Self-Regulatory Code and since 2000 has provided 
information on the development of its system of corporate governance in its annual and half-yearly reports.Telecom Italia is also subject to US law as a foreign issuer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Accordingly, as specifi  ed in the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code, the Board of Statutory Auditors performs the tasks entrusted to the audit committee under US law.Telecom Italia’s strategic subsidiaries include the companies belonging to the Tim Brasil group, of which the holding company Tim Participações S.A. (indirectly controlled by Telecom Italia) is a Brazilian company listed in Brazil; this company is also registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Direction and coordination 
Telecom Italia is not subject to direction and coordination as referred to in Article 2497 et seq. 
of the Civil Code.
Composition of the Board of Directors
Tables 3 and 4, attached to the complete version of the Report, show information on the 
members of the Board of Directors as of February 27, 2009 and on those whose directorships ended during the 2008 fi  scal year.
Cap on ofﬁ  ces held in other companies
Under the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code the position of Telecom Italia director is not 
compatible with membership of the board of directors or auditors of more than fi  ve companies other than companies that are directed and coordinated by Telecom Italia or are Telecom Italia subsidiaries or affi  liates, when the companies in question:
  are listed and included in the S&P/MIB index and/or
  operate prevalently in the fi  nancial sector on a public basis and/or
  engage in banking or insurance.
When it is a case of executive positions in companies of the types specifi  ed above, the limit is reduced to three. The Board of Directors may nonetheless make different individual evaluations, which may be based on other criteria. 94Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersIn its meeting on February 27, 2009 the Board of Directors checked that the directors in offi  ce 
complied with the rules on the cap on offi  ces held in other companies contained in the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code.The shareholders’ meeting of April 14, 2008 authorized the Directors to continue the activities indicated in the curricula  vitae they submitted with their candidacies and voted to free them from 
the ban on competition referred to in Article 2390 of the Civil Code.
Board of Directors
Board meetings in 2008: 10 (of which 8 subsequent to the election of the new board by the 
shareholders’ meeting on April 14, 2008)Average length of meetings: 3 hoursAttendance rate (new board): 93.5% (100% for the independent directors)Number of meetings planned for 2009: 7Telecom Italia’s Self-Regulatory Code reserves an active role to the Board of Directors both in the strategic guidance of the Company and in the control of operations, with the full Board empowered to formulate strategy and responsible for intervening directly in decisions having the greatest impact on the activity of the Company and the Group. In particular, the tasks of the Board of Directors include:
  examining and approving strategic, business and fi  nancial plans and the budget;
  examining and approving strategic transactions;
  verifying the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and accounting structure, with 
special reference to the internal control system;
  preparing and adopting the Company’s corporate governance rules and drawing up the 
Group’s governance guidelines;
  specifying the limits to delegated powers, the manner of exercising them and the frequency 
with which bodies with such powers must report on the activity performed in exercising them;
  nominating the persons who are to hold the offi  ces of Chairman and CEO in strategic 
subsidiaries;
  assessing the overall performance of operations and periodically comparing the results 
achieved with those planned.
The strategic transactions to be submitted to the Board for its prior approval include:
  agreements with competitors of the Group that, owing to the subject, the commitments, the 
conditionings and the limits capable of deriving from them, have a lasting infl  uence on the freedom of strategic business choices;
  deeds and transactions that entail the entry into (or exit from) geographical and/or product 
markets;
  business investments and disinvestments exceeding euro 250 million;
  purchase and sale deeds referring to companies or business units that are of strategic 
signifi  cance in the overall framework of the business or exceed euro 250 million;
  purchase and sale deeds of controlling or affi  liation shareholdings exceeding euro 250 
million or (even if less) in companies carrying out activities included in the core business of the Group, and the conclusion of contracts for the exercise of rights attaching to such shareholdings;
  the taking out of loans and the granting of loans and guarantees in favour of non-subsidiary 
companies for amounts exceeding euro 250 million;
  transactions referred to above to be carried out by unlisted subsidiaries of the Group, except 
for subsidiaries of listed subsidiaries;
  the listing on or the delisting from European and non-European regulated markets of fi  nancial 
instruments issued by the Company or companies belonging to the Group;
  the instructions to be given to listed subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries) in the performance 
of the Parent Company’s direction and coordination function in relation to the carrying out of transactions having the characteristics referred to above.
In light of the effective Group operations, the Board of Directors meeting of February 27, 2009 amended its Self Regulatory Code increasing the threshold for the Board’s decision on the receiving of loans and guarantees to euro 500 million.The assessment of the performance of operations is based on a continuous fl  ow of information 95Internal stakeholders
Shareholderscoordinated by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and directed towards the non-executive 
directors and the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors. Assessments are made at intervals in the various meetings, notably with a comparison of the results achieved with those budgeted during the examination of the fi  nancial reports.The Board of Directors assesses the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and accounting structure of the Company on the basis of information made available by the management and, with specifi  c reference to the internal control system, in light of the results of the investigations carried out 
by the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. In performing its function as the body primarily responsible for the internal control system, the Board of Directors also avails itself of:
  the person responsible for internal control, chosen from within the internal auditing function, 
which is entrusted to the consortium company Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services;
  with reference to internal controls in relation to fi  nancial reporting, the manager responsible 
for preparing the Company’s fi  nancial reports.
Pursuant to the Self-Regulatory Code, related-party transactions carried out by the Company, directly or via subsidiaries, including intragroup transactions, must comply with criteria of substantial and procedural correctness. The Board of Directors monitors this compliance through the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee.In its meeting on March 6, 2008 the Board of Directors adopted a set guidelines, which − on the 
basis of predefi  ned qualitative and quantitative criteria − assign the preliminary verifi  cation of such 
transactions directly to the management, a special management committee or the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee.The annual board assessment has shown directors to be generally satisfi  ed, but with some matters indicated for analysis and discussion with a view to putting forward constructive suggestions.As regards the composition of the Board of Directors, the assessment saw the expression of an opinion in favour of an increase in the number of independent directors (currently 5 out of 15). The recommendation is directed towards the shareholders and confi  rms the belief in the positive contribution that such directors can make to discussions within the Board and to the latter’s external credibility. As to the functioning of the Board of Directors, some suggestions were made for improvement, essentially in connection with the preparation of meetings. In this respect all the directors considered the information received before meetings to be adequate, but, although noting an improvement, several directors recommended that the documents in question should be distributed earlier.
Bodies with delegated powers
The authority to grant delegated powers to directors and revoke such mandates is reserved 
to the Board of Directors, which also establishes their objects, limits, manner of exercise and the intervals – of not more than three months – at which persons with delegated powers must report on their activity, the general results of operations, and the transactions of greatest economic, fi  nancial and balance sheet signifi  cance.On April 15, 2008 the Board of Directors appointed Gabriele Galateri di Genola Chairman of the Board and Franco Bernabè Managing Director.In addition to legal representation of the Company, the Chairman was assigned the following powers:
  supervision of the preparation of strategic, business and fi  nancial plans and their 
development and implementation;
  supervision of the design of organizational structures;
  supervision of the economic and fi  nancial performance;
  responsibility for overseeing the examination and defi  nition of the strategic guidelines for 
the internal control system.
The Managing Director − in addition to legal representation of the Company and all the powers, to 
be exercised with a single signature, needed to carry out all the acts involved in the Company’s various activities, without any exceptions − was assigned responsibility for the overall governance 
of the Company and the Group and, in particular with:
  responsibility for drawing up, submitting to the Board of Directors and subsequently 
developing and implementing the strategic, business and fi  nancial plans;
  responsibility for defi  ning the organizational arrangements;
  all the organizational responsibilities involved in ensuring the operation and growth of the 
business, by coordinating the organizational aspects not entrusted to the Chairman.96Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersExecutive Committee
Number of meetings in 2008: 4
Average length of meetings: 2 hours and 45 minutesAttendance rate: 93% (100% for the independent directors)Number of meetings planned for 2009: 4
In its meeting on April 15, 2008 the Board of Directors created an Executive Committee made up 
of the executive directors (who ensure coordination with the management of the Group) and the non-executive directors. The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and its members are shown in Table 5, attached to the complete text of the Report.The Committee is charged with monitoring the performance of operations at Company and Group level, approving the executive directors’ proposals for macro organizational arrangements, submitting opinions to the Board on the budget and the strategic, business and fi  nancial plans of the Company and the Group and performing any other tasks delegated by the Board of Directors.The Committee reports to the Board of Directors on the activity it has performed in the most suitable manner and in any case on the occasion of the next meeting of the Board.
Independent directors
Telecom Italia has adopted the criteria established by Borsa Italiana’s Self-Regulatory Code for 
determining whether directors qualify as independent.In its meeting on February 27, 2009 the Board of Directors verifi  ed that the individual directors indicated in Table 3 satisfi  ed the independence requirements of Article 147- ter, paragraph 4, of 
Legislative Decree 58/1998 and that the Board as a whole satisfi  ed the composition requirements (at least two directors satisfying the independence requirements laid down by law for the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors).
Lead Independent Director
The Lead Independent Director is currently the Chairman of the Internal Control and Corporate 
Governance Committee and member of the Supervision Panel set up under Legislative Decree 231/2001.The Lead Independent Director is intended to provide a point of reference and coordination for the needs and inputs of the independent directors. In performing this function, he may use the Company’s structures and call special meetings of the independent directors (Independent Directors’ Executive Sessions) to discuss issues related to the working of the Board of Directors or the management of the business. In 2008 two such sessions were held.As laid down in the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors also avails himself of the collaboration of the Lead Independent Director to improve the working of the Board (including the choice of matters to be discussed in collegial meetings).
Treatment of corporate information
Telecom Italia has special procedures for classifying and handling information from the point 
of view of its confi  dentiality.It has also adopted a procedure for the internal management and external disclosure of documents and information concerning the Company, with special reference to inside information. The procedure governs the management of inside information concerning Telecom Italia, its unlisted subsidiaries and listed fi  nancial instruments of the Group and is addressed to all the members of the governing 
bodies, employees and outside collaborators of Group companies who have access to potentially inside information. It also gives instructions to all subsidiaries for the purpose of promptly obtaining the information needed for timely and correct compliance with public disclosure requirements. The procedure also governs the register of persons with access to inside information referred to in Article 152- bis et seq. of Consob Regulation on Issuers.
Board Committees
In addition to the Executive Committee referred to above, the following committees consisting 
of members of the Board of Directors have been established: the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and the Appointment and Remuneration Committee; their functions are 
governed by the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code.97Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersAppointment and Remuneration Committee
Number of meetings in 2008: 10 (of which 6 subsequent to the election of the new board by 
the shareholders’ meeting on April 14, 2008)Average length of meetings: 2 hoursAttendance rate (subsequent to the election of the new board): 100%
As of 2000 there has been a committee charged with putting forward proposals for the remuneration 
of the directors who hold particular offi  ces and criteria for the remuneration of the Company’s senior management. In its meeting on April 15, 2008 the Board of Directors decided to morph this committee into an Appointment and Remuneration Committee.In its present confi  guration the committee continues to be charged with advisory functions and the formulation of proposals:
  concerning the remuneration of the directors who hold particular offi  ces in order to ensure 
alignment with the objective of creating shareholder value over time;
  concerning the periodic evaluation of the criteria for the remuneration of the Company’s 
senior management and the adoption, acting on a proposal from the Managing Director, of stock option or share award plans;
  concerning the monitoring of the application of the decisions adopted and Company policies 
in relation to the compensation of top management.
These tasks have been supplemented by that of proposing candidates for appointment to the Board of Directors in the event of the replacement of an independent director during the Board’s term of offi  ce.
The members of the Appointment and Remuneration Committee must all be non-executive directors, a majority of whom must be independent and at least one must have been chosen from a minority slate. For the committee’s composition, see Table 5, attached to the complete text of the Report.The activity performed in 2008 concerned the system of remuneration applicable to the Company’s executive directors (Chairman and Managing Director), among other things with a view to the renewal of the Board of Directors.In addition, with reference to the system of remuneration applicable to the Company’s management, the committee examined the terms and conditions and benefi  ciaries of the Performance Share Granting plan for the award of ordinary shares to the management, launched in August.
Directors’ Remuneration
The compensation received in 2008 by directors and general managers is shown in Note 44 to 
Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s annual fi  nancial statements.Following the shareholders’ meeting held on April 14, 2008 the Board of Directors divided the total compensation of euro 2.2 million approved by the shareholders for the three years 2008-2010 as shown below:
  euro 110,000 to be paid to each director in offi  ce;
  an additional euro 35,000 to be paid to each member of the Executive Committee;
  an additional euro 45,000 to be paid to each member of the Internal Control and Corporate 
Governance Committee;
  an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to each member of the Appointment and Remuneration 
Committee;
  an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to the director appointed to the Supervision Panel set 
up under Legislative Decree 231/2001.
The Chairman and the Managing Director have been awarded a fi  xed component of compensation for the position − on top of that paid under Article 2389, fi  rst paragraph, of the Civil Code − 
amounting respectively to euro 1,300,000 and euro 1,400,000. In addition the Managing Director benefi  ts from a payment for retirement benefi  ts equal to 10% of his fi  xed compensation and is entitled to a short-term variable component based on the Company’s economic results and a series of operational objectives. The value of this incentive ranges from 50% to 200% of the fi  xed component and is linked to the achievement of predetermined objectives. Each objective is measured on a scale that goes from 50 percentage points, corresponding to the minimum level of achievement of the objective, to 100 points, corresponding to the target level of achievement, to 200 points, corresponding to the maximum level of achievement; the intermediate levels of achievement are measured on a straight line basis.The objectives are as follows:98Internal stakeholders
Shareholders  Return on Investment (30% share of the variable compensation);
  Net Cash Flow before Dividends (30% share of the variable compensation);
  Customer Satisfaction (weighted average of the fi  xed/mobile indices calculated using the 
American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) methodology; 30% share of the variable compensation); 
  Innovative Revenues (percentage ratio of VAS Mobile turnover to total turnover of mobile 
and ICT and fi  xed Internet; 10% share of the variable compensation).
Gabriele Galateri di Genola and Franco Bernabè have also been awarded respectively 3,000,000 and 8,400,000 stock options under the plan approved by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 14, 2008. The plan is described in detail in the information document published pursuant to Article 84- bis of Consob’s Regulation on Issuers.
The non-executive directors receive the compensation resulting from the division of the total retribution approved by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 14, 2008, as specifi  ed earlier. Accordingly, their compensation is not linked to the Company’s economic results.The compensation of managers with strategic responsibilities has a variable component linked to the Company’s economic results and/or to the achievement of specifi  c objectives set within an MBO framework.In its meeting on August 8, the Board of Directors also decided to implement the Performance Share Granting plan for the award of ordinary shares to the management, which the shareholders’ meeting had approved in April 2007. The aim of the plan is to provide incentives, enhance the loyalty and foster the retention of top management by means of remuneration in the form of equity, which rewards the creation of shareholder value (measured with reference to Total Shareholder Return), thereby aligning the interests of shareholders and the benefi  ciaries of the plan.The plan consists in the assignment to the benefi  ciaries (identifi  ed among the managers of Telecom Italia and its subsidiaries with a strategic role) of the right to receive a number of ordinary shares of the Company up to a predetermined maximum and dependent on the period of participation in the plan and the degree to which specifi  c share performance objectives are achieved.The information document prepared for when the plan was launched can be consulted in the Governance section of the Company’s website.In its meeting on February 27, 2009 the Board of Directors took note of the new group of managers with strategic responsibilities (known as executive offi  cers and key managers), following the implementation of the customer-centric organization, with effect from January 2009.The Managing Director has identifi  ed these persons in the light of the strategic priorities of the 
2009-2011 business plan as those who pro tempore  are: the Chief Financial Offi  cer, the Heads of 
Domestic Market Operations, Technology & Operations, Disposals, Diretor Presidente of Tim Brasil, Human Resources and Organization, General Counsel & Corporate and Legal Affairs, and Purchasing, supplemented by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director.The total compensation disbursed in 2008 to managers recognized as having strategic responsibilities is given in aggregate form in Note 44 to Telecom Italia’s annual fi  nancial statements.
Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
Number of meetings in 2008: 8 (of which 5 subsequent to the election of the new board by the 
shareholders’ meeting on April 14, 2008 and 4 held jointly with the Board of Statutory Auditors)Average length of meetings: 2 hours and 30 minutesAttendance rate (subsequent to the election of the new board): 95% (100% for the independent directors)
Set up in 2000, the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee is charged with advisory 
functions and the formulation of proposals. In particular, it:
  assists the Board of Directors and, at his request, the Managing Director in the performance 
of tasks in matters concerning the Company’s internal control system;
  evaluates the work plan prepared by the person responsible for internal control, who is 
required to send the Committee periodic reports (on a quarterly basis);
  assesses − together with the persons in charge of administrative affairs, the manager 
responsible for preparing the Company’s fi  nancial reports and the external auditors − the 
correct use of accounting standards and their uniform application within the Group for the purpose of preparing the consolidated fi  nancial statements;99Internal stakeholders
Shareholders  evaluates the proposals made by the external auditors in order to be awarded the appointment, 
the audit plan and the results set out in their report and any letter of suggestions;
  reports to the Board of Directors on the activity it has performed in the fi  rst suitable 
meeting and in any case on the adequacy of the internal control system on the occasion of the meetings held to approve the annual fi  nancial statements and the half-yearly report.
The Committee also:
  supervises the effectiveness of the audit process, compliance with the standards for 
carrying out related-party transactions (with generalized ex post monitoring and ex ante examination of some important transactions), and compliance with the rules of corporate governance and their periodic updating;
  expresses its opinion on the proposals for appointing, removing and assigning duties to 
the person responsible for internal control and the manager responsible for preparing the Company’s fi  nancial reports;
  defi  nes the procedures and time limits for conducting the “board performance evaluation”;
  performs the additional tasks that may be assigned to it by the Board of Directors.
With reference to the oversight of internal controls, in 2008 the Committee again undertook to oversee the matters involving the former head of the Security Department, Giuliano Tavaroli, including in court proceedings. Among other things this activity involved careful oversight of the initiatives and measures adopted with regard to compliance with the rules on privacy and the handling of traffi  c data.The Committee also closely followed the work of maintaining and updating the so-called 231 Organizational Model (see below).The members of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee must all be non-executive directors, a majority of whom must be independent and at least one must have been chosen from a minority slate. For the committee’s composition, see Table 5, attached to the complete version of the Report. All the members have had accounting and fi  nancial experience.
Internal control system
The internal control system is a process made up of rules, procedures and organizational 
structures and designed to pursue substantial and procedural correctness, transparency and accountability, values that are considered fundamental for Telecom Italia’s business dealings, as laid down in the Group Code of Ethics and the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code. The aim of the process is to ensure that the management of the business is effi  cient and can be known and verifi  ed, that accounting and operational data are reliable, that applicable laws and regulations are complied with, and that the assets of the business are safeguarded, not least with a view to preventing fraud against the Company and fi  nancial markets.As the body responsible for the internal control system, the Board of Directors lays down the guidelines for the system and verifi  es its adequacy, effi  cacy and proper functioning, while making sure that the main operational, compliance, economic and fi  nancial risks are appropriately identifi  ed and managed. In performing this responsibility, the Board, in addition to the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, uses a person endowed with an appropriate degree of independence and adequate means to be responsible for the internal control function (as explained in earlier Corporate Governance Reports, the Chairman of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services).The functions assigned to this person are to assist in verifying the adequacy and effi  cacy of the internal control system and, where anomalies are found, to propose appropriate remedies. The person responsible for internal control reports to the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and to the member of the Board of Directors responsible for the internal control system (at present the Chairman of the Board of Directors).In 2005 the position of Group Compliance Offi  cer was created with a view to better coordinating the development and maintenance of the internal control system. The Group Compliance Offi  cer performs a role of liaison and coordination among the plans for the improvement of the Group’s internal control system and is responsible for monitoring and facilitating the relationship between management and the internal control system, so as to guarantee, with the assistance of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services, methodological correctness in the management of risk.The Company’s internal control system is completed by the so-called 231 Organizational Model, which is divided into “general internal control principles”, “behavioural principles” (consisting of 100Internal stakeholders
Shareholdersa set of rules for relations with representatives of governmental bodies for corporate issues and 
transactions involving shares and other securities of the Company) and “internal control checklists” specifying the main stages of every process, the offences that may be committed in relation to individual processes and the control activities to prevent the related risks from arising. In 2008 the 231 Organizational Model was updated (in the light of changes in the law) and improved (to refl  ect the results of the model’s application and the suggestions made by an external consultant).Monitoring of the functioning and compliance with the model is performed by a Supervisory Panel made up of a member of the Board of Statutory Auditors (Chairman), an independent director on the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and the head of the internal control system in the person of the Chairman of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services. The Panel, reappointed on April 15, 2008 following the renewal of the Board of Directors (by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 14, 2008) reports to the Board of Directors, the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Statutory Auditors on the checks performed and their results.In addition, with the aim of providing operational support to the Supervisory Panels of Group companies a special unit (the Compliance Support Group) has been created within Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services to handle reports of violations of the organizational model and conduct compliance audits on the basis of the data received in connection with the information fl  ows that have been put in place within the Group.With regard to the undertakings approved in December by the Competition Authority, at the closing of the A/375 procedure (claiming abuse of dominant position, created through illegitimate strategies of retention and win back) the Board of Directors has resolved to amend the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct to strengthen the concepts of fair and even competition, with particular regard to a commitment for accurate information regarding competitor operations.
Person responsible for internal control
The Board of Directors has chosen the consortium company Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance 
Services (of which Telecom Italia Media is also a partner and which performs internal audit functions for the partners and their subsidiaries) to be responsible for assisting with verifying that the internal control system is always adequate and fully operational.Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services has an adequate level of independence (it is not responsible for any operational areas and does not depend hierarchically on anybody responsible for an operational area) and suitable means for the performance of its functions, which include providing support to the Company’s administrative and control bodies in verifying the adequacy and effi  cacy of 
the internal control system and, where anomalies are found, to propose appropriate remedies.The person responsible for internal control:
  reports to the designated director, the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee 
(and thus the Board of Directors), and the Board of Statutory Auditors;
  carries out checks at the request of the manager responsible for preparing the Company’s 
fi  nancial reports;
  ensures compliance with the principles and values set out in the Code of Ethics of the 
Telecom Italia Group, investigates reports by employees and third parties of legal and regulatory violations and irregularities (including those of an accounting nature) and promotes suitable remedies, including proposals for punishments.
External auditor
Reconta Ernst & Young S.p.A. is charged with auditing the annual fi  nancial statements of 
Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the consolidated annual fi  nancial statements of the Telecom Italia Group and with making a limited review of the Telecom Italia company and consolidated half-yearly reports and with auditing the annual report prepared in accordance with US securities laws. The engagement will terminate with the 2009 annual fi  nancial statements.
Manager responsible for preparing the Company’s ﬁ  nancial reports
Following the resignation during 2008 of Enrico Parazzini from the positions of General Manager 
and Head of the of the Finance, Administration and Control Department, the new Head of the of the Finance, Administration and Control Department, Marco Patuano, was appointed “Manager responsible for preparing the Company’s fi  nancial reports” (the Manager).101Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersOn a self-regulatory basis the Board of Directors has taken it upon itself to fi  ll this position and 
has specifi  ed the related duties and powers in an ad hoc  regulation . The Manager is charged by 
law with putting adequate administrative and accounting procedures in place for the preparation of the company and consolidated annual fi  nancial statements and every other communication of a fi  nancial nature; the regulation imposes a functional responsibility (organizational and by fi  eld) with respect to the internal controls for fi  nancial reporting and specifi  es that in this respect the Manager responsible for preparing the Company’s fi  nancial reports is to be supported by the executive directors and the Company’s management.The Manager reports to the Board of Directors, the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and − for matters for which it is competent − the Board of Statutory Auditors.
Interests of directors and related-party transactions
In March 2008 the Board of Directors replaced the existing procedure for related-party 
transactions with a more comprehensive set of procedures whereby decision-making roles and responsibilities are classifi  ed according to the types of activity involved.In particular, provision has been made for a distinction between transactions according to whether or not they are deemed to be part of the ordinary course of business and therefore require or not an escalation of the authorization process depending on the manner of determining the conditions of the relationship with the related-party, distinguishing between unalterable “other-directed” conditions and competitive conditions (where the risk of confl  icts of interest is excluded in re ipsa ) 
and conditions comparable to market conditions (i.e. at arm’s length). The matrix for verifying and approving related-party transactions (which is in addition to the usual internal authorization procedure) is determined on the basis of the importance of the transaction, in terms of duration and value, and entrusted either to a manager, or to a management committee (made up of the Group Compliance Offi  cer, the Chief Financial Offi  cer, the General Counsel and the senior manager reporting directly to the Managing Director competent for the transaction), or to the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. Provision is made for each procedure to be replaced by that of the next level up and for ex post monitoring of the whole process by the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee.To foster compliance with the principles of conduct for transactions with related parties, since July 2008 a computer application has been available that makes it possible in each case to verify the nature of the party’s relationship with Telecom Italia and establish the correct authorization procedure. The application also ensures the traceability of related-party transactions.
Appointment of statutory auditors
The Board of Statutory Auditors is made up of 5 statutory auditors. The shareholders’ meeting 
also appoints four alternates.The Board of Statutory Auditors is elected in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations on the basis of slates presented by shareholders who alone or together with others hold a total number of shares representing at least 0.5% of the voting ordinary share capital.The slates are divided into two sections: one for candidates to the position of statutory auditor and the other for candidates to the position of alternate. Three statutory auditors and two alternates are chosen from the slate that obtains the majority of votes cast (the Majority Slate), while the remaining statutory auditors and alternates are chosen from the other slates (the Minority Slates), without prejudice to the provisions of laws and regulations limiting the link with the Majority List. To that end, the votes obtained by the Minority Slates are divided successively by one and two and the quotients obtained are assigned to the candidates in one or the other section in the order specifi  ed. The quotients assigned in this way to the candidates on the various slates are arranged in single decreasing rankings, one for statutory auditors and the other for alternates. In both cases the candidates who have obtained the two highest quotients are elected.In the event of the termination of the appointment of a statutory auditor chosen from the Majority Slate or one of the Minority Slates, the replacements shall be chosen, according to age, from among the alternates elected respectively from the Majority Slate or the Minority Slates. In the 
event of the termination of the appointment of a statutory auditor chosen from one of the Minority 
Slates, the principle of the necessary representation of the minority shareholders is deemed to be complied with in the event of the appointment of an alternate chosen from the Minority Slates.102Internal stakeholders
ShareholdersBoard of statutory Auditors
Table 7, attached to the complete text of the Report, shows information on the membership of 
the Board of Statutory Auditors.The three-year mandate of the Board of Statutory Auditors will expire with the approval of the fi  nancial statements for 2008. The shareholders’ meeting is therefore invited to elect a new control body.
Investor relations
A member of the Telecom Italia staff (Ms Elisabetta Ripa) has been appointed investor relations 
manager to handle dealings with the Italian and international fi  nancial communities and with all the Company’s shareholders. A specifi  c section of the Company’s website  contains information for present and potential shareholders and investors (including bondholders).
Shareholders’ meetings
Under Article 19 of the bylaws, shareholders may attend shareholders’ meetings when the 
Company has received the communication referred to in the second paragraph of Article 2370 of the Civil Code, at least two days prior to the date set for each meeting.Telecom Italia does not require shareholders to block their shares to be eligible to attend a meeting, instead they must deposit them, i.e. give the intermediary that keeps the relevant accounts instructions to make the communication referred to above. This does not prevent subsequent withdrawal of the shares; although if they are withdrawn, the earlier deposit ceases to be effective for the purpose of entitlement to attend the meeting. Any requests for advance notice to perform the relevant formalities or unavailability of shares to be deposited as a consequence of intermediaries’ market practices may not be imputed in any way to the Company.Ordinary shareholders may vote by mail or be represented by a proxy in the form of a legal or natural person.In order to facilitate the collection of proxy forms among employees of the Company or its subsidiaries who hold ordinary shares of the Company and belong to shareholder associations satisfying the requirements established by law, special areas are made available where information can be provided and proxy forms collected. To ensure the regular conduct of shareholders’meetings, from 2000 the Company has adopted a set of Meeting Regulations.
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Corso d’Italia, 4100198 Rome
Fax: +39 06 3688 2803
E-mail: GroupSustainability@telecomitalia.it
Graphical Design Robilant & Associati
Text Composition Graphic Idea, Torino