SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2010
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010While the economic scenario remains contradictory, experiencing a succession of rises and 
falls, one phenomenon continues unabated: the spread of communication technology.  The International Telecommunication Union estimates that 90% of the world’s population is now within the range of a mobile telephone network, with over 5 billion active lines joining the 1.2 billion fixed lines. There are now over two billion Internet users populating the Web (almost 58% of them in emerging countries), gradually evolving from simple users of communication tools into citizens of a digital society that uses the Web to work, come together, circulate ideas and projects, create companies, produce culture, discuss politics, values and religious beliefs. These technologies are shaping new lifestyles and relationships and reorganising economies wounded by the recession. In extreme but not rare cases, these technologies provide the momentum and support for people to demand freedom and reform, as the ex-periences of the past few months have demonstrated in North Africa and the Middle East.
With its networks, products and technological solutions, Telecom Italia is fully involved in this 
global process aimed at building a digital economy and society, which form the basis for the greater prosperity of current and future generations.There are therefore two sides to our commitment to sustainable development. As an indus-trial company, we are committed to conducting our business in an ethical way, which means that our responsibility to remain competitive is part and parcel of our responsibility towards stakeholders. This is what we have clearly stated in our Code of Ethics and by signing up to the UN Global Compact, in which we play an active part, recording the progress we are mak-ing in applying its principles and promoting the activities of the Italian network. 
Like the other main players in the world of telecommunication, we are also committed to 
achieving a wider dissemination of digital technologies, in order to serve the needs of people in their private and working lives, to support corporate development and innovation, to in-crease the efficiency and quality of public services and, last but not least, to ensure greater respect for the environment and a more effective fight against climate change. In both these respects, we believe that the company has made enormous progress in recent years, as in fact has been recognised by the inclusion of Telecom Italia in all the main international sus-tainability indexes, including its seventh successive inclusion in the DJSI World and the DJSI Europe indexes.Chairman’s
  Letter
2 | Chairman’s Letter
As is once again demonstrated by the pages of this Report, we showed our commitment to 
sustainability in many different fields in 2010. These included continued investment in the network infrastructure, aimed at ensuring the greatest possible expansion of broadband coverage (which currently covers 97% of our fixed lines in Italy and almost 84% of mobile lines), while ensuring economic feasibility and often collaborating closely with the Italian re-gions. Smart Services are an increasingly important part of this programme. They include the Smart Town platform, which can be considered as the management nucleus of a digital city (administering its energy requirements, providing local surveillance and allowing communica-tion with citizens), and Smart Building, in which ICT applications integrate with new materi-als, considerably improving energy consumption, comfort and security. Many local authori-ties and companies have now adopted these technological tools. Alongside these there are home automation solutions designed, among other things, to optimise the use of household appliances (Green@Home). We have developed forms of cloud computing that allow small and medium sized companies to access applications and data remotely, cutting the cost of technological infrastructure as well as energy use and emissions (Ospit@Virtuale). A contri-bution to a “greener” economy will undoubtedly be made by Biblet Store, Italy’s first digital bookshop, and by the gradual spread of e-readers and electronic publishing. 
Another essential dimension of people’s quality of life on which we are working is health, and 
more generally the fight against difficulty and alienation. We are working with the managers of the Italian national health system to digitise managerial and clinical processes, in order to improve their efficiency and guarantee their sustainability to deal with the burdens associ-ated with an ageing population and the imperative of controlling public spending. We are de-veloping original solutions in the field of home telemedicine and telecare for the chronically ill (MyDoctor@Home). We are expanding the project to allow children in long-term care, in the oncology and haematology departments of Italy’s leading paediatric hospitals, to remain in contact with their families, schools and society in general.  One of the main initiatives of the Telecom Italia Foundation is the Dyslexia Programme aimed at fighting this disorder in Italian schools, benefiting from the valuable contribution that new technologies can make in this field.We are also continuing to provide training on the use of digital tools so that everyone, without exception, can benefit from them as much as possible. We therefore have ongoing computer literacy programmes for older generations, involving tens of thousands of people every year. A tour around schools and Italian town squares has also led to the further consolidation of our project to train children to make an informed and responsible use of the Internet and new media (Safe Browsing), which plans to involve at least one hundred thousand young stu-dents, teachers and adults. 
Environmental sustainability and social sustainability are challenges that we have met at 
home as well, within the Group itself.With regard to the fight against climate change, in spite of the significant progress already made, in 2010 Telecom Italia used less energy for heating and travel and less electricity (-3.4%) and less paper, and produced fewer CO
2 emissions (-5.7%). Our eco-efficiency indica-
tor (measured in bits transmitted per joule) improved further by 29%, a considerable increase that is added to the ones achieved over the previous six years. Of course the background to  Chairman’s Letter | 3
all this is the day-to-day work being done to modernise our technology, rationalise the use of 
resources, renew the vehicle fleet and build awareness.
However, our most intensive work last year was in the social sphere, where we had to re-
concile the reasons for competitiveness with the reasons for sustainability. The imperative of restructuring and relaunching Telecom Italia required us to pursue a business plan that pro-vided for a reduction in the number of people employed in Italy. We dealt with this change by trying to reduce the repercussions on our people as much as possible. Open and construc-tive dialogue with trade unions and the Government identified avenues - including recourse to mobility and the more extensive application of solidarity contracts in Italy - aimed at re-sponding to the Company’s efficiency needs and guaranteeing that workers are respected and protected. At the same time, we launched extensive professional retraining programmes to adapt today’s skills to the professional profiles of tomorrow. 
And as a demonstration of how much we believe in the broad cultural development of our 
people, we offered them the opportunity to combine their company training with education unrelated to their job, attending free university courses online, the first project of its kind in Italy. The success of this programme has been truly remarkable. The same is true of the em-ployee’s share ownership plan, to which 16% of potential subscribers signed up, compared to a European average in big companies of less than 5%. Financial participation is also an important factor of cohesion, mutual trust and sharing the commitment to relaunching com-petitiveness.
It is with these people, with its massive store of technological capabilities, plus a now well-
established financial recovery process that is freeing up resources for investment in growth, that Telecom Italia is in a position to strengthen its contribution to the establishment of a digital society and economy with greater opportunities for development, more inclusive and respectful of the environment. 
Gabriele Galateri di Genola
ChairmanIntroduction
External  
stakeholdersExEcutiv E Summary  7
1. REFERENCES  AND GO
VERNANCE 15
2. CODES ,
 CHARTERS  AND VALUES 16
3. HOT TOPICS 18
4. PLA
CEMENT  IN THE INDExES 19
5. NON-FINANCIAL  COMMUNICA
TION 21
6. REPORTING  AND PLANNING 23
7. 2010 R ESUL
TS AND 2011 O BJECTIVES 27
8. THE GR
OUP SUST
AINABILIT y DEP
ARTMENT   27
9. ST
AkEHOLDER  INV
OLVEMENT 29
10. E CONOMIC  V
ALUE  GENERA
TED AND DISTRIBUTED 34
1. cuSt
omErS 39
1.1 F OCUS  ON THE CUSTOMER 39
1.2 C USTOMER  SA
TISFACTION 40
1.3 C ERTIFICA
TIONS 42
1.4 D IGIT
AL DIVIDE 44
1.5 INNO
VATIVE  SER
VICES   46
1.6 R ESEARCH  AND INNO
VATION  IN E-SECURIT y 48
1.7 C HILD PR
OTECTION 49
1.8 C ONCILIA
TION PR
OCEDURES 51
1.9 S AFEGUARDING  PRIV
ACy AND PERSONAL  D
ATA PR
OTECTION   52
2. Suppli ErS 55
2.1 G ENERAL  COMMENTS 55
2.2 M AIN SUST
AINABILIT y INITIA
TIVES 55
2.3 C HECkS 58
2.4 INV
OLVEMENT  INITIA
TIVES 58
2.5 2010 R ESUL
TS AND 2011 C OMMITMENTS 59
3. inStitution S 61
3.1 R ELA
TIONS  WITH ST
AkEHOLDERS 61
3.2 R ELA
TIONS  WITH CENTRAL  NA
TIONAL  INSTITUTIONS 61
3.3 R ELA
TIONS  WITH LOCAL  NA
TIONAL  INSTITUTIONS 62
3.4 R ELA
TIONS  WITH EUR
OPEAN  AND INTERNA
TIONAL  INSTITUTIONS 63
4. compEtit
orS 65
4.1 R ELA
TIONS  WITH ST
AkEHOLDERS 65
4.2 C OMPETITIVE  POSITIONING   66
4.3 S ER
VICES  TO OLOs  67
4.4 T HE IT
ALIAN  COMMUNICA
TIONS  AUTHORIT y (A
GCOM)  68
4.5 T HE COMPETITION  AND MARkET GUARANTOR  AUTHORIT y (A
GCM)  68
4.6 U NDERT
AkINGS REGARDING  THE A
CCESS  NETW
ORk  69
5. thE Environm Ent 71
5.1 E NVIR
ONMENTAL  PERFORMANCE 72
5.2 C LIMA
TE CHANGE 86
5.3 P R
ODUCT  RESPONSIBILIT y 91
6. thE community  95
6.1 M A
CRO AREAS  OF INTER
VENTION 95
6.2 H O
W THE PR
OJECTS  ARE IDENTIFIED  AND IMPLEMENTED 95
6.3 H O
W THE CONTRIBUTION  TO THE COMMUNIT y IS MEASURED 96
6.4 R ESPONSES  TO ST
AkEHOLDERS   97
6.5 T RADITIONAL  MEDIA 102
6.6 S OCIAL  MEDIA  AND DIGIT
AL COMMUNICA
TION 104
6.7 R ESEARCH  AND DEVELOPMENT   104
1. human rESourc ES 111
1.1 H EADCOUNT  AND CHANGES   111
1.2 G ENDER  BALANCE 117
1.3 P EOPLE  CARING 118
1.4 D EVELOPMENT 121
1.5 S ELECTION 123
1.6 T RAINING   125
1.7 L ISTENING  A
CTIVITIES  AND PR
OJECTS 127
1.8 INTERNAL  COMMUNICA
TION  128
1.9 H EAL
TH AND SAFETy 129
1.10 I NDUSTRIAL  RELA
TIONS 130
1.11 R EMUNERA
TION POLIC y 133
1.12 E MPLO yEES SHARE  O
WNERSHIP  PLAN  2010-2014  135
2. Shar Ehold ErS 137
2.1 F INANCIAL  COMMUNICA
TION 138
2.2 R ISk MANA
GEMENT 139
2.3 C ORPORA
TE GO
VERNANCE 140
1. 2009 rESul
tS  157
2. 2010 rESul
tS  158
3. 2011 objEctivES  161
rEport of th E indEpEndEnt audit
orS (pricEW
atErhou SEcoopErS) 165Internal  
stakeholders
Appendix
Auditors’report
background
Telecom Italia began to deal with sustainability in 1997 by creating a dedicated depart-
ment and publishing the first socio-environmental report. The document then evolved into the Sustainability Report and included an analysis of performance in respect of stakehold-ers with whom the Company interacts on a daily basis: Customers, Suppliers, Competitors, Institutions, the Environment, the Community, Human Resources and Shareholders. As of 2003, the data and information regarding sustainability became part of the Report on Op-erations for the consolidated Financial Statements, thus confirming the Group’s intention to present its financial data together with non-financial data. In 2002, Telecom Italia published the Group’s first Code of Ethics and signed up to the Global Compact, the global pact which was launched by the UN to promote the protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corruption practices. In 2003, a structured system for managing sustainability based on indicators (
key P
er-
formance Indicators) was implemented to measure the results achieved in respect of all stakeholders and allow appropriate improvement actions to be planned.In 2007, Telecom Italia participated as co-leader in the laboratory set up in the context of the Alliance with the European Commission in March 2006 on assessing and communicat-ing non-financial performance. The laboratory drew up an original communication template (www.investorvalue.org) presented in Brussels in May 2010 during the Senior Leaders Fo-rum of the European Academy for Business in Society (EABIS).At the end of 2008, sustainability was brought firmly to the attention of the Board of Direc-tors through the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, which performs a coordination and control function in this respect.In 2009, the Sustainability Report was drawn up for the first time according to the principles of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS), which involve stakeholders in the reporting and the underlying processes and are the most advanced standard in this area.As a confirmation of the results achieved, Telecom Italia was included in the most impor-tant international sustainability indexes, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) and the Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good).
8 | eXeCUtiVe sUmmar Y
thE big SuStainability chall EngES for tElEcom italia
Customer service
The achievement of high standards of customer satisfaction is a priority for Telecom Italia. 
The formal quality undertakings summarised in the Customer Promise are widely dissemi-nated internally through the “Expressing Quality” project, which involved 619 managers and around 3,000 area/local unit managers and customer contact team personnel in a total of 155 days of classroom-based activities dedicated to the subject between 2009 and 2010.The values that form the basis of the customer promise inspired a review of the staff performance evaluation system and the implementation of development activities for ex-ecutive staff. Quality is also taken into consideration in the manager and staff incentives system. The Telecom Italia Group, as a fundamental player in the broadband ecosystem, is respon-sible for ensuring that the technological development it brings by offering innovative ser-vices is always associated with the balanced development of the population in terms of computer literacy, contributing to overcoming the socio-cultural barriers that can restrict 
the opportunity to participate in the information society and enjoy its benefits. Specific attention is therefore paid to customers with particular needs or belonging to the weaker 
members of society, such as children, the elderly, the sick and the disabled. For example, the Smart Inclusion project, implemented in some Italian paediatric hospitals, provides a single technological platform allowing hospitalised children to participate actively in school lessons, communicate with their families and access various entertainment programmes, while allowing healthcare staff to view and update clinical patient documentation. As re-gards children, safe Internet browsing is definitely a priority for Telecom Italia, which now provides various online protection and control tools. It has also launched a Safe Browsing project aimed at teaching children, teenagers and adults (parents and teachers) to make an informed and responsible use of the Internet and digital technologies. For further infor-mation see § Customers and The Community .
Closeness to people 
In order to inform people about major organisational and strategic developments and in-volve them in these developments, numerous internal communication activities were car-ried out, including the “Let’s talk about sustainability” event, the first opportunity for senior staff, top management and employees to meet and discuss the subject. The event was attended by over 200 employees in the room and 5,500 by video streaming. Dialogue among employees also takes place through communication channels that pro-mote bilateralism, discussion and knowledge-sharing between members of the corporate community through such things as the intranet, blogs, open virtual communities, climate analysis and the intranet portal. In the field of industrial relations, negotiations between the social partners: government, Telecom Italia and trade unions, were completed successfully with the signing of a frame-work agreement to deal with the expected surplus of personnel at Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Shared Services Center S.r.l.. The agreement provides for recourse to the mobility provisions of Law 223/91, according to agreed criteria and on a voluntary basis, and for the implementation of solidarity contracts of the “defensive” type, combined with training initiatives.  For details of the initiatives taken regarding Telecom Italia personnel see § Human Re-sources.  eXeCUtiVe sUmmar Y | 9
Contribution to the Community 
As a large company, Telecom Italia has a major impact on the communities of the countries 
in which it operates.First of all it contributes to improving general well-being by distributing part of the value produced through salaries and wages, payments to suppliers and work providers, interest to capital investors and dividends to shareholders (see § Economic value produced and distributed). Furthermore, the investments made are of general benefit to the community in terms of infrastructure and services, while also promoting virtuous effects on the related economic system. The Group’s contribution to the community also includes products and services that im-prove people’s quality of life by promoting new ways of learning, travelling, working and health caring, reducing the need for travel and therefore increasing the amount of free time and improving quality of life in general.One example is the “MyDoctor@Home” remote home monitoring service, operating in Pied-mont since December 2010, which allows patients suffering from a number of chronic dis-eases to be monitored at home thanks to Telecom Italia’s technologies. The service allows a considerable improvement to be achieved in the quality of life of patients and savings of up to 80% to be achieved by the healthcare system on hospitalisation costs. By reducing the need to travel to the doctor, this service also allows the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions (CO
2) generated by means of transport (see § Customers/Digital Divide and In-
novative Services and § The Community/Responses to stakeholders).Finally, the Group’s contribution to the community includes projects and initiatives for the general development of the community by means of cultural, solidarity and environmen-tal protection initiatives carried out directly by Telecom Italia and through the Foundation. These include, for example, the programme of activities launched with the Italian Dyslexia Association to fight this disorder in Italian schools. Part of the programme, which lasts for a total of three school years and provides for an investment of 1.5 million euros, was the subject of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Telecom Italia Foundation, the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research and the Italian Dyslexia Association (see § The Community/Responses to stakeholders).10 | eXeCUtiVe sUmmar Y
Fighting climate change
Fighting climate change, in terms of limiting the increase in the Earth’s temperature result-
ing from industrial processes and human activities in general to levels that are considered acceptable, is one of the challenges with which humanity has to deal, mainly by reducing CO
2 emissions and other greenhouse gases.
The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) industry can play a fundamental role in this respect, not only by containing its emissions of CO
2 generated primarily by the high 
amount of energy required by transmission networks, but also by contributing to reducing emissions in other sectors by offering innovative services that promote different and more sustainable lifestyles in environmental terms. According to the Global e-Sustainability Ini-tiative (GeSI Smart 2020), by 2020 ICT will be responsible for approximately 3% of world CO
2 emissions but will contribute to reducing the CO2 emissions of other industrial sectors 
by around 15% by means of services such as video-conferencing, teleworking, telemedi-cine and promoting the virtualisation of the economy in general, which means replacing systems with lower impact alternatives in terms of CO
2 (e-commerce, e-tourism, online 
billing and payments, etc.). ICT solutions allow intelligent buildings to be constructed in which technology combined with new materials considerably improves levels of energy con-sumption, comfort and safety. By using “smart grids” they allow energy to be transferred from areas where there is a surplus to ones where there is a deficit, allowing considerable amounts of energy to be saved, with benefits for citizens and companies, contributing to the creation of more efficient and safer cities with lower CO
2 emissions. In this respect, 
Telecom Italia has launched the “Smart Town” offer, based on an integrated platform of services for “smart” cities which uses existing public lighting networks to implement in-novative environmental management, security and energy saving services for local authori-ties and the public. For further information see § Customers/Innovative Services and § The Environment/Climate change. eXeCUtiVe sUmmar Y | 11
main r ESultS of 2010
results(*)reference to the chapters in the report
31% reduction in the energy consumption for 
heating The Environment/Environmental performance/Energy
4.7% reduction in the energy used by vehicles, which was also supported by the reduction in the number of vehicles and the replacement of Euro3 cars with Euro4 cars.The Environment/Environmental performance/Energy
3.4%  decrease in electricity consumption The Environment/Environmental performance/
Energy 
29% increase in the eco-efficiency indicator The Environment/Climate Change
5.7% reduction in CO
2 emissions The Environment/Environmental performance/
Atmospheric emissions
16.9% reduction in office paper and 18.6% reduc-tion in paper used for telephone billsThe Environment/Environmental performance/Paper
An improvement in the majority of the customer satisfaction indicators Customers/Customer satisfaction
Offer of services and initiatives to reduce the CO
2 
emissions of customers Customers/Innovative services
Confirmation of Telecom Italia's and Tim Brasil's ranking in all the leading international sustain-ability indexesIntroduction/Placement in the indexes
Positive completion of the negotiation with trade unions on dealing with surplus personnel com-municated by the Business Plan Human Resources/Industrial Relations
Boosting of People Caring initiatives, including the launch of a counselling service for employees experiencing difficulties at work or in their private lives.Human Resources/People Caring
Launch of the "I care about myself" project with the trade unions, which allows employees to sign up free of charge to courses offered by the Uninettuno International Telematic UniversityHuman Resources/Training
Launch of initiatives for solidarity and to reduce the socio-cultural Digital Divide, including  through the Telecom Italia FoundationThe Community/Responses to stakeholders
the percentage increases or decreases shown in the table are calculated in com-
parison to 2009 data. Unless otherwise stated all the infor
mation and data relate 
to telecom italia s.p.a.*1. Re FeRenCes and Gove RnanCe
 
The Telecom Italia Group is convinced that business activities should be conducted con-sidering the expectations of stakeholders, in accordance with the principles established by internationally recognised standards. In defining and implementing sustainability strate-gies and programmes, the Group makes reference to the guidelines issued by the main in-ternational guidance and standardisation organisations on matters of Corporate Responsibility.In 2002, Telecom Italia signed up to the Global Compact, the main international point of reference, which was launched in 2000 by the UN to promote environment protection, respect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corruption practices. The Sustainability Management System also takes into considera-tion the main international regulations and standards:•	European Commission Directives, Recommendations and Communications.
•	OECD guidelines for multinational companies.
•	ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 Quality and Environmental Management System certifica-tions.
•	Principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions on respecting the fundamental rights of workers.
•	The Social AccountAbility 8000 standard (SA8000), aimed at promoting respect for hu-man rights and working conditions by companies and their supply chains; 
•	AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS 2008) drawn up by AccountAbility, an international organisation which promotes collaboration between stakeholders, and lays down standards and guidelines on matters of sustainability. The APS 2008 estab-lishes the principles that a company must respect in order to define itself as responsi-ble (accountable), which are covered in § Reporting and Planning . Our system f Or managing 
sustainability is based On the best 
interna
tiOnal st
andards. telecOm  
it
alia has adhered t O the glObal 
cOmp
act since 2002
16 | intrODUCtiOn
•	ISO26000 guidelines presented at the end of the year for private and public organisa-
tions of all sizes.
The Group’s Corporate Governance system is founded on the central role of the Board of Directors and the independent Directors, the transparency of management decisions, the effectiveness of the Internal Control System and the strict regulations regarding potential conflicts of interest. The Internal Control System includes the Organisational Model pursu-ant to Legislative Decree No. 231 of  June 8, 2001, aimed at preventing offences such as corruption, extortion and corporate offences. Sustainability issues are subject to the supervision of the Committee for Internal Control and Corporate Governance, which carries out a check on sustainability activities in gen-eral, including projects conducted by the Telecom Italia Foundation, to ensure they are con-sistent with the Group’s ethical values.
2. Codes, Cha RteRs and values
 
The undertakings given by the Group to its stakeholders are expressed in a system of Char-
ters and Codes available in the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com website.At the heart of the system is the Code of Ethics, based on the conviction that the conduct of business cannot ignore the need for ethics. 
The Code sets out the goals and guiding principles of Company’s activities in relation to the main stakeholders with whom the Group interacts. Respecting the Code is a requirement for statutory bodies, manag-ers and employees of all the companies of the Group, as well as for employees and third parties in business relationships with the Group, within the boundaries of their respective responsibilities and 
functions. The Service Charters, which are intended to simplify the relationship with cus-tomers and make it more direct, set out the principles of conduct and undertakings given by Telecom Italia regarding the quality of the services offered, together with information regard-ing ongoing improvement of quality standards and contact channels available to customers. The Service Charters are available on the Group websites (www.telecomitalia.it,  www.impre-
sasemplice.it, www.tim.it).
In addition to the Telecom Italia Service Charters, there are the General Conditions of Sub-scription, which contain the terms and conditions of the fixed telephony service, published together with the Service Charter and on the www.telecomitalia.it and www.impresasem-plice.it websites, as well as in the telephone directories.Furthermore, in order to comply with the various resolutions of the Italian communications authority regarding quality, the relevant websites state the objectives set for the year in re-spect of the individual services (fixed and mobile voice services, Internet access services, IP-IPTV pay-per-view television services). A selection of the objectives and their respective levels of achievement is set out in the Appendix.
The other commitments undertaken by the Group are contained in the following docu-
ments, which are available in the sustainability section of the Internet site:•	
social responsibility of the telecom Italia Group regarding respect for occupational 
standards within the Group,
 particularly as regards child labour, forced labour, health 
and safety, freedom of association, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and pay.Our cOde Of ethics summarizes the 
fundament
al principles that drive 
empl Oyees’ behavi Ours. Our charters 
and c Odes discipline c Omp
any’s 
cOmmitments t Owards st
akeh OldersintrODUCtiOn | 17
•	Relations with suppliers in Telecom Italia’s procurement process which governs the 
Group’s business ethics (transparency, separation of roles, fairness, traceability), and the requirements that Telecom Italia demands of its suppliers in the area of occupa-tional standards and the environment.
•	Green Procurement Policy which is intended to minimise the environmental impact di-rectly attributable to the Company and its suppliers in the context of the procurement process. 
•	Codes regarding child protection and consumer protection (Self-regulation code for mobile services, Self-regulation code for TV and children, Code of conduct for premium rate services, Self-regulation code for commercial communication). 
•	
self-regulation code on spor
ts information and self-regulation code on the repor
ting 
of legal disputes in radio and television programmes.
•	telecom Italia Group guidelines on voluntary contributions to the community
 which 
govern the ways in which the Group takes action to promote the development of the communities in which it operates.
•	Code guaranteeing propriety in relations with the 
olos (other licensed operator
s) 
which ensure the proper handling and confidentiality of data by the departments that supply services to other operators.
•	
telecom Italia Group guidelines on responsible mark
eting which set out the principles 
that the Group undertakes to respect, in addition to those contained in the Charters and Codes listed above, in order to ensure proper, fair and transparent commercial prac-tices.
The System of Values adopted by Telecom Italia is the benchmark for the conduct of all those who work for the Group, creating a sense of belonging to a single organisation. The various corporate processes and systems for development and rewards, and for the as-sessment and training of staff, are inspired by the Charter of Values, thereby orienting in-dividual attitudes in a common direction throughout the whole Group.
Focus on the customer
To consider the customer as the main employer, and customer satisfaction as the core value. To be ready to listen to both internal and external customers, and to take steps to anticipate and respond rapidly to emerging requirements. 
taking responsibility
To par
ticipate in the achievement of tangible results and to accept delegation as an op-
portunity, without referring problems to management that are within the individual’s sphere of competence. Innovation To ensure the development of innovative solutions and promote new ways to improve the existing processes and systems in order to reinforce the positioning of the company in the market. ProactivenessTo make things happen by anticipating and influencing events. To seize and develop any opportunities, even if they are initially unpromising, that the individual may encounter with-in their sphere of activity, and to advance proposals and initiatives that may be useful in achieving the goals of the company and the Group. 
speed
 
To consider time as an important resource that impacts on the costs of the services provid-ed and on the loyalty of both internal and external customers. To meet needs and problems and handle multiple, sketchy inputs, working out timely and practical solutions. Integration To work together with team spirit, minimising disputes and maximising the effectiveness 18 | intrODUCtiOn
of the exchange of information and professional contributions, working towards a common 
goal on behalf the Company and the Group. 
transparency 
To ensure ethically-cor
rect business conduct; to maintain internal and external relations 
that are correct and honest, favouring the circulation of information.Professional excellenceTo continuously improve one’s own abilities, taking responsibility for one’s own profession-al growth in order to contribute to the success of the company and the Group.  
3. hot toPICs
 
Sustainability concerns all the company processes, but certain matters are of particular 
importance and are consequently given special consideration in implementing the model of Corporate Responsibility defined by the company. These are the “Hot Topics” of sustainability, which have been identified by Telecom Italia Group on the basis of:•	requests made by the sustainability rating agencies for admission to sustainability in-dexes, through questionnaires assessing the Group’s performance; 
•	requests from investors during the dedicated road shows or one-to-one contacts; 
•	analysis of the media and reports published by specialist agencies; 
•	benchmarking of the sustainability activities carried out by other companies, in Italy and abroad;
•	opinions expressed by stakeholders consulted directly (see § Stakeholder Involvement). 
The Hot Topics identified in this way, together with other aspects of the company’s activi-ties, are taken into consideration in determining the relevance of the reporting, in accord-ance with the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS) referred to in § Reporting 
and Planning . 
HOT TOPICS TABLE
issues Stakeholder s telecom italia commitment ref erence
RELATIONS  WITH 
CUSTOMERSCustomers Paying attention to the needs of customers and 
improving their satisfaction are among the main objec-tives of Telecom Italia and are the subject of numer-ous projects and initiatives.Customers/Focus on Cus-tomers/Customer Satisfac-tion
D
IGIT
AL DIVIDE Customers,
 
Institutions, The CommunityThe dissemination of communication technologies can create social and geographical discrimination. The risk of exclusion is especially high for certain population bands, such as the elderly, the sick and the disabled. Telecom Italia has undertaken numerous initiatives to ensure the wide availability of the new technologies.Customers/Digital DivideThe Community/Responses to stakeholders
C
LIMA
TE CHANGE  Customer
s, 
Suppliers, Institutions, The Environment, The CommunityThe Group is committed to reducing its CO
2 emissions 
and to providing services that contribute to reducing emissions in other sectors.The Environment/Climate Change
intrODUCtiOn | 19
RELATIONS  WITH 
EMPLO yEESHuman Re-
sourcesEven at a difficult time for the global econom y, the 
Group pays the maximum possible attention to the needs of employees in terms of training, development and the improvement of company welfare.Human Resources
S
UPPLy CHAIN Suppliers,
 The 
Environment, The CommunityWith the globalisation of markets and supply, supply chain monitoring becomes a vital element in the sustainability of businesses. The Group is mounting a series of actions designed to protect the environment, maintain occupational standards and promote the principles of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA).Suppliers/Main sustainability initiatives The Environment/Product responsibility
P
RIV
ACy AND 
DA
TA SECURIT yCustomer
s, Insti-
tutionsTelecom Italia has implemented a series of measures to protect data security and the privacy of those who use the networks and services.Customers/Research and innovation in e-security/ Protection of privacy and protection of personal data
C
HILD PR
OTEC -
TIONCustomers
The spread of the Internet is a great opportunity but it can also be a source of danger. Telecom Italia has implemented a series of measures to protect children from content that could harm their psychological and physical development, and to prevent and detect any abuse carried out through the telecommunication networks.Customers/Child protection
R
ELA
TIONS  WITH 
SHAREHOLDERS /
INVESTORSShareholders
Dialogue with investors on financial and non-financial issues is of strategic importance for a major listed company. In order to improve communication among the stakeholders on environmental, social and govern-ance issues, Telecom Italia promoted a European workshop on the communication of non-financial performance.Introduction/ Non-financial  communicationShareholders/Financial com-munication
4. Pla Cement In the Indexes
 
Sustainability indexes are stock indexes in which securities are selected not only on the 
basis of economic-financial parameters but also in the light of social and environmental criteria. The selection process is carried out by specialised agencies that assess com-panies on the basis of publicly available information or questionnaires, taking account of opinions expressed by the media and stakeholders. Inclusion in these indexes is of strate-gic importance to companies, both for the positive repercussions on their reputation and for the fact that, in addition to the pension funds and ethical funds, an ever increasing number of investors favour sustainable companies, considering them to be less risky and more promising in the medium to long term.Taking part in the process of evaluation is, moreover, a timely moment for reflection within the company on the results achieved. The suggestions of the rating agencies at the end of the process are taken into consideration when planning improvement actions in the future.
Telecom Italia has been confirmed in both categories of the Dow Jones Sustainability in-
dexes:•	the Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes (DJSI World), which include 318 companies; 
•	the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe index (DJSI Europe), consisting of 157 companies at European level, and the respective Eurozone index, consisting of 94 companies in the Euro area. 
On the basis of the assessments carried out for admission to the DJSI, Telecom Italia has been included in the Gold Class for the fixed telecommunications sector of the “Sustain-20 | intrODUCtiOn
ability yearbook 2010”,  published by the SAM (Sustainable Asset Management) Group, the 
rating agency that manages the DJSI, and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
The Sustainability yearbook only 
accepts companies with the highest sustainability scores 
and divides them into three categories: Gold Class, Silver Class and Bronze Class. The fixed telecommunications sector in particular consists of a group of 54 companies, while the Gold Class consists of the 4 companies in the sector with the highest score. 
Telecom Italia has been included in all the important indexes of the Financial Times Stock 
Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good):•	FTSE4Good Global (657 companies);
•	FTSE4Good Europe (273 companies); 
•	FTSE4Good Environmental Leaders Europe, which includes 40 stocks from the FTSE-4Good Europe on the basis of the results achieved on matters of environmental protec-tion. 
Telecom Italia is also included in the following indexes: 
•	Advanced Sustainable Performance Index (ASPI) Eurozone, made up of 120 companies;
•	Ethibel Sustainability Indexes (ESI): 
 › Excellence Europe, consisting of 199 stocks; 
 › Excellence Euro, consisting of 114 stocks; 
 › Excellence Global, consisting of 129 stocks.
•	MSCI ESG Indexes: 
 › MSCI WORLD ESG INDE x,
 consisting of 786 stocks; 
 › MSCI WORLD for
merly USA ESG INDE x,
 consisting of 482 stocks; 
 › MSCI EAFE ESG INDE x,
 consisting of 439 stocks; 
 › MSCI EUROPE ESG INDE x,
 consisting of 226 stocks.
•	ECPI Indexes: 
 › ECPI Ethical Index Global, consisting of 300 stocks;
 › ECPI Ethical Index Euro, consisting of 150 stocks;
 › ECPI Ethical Index EMU, consisting of 150 stocks;
 › ECPI EMU ESG Equity,
 consisting of 300 stocks.
•	FTSE ECPI Italian SRI Benchmark Index, consisting of 46 stocks.
•	Axia 
 › Ethical Index, consisting of 40 stocks; 
 › Euro Ethical Index, consisting of 80 stocks;
 › CSR Index, consisting of 80 stocks.
Tim P
articipações, the listed holding company of the TIM Brasil Group, has had its position 
confirmed in the ISE (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial) index, managed by BM&F 
Bovespa (the São Paolo stock exchange) together with the Brazilian Environment Ministry and other financial sustainability organisations. The index consists of 38 companies that have obtained the highest scores in terms of sustainability, selected on the basis of a questionnaire submitted to the 182 most traded companies in the BM&F Bovespa.intrODUCtiOn | 21
5. non-FInanCIal Commun ICatIon 
 
In the context of the Alliance between the European Commission and companies launched 
on March 22, 2006 with the aim of turning Europe into a centre of excellence in CSR, vari-ous “laboratories” have been set up. These are working groups involving representatives of the companies and stakeholders with the support of the European Commission and aimed at exploring and developing shared operational solutions to achieve measurable progress in the priority areas of the Alliance, which include improving the quality of report-ing processes.In this respect, the “Sustainability and non-financial performance evaluation” laboratory has been set up, of which Telecom Italia is a co-leader, which has designed an advanced communication model for non-financial communication that meets the requirements of investors and other stakeholders. In order to stimulate dialogue on the subject, a widespread consultation process was launched involving focus group meetings in Italy (Rome and Milan) and abroad (Frankfurt, Paris, Stockholm, Utrecht), involving companies, investors, academics, representatives of the Eu-ropean Commission and stakeholders. Considering the opinions expressed, a model was drawn up based on six priority areas (Human Capital, Customer Relations, Community, In-novation, Environment and Corporate Governance) in which companies and investors are both interested, and in respect of which, therefore, the high quality reporting of financial information by companies is valued by the financial markets and taken into consideration for the purpose of valuations.The results of the laboratory were presented on May 7, 2010 during the Senior Leaders Summit organised in Brussels by EABIS (European Academy of Business in Society).
For further information see the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com website 
and the laboratory’s website at www.investorvalue.org .
the impr Ovement  Of cOmmunica tiOn  
amOng cOmp
anies ,
 invest Ors,
 and Other 
stakeh Olders  On sust
ainability  issues  is 
the ObJective  Of a eurOpean  labOra
tOry22 | intrODUCtiOn
MARKET VALUE
Increased sales Reduced costs Increased cash/f_low Brand value Risk management
Human capital Customer relations Society Environment Innovation Corporate governance
KEY METRICS
ESG FACTORS_ Employee
   engagement_Customer    satisfaction_ Public    perception_ Supply chain   management_ Carbon    emission_ Waste    management_ Lifecycle   assissement_ Product    service    developement_ Ethical    integrity_ Board    composition
_ Absence rate_ Staff turnover_ Health & safety_ Fair restructuring_ Training_ Performance    management_ Equality &    diversity_ Commitment    to customer_ Talent recruitment    & retention_ Customer    loyality_ Retention_ Reputation_ Trust_ Price, product   service quality_ Opinion former   perception_ Media coverage_ Ommunity    investment_ Stakeholder    dialogue_ Social impact_ Legal\regulatory   breaches_ Inclusion_ Energy ef/f_icency_ Deployment    of renewables_ Waste reduction_ Recycling_ Environmental    impacts_ Enviromental    breaches_ New products    and services_ Value of patents_ Customer    perception_ Talent recruitment    & retention_ Training_ R&D expenditure_ Nos of non-exec   \independent    directors_ Equality    & diversity _ Training &   developement _ Audit processes_ Reporting &   trasparency_ Reputation_ Shareholder    interest_ Anticorruption    policy\practise_ Competitiveness
FINANCIAL DRIVERSPRIMARY OBJECTIVE
CORE NON-FINANCIAL DRIVERSintrODUCtiOn | 23
6. Re PoRtInG and Plann InG
6.1 rEporting 
Scope
The sustainability report covers the subsidiary companies included in the consolidation 
scope, unless otherwise stated (see § The Environment and § The Community), excluding discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale. With regard to the Argen-tina Business Unit, which has been consolidated in the Financial Statements of Telecom Italia
(1) since October 13, 2010, while waiting to align the indicators used to measure the 
sustainability performance and to check the underlying processes, the data has not been included in this Sustainability Report, with the exception of data regarding the number of employees and changes in this number for which we refer you to § Human Resources/ Headcount and changes. 
criteria
In accordance with the triple bottom line(2), approach, the company’s economic and finan-
cial data has to be analysed and represented together with the environmental and social results. Only an overall analysis of company performance including all three dimensions can provide stakeholders with comprehensive information and allow interests to be bal-anced in a way that guarantees the success and survival of the company in the medium and long term. For this reason, the Group has integrated the sustainability data in the Consolidated Fi-Sustainability 
at Telecom Argentina
The company, which signed up to 
the Global Compact in 2004, be-gan to deal with sustainability in a structured way in 2007 by creating a dedicated team within its Commu-nication and Media Department. As of 2008, it started to publish an an-nual Sustainability Report accord-ing to the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines.The company has set up a Sustain-ability Operating Committee con-sisting of representatives of all its departments, which is responsible for coordinating the management of sustainability within the Company, establishing the objectives for the future and selecting the key sub-jects to be dealt with in the Sustain-ability Report.The company regularly involves ex-ternal stakeholders in order to lis-ten to their opinion and gather suggestions on how to improve its sustainability reporting according to the principles established by the AA1000 SES standard issued by Ac-countAbility. In 2010, 12 represent-atives of the academic and private sector were involved who made 23 improvement suggestions to which a response is given in the Compa-ny’s Sustainability Report.Telecom Argentina has adopted a Group Code of Ethics and has a website that allows employees and external people to report actual or potential violations of the Code it-self or, more generally, of current laws, with a guarantee of confi-dentiality. For further information regarding the sustainability mod-el of Telecom Argentina and the main projects carried out see the Company’s Sustainability Report in the sustainability section of the  
www.telecomitalia.com website and at www.telecom.com.ar .
1
For information regarding the arg en-
tina Business Unit and the business 
sectors in which it operates, please see the relevant chapter of the Con-solidated Financial 
statements of the 
telecom italia Group
2
this approach was defined for the 
first time by J
ohn elkington in 1994 
in the ar
ticle entitled “ towards the 
sustainable 
corporation: Win-win-win 
business strategies for sustainable development”. California 
manag
ement 
re
view 36, no. 2: 90-100.24 | intrODUCtiOn
nancial Statements since the 2003 financial year, in fact preceding the application of Eu-
ropean Directive 51/2003, which was transposed in Italy by Legislative Decree No. 32 of February 2, 2007. 
The Sustainability Report is based on a multi-stakeholder approach involving the joint 
analysis of actions taken in respect of the main stakeholders with whom the Company in-teracts. It is drawn up on the basis of a system of around 200 
key P
erformance Indicators 
(kPIs) relating to all the areas in which the Compan
y has a major impact and measuring its 
capacity to respond as well as the degree to which it has achieved the established objec-tives. The 
kPIs are defined on the basis of:
•	the 
analysis of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international organisation which 
has developed universally applicable guidelines for drawing up the sustainability report, in order to facilitate comparisons between companies;
•	the demands of stakeholders; 
•	the questionnaires sent out by the leading rating agencies for the purpose of admission to the stock market sustainability indexes;
•	the experience gathered over the 14 years during which the Company has performed this activity. 
The 
kPIs are managed on the CPM system,
 a dedicated application, in a similar way to the 
way in which financial reports are drawn up.
The Sustainability Report is based on the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS) 
2008, adopted as of the 2009 Financial Statements, and set out below:•	inclusivity: identification of the stakeholders and their expectations, and the develop-ment of strategies of involvement aimed at improving the Company’s sustainability per-formance;
•	materiality: identification of the important issues for the organisation and its stakehold-ers;
•	responsiveness: a description of the initiatives carried out by the Company to meet the expectations of the stakeholders. 
In accordance with the principle of materiality, the important issues have been identified according to the above criteria (see § Hot Topics), positioning them in the “materiality matrix” shown below based on their impact on the expectations of stakeholders and the Group’s activities.A risk management method has being established, based on the 
“Enterprise Risk Management Framework” criteria, under which social and environmental risks, and those arising from possible conflicts between stakeholders in general, are tak-en into greater consideration (for further details, see § Shareholders/Risk Management).The Telecom Italia report’s compliance with the AA1000 standard is verified by the auditing company Price WaterhouseCoopers (see § Auditing Company’s Report).
the sustainability  repOrt gives  
resp Onses  tO st
akeh Olders  On 
relevant  issues  identified  a
ccOrding  
 
tO the aa1000 aps 2008intrODUCtiOn | 25
matrix of materiality
The method used to measure investments in the community is the one defined by the Lon-
don Benchmarking Group – LBG – (see  § The Community/Measuring the contribution to the community).
table of global compact and gri ref erences
The following table indicates the chapters/paragraphs and pages which make direct or in-direct reference to the principles of the Global Compact and the respective GRI indicators. 
The Content Index relating to the GRI is available in the sustainability section of the  
www.telecomitalia.com website.relations
with competitors 
relations
with media relations with NGOs child protection
privacy
and security
freedom
of expression
reducing waste 
and material usethe impacts
on supply chain
relations with
local communitiesrelations with
employeesdigital divide
climate change
relations
with institutions relations with
shareholders/investors 
economic
developmentrelations
with customers 
Stakeholder interest/expectation levelThe impact (economic, environmental or social) on Telecom
high medium low
high medium lowproduct
responsibility
global compact ( gc)  
principlesgri indicator s 
with reference 
to the gcchapter s referring to gc 
principles page 
number
1. Businesses should support 
and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the areas of the respec-tive spheres of influence. HR1-7, LA4, LA7-9, LA13, PR1, PR8Reference and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Reporting and Planning, Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Community, Human Resources15, 16, 23, 29, 55, 95, 111
2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit, even indi-rectly, in human rights abuses.HR1-7 References and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Suppliers, Human Resources15, 16, 55, 111
26 | intrODUCtiOn
3. Businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association of workers and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.HR1-3, HR5, LA4-5 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Reporting and Planning, Stakeholder Involvement, Hu-man Resources16, 23, 29, 111
4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labourHR1-3, HR7 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Suppliers, Human Resources16, 55, 111
5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.HR1-3, HR6 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Suppliers, Human Resources16, 55, 111
6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.HR1-4, LA2, LA13 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Sup-pliers, Human Resources16, 29, 55, 111
7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to envi-ronmental challenges.EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30Hot Topics, Reporting and Planning, Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Environment, 2010 results  and 2011 objectives  in the Appendix18, 23, 29, 55, 71, 158, 161
8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.EN3-5, EN16-17, EN20, EN22-23, EN26, PR3Stakeholder Involvement, Sup-pliers, The Environment, 2010 results and 2011 objectives in the Appendix29, 55, 71, 158, 161
9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technolo-gies.EN5-7, EN18, EN26-27, EN30Hot Topics, Reporting and Planning, The Environment, The Community18, 23, 71, 95
10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.SO2-4 References and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Suppliers, Shareholders 15, 16, 55, 137
6.2 planning
The Sustainability Plan is based on a procedure that is broken down into four phases: 
1. identification of the areas for improvement in sustainability perfor
mance; 
2. comparison between the areas for impro
vement and the projects the Group plans to carry 
out for the purposes of its business; 
3. definition of targeted management actions to be taken in the areas for impro
vement star
ting from 2008, telecom Italia has obtained the a+ qualification for its sustainabil
-
ity reporting.
Commitments required 
by international organisationsGeneral subjects for admission
to the sustainability indexesBenchmarking 
with peers
Requests of the stakeholders
(conveyed through the associations,
the media, direct contacts etc.)Commitments required by regulatory bodies,
expressed within the Group in the Code of Ethics
and the other charters and policies adoptedIDENTIFICATION OF THE AREAS
OF IMPROVEMENT
Commitments required 
by international organisationsGeneral subjects for admission
to the sustainability indexesBenchmarking 
with peers
Requests of the stakeholders
(conveyed through the associations,
the media, direct contacts etc.)Commitments required by regulatory bodies,
expressed within the Group in the Code of Ethics
and the other charters and policies adoptedIDENTIFICATION OF THE AREAS
OF IMPROVEMENTintrODUCtiOn | 27
where no projects have been conducted previously, or those where the planned projects 
have not had sufficient, positive impact in terms of sustainability; 
4. monitoring those areas in need of supervision in order to maintain the perfor
mance level 
attained. 
An important element used by the Group on matters of sustainability is the Assessment Sheet. All projects which involve significant investment, and which are put forward for the ap-proval of appropriate Committees, are covered by this sheet. Its function is to illustrate the impact, in terms of sustainability, of the investment. Each project manager must indicate the impact, positive, neutral or negative, of the project to be approved in the important areas identified for each stakeholder.These reports are taken into account within the decision-making process that leads to the approval of investments, and they provide a useful summary for assessing the overall impact of the Group’s investment choices in terms of sustainability.
7. 2010 Results and 2011 objeCtIves
The results achieved against the objectives for 2010, published in the 2009 Sustainability Report, and the objectives for 2011 are shown in the Appendix to this report.The targets of a qualitative nature for suppliers are included in the respective chapter.
8. the GRouP sust aInabIlIty dePaRtment
8.1 miSSion and Structur E
Sustainability management in Telecom Italia is ensured by the Group Sustainability depart-ment, which carries out the following activities:•	promoting projects and initiatives at Group level with environmental and social impact, collaborating with the company departments which have operational responsibility for them;
•	contributing to the dissemination of a correct approach to sustainability within the com-pany, under the perspective of continuous improvement; 
•	ensuring the external reporting of sustainability-related activities carried out;
•	managing relations with specialised rating agencies;
•	representing the Group in the national and international forums which are active on the issue.
As of 2009, the function has been transferred to the External Relations Department, in order to ensure the more structured communication of initiatives undertaken and results achieved. The organisational structure is shown below.28 | intrODUCtiOn
Chief executive of/f_icer
EXTERNAL RELATIONS
DEPARTMENT
GROUP 
SUSTAINABILITY
PLANNING REPORTING RELATIONS WITH
RATING AGENCIESSupervision through a check
on sustainability activities in general,
including projects conducted
by the Telecom Italia Foundation
In each department, sustainability data owners are responsible for
monitoring the activities and gathering data and information for sustainability reporting
and questionnaires from rating agenciesCOMMITTEE FOR
INTERNAL CONTROL AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
8.2 guid ElinES
The management of sustainability within the Telecom Italia Group is based on the follow-
ing guidelines:•	inclusion of a summary of the sustainability data within the Financial Statement,  con-firming the Group’s determination to present its financial performance jointly with non-financial information;
•	evaluation of the impact in terms of sustainability of the business projects presented for approval by the Group’s Investment Committee, through the completion by the proposing project manager of the investments card (see § Reporting and Planning);
•	collaboration with the stakeholders through projects and initiatives at various levels (see § Stakeholder Involvement);
•	definition of quantitative objectives in line with the major sustainability issues (see Ap-pendix);
•	integration between sustainability and innovation: a specific section is dedicated to is-sues of business responsibility within the Technological Plan, the document in which the Company defines its strategy in terms of the evolution of the transmission network;
•	confirmation of the international commitments on matters of sustainability, including adherence to the Global Compact;
•	contribution to projects and initiatives on a national and international basis, also devel-oped in the context of the sector organisations (see § Competitors/Relations with the stakeholders and § The Environment/Environmental performance);
•	adherence to the main international standards on matters of sustainability (see § Refer-ences and Governance and § Reporting and Planning);
•	continuous improvement of its own performance, including through benchmarking with peers;
•	contribution to the spread of a correct approach to sustainability issues by means of communication initiatives organised within the Company and externally (see § The En-vironment/Climate Change).intrODUCtiOn | 29
9. stakeholde R Involvement
During 2010, the 2009 Sustainability Report was submitted to a multi-stakeholder panel 
to measure their satisfaction and the extent to which it fulfilled their expectations, as well as to gather suggestions for improvement. The involvement process, which was managed directly by the Sustainability Team according to the AccountAbility principles, included the following stages:•	design and planning;
•	preparation of involvement and implementation; 
•	responsiveness and measurement.
In detail, the following activities were carried out:•	identification of stakeholders to involve;
•	preparation and sending of the questionnaire;
•	receipt and analysis of the completed questionnaires;
•	presentation to stakeholders of the results obtained;
•	activities aimed at fulfilling the expectations of stakeholders.
The stakeholders involved were top, business and consumer customers, suppliers, the Open Access supervisory authority, local authority associations, members of parliament, Confindustria, environmental and service sector associations, universities, journalists, bloggers, insurance brokers, employees and trade unions. The people involved were sent a questionnaire (available in the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com website, where further information about the process is also available) divided into 4 sections relating to:•	content;
•	graphics;
•	distribution method;
•	overall judgement. 
The results, which were presented to panel members during the feedback event organised in Rome, at the Telecom Italia premises, showed that there had been substantial satisfac-tion with the Sustainability Report. The suggestions for improvement that emerged related primarily to the need for greater conciseness and to the formal aspects of the document, such as the use of a larger font and more attractive graphics, in order to make the report easier to read and to use. These suggestions have for the most part been implemented as of this Report.The following table shows the main initiatives taken to involve stakeholders in company processes, classified according to the AccountAbility recommendations (see § Reporting and Planning). the 2009 sustainability rep Ort has been 
analyzed by a gr Oup Of st
akeh Olders 
whO have pr Ovided useful insights f Or 
impr Ovement30 | intrODUCtiOnstakeholde RsINITIATIVES
information conSul tation dialogu E partn ErShip
CUSTOMERS Notification to the 
customers of offer
s 
and conditions through various methods (Communication with customers at www.telecomitalia.com)Customer satisfaction is surveyed  systemati-cally (Customers/Customer Satisfaction)Collaboration with the consumer associations (Customers/Relations with consumer associa-tions)Participation in national and international work-ing groups, in partner-ship with UN agencies, non-governmental organisations, and  organisations in the sector, on the issue of protecting children from potential abuses car-ried out via the Internet (Customers/Child protection)
Information on the rules for the safe use of the Internet and for combating abuses through the Internet (Customers/Child protection)Use of social net-working web tools to communicate with call centre operators (Customers/Customer satisfaction)Partnership projects with other companies to the test and create innovative assistance services(Customers/Digital Divide – Customers/In-novative services)
Employee awareness-building activities con-tinued on aspects of the Customer Promise in order to ensure its implementation within the Company.
S
UPPLIERS Four
th survey of sat-
isfaction with the Pur-chasing Management, and more generally with TI, conducted with the Group’s main suppliers (Suppliers/Involvement initiatives) E-community of the main suppliers through the “TelecHome” web-site accessible through the Suppliers’ Portal (Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)Launch of the CSR au-diting activities required by the Memorandum of Understanding signed together with France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom on the Asian factories of common suppliers and sub sup-pliers
Updating of the suppli-ers’ check list for the CSR assessment (Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)
intrODUCtiOn | 31stakeholde RsINITIATIVES
information conSul tation dialogu E partn ErShip
COMPETITORS Periodic qualitative-
quantitative research activities to analyse the strength of the T
elecom 
Italia and TIM brands, the image of the provid-ers of TLC and mobile telephony services, the reputation of the providers (Competitors/Competi-tive positioning) Dialogue with the OLOs on commercial issues and the implementa-tion of the Commit-ments (Competitors/Services to the OLOs and Com-petitors/Commitments regarding the access network) 
Constant dialogue with 
the Authorities (Competitors/AGCOM and Competitors/AGCM)
The Group is a member 
of numerous federa-tions, associations and organisations, both nationally and interna-tionally (Competitors/Relations with stakeholders)
I
NSTITUTIONS The fifth “Digital Divide Day” w
as organised, 
during which the Gov-ernors of some Italian regions were presented with an updated edi-tion of the Broadband Directory (Customers/Digital Divide)Co-leadership of the “Sustainability and assessment of non-financial performance” Laboratory launched in the context of the Alli-ance with the European Commission of March 2006 (Introduction/Other acknowledgements)Management of the abuse management process by an internal representative liais-ing with the relevant Authorities (Customers/Child protection)Participation in the Global Compact work-ing group on human rights and support for the Italian Network (Institutions/Relations with stakeholders)
Public consultation regarding the removal of telephone boxes in agreement with AGCOM(Institutions/Local 
national institutions)Dialogue with national and international In-stitutions on business issues of relevance to the Group (Institu-tions/Relations with stakeholders)Initiatives in respect of the community carried out in partnership with institutions (The Community/Re-sponses to stakehold-ers)
Completion of memo-
randums of under-standing with national and local authorities on the creation of broadband facilities and "Smart Services" (Institutions/Local national institutions)
32 | intrODUCtiOn
stakeholde RsTOOLS
information conSul tation dialogu E partn ErShip
ENVIRONMENT “Carbon Meter” avail-
able on A
VoiComu-
nicare (The Environment/Com-municating sustain-ability) Agreement with the Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) to carry out excava-tions with a lesser environmental impact (mini-trenches).(The Environment/Waste)Collaboration with other European TLC opera-tors on issues of en-vironmental relevance within the framework of industry associations, including GeSI and ETNO (The Environment/Cli-mate change)Co-siting agreements with the other Italian TLC operators(The Environment/Energy)
External and internal communication activi-ties carried out regard-ing sustainability (The Environment/Climate change and Human Resources/In-ternal communication)Contributions to the Working Groups pro-moted by the EU and ETNO in defining the Code of Conduct on broadband equipment and data centres (The Environment/Energy) 
Collaboration with 
institutions, universities and other companies in the context of the e-cube project (The Environment/Cli-mate change)
T
HE  
COMMUNIT yCor
rect information to 
stakeholders provided via the traditional me-dia and the Group’s website(The Community/Tradi-tional media)Consultation with stakeholders as part of the analysis and definition of potential initiatives and projects for the protection of historic and artistic heritage by the Telecom Italia Foundation (The Community/Re-sponses to stakehold-ers)The “Safe Browsing” tour involved children, teenagers, parents and teaches in 20 Italian cities on subjects related to safe Internet browsing (The Community/Re-sponses to stakehold-ers) Projects carried out in partnership with non-governmental and civil society organisations, particularly through the Telecom Italia Founda-tion (The Community/Re-sponses to stakehold-ers)
Consultation of stake-holders to measure their level of satisfac-tion and the extent to which the Sustainability Report fulfilled their expectations (Introduction/Stake-holder Involvement)The AVoiComunicare integrated communica-tion project stimulates discussion on social issues (The Community/So-cial media and digital communication at www.telecomitalia.com, sus-tainability section)Working Capital sup-ports entrepreneurial and research projects in the Web 2.0 sector (The Community/So-cial media and digital communication at www.telecomitalia.com, sus-tainability section
Venice Sessions is a platform for dialogue which involves stake-holders of innovation on the national and global scale (The Community/So-cial media and digital communication at www.telecomitalia.com, sus-tainability sectionintrODUCtiOn | 33
stakeholde RsTOOLS
information conSul tation dialogu E partn ErShip
HUMAN   
RESOURCESInternal communication 
activities (
Human Resources /In-
ternal communication)"Archimede" project (Human Resources/Listening projects and activities)Mailboxes, Intranet, blogs, virtual com-munities, multimedia conventions to commu-nicate with employees (Human Resources/In-ternal Communication)Negotiations with the social partners (Government and Trade Unions) on managing surplus personnel were completed positively (Human Resources/Industrial Relations)
Courses on health and safety matters (Human resources/Pro-tection of health and safety)Initiatives carried out by the People Caring cen-tre to fulfil the require-ments of employees (Human Resources/People Caring)Activation of a number of focus groups on the issues of disability and human diversity (Human Resources/People Caring)Selection and training programmes carried out with research centres, universities, associa-tions and foundations (Human Resources/Selection)
Seventh corporate cli-mate survey carried out (Human Resources/Listening projects and activities)Launch of the Industrial Relations School, a network of profession-als from the world of business, institutions and trade unions (Human Resources/Training)
Volunteering initiatives 
with the involvement of employees and external partners (Human Resources/People Caring) 
Launch of the “I care 
about myself” project with the main trade unions, which allows employees to sign up free of charge to some of the faculties of the Uninettuno Internation-al Telematic University (Human Resources/Training)
S
HAREHOLDERS The shareholders’ club,
 
“TI Alw@ys ON” (www.telecomitaliaclub.it) supplies important information to indi-vidual investors and the general public (Shareholders/Finan-cial communication)Three monthly confer-ence calls, meetings at institutional offices of the Group (reverse road shows), participation in sector conferences, making a total of around 300 investors meetings (Shareholders/Finan-cial communication)
Financial communica-tion on line (Shareholders/Finan-cial communication)34 | intrODUCtiOn
10. eConom IC value GeneRated and d IstRIbuted
The main economic, equity and financial data of the Telecom Italia Group as of 12.31.2010 
are shown below, comparing them to the data for the previous year.
The economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders is shown below(3). Since 
2008, the method of presentation recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
has been adopted, with appropriate adaptation. TELECOM ITALIA GROUP – MAIN CONSOLIDATED ECONOMIC, ASSETS AND 
FINANCIAL DATA
2010 2009
(million euros)
REVENUES 27,571 26,894
EBITDA 11,412
11,115
EBIT 5,813 5,493
NET PR
OFIT FOR THE yEAR 3,572 1,596
TOT
AL NET EQUIT y 32,610
27,120
- A
TTRIBUTABLE  TO THE EQUIT y HOLDERS  OF THE PARENT 28,819 25,952
- A
TTRIBUTABLE  TO THE MINORIT y INTEREST 3,791 1,168
NET FINANCIAL  A
CCOUNTING  DEBT 32,087 34,747
INDUSTRIAL  INVESTMENTS 4,583 4,543
HEADCOUNT  A
T yEAR-END 84,200 71,384
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP – ADDED VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED
2010 2009
(million euros)
dIReCt eConom IC v
alue GeneRa
ted
A) TOT
AL REVENUE  AND OPERA
TING INCOME 27,826 27,174
B) INTEREST  P
AyABLE AND DIVIDENDS  P
AID 117 104
C) CAPIT
AL GRAINS  (CAPIT
AL LOSSES ) FR
OM DISPOSALS  ON
NON-CURRENT  A
CTIVITIES11 (59)
d) dIReCt eConom IC v
alue GeneRa
ted (a+b+ C) 27,954
27,219
eConom IC v
alue d IstRIbuted 
E) OPERA
TING COSTS  12,204
11,929
F) EMPLO yEE COSTS 4,021 3,734
G) SHAREHOLDERS  AND PR
OVIDERS  OF CAPIT
AL 3,207 3,183
C) TAxES AND DUTIES 1,446 1,277
I) eConom IC v
alue d IstRIbuted (e+ F+G+h) 20,878
20,123
eConom IC v
alue Ret
aIned (d- I) 7,076 7,096
3
the economic value distributed to 
the Community stakeholder is not 
sho
wn in the table. see the respec-
tiv
e chapter.intrODUCtiOn | 35
2010 2009
(million euros)
ACQUISITION  OF ExTERNAL  GOODS  AND SER
VICES 11,383 11,480
OTHER  OPERA
TING COSTS(*)1,233 949
CHANGE  IN INVENTORIES 135 15
INTERNALL y GENERA
TED ASSETS (547) (515)
oPeRa
tInG Costs 12,204
11,9292010 2009
(million euros)W
AGES  AND SALARIES 2,615 2,570
SOCIAL  SECURIT y COSTS 931 942
PR
OVISIONS  FOR EMPLO yEES’ SEVERANCE  AND RETIREMENT 52 54
OTHER  ExPENSES 423 168
emPlo
yee Costs 4,021 3,734
2010 2009
(million euros)D
IVIDENDS  DISTRIBUTED 1,064 1,053
INTEREST  P
AyABLE 2,143 2,130
shaReholde Rs and PRovIdeRs oF CaPIt
al 3,207 3,183
2010 2009
(million euros)I
NCOME  T
AxES 1,258 1,152
INDIRECT  T
AxES AND DUTIES 188 125
taxes and dut Ies 1,446 1,277
REGARDING  IT
ALIAN  A
CTIVITIES 1,229 1,232
REGARDING  A
CTIVITIES  ABR
OAD 217 45
*
mainly includes write-downs and 
charges connected to the manag
e-
ment of non-financial credits for 478 
million euros (565 million euros in 2009), accruals for risks equal to 75 million euros (164 million euros in 2009), and contributions and fees for the tlc activities for 484 million euros (318 million euros in 2009) net of “
indirect taxes and duties”
 of 
188 million euros (125 million euros in 2009) included in the item “
taxes 
and duties”.Strat Egy
The companies of the Telecom Italia Group 
base the excellence of their products and services on their care of customers and their willingness to meet their require-ments. The objective sought is to ensure an immediate, effective response to custom-ers’ needs, modelling conduct on business propriety, transparency in dealings and con-tractual commitments, courtesy and collab-oration and the underlying viewpoint that the customer has a central role, in full com-pliance with the principles established by company procedures. In this context, collaboration with Con-sumer Associations, through the stipulation of agreements in specific areas, is highly prized.
rElEvant StakEhold ErS 
The relevant stakeholders are:•	the consumer customers (residential), with particular attention to customers with special needs (the disabled, the el-derly, children etc.);
•	business customers and top customers (major clients);
•	the consumer associations.1. Custome Rs
1.1 focuS on cu StomErS
The focus on customers and achieving high levels of customer satisfaction is a priority for 
Telecom Italia. The formal commitments to quality, summarized in the Customer Promise, are the subject of a multifaceted internal diffusion plan.
The Customer Promise, developed by listening to the views of important stakeholders (cus-
tomers, employees, Institutions), is broken down into:•	an all-round provision of high quality and reliability;
•	services which improve customers’ quality of life and contribute to the development of the country;
•	offers and communications in clear, simple and direct language to win and maintain the trust of customers;
•	a company which is not remote but accessible, grounded in human relations, and easy to deal with in resolving any problems connected to the service;
•	people who listen to and understand the needs of the customers with whom they build a partnership relationship.
To increase the level of awareness of the Customer Promise and implement its application within the company, the internal diffusion programme “Expressing Quality” was continued and, through rais-ing staff awareness in the classroom, reached 619 managers and around 3,000 people including managers of territorial areas/units and groups who are in contact with customers, for a total of 155 
imprOvement in the quality Of services 
fOr cust Omers has been pursued 
thrOugh a mul
tifaceted pr OJect 
invOl
ving managersOffering 
improving people’s quality of life
40 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
days dedicated to the theme, between 2009 and 2010.
The values underlying the customer promise inspired a review of the staff performance assessment system (in 2010, 99.85% of personnel involved were assessed by managers using the new model) and the implementation of manger development initiatives.Quality was also taken into consideration in the manager and personnel incentives scheme (see § Customer Satisfaction).
Top Management’s supervision of themes concerning quality connected to listening to 
the views of customers is achieved through the Steering Committee Quality Governance (SCQG) which meets monthly and is chaired by the CEO, with the aim of:•	directing and supervising initiatives and activities designed to improve the quality of the processes “end-to-end”;
•	monitoring the results in terms of the quality achieved and also analysing them in rela-tion to quality requirements demanded by the Guarantor Authority, the most important/recurring complaints by customers and, more generally, the feedback coming from all the stakeholders;
•	supervising the process of quality certification and the launch of new products/services offered to customers, in particular those of greatest impact in terms of image and com-petitive positioning on the market.
1.2 cuStomEr SatiSfaction
Telecom Italia listens to its customers through a system that encompasses both an overall assessment of all contacts with Telecom Italia over time, and a specific evaluation of the most recent contacts (for example, the activation of an ADSL line, a request for informa-tion or the reporting of poor service). The contributions received are used to improve the organisational procedures with the aim of supplying a service that is ever more responsive to customers’ needs.The company carries out two kinds of Customer Satisfaction surveys:•	The “reflective” survey is based on the customers’ overall perceptions and is not con-nected to a specific event. This method permits the analysis of the cause and effect relationships that determine the customer’s level of satisfaction. The CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) is calculated on the basis of telephone surveys conducted by spe-cialised agencies through a structured questionnaire. This survey, similar to the one used for the ACSI (American Customer Satisfaction Index), furnishes important sugges-tions about the levers that can be employed to improve the levels of customer satisfac-tion. The “reflective” survey covers all customer segments namely consumer, business and top client; 
•	the “reactive” survey is conducted immediately after the specific event under inquiry (for example, contact with the Call Centre). Those interviewed are asked, with the ex-perience of the call still fresh in their minds, to provide an overall assessment of the service received (overall satisfaction) and an assessment of the individual aspects of the experience (for example, the time waiting to speak to an operator, courtesy and the ability to understand and satisfy the requests).
The data below refer to the last three months of the year and show the overall CSI of Tel-ecom Italia S.p.A. (the last six months for Top Clients).| CUstOmers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 41
The information presented in this table refers to the average annual value revealed by the 
“reflective” survey on other indicators for Telecom Italia S.p.A.customer segment 2010 2009
CONSUMER 70.92 69.86
BUSINESS 64.43 63.42
TOP CLIENTS (TC AND PS)*69.97 70.30
tot
als 69.39 68.60fixEd tElEphony customer segment Satisfaction with access 
service(*)Satisfaction with billing(*)
2010 2009 2010 2009
CONSUMER  8.19 8.18 7.30 7.27 
BUSINESS 7.86 7.80 6.83 6.73
 CUstOmers | mobilE 
tElEphonycustomer segment Satisfaction with network  
coverage(*)Satisfaction with billing(*)
2010 2009 2010 2009
CONSUMER  8.41 8.36 8.03 7.79
BUSINESS 8.14 8.15 6.85 6.83
The information in the following table refers to the annual average value of customer sat-isfaction concerning customer care, revealed by the “reactive” survey for Telecom Italia S.p.A.
typE of cu StomErcuStomEr carEoverall 
 
satisfaction(*)courtesy and  
kindness(*) ability to understand 
and satisfy needs and 
requests(*) 
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
CONSUMER187Fixed 
 
telephony(1) 7.39 7.19 8.73 8.47 8.31 8.01
119Mobile  
telephony(2) 8.33 7.81 9.19 8.81 8.90 8.46
BUSINESS 191Fixed(3)6.72 6.39 8.39 8.14 7.83 7.47
Mobile(3)6.47 6.67 8.30 8.27 7.60 7.49
*
average satisfaction on a scale of 
1-10, w
here 1 means “not at all 
satisfied” and 10 means “completely 
satisfied. ” 1
assistance provided by the 187 ser-
vice for information,
 commercial and 
administrative requests, reminders and complaints (excluding calls regarding faults, under specific inquiry).  2
assistance provided by the 119 
ser
vice for information, changes and 
complaints.3
since april 2010,  caring for fixed and 
mobile Business customers has been integrated. With the new platform, Business customers receive assistance through the 191 service for needs relating to both fixed telephony (infor-mation, commercial and administrative requests, reminders and complaints - excluding calls regarding faults), and mobile telephony (information, changes and complaints).*
the Csi survey for the tOP segment 
in 2010 has been organized with reference to ne
w tOP Clients ( tC) and 
Public sector (P s) segments.
*
average satisfaction on a scale of 
1-10, w
here 1 means “not at all 
satisfied” and 10 means “completely satisfied. ”
*
average satisfaction on a scale of 
1-10, w
here 1 means “not at all 
satisfied” and 10 means “completely satisfied. ” 42 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
customer care certification with 187 and 119 services
On  January 31, 2011 Telecom Italia achieved the UNI EN15838:2010 certification (follow-
ing the UNI 11200:2010 criteria) of the 187 and 119 call centres respectively dedicated to fixed and mobile telephony; Telecom Italia thereby became the first telephone operator in Italy and one of the first in Europe to have certified Customer Care services. The checks were made by ICIM, the Italian Certification Body. The outcome was achieved through a series of improvement actions based on efficient pro-cesses, innovative technological solutions and the expertise of the resources involved. In fact, the ICIM analysis was based as much on statistical and documentary data as actual observation of the activities, including listening to many of the telephone calls handled by Telecom Italia’s call centre operators. The parameters taken into consideration included response time, roles and responsibilities, work conditions and the actual satisfaction of the personnel in charge, monitoring the end clients’ level of satisfaction and the operat-ing tools used. 
customer satisfaction within the managerial bonus scheme
Telecom Italia’s short-term management bonus scheme also provides targets, applicable to all resources within the scheme, linked to customer satisfaction, in line with the Indus-trial Plan for the period. The targets are measured by indicators calculated through periodic “reflective” surveys: the overall CSI for the Company and specific customer satisfaction indexes per customer segment. Further targets on quality parameters measured by “reactive” surveys (commercial and technical front-end) are planned for particularly critical processes and activities.
customer satisfaction within collective bonus schemes
Telecom Italia’s collective bonus schemes also envisage a target linked to customer sat-isfaction. In particular, the performance-related pay award, for employees not affected by an individual bonus scheme, incorporates both a total customer satisfaction target across the whole company, and specific targets for those parts of the organisational structure re-sponsible for different customer categories.
the involvement of the call centre operators 
To increase the value of and support the personnel who work in customer care, the Group uses some web platforms based on social networking, which facilitate the dissemination and sharing of information among personnel, thereby bringing the customer’s voice within the Company. For information on these tools (Campus and TUO) and other initiatives for dialogue with customers with special needs concerning ethnic diversity or disability, go to www.telecomitalia.com website, in the Sustainability section. 
1.3 cErtification S
Those aspects of the company that have a significant impact on the community, through products and services offered, are subject to certification, in order to ensure the adoption of procedures and conduct in line with the expectations of the relevant stakeholders. | CUstOmers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 43
Specifically:
•	customer care and the quality of the products and services offered is certified in con-formity with the UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 standard; 
•	concern for environmental protection with the UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 standard;
•	health and safety at work with the BS OHSAS 18001:2007 standard;
•	data security with the ISO 27001:2005 standard ;
•	Information Technology services with the ISO/IEC 20000-1:2005 standard;
•	software production and digital solution processes are certified under CMMI-DEV (Capa-bility Maturity Model Integration - Development), a new generation standard.
•	management and provision of services processes are certified under CMMI-SVC (Capa-bility Maturity Model Integration for Services).
The certificates obtained by the various departments/companies of the Group for particu-larly important company procedures and activities are listed In the following table.Detailed information is available at www.telecomitalia.com, in the Sustainability section.
company regulation Str ucture
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A.ISO 9001 Departments:  Domestic Market Operations•	Business
•	Top Clients 
•	Public Sector
•	Customer Operations (regarding the processes for top customers, business and enter-prises)
•	Consumer/Sales (Territorial Areas)
Technology & OperationsTechnology & Operations/Open AccessPurchasingOperational units involved in the mobile invoicing process for business customersSubsidiary companies: TI Sparkle, Path.Net, Loquendo, Telsy, Shared Service Center, Tele-contact Center, IT Telecom.
ISO 14001 Departments:  Technology & OperationsTechnology & Operations/Open AccessPurchasing •	Infrastructure procurement 
•	Assistance services
•	Services for management offices
Subsidiary companies: TI Sparkle
ISO/IEC 27001Departments:  Technology & Operations– Information Technology/IT GovernanceDomestic Market Operations – Top Client/Service Engineering – IT Service ManagementSubsidiary companies: Path.Net
OHSAS 18001Subsidiary companies: TI Sparkle
CMMI-SVC Department:  Domestic Market Operations – Quality & Program Management/Quality Improvement Projects
CMMI-DEV Subsidiary companies:Shared Service Center
ISO/IEC 20000-1Subsidiary companies:Shared Service Center
 CUstOmers | 44 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
OLIVETTI  S.p.A. ISO 9001 Processes:
Planning
, industrialization, production, marketing and technical assistance of: terminals for 
games and lotteries, specialized peripherals for bank and post office applications, points of sale including fiscal cash registers and other vertical and industrial applications, ticketing and parking.ICT products, ink-jet technology products, heads for ink-jet printing technology, integrated components and semiconductors. Hire of office products. Implementation of compliance checks and periodic check of the fiscal registers produced. 
ISO 14001 Production of impact heads, design and production of heads for ink-jet printing technology 
c/o the plant in Arnad (Aosta).
T
IM BRASIL  
GR
OUPISO 9001 Company
: Tim Celular (management of the network in the states of Rio, Sao Paolo, Minas 
Gerais, Bahia, Sergipe, Espirito Santo).Companies: TIM Celular and TIM Nordeste (management of GSM contracts invoicing).
ISO 14001 Company: Tim Celular (management of monitoring and information on the implementation and quality of the networks in the states of Rio and Sao Paolo).
Achievement of the SA 8000 certification is planned for 2011 which concerns the Open 
Access/Technology & Operations department of Telecom Italia S.p.A.
1.4 digital dividE
The spread of information and communication technology creates considerable develop-ment opportunities for the public. Telecom Italia is aware of its role as a key player in the broadband ecosystem, and promotes the necessary actions in order to avoid exposing the Community to the risk of a technological divide due to geographic and socio-cultural rea-sons. 
geographical digital divide
In 2006, Telecom Italia launched an important Anti Digital Divide Plan, aimed at covering the largest possible number of towns that generate low revenues and/or are not as yet equipped with optical infrastructure. The plan provides for the best combination of innovative, technological solutions and meth-ods of raising the necessary investments. By the end of 2010, 97% of the total of Telecom Italia’s fixed lines was covered by ADSL and 61.8% were covered by IPTV .As regards the accessibility of Broadband on mobiles, the percentage of residents cov-ered by Telecom Italia through UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System) was 83.95% by the end of 2010. The same percentage was able to access another impor-tant radio mobile technology, HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access), which allows speeds of 14.4 Mbp/s (megabits per second) to be reached. 
Regarding the methods of making local investments and cooperation with the regional au-
thorities go to the Sustainability section of www.telecomitalia.com website.
2010 saw the continuing development and implementation of the company’s data process-
ing instrument for operational and decision-making support called the “Digital Divide Pro-ject” (DDP), which contains the complete mapping coverage for ADSL, ADSL2+, 20M/IPTV , and UMTS in Italy, taking into consideration the industrial districts, territorial initiatives and complaints. DDP is used not only for the daily handling of requests and complaints about | CUstOmers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 45
broadband but also to direct technical network interventions in districts exposed to the 
Digital Divide. In December the 5th “Digital Divide Day” was staged, an internal workshop attended by Telecom Italia’s Chairman and CEO, as well as the governors of some Italian regional authorities. On this occasion a new edition of the Broadband 
yearbook was pre
-
sented; its aim is to inform stakeholders of the Group’s position on the subject and provide information on the status of broadband in Italy.
Sociocultural digital divide
In a world in which technology enables contact between people, Telecom Italia is help-ing to break down the sociocultural barriers that restrict the possibility of participating in the information society, allowing people to enjoy its benefits through the dissemination of broadband and associated services.Telecom Italia offers certain provisions and economic assistance, aimed at promoting the use of TLC services and the Internet, to specific social categories and certain assistance services aimed at customers with specific needs (the elderly, the sick etc.) or to health organisations. For further information on initiatives promoting Digital Inclusion,  see § The 
Community .
Big Angel 
Designed for elderly or disabled people, it consists of a telephone with a large keypad and highly visible display, compatible with acoustic equipment, and an additional cordless handset, specifically for requesting help. The latter (small-sized) can be carried on a belt or around the neck with a cord; it has just two keys, the larger of which is used for making emergency calls while the other can be customized to remember a number of the user’s choice.Moreover, the cordless is furnished with specific safety functions such as sending, auto-matic activation of hands-free operation in the event of calls and sending a signal to the central exchange when the batteries are about to run out.
MyDoctor@Home
The innovative home telemonitoring service, MyDoctor@Home, has been active in Piedmont since December 2010; it allows patients affected by certain chronic diseases to be moni-tored directly at home, thanks to Tel-ecom Italia technologies. Its use ena-bles the quality of a patient’s life to improve significantly and the health-care system can achieve savings of up to 80 per cent on costs connect-ed to hospitalization. By reducing the journeys made to visit the doctor, this service contributes to a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions generated by the use of transport. For further information on the service go to the Sustainability section of the Group website www.telecomitalia.com. CUstOmers | 46 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
1.5 innovativ E SErvicES
Telecom Italia develops, in collaboration with research institutes and universities in Italy 
and abroad, numerous innovative services, some of which are undergoing trials. These ser-vices deliver an important contribution to the containment of CO
2 by reducing the need to 
travel across the country and by helping to promote different, more sustainable lifestyles.
the services included in the 2010 offer were:
•	smar t town: an integrated and scalable platfor m that allows local infrastructural net-
works to be managed for the creation of digital cities, with benefits to the environment and population. It uses already existing public lighting equipment thereby creating a relatively low impact. Today, the platform enables the provision of the following value added services: 
 › energy efficiency (allows the planning of consumption and maintenance); 
 › intelligent video surveillance (allows local monitoring for security reasons); 
 ›digital communication (impro
ves interaction with citizens and users in general, such 
as tourists);
 › wi-fi hotspots (enable broadband access).A particular
ly interesting application concerns public lighting: road lighting, monitoring 
and reporting of faults, switching on and off operations and the reduction of luminous flux by means of devices installed on lampposts can all be controlled remotely.
•	
smar
t building
: is an integrated platform for the intelligent management of buildings 
and building automation. With minimum impact, it permits provision of the following services: 
 ›monitoring and reduction of consumption (electricity,
 water...), with the possible allo-
cation of costs to different centres;
 › video surveillance;
 › digital communication;
 ›extension of the building’s LAN b
y using the electricity network, as occurs for public 
lighting with the SMART TOWN solution. Each light socket can become a LAN socket with the addition of simple device connected to an electric outlet.Smart Services
They represent a category of services in-tended to provide a comprehensive re-sponse to the needs of communities, in particular to those related to urban areas, with a view to improving the quality of life in general. The goal is to promote the “smart cities” model through the development of innovative digital services that can improve key areas for municipalities, such as effi-ciency, environmental monitoring, security, public communication and tourism promo-tion.| CUstOmers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 47
E-learning and advanced education 
The demand for advanced educational services has undergone a profound transformation 
in the course of recent years. From the simple electronic use of content, the focus has moved to the dissemination and sharing of knowledge through more engaging methods.In 2010 a series of educational initiatives were launched aimed at satisfying the demand for developed services based precisely on the collaboration, communication and active in-volvement of end users. •	a protocol of understanding with MIUR (Ministry of Education, Universities and Re-search) for the implementation of actions to support the digital school plan. The proto-col provides for a collaboration between MIUR and Telecom Italian on two main fronts: the launch of new activities in the context of Safe Navigation, the awareness project for a careful and aware use of the web (see § The Community/Responses to Stakehold-ers), and the start, during the school year, of tests with primary and secondary schools geared towards the use of electronic texts which, thanks to an interactive platform pro-vided by Telecom Italia, may be adapted to the specific teaching needs of students and teachers;
•	advanced teaching tests at the Valgimigli middle school, in the province of Padua, based on the use of digital content and the use of personal devices for students.
•	innovative digital teaching tests for the secondary school with the Suor Orsola Benin-casa University in Naples, involving two high school classes of the school with the same name. The participation of students and teachers is planned in the creation of multime-dia educational content, the introduction of Web 2.0 tools and the use of new genera-tion IT devices. 
The Campania Region continued to use Telecom Italia’s e-learning platform, which includes a digital services portal for the Region’s teachers in order to enable the exchange of knowl-edge and the use of training activities.
infomobility
For years Telecom Italia has been actively engaged with all the other players of the ITS (Information Technology Services) market value chain and Infomobility with the target of gradually introducing the paradigm of the vehicle always connected to the outside world (e.g. service centres, roadside infrastructures, occupants, other vehicles, etc.). Telecom Italia has formed a consortium with Magneti Marelli to accelerate the spread of innovative telematic services that help to:•	improve efficiency in the use of the “transport system” with a positive outcome in terms of environmental impact (eco-driving, intelligent parking, etc.);
•	reduce travel times (traffic data collection and management, dynamic navigation):
•	increase security (dangerous goods management, etc.);
•	increase efficiency in transporting people and goods (city logistics, fleet management, etc.);
•	reduce costs linked to the management of urban and suburban mobility (access control and management, etc.);
Thanks to its commitment in the sector, Telecom Italia actively contributes to the creation of efficient, more secure and eco-sustainable transport.
mobile ticketing/ fidelity/ payment 
Telecom Italia has developed a series of Mobile Ticketing and Mobile Fidelity solutions which allow the user, through mobile phone SIM cards, to validate tickets and subscrip- CUstOmers | 48 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
tions for public transport and collect loyalty points for the purchase of goods.
In this field, they are undergoing trials with public transport companies in Trento (Trentino Trasporti) and Milan (ATM), and with the Miroglio Group (through the Vestebene brand), in collaboration with Olivetti. In addition, in 2010 Telecom Italia launched remote mobile pay-ment systems for procuring a wide range of goods and services, through a special applica-tion on the mobile phone SIM card, in partnership with the Movincom consortium and the financial institutions that have signed up to the initiative.
green@ home  
The system permits domestic appliances to be interconnected via radio, making use of “intelligent” domestic appliances or traditional domestic appliances connected to the elec-tricity network by “intelligent” sockets capable of enabling the following services: •	the real time detection of electricity consumption: awareness of consumption encour-ages behaviour geared towards energy saving;
•	standby management, automatically disconnecting appliances that are not in use from the electricity network and contributing to families’ energy saving;
•	the control and management of domestic appliances and various devices when they reach peak energy consumption, avoiding overloading the domestic network with the consequent risk of a power cut or the need to switch to higher power supplies; 
•	monitoring consumption from personal Wi-Fi terminals: the energy costs of using vari-ous products can be displayed and the system advises when is the best time to use them, optimizing both the costs and respect for the environment.
ti-green
An energy management service (www.tigreen.it) based on ICT solutions that allows the op-timisation of energy consumption through systems that monitor equipment remotely, us-ing evolved sensors and applications made available by Telecom Italia Data Centres. The service permits: •	the analysis of energy costs and the relative requirements; 
•	the management and optimisation of electricity consumption; 
•	control and reduction of the relative costs;
•	business intelligence information on the collected and available data.
These solutions allow consumption and energy costs to be reduced through the following activities: prompt, integral monitoring of energy consumption; the display of data regard-ing various peripheral offices; the implementation of automation to reduce consumption; verification of the consistency between the energy bills and the consumption registered; support in the choice of the Energy Provider.
1.6 rESE arch and innovation in E-SEcurity
Research and innovation activities in the information security sector are mainly focused on:•	the definition and development of new technological solutions for the protection of criti-cal infrastructures with particular attention to the protection of DNS (Domain Name Sys-tem) services which underlie the correct functioning of the Internet; 
•	the study and creation of application prototypes for the integrated management of gov-ernance, risk and compliance aspects, through the use of innovative environments ca-| CUstOmers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 49
pable of allowing the rapid development and diffusion of new tools;
•	the definition of new information processing mechanisms, based on the paradigm of the 
continuous generation of new pseudonyms, capable of ensuring higher levels of privacy;
•	the standardization of the security aspects of new generation transmission networks with the engagement, inter alia, of the WG7 Security guide as regards ETSI/TISPAN.
The identification of areas on which to focus operations also took into consideration the requirements expressed by various stakeholders and the need to supervise the develop-ment trends of technologies and services, also assessing the relative implications for safety and privacy.  Over the last eight years 45 patent applications have been filed in relation to ICT security, with a heavy increase over the course of 2010 in activities involving the transfer of labora-tory results to the operative sectors.
1.7 child prot Ection
The Group’s companies have undertaken numerous initiatives in order to protect children from content that may harm their psychological and physical development (for example, content that is violent, racist, offensive to religious sentiment, pornography etc.). In light of this, guidelines have been issued for the classification and checking of content distributed by the Group that cover not only content offered directly but also content owned by third par-ties offering their own services on space acquired within Telecom Italia’s portals. Filtering systems and procedures have been defined for the Group’s provision of adult content on the Internet, aimed at preventing chil-dren from accessing any such content.Regarding premium voice services, Telecom Italia requires a PIN to access any services with obscene content, which, in any case, are not part of the services offered by the Group.
The Group’s television services do not transmit content that requires filtering systems. 
The transmission methods comply with current regulations and the law as well as the TV and Child Self-Regulation Code signed by Telecom Italia Media, which also belongs to the Committee responsible for supervising the code. The general rules of conduct, application criteria and methods of control that become mandatory for all broadcasters in the Group once they have signed the Code, regardless of the type of platform used (analogue, satel-lite, digital terrestrial, IPTV), can be found on www.la7.it. 
The Italian legislative framework imposes precise obligations on matters of controlling 
abuse, the child protection, and the prevention and suppression of digital crime. With the passing of Law 48/2008, the latter have been brought within the range of the regulations laid down by Legislative Decree 231/2001 which attributes greater responsibility to the company in the prevention of these crimes. From an organisational point of view, Telecom Italia has identified, within the company structure Security – Risk Prevention department – Protection of Information, the role of the “
key contact for the P
ostal Police.” This professional figure manages relations, and the 
flow of information with the competent Authorities (CNCPO – National Centre for the Fight against Child Pornography online, CNAIPIC – National Centre against Digital Crime for the Protection of Critical Infrastructure, etc.) and has the task of coordinating the relative ac-the pr Otecti On Of children fr Om the 
d
angers Of internet br Owsing and the 
maximizati On Of the p Ositive aspects 
Of the web in terms Of educa
tiOn and 
entert
ainment are One Of the  
grOup’s pri Orities CUstOmers | 50 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
tivities within the Group, in accordance with the relevant legislative framework.
Moreover, Telecom Italia has adopted an organisation model, in accordance with Legisla-tive Decree 231/2001, in which instruments have been defined to safeguard against, and anticipate, the commission of crimes and in particular the dissemination of child pornog-raphy, as well as the organisational/disciplinary management of illegal digital information. Telecom Italia’s commitment alongside the institutions, international bodies and associa-tions committed to the topic, is essentially evidenced in the following initiatives:•	management of the abuse desks: operational groups who handle abuse differentiated by type of service (residential and business), formed in accordance with the national and community regulations on child protection, the prevention of digital criminality and the fight against sexual exploitation (juvenile pornography). Their task is to receive alerts from outside users/customers on alleged digital crimes or the presence of child pornography material on the Group’s networks, and then direct them to the key contact of the Postal Police so as to involve the competent authorities;
•	the “abuse” topic area on the company Intranet, which informs and makes company staff aware of the activities conducted and the tools in existence for preventing digital crimes and protecting children who use the internet services provided;
•	the “Child protection” topic area on the telecomitalia.com portals, aimed at informing and making end users, and all the other stakeholders, aware of the correct behaviour to adopt during navigation on the network, as well as the values and objectives that Tel-ecom Italia pursues to combat digital abuse and protect children.
•	the notification form for customers/Internet users. This form, available on the Group’s institutional and commercial portals, can be used by Telecom Italia’s end customers, or by outside users, to give notification of any crimes involving child pornography, as well as concerning presumed abuse and/or digital crimes, that are encountered during navigation on the Internet. There is a guide to compilation, and notification can also be made anonymously;
•	the booklet “Born with the network” distributed through company shops, dedicated to the adult-parent public for the purposes of:
 › illustrating the fundamental rules for the safe use of the Inter
net;
 › alerting people to the danger
s that can be hidden on the network;
 ›providing the tools to infor
m children of the rules of conduct and guide them in the 
selection of content to consult;
•	web filtering: in line with the Implementing Decree of Law 28/2006 (Gentiloni Decree) which defines the technical prerequisites of filtering tools that providers of Internet net-work connections must use to prevent access to sites identified by the Postal Police through the CNCPO, Telecom Italia has also introduced a filtering system on external websites with child pornography content;
•	Alice Total Security – Magic Desktop to allow children to explore the web safely, protects Internet navigation from any digital attacks or threats, thanks to anti-virus programmes and a centralised firewall. Magic Desktop is an operating system software that works in parallel with the standard one. Children learn to use the computer in a simple and fun way and parents can select the sites children have access to and set up email manage-ment so that they can only exchange emails with people known to them;
•	the drawing up of “Guidelines for combating child pornography online” which facilitate the objective and uniform identification of cases of child pornography to be notified to the Postal Police. The aim is to minimise any interpretation uncertainty in the minds of the subjects concerned (chat moderators and/or community services, developers, abuse desk operators etc.) and to ensure compliance with the current regulations. The guidelines are also modelled on those indicated by the CNCPO and the major external organisations active in the field (Save The Children, Telefono Azzurro etc.);| CUstOmers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 51
•	participation in the work group “ITU Child Online Protection: Guidelines for industry,” co-
ordinated by ITU (International Telecommunication Union). Telecom Italia has contribut-ed to the drafting of Guidelines on “Child Online Protection – COP” aimed at companies in the broadcasting, Internet and mobile telephony sector . At present, in the ambit of the ITU, Telecom Italia holds the role of Vice Chairman of the Council Working Group on Child Online Protection (WG-CP);
•	participation in the Work Group “GSMA - Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse Content,” within the GSM Association, for all technological and communication initia-tives aimed at the protection of children in the mobile phones sector, including a web-site dedicated to children and young people to educate them on the safe use of the Internet;
•	participation in the European project Safer Internet, Work Programme 2010-2013: pro-moted by Save the Children and Adiconsum to protect children online in the European social context, which sees the increasingly widespread use of social networks, and to provide the tools to safely use web services that enable socialising on the network, blogs and instant messaging;
•	co-operation with Telefono Azzurro: Telecom Italia provided its own infrastructures and services for the Toll Free Number “114” Infancy Emergency (since 2003) and the Euro-pean Toll Free Number “116000” for missing children (since May, 2009).
•	the “Safe Browsing” project to raise children, young people and adults (parents and teachers) awareness on responsible use of the Internet (§ The Community/Responses to stakeholders).
thE conciliation proc EdurES
The conciliation procedures between Telecom Italia and the Consumer Associations who signed the Framework Agreement for the out-of-court settlement of telephone disputes, was the first example of Parity Conciliations in Italy. The model, experimentally introduced in 1991 by the then SIP , came into operation across the entire country in 1993 and in 1995 it was essentially recognized by the European Union as a “Pilot Project for the access of consumers to justice”. Over the years the model was updated in line with the new regulations/requirements, digitalized and made more available, and has achieved excellent results (www.telecomitalia.com, sustainabil-ity section).
Today, twenty Consumer Associations have signed the Joint Concili-
ation Agreement.
In 2010 the implementation of training initiatives for the profes-
sional figures of “conciliators” continued, with the involvement of staff from the Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM) and Co.Re.Com and the Consumer Associations, as well as Telecom Italia. Debates, conferences and seminars were promoted for the dissemination of the conciliatory culture, in which members of the company management also participated. 
In 2009 Telecom Italia, in compliance with the voluntary commitments undertaken and 
approved by AGCOM in December 2008, started managing conciliatory applications sub-mitted by customers, also to the offices of Co.Re.Com and the Chambers of Commerce, from the perspective of a one stop shop, replicating the organizational model successfully  CUstOmers | 
the creati On Of a One st Op shOp aimed 
tO sOl
ve disputes has pr Oved t O be an 
effective t OOl fOr impr Oving dial Ogue 
and cust Omer rela
tiOns52 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
applied for Joint Conciliation with the Consumer Associations. This way customers who do 
not wish to address the Consumer Associations have an alternative method of resolving the dispute through a streamlined and out-of-court procedure.Conciliation management at the offices of Co.Re.Com and the Chambers of Commerce is based on the approach of paying attention to customers’ needs, just like the parity con-ciliation, and allows the dialogue and relationship to be improved independently from the procedure chosen. The creation of a one stop shop has enabled the assigned qualitative targets and the numerical results to be achieved: compared to the previous year, in 2010 there was an increase of 23.7% on the number of conciliation applications received by CO.RE.COM and the Chambers of Commerce Industry Agriculture and Craftsmanship (from 17,522 to 21,681). Of these applications, 88.1% were discussed in that same year and 11.9% were cancelled (no applications received are still awaiting discussion.) The percentage of conciliation applications discussed at CO.RE.COM and the Chambers of Commerce Industry Agriculture and Craftsmanship settled in the period (compared to the total applications discussed in the same period) was equal to 85.9% (14% were not settled).
SafEguarding privacy and p ErSonal data prot Ection 
In order to ensure personal data protection (Legislative Decree 193/03, known as the (“Privacy Code”) in the performance of its business activities, Telecom Italia has equipped itself with an organisation model that assigns central departments the responsibility for supervising correct application of the regulations in this sector at Group level. Legal provisions and the instructions of the Italian Data Protection Authority are trans-posed by constantly updating the Group’s regulations and policies. The “System of rules for the application of privacy regulations in the Telecom Italia Group” is particularly significant in this respect and was totally revised and updated in 2009. It establishes the provisions and operating instructions needed to fulfil the relevant for-malities.For the purpose of dissemination and the correct application of this regulation, in 2010 in-tense training activity was carried out which saw the participation of 1,300 managers and key contacts for central and regional departments. Moreover, in 2010 the Group policies governing the technical requirements on traffic data processing and the management of authorizations to access IT personal data processing systems were reviewed and updated.Regarding the treatment of customers’ personal data, in 2010 the instructions of the Pri-vacy Guarantor for personal data protection were adopted (Provision of 25/06/2009) in re-lation to client “profiling” activities, through the application of the prescribed requirements for data processing at joint level and management of the specific consensus of clients for detailed profiling. Furthermore, Telecom Italia actively participated in forums with other operators aimed at managing the transition to a new system (known as the “opt-out” system) for telephone marketing activities, which allows all customers who are not included in a specific register of objectors set up by Presidential Decree 178/2010 to be contacted.The effective application of the regulations is monitored through a control system based on regular self-evaluation procedures by those responsible for the treatment of data, and on checks by sample checks, carried out by the relevant central departments, based on procedures and methodologies prepared with the contribution of the Group’s Auditing and | CUstOmers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 53
Compliance firm.
Finally, in accordance with rule 26 of attachment B (Technical Regulations on Minimum Se-curity Measures) of the Privacy Code, Telecom Italia declares it has drawn up the Data Se-curity Planning Document (DPS) for 2010 which lays out the technical and organisational criteria adopted for the protection of personal data, be it of a general, sensitive or judicial nature, that is processed by information technology, as well as the training schedule for those responsible for the treatment of data. CUstOmers | Strat Egy
The Telecom Italia Group procurement pro-
cess aims to ensure that products and ser -
vices are purchased at the best possible price, while guaranteeing the fulfilment of quality, safety and environmental protec-tion requirements. The procurement pro-cess is based on a competitive comparison of the technical and financial offers pre-sented by suppliers selected according to group-wide procedures characterised by an ethical business approach.The Group is committed to guaranteeing the quality of the procurement process and its continuous improvement, applying green procurement principles and obtain-ing the respective quality certifications.
rElEvant StakEhold ErS
The relevant stakeholders are the suppliers and sub-suppliers from which the Group purchases goods and/or services. Ensuring that products and services are 
purchased for the best possible price while fulfilling
2. suPPlIeRs
2.1 gEnEral comm EntS
The selection, assessment and control process of Telecom Italia Group’s suppliers, for 
high risk purchasing categories, involves a pre-contractual qualification stage in which the economic/financial and technical/organisational characteristics are assessed. Verification of these characteristics leads to inclusion in the register of suppliers. Each one of the Group’s suppliers must make a commitment, for itself and its authorised sub-contractors, associates and employees, to observe the principles of ethics and conduct contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics. Registered companies that have received purchase orders normally undergo checks throughout the course of the supply, which range from Vendor Rating monitoring  (system-atic assessment of the supply) to Incoming Quality control (mandatory for acceptance and use of the goods acquired).
2.2 main SuStainability initiativ ES
The Purchasing Department is split into specific divisions in order to respond as efficiently as possible to the requirements of internal customers and external stakeholders. These expectations are constantly monitored through surveys of both internal customers and suppliers in order to check the quality of the services delivered (see § Main involvement initiatives).The main initiatives implemented in 2010 are as follows:requirements
56 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
•	continued application of the “Product Life Cycle Evaluation Guidelines” (issued in 2007) 
on a sample of 46 products. These guidelines allow the assessment, through an eco-compatibility index, of how far the acquired goods that are managed or marketed by the Group meet the prerequisites of the key environmental regulations, and that they are designed, produced, used and discarded in such a way as to facilitate the management of the entire life cycle, from the environmental and economic point of view.
The verification is carried out on a self-certification basis, using an appropriate questionnaire accompanied by supporting documentation. Subsequent sample checks are carried out on the most significant elements. The product families to which the Guidelines are applied, de-fined on the basis of the volume acquired, their impact on the company’s reputation, and the economic and legal risks and dangers, are as follows:
 ›products that are intended for mark
eting (telephone terminals, switchboards, fax ma-
chines, modems, etc.);
 › office products (computers and peripherals,
 photocopiers, etc.);
 ›network equipment and materials (pressurisation units,
 power units, accumulators, 
etc.);
•	the annual social and environmental sustainability campaign was carried out on a sam-ple of 50 suppliers with the aim of promoting better application of the sustainability criteria to the whole supply chain. This assessment aims to verify compliance with the principles set out in the Telecom Italia Code of Ethics regarding social and environmen-tal sustainability, respect for the principles of ethical conduct in business, the adoption of procedures to ensure the health, safety and rights of workers and the protection of the environment. The checks were carried out based on suppliers’ self-certification us-ing an appropriate questionnaire accompanied by supporting documentation. Subse-quent sample checks are carried out on the most significant elements emerging from the questionnaires.  
The checks related mainly to suppliers in the following supply categories:
 › Device & CPE
 › Access Infrastructures
 › IT
 › Network
•	following the signing of a Memorandum of Under
standing (MOU) with France Telecom 
and Deutsche Telekom, at the end of 2009, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) veri-fication activities began during the year in respect of the suppliers and sub-suppliers common to all three operators.
This agreement set up a common auditing method aimed at verifying and improving the social, ethical and environmental performance of production plants in Asia.The audits were carried out by accredited international companies selected by tender and produced a report for each verified supplier, which was used to determine appropriate improvement actions, the implementation of which was subsequently monitored on a continu-
ous basis by the signatories to the agreement. The guidelines for the activity were: 
 ›to adopt an auditing philosophy aimed at establishing a cooperative relationship with supplier
s;
 ›to carr
y out checks in order to identify the level of compliance with the CSR principles 
and identify areas for improvement, drawing up appropriate corrective action plans;
 › to improve efficiency and productivity
, for the MOU signatories and suppliers;
 › to contribute to the overall sustainability of the ter
ritories covered by the checks;
 ›to promote the implementation of CSR principles in the supply chain by identifying and reducing risks.| sUPPL iers
a mem Orandum  Of understanding  has 
been  signed  between  telec Om it
alia,
 
france  telec Om and deutsche  telek Om 
 
aimed  tO cOnduct  JOint audits  On 
cOmmOn suppliers  in asia 
  eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 57
The activities covered ten priority areas: child labour, forced labour, health and safety, free-
dom of association, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours, pay, environment and ethics. The evaluation of suppliers was carried out using a weighted check list consisting of over one hundred questions, the use of which allowed verified suppliers to be classified into four progressive bands, from Poor to Excellent. Nineteen audits of suppliers and sub-suppliers with production plants in five geographical areas (China, India, Japan, Taiwan and 
korea) were car
ried out during the year, involving a to-
tal of over 100,000 employees. The audits took a total of around 30 days to complete, with 20% of this time being dedicated to interviews with workers. A corrective action plan (CAP) was then drawn up for each supplier to determine the proce-dures and time scales for correcting the non-conformities identified during the audit. This was followed by follow-up activities that monitored the agreed corrective actions over time.
The chosen sample related mainly to suppliers in the following supply categories:
•	Device & CPE
•	Network
The results of the activities are summarised in the following diagrams:
•	in October 2010, the ISO 9001:2008 certificate of conformity of the Group’s Purchasing 
Department’s “Quality Management System” was confirmed with specific recognition of the initiatives undertaken in the field of sustainability. The certification required 23 De-partment processes to be mapped, identifying 191 performance indicators that allow the administration of services provided to internal clients and suppliers to be monitored and improved. Furthermore, the ISO 14001 certification was confirmed for the Service Unit Facility and Real Estate and Infrastructure Acquisitions activities.
•	continued application of the Green Procurement Policy established in 2009, which con-tains guidelines for establishing the environmental requirements of products/services purchased.The policy covers all stages of the product life: design, production, use and end of life.67 NON-CONFORMITIES  OF WHICH  21 CRITICAL
17 NON-CONFORMITIES  ELIMINA
TED OF WHICH  4 CRITICAL
Environment
1.5%Forced Labour
1.5%
Child and Juvenile 
Labour
8.9%
Wages
8.9%BusinessEthics
4.5%Discrimination
3.0%Health and
Safety
38.9%
Working Hours
32.8%Discrimination
4.8%Child Labour
4.8%
Wages
14.3%
Health and
Safety
23.7%Excessive
Overtime
52.4%sUPPL iers | 58 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
Published on the Supplier Portal of Telecom Italia (Green Procurement Policy) and in the 
Sustainability section of the corporate website www.telecomitalia.com, the document contributes to orienting purchasing policies towards low environmental impact products and services.With a view to ensuring the ongoing improvement and greater involvement of suppliers, questions regarding the green procurement policy, and supplier adherence to the prin-ciples set out within it, have been included in the customary satisfaction survey dedi-cated to them.  
chEckS
In 2010, around 32,000 technical checks were carried on work performance, mainly on the installation of new equipment and on the development and maintenance of the network. The checks were focused on the network companies sector, which is one of the most im-portant sectors in terms of turnover and socio-environmental sustainability, and consists of fifteen companies covering the whole country and operating on the access network, the most extensive and far-reaching part of the company’s infrastructure.The aforementioned checks represent a statistically representative sample for assessing the quality of the work carried out throughout the sector and cover around 3.4% of the eco-nomic value of the business. Also in 2010, the Purchasing Department carried out the following checks on suppliers: •	supplier qualification: 599 qualification procedures were performed on 317 suppliers, of which 65 produced negative outcomes and 89 resulted in judgement being reserved for a specified period of time;
•	subcontractor qualification: 354 qualification checks were carried out, with 9 negative outcomes;
•	Vendor Rating monitoring: 26 half-yearly reports were issued relating to 345 suppliers;
•	technical-organisational audits at the offices of suppliers for Incoming Quality checks regarding products and services: 356 product batches were checked, of which 90 were blocked due to non-conformity;
•	technical-organisational audits at the offices/premises of suppliers for qualification pro-cedures: 174 checks carried out on 104 suppliers, of which 17 produced negative out-comes and 20 resulted in judgement being reserved for a specific period of time;
•	technical-organisational audits at the offices/premises of high-risk subcontractors (plant engineering/operational activities) for qualification procedures and authorisa-tions for use by supplier companies: 188 checks carried out on 146 suppliers, of which 6 produced negative outcomes and 12 resulted in judgement being reserved for a spe-cific period of time.
Qualification checks with a negative outcome result in the supplier being denied registra-tion in the Telecom Italia Group’s register of suppliers or being denied authorisation to use the sub-contractor.
main involv EmEnt initiativ ES
For the fourth consecutive year, the Group’s main suppliers have been involved in satis-faction surveys regarding the Purchasing Department and, more generally, Telecom Italia. The online questionnaire, consisting of 27 questions, was active for two weeks and the analysis involved 1,010 suppliers with access to the Portal. 48.7% of suppliers responded, | sUPPL iers eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 59
which was a significant increase on 2009 (32%).
The total average result of the 492 questionnaires completed was 73/100, an improve-ment on the result for the previous year (72/100). 
A new e-community was set up with suppliers in the Civil Infrastructure sector, with the aim 
of improving communication with and between suppliers, particularly on social and environ-mental sustainability matters. This e-community is additional to the one set up for suppli-ers in the network operations sector, which has been running since 2008. The e-community activities take place by using a collaboration platform known as “Tele-cHome” which can be accessed via the Suppliers Portal using appropriate access creden-tials. Developed according to the Web 2.0 standard, the website contributes to dialogue in the e-community in order to:•	integrate the best operational practices adopted in specific areas;
•	publish the results obtained, in terms of the environmental/social certifications at-tained;
•	promote voting campaigns on various initiatives, for their assessment.
2.5 2010 rESultS and 2011 commitm EntS
Subject 2010 commitments Status 2011 commitments
ISO 9001 and ISO 
14001 certificationsRetention of the ISO 9001 certifica-tion for the TI Group’s Purchasing Department and the ISO 14001 certification for the Service Centre Facility and Infrastructure Procure-ment activities of the same Depart-ment.Achieved Retention of the ISO 9001 certification for 
the TI Group’s Purchasing Department and the ISO 14001 certification for the facility management activities of the Service Unit Facility and Real Estate activities and the Infrastructure Procurement operations of the same Department.
Project e-community Development and extension of the 
e-community to additional divisions and suppliers. Achieved Development and maintenance of active e-
communities.
Green Procurement Introduction of environmental 
criteria in the procurement speci-fications of additional products/services. Achieved
Continue monitoring the purchases made with green criteria and increase their volume. Implement the green procurement action plan and consequently increase the volume of “green” procurement by using the Life Cycle Cost Analysis tool in carrying out procurement tenders.Achieved
Continue applying the "Product Lifecycle Assessment Guidelines" to the product families already identified.Achieved Continue applying the “Product Lifecycle 
Assessment Guidelines” (LCA) to the product families already identified.
Checks on suppliers Definition of the Ethics and Sustain-
ability check list to be used during the 2010 Audit Campaign to assess the Corporate Social Responsibility of suppliers.Achieved Continued application of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility check list to a representative sample of suppliers.
Extension of the sustainability audits to production plants in the Far East.Achieved Extension of auditing activities to supplier 
production plants overseas.
sUPPL iers | Strat Egy
The Telecom Italia Group is determined to 
maintain its collaborative and transparent relations with national and international in-stitutions in order to facilitate dialogue on matters of mutual interest and to ensure the Group’s viewpoint is correctly represented. 
rElEvant StakEhold ErS
The key stakeholders of the Telecom Italia Group are:•	the central national institutions: Parlia-ment, Government, Ministries, Public Administration;
•	local institutions and their representa-tive associations: Regions, Provinces, Municipalities, Municipalities located in the mountains, the National Association Municipalities of Italy (ANCI), the Union of Italian Provinces (UPI);
 
•	the Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM), the 
Italian Competition and Market Authority (AGCM) (see § Com-petitors) and the Italian Data Protection Authority (see § Customers);
•	European and international institutions: the European Commission and the Regu-latory Committees under its supervision, the European Council and the European Parliament;
•	the United Nations (UN): particularly the Global Compact, UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme), UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), ITU (International Telecommunication Union) and the oth-er UN agencies (e.g. UNHCR)
Telecom Italia has carried out numerous projects in partnership with Institutions. These are described in the chapters dedi-cated to the stakeholders who benefit from these projects (e.g. Customers and Commu-nity). For a list of these initiatives see § In-troduction/Stakeholder Involvement.3. InstItutIons 
3.1 rElation S With StakEhold ErS
Telecom Italia constantly keeps abreast of law-making activity by Institutions. It does this 
by monitoring the legislative process of measures that may have an impact on the compa-ny and the flow of policy-making (records of parliamentary proceedings and activities of the Council of Ministers and the European Commission) as well as analysing European propos-als and information resulting from informal contacts. The purpose of these activities is:•	to understand the expectations of national, central and European institutions and the evolving trends in parliamentary, governmental and European regulatory initiatives;
•	to identify the potential impacts on the strategy and on the business activities of the Group;
•	to adopt any strategies needed to protect the company’s position;
•	to create an institutional context that is favourable to promoting the company’s inter-ests, respecting the rules on transparency and on formal and substantive fairness.
The results of analyses and involvement activities are transformed into operational ideas for continuous improvement activities.
3.2 rElation S With c Entral national in Stitution S 
Relations are primarily conducted with the parliamentary members of the Camera (Cham-ber of Deputies) and the Senato (Senate) Committees concerned with issues that could impact on the company such as, for example, those of an economic-financial nature or con-cerning privacy, telecommunications, Internet and TV . Involvement in parliamentary hear-ings is also a way of examining specific issues in detail and creating opportunities for dis-cussion about matters being debated in Parliament.The importance of  
with Institutions to build constructive 
relationships 
62 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
The TI monitoring of law-making activity of central national institutions often leads to pro-
posals of amendments to measures under examination. Moreover, Telecom Italia provides information to Ministries (mainly the Ministry for Eco-nomic Development) concerning the activities of the inspection body (parliamentary ques-tions) directed at the Group. During the year, Telecom Italia specifically monitored the legis-lative process of the so-called “Incentives Decree”, converted into Law No. 73 of May 22, 2010, in the context of which provisions were approved in order to simplify administrative procedures relating to the creation of fixed and mobile networks, with specific reference to regulations regarding micro-trench excavations and UMTS site installation activities. Again for the purpose of simplification, provisions were implemented, in the framework of Presidential Decree No. 139 of July 9, 2010 (regulation on simplifying landscaping au-thorisations for small scale projects), to streamline the authorisations required for the in-stallation of specific types of mobile and fixed equipment on pylons. Telecom Italia also monitored the process relating to the privacy rules, which included the establishment and management of the public Register of subscribers who object to their telephone number being used for sales or commercial promotion purposes (Presidential Decree No. 178 of September 7, 2010). The establishment of this Register introduces the opt-out system in the field of telemarketing in Italy. This system means that individuals whose names appear in public lists of subscribers may only be contacted by telephone for commercial purposes if they have not explicitly exercised their right to object by registering their name in the ap-propriate public Register. In the context of the legislative process of the 2011 stability law (law no. 220 of December 13, 2010), Telecom Italia particularly monitored the provisions regarding procedures for allocation of the rights of use for television frequencies.Finally, on the occasion of the parliamentary hearing held in the Chamber of Deputies on  October 19, 2010, Telecom Italia’s top management had an opportunity to submit details of its 2010-2012 Business Plan. Furthermore TI Media maintains a dialogue with institu-tions on issues of interest to the company. Interaction with the Ministry of Economic De-velopment’s Communications Department continued in respect of the digitisation process, which this year involved eastern Piedmont, Lombardy, Emilia Romagna, Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia, according to the ministerial calendar of  September 10, 2008 and subse-quent amendments. The Communications Department set up a specific task force for the digital switchover in these areas, which also includes TI Media.
rElation S With local in Stitution S
At local level, Telecom Italia maintains a constant dialogue with institutions on subjects of a general nature regarding the electronic communications sector and issues of interest to the company’s business, in order to deal with the problems encountered and promote the Group’s image. The dialogue takes place both directly with local authorities and with their representative associations: ANCI and UPI.
 
Monitoring and 
constant interaction with the decision-making centres of local institutions 
take place by means of hearings and involvement in workshops as well as in the work of regional Commissions and ministerial and specialist work groups. Furthermore, Telecom Italia frequently organises communication initiatives on specific issues of local interest.Coordination with the company departments operating at local level is fundamental for the purpose of acquiring information regarding the approaches and expectations of local insti-tutions and providing suitable solutions. The main subjects of dialogue with local authorities during 2010 included:•	local coverage and reduction of the digital divide;
•	the creation of a broadband infrastructure involving the signing of memoranda of under-| instit UtiOns eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 63
Smart Services
This is a family of services which is 
intended to provide a comprehensive response to the needs of communi-ties, in particular to those related to urban areas, with a view to improving quality of life in general, according to the recommendations of the Euro-pean Commission on promoting and adopting innovative solutions through the use of ICT . The aim is to create the so-called “smart cities” through the development of innovative digital services that can improve key areas for municipalities, such as energy effi-ciency, environmental monitoring, se-curity, public communication and tour-ism promotion.In 2010, Telecom Italia signed vari-ous memoranda of understanding with institutions aimed to launch re-search projects and practical experi-ments in the field of Smart Services:1. the memorandum of understand-
ing with the Ministry of Public Ad-ministration and Innovation, the National Research Council for the creation of the Smart Services Co-operation Lab, which carries out research and development; 
2. the Memorandum of Understand-
ing with the Umbria Region, the Province of Terni, the Municipality of San Gemini for the creation of a Living Lab that will involve the local area and its citizens. The Munici-pality of San Gemini will thus be the first organisation in the region to try out the smart city model;
3. the Memorandum of Understand-
ing for the launch of the Smart Cities Laboratory, signed with the National Association of Italian Mu-nicipalities (ANCI). Telecom Italia, as the technological partner, and ANCI as the supervisor and coordi-nator, will be working together with participating municipalities - initial-ly the municipalities of Piacenza and Prato - to identify innovative design solutions that can improve energy and environmental efficien-cy, promote local development and allow innovative services to be de-livered to the communityinstit UtiOns | 
standing with UPI and ANCI;
•	the removal of public telephone equipment (telephone booths) which also involved pub-lic consultation as part of a procedure agreed with AGCOM; 
•	the signing of various memoranda of understanding with central institutions, local au-thorities and their representative associations (e.g. ANCI) on the subject of Smart Ser-vices (see box);
rElation S With Europ Ean and int Ernational in Stitution S
Relations with European and international institutions are broadly carried out according to the logic previously described with, in many cases, the involvement of the other ICT opera-tors. The actions carried out are both of an institutional nature (for example, participation in public consultations, workshops, meetings of parliamentary Commissions) and of a col-laborative nature (meetings with the EU Commission) by means of individual actions and/or with the involvement of other operators. The issues tackled at European level, which are the subject of the main legislative/regulatory documents of interest to the Group, include Communication on the Digital Agenda, the Broadband Strategy, the Recommendation on regulated access to Next Generation Networks (NGN), the proposed Decision on the Radio  Spectrum Policy Programme, the public consultation on net neutrality, the review of the Framework Directive on data protection, the review of the Roaming Regulation, the consul-tation on the review of the Universal Service.As regards relations with the UN, the activities carried out as part of the Global Compact are of particular importance, taking the form of participation in the working group on hu-man rights and in the activities of the Italian Network. Telecom Italia, Telecom Italia Media, and Tim Brasil, the three companies of the Group which adhered to the Global Compact, compile the “Communication on Progress” annually, the document in which the progress achieved in the promotion and actual application of the 10 principles, on which the Global Compact is founded, is reported.Strat Egy
The Group’s companies are committed to 
promoting fair competition, which is con-sidered to be in the interests of the Group and of all market operators, customers and stakeholders in general. They promote and participate in initiatives and projects with competitors, as well as in technical round tables and activities organised by trade as-sociations.
rElEvant StakEhold ErS
In this area, the Group interacts with the following stakeholders:•	OLOs (Other Licensed Operators), big and small alternative tlc operators of fixed and mobile networks;
•	the Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM);
•	the Italian Competition and Market Au-thority (AGCM);
•	associations, federations and trade asso-ciations:
 ›in Italy: Confindustria, CSIT (Confindus-tria 
Innovative and Technological Ser -
vices), Asstel, Assoelettrica, Assinform, Ugo Bordoni Foundation, Audio and ICT District, FRT (Radio and Television Fed-eration) HD Forum (High Definition Fo-rum), DGTVì (the national association for terrestrial digital broadcasting), Auditel,  CNID (Italian National Digital Commit-tee)
 ›in the world: ETNO (European Telecom
-
munications Network Operators’ Asso-ciation), EIF (European Internet Foun-dation), EABC (European-American Business Council), ITU (International Tel-ecommunication Union), EITO (Europe-an Information Technology Observatory), BIAC (Business and Industry Advisory Committee), BEREC  (Body of Europe-an Regulators for Electronic Communi-cations), GeSI (Global and Sustainability Initiative).4. Com PetItoRs
4.1 rElation S With StakEhold ErS
Telecom Italia manages relations with associations and coordinates representation activi-
ties with Confindustria and its member associations.The initiatives at national and local level consist of actions and meetings about business development and protecting the company’s interests in the fields of economics, regula-tions, trade unions and labour. These initiatives are based on dialogue and on comparing the respective positions in order to identify, where possible, a common position for the sector to be represented in national and Community institutions. The Group is a member of 100 local associations, including Confindustria Innovative and Technological Services, Asstel and Assoelettrica. In 2010, Telecom Italia joined Assinform, the national association of leading Information Technology companies operating in the Italian market, which acts as a link between the main economic, political and institutional forces of the country for the development of Italy as a National System through the use of innovation and new technologies.Together with the other operators, Telecom Italia takes part in the Ugo Bordoni Foundation (FUB), which aims to carry out research and studies in the field of communication and IT in order to promote scientific progress and technological innovation. The Foundation, which is under Public Administration management and control, provides advice to Parliament, the Government and independent administrative Authorities.Telecom Italia is also involved in the Audiovisual and ICT District, a Consortium of around 60 businesses operating in the IT , Tlc and media sectors. Sponsored by the Municipality of Rome, the Union of Industrialists and the Rome Chamber of Commerce, the objective of the District is to express and represent, within its field, the industrial activities and ser-vices which operate in the new economic area, alternatively known as major convergence or multimedia.Telecom Italia and TI Media are founding members of the HD Forum, which pursues the objective of promoting and disseminating high definition technology in Italy. Membership of the Forum provides constant updates about the activities of competitors in the high The importance of fair competition for all
66 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
definition field (in particular, Sky, Mediaset and Fastweb) and favours initiatives regarding 
regulations and standardisation.TI Media, as a member of the Presiding Committee, is a member of the Radio and Televi-sion Federation, which brings together 150 local TV and radio stations and is a member of DGTVì  together with Rai, Mediaset, D-Free and the Aeranti-Corallo and FRT local television associations. Within DGTVì there is a task force set up for the regions which, based on the ministerial calendar, are dealing with the analogue to digital TV switchover (in 2010, west-ern Piedmont, Lombardy, Emilia Romagna, Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia).  A representa-tive of TI Media is a member of the Board of Directors of DGTVì. Telecom Italia Media is a partner in Auditel, in which it holds a 3.33% shareholding, and has a representative on the Board of Directors and another in the Technical Committee. Auditel is the only body recognised in Italy for the collection of audience figures. It is recog-nised also by advertisers who assess the value of advertising slots on individual television channels on the basis of the “data” recorded by Auditel. TI Media participates in the work of the CNID (Italian National Digital Committee), which brings together all the representatives of the digital market value chain and is chaired by the deputy Minister for Economic Development with responsibility for Communications, backed up by two deputy chairmen (an AGCOM Commissioner and the Chairman of DGTVì). The Committee acts through four different operational groups covering the following indi-vidual areas: Networks Technology and Development; Monitoring and Data; Communica-tions and Customer Assistance; Specific Problems in the Public Broadcasting Service.In 2003, TI Media and MTV subscribed to the Self-regulation Code for TV and Minors, as part of which the TV and Minors Committee was established with responsibility for moni-toring fulfilment of the undertakings given under the Code. TI Media has been elected as the broadcasters’ representative and therefore has a privileged position as observer with regard to the institutions for the purpose of maintaining a constructive dialogue with the sector. During 2010, 780,000 cards were issued by Tivù, a company in which TI Media has a 3.5% stake, thus exceeding the targets set for this year. Tivù began providing commercial ser-vices in August 2009 for the broadcasting of unscrambled programmes by satellite, with the aim of promoting a single service platform for digital terrestrial and satellite broadcast-ing (tivùsat).Pursuant to the provisions of the Self-regulation Code on the reporting of legal disputes in radio and television programmes, in December 2009 a Committee was established to monitor any violations of the Code and adopt the ensuing corrective measures. The objective of the Code is to reconcile the right to information about legal proceedings with respect for the inviolable rights of the individual, by observing principles of objectivity, completeness and impartiality.
4.2 compEtitivE poSitioning 
Every year, a qualitative and quantitative survey is carried out to analyse the strength of the Telecom Italia and TIM brands, both in absolute terms and in comparison with competi-tors. For Telecom Italia only, a survey is also carried out that specifically focuses on busi-ness targets (formerly SOHO and SMEs) in terms of the value of the brand and competitive positioning in comparison with the main competitors.Moreover, every three months, a quantitative survey is carried out on a representative sam-ple of the Italian population in order to gauge the image of the telecommunications and mobile telephony service providers.Finally, quantitative surveys are periodically carried out on a representative sample of the | COmPetitOrs eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 67
adult Italian population to measure the effectiveness of the advertising for fixed and mo-
bile telephony and telecommunication services. These measure the reputation of the indi-vidual providers, unprompted and prompted awareness of advertising, respective recollec-tions and enjoyment of the advertising. Monitoring of the reputation of Telecom Italia on the web has been launched by means of an automatic search and semi-automatic cataloguing method which analyses the volume of conversations regarding Telecom Italia on leading Italian websites and allows to draw up a classification based on source, format and value. The aim is to track the perception of the Telecom Italian and TIM brands in terms of image. This same process also allows a reputation risk index to be calculated, based on an algorithm which weighs up the impor-tance of the site/channel hosting the message (potential audience), the value of the mes-sage (positive or negative) and the relevance of the conversation category to the company.
4.3 S ErvicES to olos
The National Wholesale Service (NWS) division of Telecom Italia is the point of reference for other licensed operators (OLOs) in the provision of network infrastructure and/or ser-vices for subsequent marketing by the said OLOs of electronic communication services to their own end customers. NWS takes care of the planning, provision, contract negotiation, sales, assistance and invoicing of the products/services provided. The organisational and administrative separation between the Retail Departments of Telecom Italia and NWS, which is certified once a year by an external body, ensures respect for the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination established by current regulations and particularly by resolution 152/02/CONS.NWS is the organisational structure set up to respond to the commercial requirements of other license-holding operators and draws up and puts forward an offer for the various wholesale markets on an annual basis. The approval process for each offer involves joint examination and reviews designed to provide the clarifications requested by AGCOM, which approves its contents and monitors the work carried out by NWS to ensure that competi-tion is protected. AGCOM is also the guarantor and the reference authority in any cases brought by the OLOs and the end users on regulatory matters.Each OLO has a direct relationship with its own Account Manager in the Sales department of NWS, who receives requests from the OLO for which he/she is responsible, customis-ing the respective contractual offer instruments in compliance with the current regulatory requirements. These contracts include clauses which establish constant monitoring of the various phases of the supply of the service, ensuring that some of the main indicators are subject to periodic reporting to AGCOM. The interests of the client are therefore safeguard-ed in a continuous manner, formalised through a process of conference calls, video calls and meetings in which all the relevant company departments concerned are involved.With a view to improving its company processes, Telecom Italia has presented a series of “Commitments” designed to enhance performance in the delivery of services to the OLOs which, following Procedure 351/08/CONS, were approved by AGCOM and came into force on January 1, 2009 (for more information, see § Commitments regarding the access network).For further information regarding dialogue and involvement initiatives (Wholesale Forum, Wholesale Tour, Wholesale Portal), caring initiatives (National Assistance Centres) and the actions taken to measure OLO satisfaction go to www.telecomitalia.com, in the Sustain-ability section.COmPetitOrs | 68 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
4.4 thE italian communication S authority ( agcom )
Telecom Italia interacts with AGCOM with the aim of contributing to the administration of 
the regulatory process on issues of relevance to the growth in value of the Company, at-tempting to influence changes in the market over the medium to long term. In this light, Tel-ecom Italia pursues a steadfast dialogue and continuous discussion with the authorities and institutions with the aim of arriving at a simple, effective and symmetrical regulatory framework. Furthermore, the Group makes its own knowledge available by participating in public consultations, institutional hearings, conventions, public meetings and by present-ing appropriate testimony and petitions. The constant discussions with AGCOM and the institutions ensure that Telecom Italia gathers opinions, supplying transparent, reliable responses, and anticipates events, creating and exploiting the best opportunities for the Company. For further information about legal provisions that regulate public consultations, market analyses, fact-finding surveys and dispute resolution among operators go to the Sustainability section of www.telecomitalia.com.Telecom Italia provides for due explanations (for example, public consultations, defensive testimony, the supply of data and information of various nature etc.) and always ensures the completeness and reliability of the contribution.In the case of infringement proceedings, Telecom Italia presents testimony, expert reports and other defence documents, requesting a hearing by those responsible for the proceed-ings on the facts that are the subject of the dispute. Telecom Italia may decide to present a proposal, subject to the termination of the disputed conduct, aimed at improving com-petitive conditions in the sector, removing the anticompetitive consequences through suit-able, stable measures.
4.5 thE compEtition and markEt guarantor authority ( agcm )
As part of the protection of competition and the consumer, Telecom Italia Group interacts with the Antitrust authority both in a preventive way and during proceedings launched by it.By way of preventive action, the company’s departments, in addition to responding to the Authority’s requests conveyed regularly in the performance of the tasks assigned to it by Law 287/90 and the Consumer Code, periodically organise meetings for the exchange of information. The objective is to facilitate understanding of the development of the market and the effects on the area of responsibility of the Authority itself, with a view to ensuring transparency. The subjects of preventive information include the development of the Group’s offering, the company’s position on strategic issues, such as the development of the access network and Net Neutrality, the development of pricing criteria in the markets in which the Company is in a dominant position, and the technical and economic characteristics of certain offers disputed by competitors. In the event of dispute proceedings, the Group presents its case in the appropriate fo-rums, in some cases presenting to the Authority undertakings which reduce the alleged anti-competitive aspects at the centre of the proceedings. Having assessed these under-takings, the Authority may make them compulsory and end the proceedings, without impos-ing any financial penalty (as occurred, for example, in the case of the last two proceedings launched in 2008, which were ended after acceptance of the undertakings given).Moreover, within the Company,  there are a series of preventive controls on processes with a potentially significant impact in Antitrust terms such as, for example, the provision of marketing plans, the development of contractual matters, the terms and conditions of supply of TLC services, the development of the company’s information systems. The con-trols are aimed at ensuring that the operational management of the processes takes into | COmPetitOrs eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 69
consideration these potential impacts. In order to spread awareness and disseminate a 
correct approach to the issue, a management training programme was launched in 2010 on the application of competition rules. 
4.6 undErtaking S rEgarding th E accESS nEtWork 
In December 2008, AGCOM approved the voluntary undertakings presented by Telecom Italia with resolution 718/08/CONS, subdivided into 14 main groups, plus three additional groups of a methodological nature (variation, expiry, modulation).The impact of the undertakings on the stakeholders, both internal (shareholders) and ex-ternal (Customers, Institutions, Competitors and the Community) can be broken down into different aspects. Specifically:•	greater satisfaction of wholesale and retail customers, promoting innovation in internal processes, qualitative development and improvement of the fixed access network and respective services, reduction of disputes;
•	development of fair competition among competitors, which is considered to be in the interests of the Group, the market, customers and stakeholders in general, promoting equality of technical and economic treatment among the marketing departments of Tel-ecom Italia and other operators;
•	maintenance of competitive conditions in the transition to new generation networks, in order to ensure the creation of an open network that is able to offer the Community high quality services;
•	more transparency in the evolution of Telecom’s fixed access network for competitors and institutions through communication of the technical Plans for quality and develop-ment of the infrastructure;
•	the acceptance of petitions from AGCOM, consumer associations and alternative op-erators, contributing to the development of a model for relations and solutions to prob-lems through constructive relationships founded on a climate of trust and continuous discussion.
At the centre of these undertakings there is the development of a new culture based on the concept of Equivalence
4 and the role of Open Access, the structure set up in February 
2008 within the Technology & Operations Department, which provides access services to the Retail division of Telecom Italia and alternative operators through NWS (for further in-formation see § Services to OLOs). The Open Access and NWS activities for the produc-
tion of access services are separate, and independently managed by the other commercial departments of Telecom Italia Group. 2008 also saw the establishment of the Supervisory Body, a committee that verifies and guarantees proper execution of the undertakings, en-suring equality of access for the other operators to the fixed network infrastructure through the Open Access department and achievement of the service quality objectives.The access network managed by Open Access is an infrastructure of primary importance for the whole country, through which the alternative market players have connected their own infrastructure and offered new services to the Community.For information on the state of implementation of the undertakings go to www.telecomita-lia.com in the Sustainability section.COmPetitOrs | 
4
the concept of equivalence, intro-
duced by resolution 718 of 2008,
 
exceeds the concept of equality of 
treatment referred to in resolution 
152 of 2002.
 essentially
, “being 
equivalent” means: behaving in a way that does not discriminate against competitors; or serving the customers of other operators as if they were 
re-
tail customers of telecom italia,
 which 
means providing the same services, under the same conditions and above all an identical standard of quality; communicating transparently with the market, publishing technical, financial and commercial information, which includes the terms and conditions for the supply and use of services, and the access network features and development plans; guaranteeing ac-cess to and use of network resources, accepting all reasonable requests from OLOs; setting cost-driven prices and having specific accounting re-cords of them.Strat Egy
The environmental 
strategy implemented 
by the Group’s companies is founded on the 
following principles:•	optimising the use of energy sources and other natural resources;
•	minimising negative environmental im-pacts and maximising the positive ones;
•	pursuing the continuous improvement of environmental performance; 
•	adopting procurement policies that take environmental issues into account; 
•	disseminating a culture that promotes a correct approach to environmental is-sues.
In order to manage production and support processes in a way that is effective and envi-ronmentally sustainable, the Group has estab-lished an Environmental Management System (EMS) certified according to the ISO 14001 standard in the areas characterised by particu-lar impacts on the environment. In two Call Centres, the Environmental Man-agement system has been integrated with the Safety Management System based on the OH-SAS 18001 standard, both having achieved the respective certification. Application of the procedures is verified by means of internal audits of company depart-ments and external companies.For further details on this subject see § Custom-ers / Certifications.5. the envIRonment
Telecom Italia regards respect for the environment and energy efficiency as the funda-
mental cornerstones of its contribution to the sustainable development that the company is able to offer, through both specific actions implemented to manage and reduce its im-pacts, and technological solutions aimed at customers, entities operating in the various sectors of the economy and the public in general (see § Climate Change). Building 
through solutions based on Information 
and Communication Technologies 
rElEvant StakEhold ErS  
The representatives of the environment 
stakeholder can be identified as the future generations who are entitled to an environ-ment which has not been compromised by the impacts of development enacted by cur -
rent generations. This collective person is identifiable in the demands expressed by:•	national and international environmental organisations;
•	national and international institutions:
•	the community in general, particularly in the areas in which T
elecom Italia oper -
ates; 
•	industry associations and non-profit or -
ganisations dealing with issues relat-ing to the environment. These include the following in particular: CSR Europe, European Academy of Business in Soci-ety (EABIS), European Telecommunica-tions Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Global e-Sus-tainability Initiative (GeSI), Carbon Dis-closure Project (CDP), European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT).
Telecom Italia is attentive to the requirements expressed by stakeholders interested in pro-tecting the environment and maintains mul-tiple channels of communication with them, including Avoicomunicare, the Festival of Sci-ence, the Venice Future Centre and the dedicat-ed pages of the Group Intranet/Internet site, in addition to formal and informal meetings with stakeholders.Telecom Italia also promotes and in some cases coordinates national and international projects on this issue. 72 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
5.1 Environm Ental p Erformanc E
The information regarding environmental performance has been drawn from management 
data. In accordance with the principle of materiality, only subsidiaries included in the con-solidated accounts that have revenue greater than 300,000 Euro and more than 40 em-ployees, excluding discontinued companies and non-current assets held for sale, have been considered.The environmental performance data given below covers energy, atmospheric emissions, water, paper, waste and electromagnetic emissions.
Energy
The energy consumption of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Group is presented according to the template proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its Guidelines, version 3 (G3 Guidelines). The following table shows the direct consumption for heating and trans-port (ref. Scope1 according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) followed by the indirect ones for the purchase and use of electricity (Scope2).The tables in the Environment chapter referring to the Telecom Italia Group show data bro-ken down according to the following activities: •	Domestic: telecommunication services and infrastructure and other associated activi-ties carried out in Italy; 
•	Brazil: services and activities provided by Tim Brasil
•	Media: activities of the Media Group
•	Olivetti: activities of the Olivetti Group
HEATING S ySTEMS
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010
vs 20092010
vs 2008
ENERG y GENERATED  
By HEA
TING OILMJ 116,538,657 +3.15% (18.30%)
ENERG y GENERA
TED 
By NA
TURAL  GASMJ 436,186,064 (36.70%) (36.28%)
tot
al ene RGy FoR 
hea
tInGMJ 552,724,721 (31.08%) (33.18%)
HEATING S ySTEMS
ti group breakdown by business unit (%)
ti group 
2010domestic brazil media olivetti
total ene RGy FoR 
heat InGMJ 651,831,799 90.84% 0.00% 0.49% 8.67%
| the en VirOnment eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 73
Olivetti
Media
Domestic0.00%
8.67%
0.49%
90.84%Brazil
ENERG y CONSUMPTION  FOR HEATING  
(%) – TELECOM ITALIA 
S.p.A.ENERG y CONSUMPTION  FOR  
HEATING  (%) – TI  GR
OUP
Total energy
consumption of methane fuel for heating
Total energyconsumptionof diesel oilfuel for heating78.9%
21.1%
The data in the table relating to Telecom Italia S.p.A. show a significant reduction of con-
sumption for heating purposes. The reason for this trend is essentially the activation in a number of Data Processing Centres (DPCs) of large co-generation plants that produce si-multaneously electricity and heat, allowing the purchase of fossil fuels used to heat work-ing environments to be significantly reduced. In Brazil, the climate makes it unnecessary to heat indoor premises.
VEHICLES 
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010
vs 20092010
vs 2008
UNLEADED  PETROL  
CONSUMPTIONl 3,855,832 (27.73%) (62.07%)
DIESEL  CONSUMPTION l 17,953,949 1.56% 23.74%
tot
al ene RGy 
Consum PtIon FoR 
vehICles(*)MJ 764,340,305 (4.71%) (9.50%)the en VirOnment | 
*
represents the conversion into 
meg
aJoules of the consumption of 
unleaded petrol and diesel expressed 
in litres.74 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
FOSSIL  FUELS  FOR VEHICLES  -  
TELECOM  IT
ALIA 
S.p.A.
ENERG y CONSUMPTION  FOR VEHICLES  -  
TELECOM  IT
ALIA 
S.p.A.
2010 vs. 2009
2010 vs. 2008 0.00%
-5.00%
-10.00%Unleaded petrol
consumption for vehiclesDieselconsumption for vehicles82.3%
17.7%
NUMBER  OF VEHICLES  AND DISTANCE  TRAVELLED  
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010
vs 20092010
vs 2008
TOTAL NUMBER  OF 
COMPAN y VEHICLESno. 19,905 (5.52%) (7.19%)
NUMBER  OF LO
W 
EMISSION  VEHICLES(*)no. 19,624 (5.59%) (6.98%)
tot
al dIst
anCe 
tRa
velled  km 320,016,025 3.67% 1.93%
| the en VirOnment
*
Vehicles fuelled by unleaded petrol, 
eco-diesel, bludiesel, LPG (meeting the 
euro4 standard or higher),
 elec-
tricity or other fuels with comparable or lower emissions. eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 75
2010 vs. 2009
2010 vs. 20084.00%
3.50%
2.50%1.50%
0.00%0.50%1.00%2.00%3.00%
TOTAL DISTANCE  TRAVELLED  -  
TELECOM   IT
ALIA S.
p.A.
NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED(*)
ti group breakdown 
by business unit (%)
ti group 
2010domestic brazil media olivetti
TOTAL NUMBER  OF 
VEHICLESno. 21,405 94.27% 4.30% 0.43% 1.00%
TOT
AL ENERG y  
CONSUMEDMJ 839,687,957 92.51% 5.42% 0.85% 1.22%
tot
al dIst
anCe 
tRa
velledkm 344,128,481 94.33% 3.94% 0.73% 1.00%
At Telecom Italia S.p.A., the containment of energy consumption by vehicles and the in-
crease in mileage recorded during the year demonstrate the increased efficiency of the vehicle fleet. The policy aimed at reducing the size of the fleet and modernising it in favour of vehicles that comply with stricter environmental standards is proceeding as planned: during 2010, 4,200 Euro3 standard vehicles were replaced with 3,000 Euro4 standard ve-hicles, including 350 petrol/LPG fuelled vehicles. The reduction in the number of vehicles also included 250 personally assigned vehicles.the en VirOnment | 
*
the data shown in the tables and 
graphs relating to v
ehicles refer to 
all the Group’s vehicles (industrial, 
commercial, used by executives/man-agers/sales engineers), both owned and hired. 
the v
ehicles, consump-
tion and mileage of vehicles owned or in use by the sales force of 
tim 
Par
ticipações have been included 
only where usage is significant and continuous. 
the significant reduction 
in energ
y used by vehicles, compared 
to the data published in the 2009 sustainability report, is attributable to 
elettra tlc s.p.a.,
 which was respon-
sible for the consumption of fuel for the ships used to lay submarine 
tlc 
cables,
 being taken out of the consoli-
dation scope.76 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
ELECTRICIT y PROCURED AND PRODUCED
ti group breakdown by business unit (%)
ti group 
2010domestic brazil media olivetti
total
eleCtRICItykWh 2,441,056,864 86.39% 11.76% 1.12% 0.73%
2010 vs. 20092010 vs. 2008 0.00%
-1.00%
-3.00%-2.00%
-4.00%Domestic
Brazil
Media
Olivetti86.39%
11.76%
1.12%
0.73%PURCHASED  OR PRODUCED  ENERG y 
– TELECOM  IT
ALIA 
S.p.A.ENERG y PURCHASED  OR PR ODUCED  
(%) – TI G R
OUPELECTRICIT y PROCURED AND PRODUCED
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010 vs. 2009
2010 vs. 2008
ELECTRICIT y FROM  
MIxED SOURCES(*)kWh 2,023,676,446 (3.33%) (3.33%)
ELECTRICIT y FR
OM 
RENEWABLE  SOURCESkWh 40,211,687 (6.39%) 8.04%
tot
al ele CtRICIty kWh 2,063,888,133 (3.39%) (3.13%)
Consumption of electricity for the operation of telecommunication and civil/industrial 
plants is reported below. | the en VirOnment
*
electricity purchased from mixed 
sources is equal to 1,960 GWh ap-
proximately
. self-produced electricity 
from mixed sources is equal to 63 GWh approximately
, and is supplied 
by co-generation plants, which have allowed a saving on the purchase of electricity of more than 11GWh to be achieved, with an associated consumption equal to 16 million m3 of natural gas. 
the production of elec-
tricity from continuous g
enerators (not 
shown in the table) is estimated to be around 3 GWh. eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 77
Despite increasing levels of voice and data traffic, energy saving and network efficiency im-
provement initiatives led to a reduction in overall electricity consumption of approximately 3%.Previously launched initiatives aimed at optimising energy consumption continued in 2010. Rationalisation activities related primarily to:•	upgrading air conditioning systems, physically segregating environments depending on their different air conditioning requirements, and increasing the average operating tem-peratures of telephone exchanges, servers and Radio Base Stations (RBS); 
•	the targeted use of full free cooling
5 technologies and other low environmental impact 
systems characterised by reduced energy consumption in cooling systems;
•	the adoption of more efficient technological solutions for servers installed in Data Cen-tres, including the concentration and virtualisation of machines
6;      
•	measurement of energy consumption and remote control of central offices;
•	modernisation and maintenance of the efficiency of the fixed traditional switching net-work and the data networks;
•	modernisation of AC/DC conversion equipment through the introduction of technologi-cal solutions that guarantee better performance; 
•	installation of time switches to turn off the lighting equipment;
•	sharing of technological sites thanks to co-siting agreements
7, resulting in a saving of 
around 30% in energy consumption.
The following initiatives were completed or were under way in 2010 concerning the use of non-traditional or alternative energy sources and the testing of new technologies:•	cogeneration/trigeneration: 4 large systems are in operation in four Data Centre sites (Pomezia, Rozzano, Padua and Bologna) and energy requirements are fulfilled by a tri-generation system (power generation, heating and cooling system) which, together with the traditional supply systems, allows energy savings estimated to be in the order 30%;
•	small scale cogeneration plants: fuelled by methane and producing 120 kWe of power. 5 systems are currently being completed to join the 12 systems already in operation to self-generate electricity and heat;  
•	wind/photovoltaic power: in 5 RBS situated in areas characterised by unfavourable en-vironmental and meteorological conditions, which were previously powered by diesel generators, a supplementary mixed wind and photovoltaic supply has been installed (3 to 6 kW wind power generator and 5 kWp photovoltaic panels) and similar systems are being installed in a further 8 RBS sites;
•	geo-cooling plants: the construction of two geo-cooling plants
8 has been launched at 
two medium-sized industrial telecommunication exchanges, in order to provide air con-ditioning for the equipment rooms and replace the traditional refrigeration systems; 
•	energy backup systems based on hydrogen fuel cells: a further 85 of these have been installed to replace the traditional lead battery systems, joining the 100 already in-stalled in 2009. The introduction of this equipment has allowed the purchase and sub-sequent disposal of traditional batteries containing around 250 tonnes of lead to be avoided. Life cycle assessments show a benefit to the environment in terms of CO
2 not 
emitted of around 100 tonnes.
The commitment to contain energy consumption is also fulfilled by collaborating with the working groups establishing the various Codes of Conduct (CoC). Promoted by the Europe-an Union, through the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre (JRC) and the ETNO, the CoC develop guidelines, suggest technical solutions and define energy consumption objectives that can be achieved without interfering with technological development and service quality. the en VirOnment | 
8
this system uses the temperature 
difference between the surface and 
a point situated a fe
w metres below 
ground in order to directly achieve natural cooling of the air in the ven-tilation system or of a fluid that is pumped through a heat exchanger.5 
the FFC cooling system consists 
of a forced ventilation system and interaction betw
een areas of differ-
ent temperature without recourse to traditional air conditioning systems and, in particular, without the use of climate altering gases. 
the system,
 
which is currently applied in over 400 plants, allows a saving of over 85% to be achieved compared to traditional air conditioning solutions. 
6
Virtualisation makes the functions of a data processing machine available without the machine actually being present. 
7
these reciprocal agreements between 
operators are required by the electronic
 
Communications Code in order to promote more efficient use of network infrastructure and optimise mobile network coverage in urban and rural areas. 
each operator retains o
wnership 
of their passive infrastructure (masts and towers, electricity and air condition-ing plants and civil infrastructure) and hosts the other.  78 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
Telecom Italia, which signed the two Codes of Conduct proposed by the European Com-
mission to reduce the power consumption of broadband equipment 
(from June 2009) and Data Centres (from September 2010), or-ganised an international event through the GeSI, of which it is a member, held in Brussels in September 2010 and attended by 21 of the leading international operators and suppliers, who used this occasion to sign up to one or both of the CoC in the presence of 
the European Commissioner for the Digital Agenda. Telecom Italia is also involved in various ways in updating the other three CoCs regarding: Digital TV , Uninterruptible Power Systems and External Power Supplies. The general aim is to speed up the availability of lower energy consumption equipment and systems, while allowing suppliers to achieve greater economies of scale thanks to their common energy efficiency requirements at global level.
More information on further initiatives taken to reduce energy consumption, develop new 
mobile and fixed access technologies, save energy on mobile communication systems, ensure the efficiency of cabled network infrastructure and equipment and manage power consumption in domestic networks (Home networking) is available at the www.telecomita-lia.com website, in the Sustainability section
atmospheric emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions by Telecom Italia and the Group consist almost exclusively of carbon dioxide and are due to the fossil fuels used for heating and the use of motor vehi-cles, the production or purchase of electricity and staff travel (home to work and back and business travel by air). In addition to these, dispersals of hydrochlorofluorocarbons and hy-drofluorocarbons (HCFC and HFC) from air conditioning are also considered and converted into kg of CO
2equivalent.
As with the classification of power consumption, use is made of the Global Reporting Ini-tiative - GRI Version 3 - guidelines, which refer to the definitions of the GHG Protocol
9 dis-
tinguishing between direct emissions (Scope1: use of fossil fuels for vehicles10, heating, 
power generation), indirect emissions (Scope2: purchase of electricity for industrial and civil use
11) and other indirect emissions (Scope3).
Atmospheric emissions by Telecom Italia S.p.A. are falling in overall terms. The following are a number of considerations on how individual items contributed to the achievement of the net result:•	reduction of emissions due to lower consumption by vehicles;
•	reduction of emissions due to lower consumption for heating;
•	reduction of equivalent CO
2 emissions, relating to the dispersal of HCFC and HFC used 
in air conditioning plants, due to the adoption of more meticulous methods for prevent-ing leaks and the replacement of these gases with low environmental impact solutions;
•	an increase in emissions attributable to cogeneration, resulting from the company’s de-cision to invest more in this technology, with financial and environmental benefits. The increase is in any case offset by the lower amount of power purchased from grid, which overall has led to a positive balance being achieved in terms of emissions; 
•	reduction of emissions from diesel electricity generators in situations where the electric-ity distribution network is unavailable; 
•	reduction of emissions due to  purchased electricity;| the en VirOnment
the cOde Of cOnduct  signed  up by 
telec Om it
alia f
avOur the reducti On Of 
energy  cOnsumpti On frOm brOadband  
equipment  and d
ata centres
9
the GhG Protocol (Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol initiativ
e), established in 
1998 within the World resources 
institute and the 
World Business 
Council for sustainable De
velopment, 
supports business on the issue of 
greenhouse gas emissions, providing calculation and study methods aimed at promoting innovation and assum-ing responsibility for climate change. 
10
emissions of CO2 connected to the 
use of fossil fuels for motor vehicles and heating have been calculated following the directions of the U
neP 
(United nations en
vironment Pro-
gramme Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas 
emissions for 
Businesses and non-Commercial Or-
g
anisations – www.uneptie.org)  and 
in the case of  telecom italia s.p.a.
 
vehicles, by referring to the specific types of motor vehicles. 
11
to calculate emissions from the 
electricity purchased on the domestic market,
 the coefficient worked out by 
the G hG Protocol – that tak
es into 
consideration the national energy mix - has been used, which is equal to 403 grams of CO
2/kWh. For Brazil, 
the coefficient worked out by the local 
ministr
y of science and technology 
has been used,
 equal to 25 grams of 
CO2/kWh, which is held to be more accurate.  eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 79
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
ti group breakdown by business unit (%)
ti group 
2010domestic brazil media olivetti
TOTAL CO2 EMIS -
SIONS  UNDER  
SCOPE 1 GRIkg 146,045,363 94.30% 2.16% 0.51% 3.03%
TOT
AL CO2 EMIS -
SIONS  UNDER  
SCOPE 2 GRIkg 828,259,602 97.55% 0.86% 1.33% 0.26%
TOT
AL OTHER  CO2 
EMISSIONS  UN-
DER SCOPE 3 GRIkg 85,829,623 81.47% 18.53% 0.00% 0.00%
tot
al Co2 emIs-
sIons kg1,060,134,588 95.79% 2.47% 1.11% 0.63%ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010
vs 20092010
vs 2008
CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  VEHICLES  kg 43,723,046 (8.29%) (12.28%)
CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  HEATING kg 36,961,112 (30.32%) (32.77%)
EQUIV
ALENT  CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  THE DIS-
PERSAL  OF HCFC/HFC (*)kg 26,820,860 (8.73%) (34.09%)
CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  ELECTRICIT y GENERA -
TION By COGENERA
TIONkg 24,010,060 130.44% 370.79%
CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  ELECTRICIT y GENERA -
TION USING  DIESEL  kg 2,670,955 (26.61%) (26.60%)
tot
al dIReCt em IssIons o F Co2 - unde R 
sCoPe1 GRIkg 134,186,033 (6.92%) (13.01%)
CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  PURCHASES  OF ELEC-
TRICIT y GENERA
TED By MIxED SOURCESkg 789,849,200 (5.18%) (5.75%)
tot
al IndIReCt em IssIons o F Co2 - unde R 
sCoPe2 GRIkg 789,849,200 (5.18%) (5.75%)
CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  WORk-HOME  COMMUT -
ING (**)kg 59,925,224 (8.48%) (12.38%)
CO2 EMISSIONS  FROM  AIR TRAVEL (***) kg 10,003,995 (15.62%) (39.40%)
tot
al oF othe R IndIReCt em IssIons o F 
Co2 - unde R sCoPe3 GRI kg 69,929,219 (9.58%) (17.64%)
tot
al Co2 emIssIons  kg 993,964,452 (5.74%) (7.73%)
the en VirOnment | 
*
hydrochlorofluorocarbons ( hCFC) and 
hydrofluorocarbons ( hFC),
 in terms of 
equivalent CO2 emissions are deter-
mined by reference to specific Global 
Warming Potential (GWP) parameters for the two gases: the index is based on a relative scale that compares the gas considered with an equal mass of carbon dioxide with a GWP of 1. 
in 2010,
 the GWP of hCFC used was 
1,780 and that of hFC was 1,300.
 a 
single parameter was used in 2009 and 2008.
 
 
**
in determining the impact of home-
work commuting
, reference is made to 
personnel statistics.
 
***
this year, air travel emissions were cal-
culated more accurately based on the 
individual jour
neys actually made and 
the coefficients suggested by the G hG
 
Protocol depending on the short or long term duration of each individual journey.80 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
WATER CONSUMPTION
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010 vs. 2009
2010 vs. 2008
CONSUMPTION  OF 
WA
TER DRA
WN FR
OM 
ARTESIAN  WELLSm367,750 (20.50%)(*)
CONSUMPTION  OF 
WA
TER PR
OVIDED  By 
WA
TER SUPPL y COM-
PANIES  m34,341,947 (0.65%) (4.42%)
tot
al wate R  
Consum PtIonm34,409,697 (1.03%)(**)
Water
WATER CONSUMPTION
ti group breakdown by business unit (%)
ti group 2010 domestic brazil media olivetti
CONSUMPTION  OF WATER  DRAWN  FROM  
ARTESIAN  WELLSm31,193,306 6.07% 0.00% 0.01% 93.92%
CONSUMPTION  OF W
ATER PR
OVIDED  By 
WA
TER SUPPL y COMP
ANIES  m34,671,366 95.49% 3.64% 0.49% 0.38%
tot
al wate R Consum PtIon m35,864,672 77.30% 2.90% 0.39% 19.41%•	reduction of the impact from home-work commuting, associated with the total number 
of employees;
•	reduction of emissions from business travel by employees due 
to a reduction in the number of trips, resulting in particular from the greater use of video-conferencing (see  § Climate Change).| the en VirOnment
*
Data not gathered in 2008. 
**
Value not calculated since 2008 data 
on water drawn from artesian wells was not available.the reducti On trend Of cO2 emissi Ons 
by telecOm it
alia is c Onfirmed thanks 
tO a well-framed a
ctiOn plan eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 81
Domestic
Media
Brazil
Olivetti2.90%0.39%77.30%
19.41%
WATER CONSUMPTION  (%) – TI G R OUP
The total consumption of water by the Group reveals a significant impact by Olivetti due to 
water being drawn from artesian wells for industrial processes.
PAPER PURCHASED
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010 vs. 2009
2010 vs. 2008
PAPER  PURCHASED  
FOR OFFICE  USEkg 529,717 (16.96%) (20.63%)
PAPER  PURCHASED  
FOR COMMERCIAL  
USEkg 1,643,345 (18.61%) (20.49%)
tot
al PaPeR  
PuRChased kg 2,173,062 (18.21%) (20.53%)
paper
TOTAL PAPER  PURCHASED  (%) – T ELECOM  ITALIA  S.p.A:
2010 vs. 2009 2010 vs. 2008
-2.00%
-7.00%
-17.00%-22.00%-12.00%
TOTAL PAPER PURCHASED OFFICE USE ONLY
TOTAL PAPER PURCHASED FOR COMMERCIAL USE ONLYthe en VirOnment | 82 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
PAPER FOR OFFICE USE
ti group breakdown by business unit (%)
ti group 
2010domestic brazil media olivetti
NON-RECyCLED  
PAPER  PUR-
CHASEDkg 2,178 65.43% 34.57% 0.00% 0.00%
RECyCLED  P
APER  
PURCHASED  kg
59,869 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00%
FSC CERTIFIED  P
A-
PER PURCHASEDkg 584,323 95.43% 0.00% 2.45% 2.12%
tot
al PaPeR 
PuRChased FoR 
oFFICe use kg 646,370
86.49% 9.38% 2.21% 1.92%In 2010, Telecom Italia continued to purchase paper for office and commercial (telephone 
billing) use exclusively from forests managed according to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
12 standards and purchased and used a significantly smaller quantity.  
The reduction in paper for office use was achieved by taking action on purchases, ration-alisation and recycling.Continued implementation of the “Printing on Demand” project to optimise the printing process in company offices contributed to reducing purchases. The project was implement-ed in 675 offices. Around 35,000 individual printers were replaced with just over 4,000 shared high performance units using a quick standby system to reduce energy consump-tion (12% of the stock of printers are Energy Star
13 certified and 40% are already set up for 
front and back printing), which allows printer conditions and toner consumption to be moni-tored and maintenance to be managed, improving the overall quality of the service as well.The paper consumption rationalisation and containment process for press reviews also continued to be applied. By providing online access and limiting recipients and the number of pages, an 8% saving was achieved in 2010, with resulting benefits for information filing and searching as well.Sorted waste collection activities, organised throughout all the company’s offices, allowed 21,198 tonnes of paper to be sent for recycling in 2010 (the target was 20,000 tonnes) and a new similar objective has been set for 2011, which is even more challenging consid-ering the reduction in overall volumes.
As regards the use of commercial paper, activities continued for the purpose of achiev-
ing an overall reduction in consumption, particularly by promoting the use of electronic in-voices and statements among customers. This allowed almost 500 tonnes of paper to be saved, as well as reducing the production of CO
2 associated with delivery of the packages.| the en VirOnment
12
www.fsc.org. 
 
13
energy star is a voluntary interna-
tional labelling system for energy ef-
ficiency
. this was introduced in 1992 
b
y the U s en
vironmental Protection 
ag
ency ( ePa).
 through an ag
reement 
with the U s Go
vernment, the euro-
pean Community tak
es part into the 
energ
y star system as far as office 
equipment (www
.eu-energystar.org) eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 83
Olivetti
Media
Brazil
Domestic86.49%9.38%2.21%1.92%
TOTAL PAPER  PURCHASED  (%) TI G ROUP
Waste
The data shown in the table refer to the quantity of waste consigned14 and recorded by 
law15. 
WASTE CONSIGNED(*)
% changes
telecom italia 
S.p.a. 20102010 vs. 2009
2010 vs. 2008
HAzARDOUS  WASTE  kg 5,409,504 -13.70% 5.65%
NON-HAzARDOUS  
WASTE  kg 11,049,385 -4.22% 2.46%
tot
al quant Ity oF 
w
astekg 16,458,889 -7.56% 3.48%
WASTE FOR RECy-
CLING /RECO
VERykg 15,062,162 -6.97% 6.78%
RA
TIO BETWEEN  THE 
AMOUNT  OF W
ASTE 
RECyCLED /RECO -
VERED  AND THE TOT
AL 
WASTE  % 91.51% 0.64% 3.18%
the en VirOnment | 
14
the term “consigned waste” describes 
waste delivered to the haulier for 
transpor
t to the recycling and recov-
ery or disposal facility.  
15
slight variations compared to the situ-
ation on 31st December may occur until the follo
wing 30th march be-
cause the sources of the data are the loading/unloading registers,
 which are 
consolidated once the actual weight at destination has been verified. 
the 
infor
mation is supplied to the pro-
ducer of the waste within 3 months of consignment, which is the reason for the potential variations in the data. 
*
the data do not include telephone 
poles.84 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
As communicated in the previous report, a major campaign regarding hazardous waste was 
launched to replace lead batteries. During 2010, the data fell back to normal levels. Com-pared to the two previous periods, the ratio between waste produced and waste consigned for recycling/recovery has improved further.
The sorted collection of waste produced in offices takes place in all the company’s offices 
and during 2010 it was checked and monitored in order to optimise the process and max-imise the amounts collected. 
Following the transposition into national regulations of the biennial review of the ADR 
(Agreement concerning the international carriage of Dangerous goods by Road), the new internal procedure was issued and the training programme to update the supporting tech-nical staff was completed.In accordance with current regulations, the collection of waste covered by these regula-tions continued to be specifically monitored. 
In compliance with Ministerial Decree No. 65 of March 8, 2010 (published in the Gazzetta 
Ufficiale on May 10, 2010) the collection of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) has been implemented by all Telecom Italia sales channels as of  June 18, 2010. As required by the legislation, Telecom Italia and all its sales channels are registered as “Distributors” in the National Register of Environmental Managers. Consequently, a spe-
WASTE CONSIGNED
ti group breakdown by business unit (%)
ti group 
2010domestic brazil media olivetti
total waste 
ConsIGnedkg 18,751,552 89.39% 5.88% 0.70% 4.03%
WASTE CONSIGNED  AND RECyCLING  RECUPERA TION PURPOSES  (kG) – 
TELECOM  IT
ALIA S.p.A.
millions
1618
1410
6
024812
Total amount
dangerous waste
handed over to
a carrierTotal amount
of wasteTotal other waste
(not dangerous)
handed over to
a carrierTotal amount
of recycled and
recuperated waste| the en VirOnment eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 85
cific internal procedure has been issued in accordance with the legislative provisions and 
the respective training has been provided to direct point of sale staff, customer information procedures have been activated and the WEEE collection procedures for distance selling have been implemented. Guidelines have also been supplied for franchised sales chan-nels. Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Olivetti have launched a process across the entire country for the collection, recycling and disposal of non-industrial batteries and accumulators. Telecom Italia makes use of the “ReMedia” consortium and Olivetti of the “ecoR’it” consortium, of which our company is a founder member. At Tim Brasil, the initiatives aiming to increase awareness in the community on the issue of waste that is hazardous to health and the environment are continuing. In shops and company offices, suitable containers have been provided for the collection of used batter-ies and to dispose of mobile phones and accessories. 
In order to contribute to reducing the waste produced, in 2010 Telecom Italia S.p.A. re-
furbished a large amount of the equipment it owns (including 167,222 modems, 42,914 set top boxes for IPTV , 43,477 fixed terminals, 33,056 telephony products, 6,233 data equipment items, 1,147 MT4 concentrators, 66,185 ISDN devices). In addition to the en-vironmental benefits in terms of “avoided  waste”, these activities have a financial benefit because of the positive difference between the avoided purchase and the cost of reclama-tion. 
Development of the NGAN (Next Generation Access Network) in a number of Italian cities 
in order to provide customers with 100 Megabit per second connections provides for the installation of optical fibre cables. Innovative low environmental impact equipment will be used for the necessary excavations according to the agreement recently signed by ANCI (the association of Italian municipalities) and Telecom Italia. The system allows for the creation of so-called mini-trenches, which reduce work time, the area occupied by the work site, the amount of soil disturbed, the material removed, the paving deteriorated and, con-sequently, the amount of road restoration required. Since  trenches of just a few centime-tres in width and only 30 centimetres in depth are to be dug, the mini-trench system allows the socio-environmental costs in terms of disruption for citizens and administrations to be reduced by 80%, accidents at work to be reduced by 67% and the time needed to install the telecommunications infrastructure to be cut by 80%.
Following the 2003 Framework Agreement for the management of decommissioned wood-
en telephone poles, with the favourable opinion of the Conference of State-Regions-Autono-mous Provinces, signed with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Production Activities and the production and recovery companies, decommissioning activities contin-ued in 2010 with the replacement of 143,570 poles.
Electromagnetic emissions
The actions of the Telecom Italia Group on the subject of electromagnetic emissions are essentially:•	the careful and proper management of its equipment during its entire life cycle, in com-pliance with current regulations and internal standards of efficiency and safety;
•	the deployment of, and constant research into, the latest technological instruments for checks and controls. the en VirOnment | 86 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
Systematic monitoring continues of the levels of electromagnetic emissions in the instal-
lations of La7, MTV and Telecom Italia Media in order to guarantee that legal limits are respected and high safety standards are maintained. For the Telecom Italia Media Group in particular, such monitoring is related to electromagnetic field levels for protection of the population and the levels of exposure of workers.
Based on the controls carried out on Italian territory, electromagnetic emissions generated 
by La7 and MTV individually are within the legal limits, with levels significantly lower in the case of digital broadcasting, which allows a reduction of the electromagnetic emissions of around 75% compared to traditional analogue broadcasting.
Similar attention is paid to the emissions from mobile handsets using the frequency bands 
operated by Telecom Italia: GSM 900Mhz, DCS 1800MHz and UMTS. In 2010, in line with the established targets, all the models of technologically innovative mobile phones widely distributed in Italy and carrying the TIM brand, and 25% of the models
16 distributed in Bra-
zil and branded TIM Brasil were submitted for SAR qualification in Telecom Italia’s labora-tories where specific equipment and expertise to carry out such tests exist. As far as SAR assessment, Telecom Italia applies the ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines
17 and the relevant declarations of conformity. SAR quali-
fication is carried out in a pre-commercialization (or product evaluation) phase, when the SAR value is not yet available from the manufacturer, and is therefore much more than a simple quality control.
The issue of electromagnetism and the possible effects on biological systems have been 
the subject in recent years of numerous studies and discussions involving the scientific community and public opinion. More details are available at www.telecomitalia.com, in the Sustainability section.
5.2 climat E chang E
The subject of climate change has moved from the agenda of the scientific community, which has identified the impact on human life, to the international political agenda, which is trying to find methods which the various countries can agree upon to control its most negative effects. The subject was discussed at the latest summit in Cancun (United Na-tion Climate Change Conference - UNFCCC COP16) with the aim of limiting the global tem-perature increase to +2°C, restoring carbon dioxide emissions expected in 2100 to pre-industrial levels
18. 
There are many market drivers that increase the importance of carbon management for companies: operating costs, above all the cost of energy but also the growing impact of carbon management (the telecommunications sector is not currently part of the Emission Trading Scheme
19), brand reputation issues and the risks associated with the energy sup-
ply. In addition to these, there is the financial risk connected with the physical impact re-sulting from climate change, competitive positioning, the demands of investors and the expectations of customers. The requirement for effective carbon management is governed by additional drivers that depend greatly on the specific market, including the expectations of employees, talent turnover and retention systems for particularly prestigious positions. All of this makes “carbon management” strategic for companies, will tend to increase its importance in the coming years and will require increasingly strong integration with the business, becoming a long-term priority.| the en VirOnment
16
sar – specific absorption rate: 
assess the electromagnetic po
wer 
absorbed by a mass of tissue. sar is 
measured 
in Watt/kg.  
 
17
Guidelines for Limiting exposure 
to time-Var
ying electric,
 magnetic,
 
and electromagnetic F
ields (up to 
300 G hz).
 health Ph
ysics 74 (4): 
494-522; 1998; statement on the 
“Guidelines for limiting exposure to 
time-v
arying electric, magnetic and 
electromagnetic fields (up to 300 G
hz).
 health Ph
ysics 97(3):257-
259; 2009.
18
For more detailed information go to http://unfccc.int/2860.php   
 
19
the emissions market is an adminis-
trative tool used to control emissions 
of pollutants and g
reenhouse gases 
internationally by listing the emissions themselves and trading emission quotas between different countries: - 
european Directiv
e 2003/87/
eC establishes a system for trading 
g
reenhouse gas emissions in order to 
comply more effectively with the ky
oto 
Protocol undertakings using an eco-nomically efficient instrument (
emis-
sion trading scheme eU ets).
  
- as of  Januar
y 1, 2005, the CO2 (eU-
ets) emissions mark
et formally came 
into force, involving production sec-tors with high levels of emissions.  - 
european companies operating in 
the sectors specified in the directiv
e 
will be required to limit their emis-sions according to the requirements of their national allocation plans for two reference periods: 2005-2007 and 2008-2012. eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 87
The emissions produced by the Information Communication Technology sector are ex-
pected to grow. However, the ICT sector is required to play a decisive role, contributing to reducing emissions in other sectors by offering services that promote new ways of working, learning, travelling and, more generally, living. According to the Global e-Sustaina-bility Initiative (see Smart 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the information age, www.gesi.org), in 2020 ICT will be responsible for 3% of world CO
2 emissions, but the in-
crease in its emissions could be offset by making a contribution of approximately 15% to a substantial reduction of CO
2 emissions generated by other industrial sectors. This will only 
be possible if the potential of solutions based on the use of ICT that have identified by the report is fully grasped and if these same solutions are applied globally. 
This year, the Group again took part in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The guiding 
principle on which this international initiative is based is that, in order to deal with the chal-lenge of climate change, companies have to inform stakeholders of their position in terms of risks/opportunities and launch a dialogue supported by information of adequate quality on the subject of carbon management.  Telecom Italia achieved a score of 70 out of 100 for its involvement in CDP8, achieving a 6% improvement in the degree of disclosure com-pared to performance in the previous year. 
Telecom Italia also signed the Cancun Communiqué drawn up by the Corporate Leaders 
Group on Climate Change (EU CLG). This communiqué allowed a significant number of EU and other companies around the world (950 companies in 60 countries) to comment on the expectations of the COP16 UN summit of December 2010. 
The Group’s approach to the fight against climate change is conducted on three levels:
•	reduction of its own direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases;
•	encouragement and support for the dematerialisation of goods and services by contrib-uting to reducing the emissions of the other sectors.
•	contribution to disseminating a culture based on a correct approach to environmental issues inside and outside the company.
reducing emissions
The environmental impact of Telecom Italia in terms of CO2 emissions is determined, as 
shown in the preceding paragraphs, by direct emissions from the use of fossil fuels, indi-rect emissions through the procurement of electricity and other indirect emissions due for example to home-work commuting and air travel by staff. Many initiatives are in progress or planned at Telecom Italia, including the following in par-ticular:•	replacement of Euro3 vehicles used for long distance travel with Euro4 diesel vehicles with anti-particulate filters and reduction of the total number of vehicles. The new vehi-cles added to the company’s fleet have reduced emissions by approximately 30% com-pared to the decommissioned vehicles (cutting CO
2 emissions by 1,684 tonnes). 
•	improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings by implementing a five-pronged pro-gramme: establishment of an energy consumption database prior to implementing ef-ficiency initiatives; publication of a policy on the energy performance of buildings; es-tablishment and administration of audit programmes for verifying the implementation of the programmes defined; annual publication of energy data, CO
2 emissions and pro-
gramme progress; promotion of the energy efficiency of buildings among suppliers, em-ployees and other stakeholders. The initiative involved 50 office buildings in 2010. The accuracy and consistency of the data recorded by meters installed in 1685 exchanges, the en VirOnment | 88 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
63 offices and 8 data centres were verified. This database will be a point of reference 
for verifying implementation of the energy saving programmes planned for 2011. The project aimed at modernising and improving the efficiency of electrical installations by using LED lamps in office areas provides for the replacement of 75,000 lamps in 2011 (used mainly in offices but also in some mixed use premises). 
•	The NGDC (Next Generation Data Centre) project, which aims to modify IT architecture by physically concentrating and virtualising services to reduce numbers from the cur-rent 11,350 to less than 2,000 by 2011. This new configuration, based on the Service Oriented Data Centre model, allows maintenance/management costs and energy con-sumption to be reduced. Once it is fully operational, the NGDC will allow energy savings in the order of 40% to be achieved compared to the initial configuration.
As regards the initiatives implemented to reduce energy consumption, and therefore indi-rect emissions,  see § Energy .
Eco-efficiency indicator
For years, Telecom Italia S.p.A. has measured its own energy efficiency by using an indica-tor that establishes a relationship between the service offered to the customer (simplified as the measurement of bits transmitted) and the company’s impact on the environment (energy consumption). The factors taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice traffic of the fixed/mobile networks and energy consumption for industrial purposes (transmission and climate control in exchanges), domestic purposes (electricity for office use, air conditioning and heating in the offices) and vehicles. The following table shows the level of the eco-efficiency indicator in recent years.
year kbit/kWh bit/joule % increase year 
200x vs 200x-1
2004 777,248 216 +58%
2005 1,311,676 364 +70%
2006 2,175,006 596 +63%
2007 3,144,283 873 +45%
2008 4,237,038 1,177 +35%
2009 4,739,570 1,317 +12%
2010 6,116,728 1,699 +29%| the en VirOnment
In 2010, the indicator value improved considerably and exceeded expectations. The annu-al rate of increase started to grow again compared to the previous period The commitment continues with the establishment for 2011 of an objective of 1950 bit/Joule, an increase of +15% on the figure for 2010 (see § Objectives in the annexe).   eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 89
For the second year running, TIM Brasil has measured its own eco-efficiency indicator to 
monitor its performance. The 2010 value is 179bit/Joule and is up by around 50% on the value for 2009. However, the figure cannot be compared to the one for Telecom Italia SpA because of the many differences: the technologies used (mobile network only in Brazil, fixed and mobile networks in Italy), geographical features, climate situation, type of cus-tomer. The indicator will however be useful in implementing future improvement actions.
telecom italia as par t of the solution
ICT can play a significant role in the fight against climate change through the promotion and dissemination of products and services which encourage behaviour that can reduce or eliminate the emission of greenhouse gases generated by the transport of people and goods. In general, progress in ICT favours the replacement of traditional physical products and services with digital products and processes (for more information,  see § Customers/
Innovative services). 
For example
20:
•	video and audio conferencing services avoid the need for people to travel; 
•	Tlc services facilitate and allow teleworking, consequently reducing home-office com-
muting;
•	on line invoicing and payments, in addition to saving paper and therefore the energy re-quired to produce and transport it, eliminate the need for transport to make payments.
•	telemedicine services reduce the need for doctor-patient meetings, limiting travel and, as a consequence, the emission of greenhouse gases;
•	infomobility systems, using information obtained from mobile handsets, allows the op-timisation of traffic flows, reducing travel times and the emission of greenhouse gases;
•	systems for the monitoring and analysis of consumption allow the optimisation of the energy efficiency of offices and dwellings.
Yearsbit/joule
04008002,000
1,2001,600
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010the en VirOnment | 
20
it has been estimated that 100 
million audio-conferences in place 
of physical tra
vel would save over 
2 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, 
that 10 million teleworkers working from home for just two days a week would lead to a saving of almost 11 million tonnes of CO
2 and that if 10 
million users received their telephone bills online instead of the traditional paper bills there would be a saving of around 11,000 tonnes of CO
2. 
the examples are indicativ
e and are 
intended to give a concrete indication of the potential of 
tLC ser
vices. the
y 
are based on projects verified by third parties and tested on a small scale by members of 
etnO as par
t of the “ sa
v-
ing the climate @ the speed of light” initiative developed together with the WWF (www.etno.be/sustainability).ECO EFFICIENC y INDICATOR90 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
ICT technologies can therefore modify the features of products and services (price, effi-
ciency and, therefore, convenience) leading to increased demand. On a large scale, the environmental impacts achieved can become negative (increase in the demand for energy, major problems in the management of waste generated by technologically obsolete prod-ucts). It is the responsibility of the ICT sector, and therefore also of Telecom Italia, not to underestimate this effect, minimising their own negative impact on the environment and focusing on the research and development of products with low environmental impacts throughout their entire life cycle (see  § Product Responsibility). In 2010, Telecom Italian launched the new Cloud Computing platform, based on a full tech-nological convergence between telecommunications and Information Technology, which al-lows big companies and public administration to make use of on-demand and pay-per-use infrastructure while further optimising costs and performance, thanks to the possibility of using constantly updated solutions without investing in dedicated IT resources and spe-cialised know-how. The launch of Cloud Computing platform is part of Telecom Italia’s ICT strategy, within which the company combines connectivity services with innovative technological solutions. Cloud Computing services allow IT infrastructure and energy costs to be cut, reducing pol-lution and contributing to greater environmental sustainability. 
Other innovative services launched by Telecom Italia to respond to customer requirements, 
reducing environmental impacts at the same time, are described in the Customers chapter (see § Customers/Innovative services).
In 2010, around 5,200 video conferences were staged between the Telecom Italia offices 
in Rome and Milan, and around 7,000 multi-video conferences and 20,000 audio confer-ences between several company offices. In addition to these, numerous video and audio conferences continuously take place within the company among personnel authorised to make use of independent workstations. The use of these systems allows a significant amount of carbon dioxide (and other pollutants) emissions associated with the use of means of transport
21 to be avoided.
communicating sustainability
The debate about sustainability, and communicating the relevant action taken, have a very important role to play because they can generate a virtuous cycle, encouraging reflection and consequently facilitating a change of individual and collective behaviour. Telecom Italia carried out various communication initiatives in this respect in 2010:
•	internally, with the aim of increasing awareness of the importance of the subject for the company, by sharing information about the sustainability model adopted and the many initiatives implemented;
•	externally, for the purpose of disseminating the right approach to sustainability, in the certainty that contributing to dialogue and culture on the subject is one of the responsi-bilities of a big company in every respect. 
For details about the many internal communication initiatives car-ried out (including the first convention on the subject aimed at all employees of the Group in Italy) see § Human Resources/Internal Communication.
The main external communication initiatives include:
•	the green train , an initiative of Legambiente aimed at monitoring atmospheric and 
noise pollution in a number of Italian cities and making the public and local authorities | the en VirOnment
videO cOnferences  amOng cOmpany  
premises  has allOwed avOiding  the 
emissi Ons frOm empl Oyees’ travels21
On average, around 10 people take 
part in each video conference and half of these would have travelled to attend the meeting. 
it can be esti-
mated,
 solely for video conferences 
carried out between the management offices in 
rome and milan,
 that there 
has been an overall reduction in emissions of 1,200 tonnes of carbon dioxide. 
each person tra
velling be-
tween rome and milan w
ould have 
led to an impact of around 120 kg and each event replaced by a video conference is estimated to save at least 600 kg (the calculation only relates to air travel: around 1,000 km per round trip with an impact factor on medium range travel of 0.12 kg per km - source G
hG Protocol).
   eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 91
aware of environmental and quality of life issues. Telecom Italia took part in the initiative 
by showing the public, inside a dedicated train carriage, how the ICT solutions offered by the Group can reduce CO
2 emissions and improve quality of life. The train made stops 
in the cities of Messina, Crotone, Potenza, Latina, Ancona, Ravenna, Vicenza, Milan and Genoa, recording a total of around 24,000 individual visitors, in addition to many local authorities and schools.
•	Zooppa: an online creative competition on “How ICT can contribute to reducing CO
2 
emissions”. For this purpose, 57 videos, 489 graphics and 12,000 comments were sent. The competition winner received a prize during the event described in the next paragraph.
•	Future is sustainability: an event carried out in the context of the Capitale Digitale pro-ject, which began with the presentation of the Map of the Future developed by the Insti-tute for the Future of Palo Alto, and continued with a round table on the subject, involving the Chairman of Telecom Italia and leading figures from the world of culture and politics. 
Furthermore, within Avoicomunicare, the integrated communication project which continued to deal with the environment in 2010 (see § Social Media and Digital Communication), ac -
cess is available to the Carbon Meter. 
This is a simple tool, developed by Telecom Italia together with PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
which allows people to find out how much carbon dioxide is produced by their everyday activ-ities and to discover how and by how much they can contribute to mitigating climate change by making small changes to their behaviour. 
By using the Carbon Meter and answering a few questions on their lifestyle, people can 
calculate the CO
2 emissions produced by their activities in the following four areas: home, 
work, shopping and administrative formalities.  The Carbon Meter allows people to understand how to make their daily behaviour more sus-tainable. The simulation of a virtuous path shows how much one can save in terms of emis-sions by making a few simple changes and using ICT solutions, such as video-conferencing or broadband connections, to make purchases and perform other online operations. 
5.3 product r ESponSibility
To improve the product stewardship profile at the company level, products/services mar-keted by Telecom Italia S.p.A. are also examined under the following criteria:
•	health and safety of consumers; 
•	labelling of products and services;
•	marketing communications; 
•	respect for privacy;
•	conformity with applicable regulations;
•	environmental impact of the product.
Telecom Italia has adopted a Green Procurement Policy (see § Suppliers/Main sustainabil-ity initiatives) aimed at minimising the environmental impacts directly attributable to the company and its suppliers, with a view to ensuring continuous improvement and complying with best practice in the sector.the en VirOnment | 92 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
Marketed products are subject to a technical test aimed at ensuring their conformity with 
European Directives and national laws, in particular:
•	the EU regulations on the protection and safety of customers in using the equipment; 
•	the RoHS regulation which prohibits the use of certain substances in electrical and elec-tronic equipment; 
•	the WEEE regulation on the disposal of electrical and electronic products at the end of their life cycle;
•	European regulations nos. 1275/2008 and 278/2009 which implement the EuP (Ener-gy-using Products) directive for terminals and their respective external power supplies.
As previously stated, Telecom Italia was among the first telecommunications operators to have adhered to the Code of Conduct for v3 Broadband Equipment, a document that defines energy consumption targets for modems, home gateways and other home and access net-work equipment. (see § Energy).
Quality tests are conducted on products to confirm respect for the prerequisites of energy 
efficiency, environmental impact and safety. For the tests carried out on mobile handsets, see § Electromagnetic emissions. 
In addition, a review has been carried out of the end of life processes of home access 
gateways
22 used to supply residential and small business broadband services, resulting in 
Design For Environment (DFE) requirements for future product generations. Among the im-provements identified, the following should be noted:
•	the review of the structure of the product’s plastic body, with the reduction of the num-ber of parts and the optimisation of disassembly;
•	the use of recycled plastics, when possible, with regard to the physical and mechanical characteristics and their suitability for use by the customer;
•	packaging in recycled material with the reduction of unnecessary plastic wrapping;
•	reduced bulk and weight of the packaging to minimise impact during the transport phase;
•	use of a unified power supply to maximise the possibility for reuse;
•	review of the logistics of collecting products at the end of their life cycles and of the pro-cess of assessing the possibility of regeneration;
•	the identification of technical modifications to increase the energy efficiency of access gateways: the tests carried out on average usage at home by the customer and depend-ing on their number, allow an estimated annual energy saving in the order of 100 GWh.
An Environmental Declaration compliant with the ISO 14021 standards has been drawn up which will provide the end customers with detailed information on the energy and environ-mental efficiency of new Access Gateways.
The Environmental Declaration is the first step towards defining an environmen-tal labelling programme to be applied, where possible, to all home networking 
products (terminals and other home connectivity devices). An appropriate “Tel-ecom Italia Green” logo has been created and will be used on products and packaging as of 2011. 
During 2010, the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) method was applied to around 46 
products intended for marketing (mobile phones, fixed telephones, fax machines and printers) within the Green Procurement project (see § Suppliers/Main sus-
tainability initiatives).
| the en VirOnment
22
the home access Gate way is a device 
that allows the connection of several 
private customers to the same net-work through the concentration of voice, data and video traffic. eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 93
In defining the network architecture and the technical specifications of the equipment and 
passive components, criteria have been adopted designed to minimise the environmental impact (for example, consumption, bulk, noise and battery use). These prerequisites are included in the Requests for Quotation (documents drawn up of the technical lines to clarify the specifications of the products to be procured) compatible with the requirements of ser-vice and costs.the en VirOnment | Strat Egy
The intention of the Group companies is to 
contribute to the economic well-being and growth of the communities in which they operate by delivering efficient and techno-logically advanced services. Consistent with these objectives, and the responsibilities assumed towards the vari-ous stakeholders, the companies of the Group see research and innovation as pri-ority factors in growth and success. Compatible with its role as a private com-pany, and the associated demands of a fi-nancially efficient management, in making its decisions, the Group takes into consid-eration the social impact of telecommuni-cation services, responding to the needs of even the weakest members of society. The Group looks favourably on and, where appropriate, supports social, cultural and educational initiatives aimed at the ad-vancement of the individual and the im-provement of living conditions. 
rElEvant StakEhold ErS 
The community stakeholders are the fol-lowing:•	civil society: all citizens and people with special needs (young people, the elder -
ly, the disabled etc.), their representative associations and non-profit organisa-tions in general;
•	institutions: local authorities and cen-tral, national and international institu-tions (see § Institutions);
•	university and research institutions;
•	the traditional media and the social me-dia.6. the Commun Ity
6.1 macro ar EaS of int ErvEntion
 
The two main areas of intervention as regards investment in the community are the fol-lowing: 1. voluntary activities consistent with the Group’s core business (associated with the pro-
vision of ICT services) ; 
2. activities aimed at the general development of the community (principally, the activities 
of the Telecom Italia Foundation). 
For further information on the objectives of the areas of intervention and the methods by which they have been identified go to the Sustainability section on the corporate website www.telecomitalia.com where the “Group guidelines for voluntary contributions to the com-munity” are available.
6.2 hoW thE pr ojEctS arE idEntifi Ed and impl EmEntEd
 Telecom Italia identifies the projects to be implemented on the basis of:•	consultation with stakeholders and direct contact with civil society associations;
•	partnership projects with stakeholders and associations;
•	benchmarking against the other European telecommunications operators;
•	participation in industrial associations (for example, the London Benchmarking Group);
•	sharing knowledge of the industry’s problems with the other departments of the Group;
•	external requests made in response to social emergencies (e.g. earthquakes in Abru-zzo, Haiti and Pakistan).
Each project is implemented in four stages: planning, selection, management and control. 1. In the planning phase, the objectives to be reached, the beneficiaries of the project, the 
time-scales of the individual activities, the overall duration of the initiative, the methods of monitoring the project and the budget are identified. The role of a major company in the
 in which it operates
96 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
Initiatives in the CommunityInvestments in
the CommunityCharity
20.411.41.6LBG diagram
33.4 million euros
61.0%
34.3%
4.7%Initiatives in
the Community
Investments in
the Community
Charity
ALLOCATION  By % OF THE CONTRI -
BUTIONS  TO THE COMMUNIT y
By THE TELECOM  IT
ALIA GR
OUP2. The selection of the projects may take place:
 ›through public tenders (as is the case with man
y projects pursued by the Telecom 
Italia Foundation);
 ›by 
decision of the company following the consultation mentioned above, consistent 
with the guidelines for voluntary contributions to the Community. 
3. The selected projects are normally administered through partnerships or framework 
agreements. Sometimes cash disbursements are made, leaving the management of 
the activity to the beneficiary organisation/association.
4. The current monitoring system provides for ex-post monitoring tailored to the specific re-
quirements of the individual projects (e.g. for the Telecom Italia Foundation see § Com-munity development initiatives).  
6.3 hoW thE contribution t o thE community i S mEaSurEd
The contribution made to the community by the Telecom Italia Group, calculated accord-ing to the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) guidelines, amounts to 33.4 million euro in 2010 (36.5 million euro in 2009), equal to 0.81% of the profit before tax.
The contribution has been calculated using management data partly based on estimates. 
In accordance with the principle of materiality, only subsidiary companies in the consoli-dated accounts with revenue greater than 300,000 euro and more than 40 employees have been included, excluding discontinued operations/non-current assets held for sale.
More than 100 major international companies subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 
1994 and represents the global gold standard for the classification of voluntary contribu-tions by companies in favour of the community.
In accordance with the LBG model, in order to measure and represent the Group’s com-
mitment to the community, the contributions disbursed have been subdivided into three categories (Charity, Investments in the community, Initiatives for the community), adopting the customary representation, which places initiatives of a charitable nature at the top and initiatives which in addition to being of benefit to the community are in the commercial in-terest of the company at the bottom:| the COmmUnitY eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 97
The criteria used to assign the contributions to the various levels of the pyramid are set 
out below. the COmmUnitY | 
Charity
Intermittent support to a wide range of good causes in response to the needs and appeals of community organisations, increasingly through partnerships between the company, its employees, customers and suppliers.Donations to national/international organisations not based on a specific medium/long term programme.Sponsorship of causes or events, not part of a marketing strategy.Company matching of employee giving and fund-raising,Costs of supporting and promoting employee involvement.Costs of facilitating giving by customers and suppliers.
Investments in the CommunityLong-term strategic involvement of the company to address a limited range of social causes.Memberships and subscriptions.Grants and donations based on a specific medium/long term programme.
Initiatives in the CommunityActivities usually carried out by commer-cial departments to support directly the success of the company, also in partner-ship with humanitarian organisations.Sponsorship of events, publications and activities promoting brand or corporate identity.Cause Related Marketing, promotional sales.Support to scientific and University research and to humanitarian organisations. Care for consumers with special needs.Civil Protection activities.
6.4 rESponSES to StakEhold ErS  
initiatives consistent with the core business  
By way of example, some activities carried out in 2010 are given below, concerning initia-
tives to respond to the needs of the community using the technologies that underlie the provision of services by Telecom Italia. More information about the projects can be found at the Sustainability section on the corporate website www.telecomitalia.com. 
Internet Saloon
Launched in 2000 as a partnership between the Associazione Interessi Metropolitani of Milan, Telecom Italia and other companies, this initiative is intended to support dissemina-tion of the Internet and new technologies among people over the age of 50. The day-long basic Internet courses are run by university students and are structured in such a way that anyone, even without any previous knowledge of computers, is able to browse the Internet and use email after just a few hours of lessons. Internet Saloons are currently active in Milan, Sondrio, Pavia, Catania, Ancona, Bari and Naples. In ten years of operation, more than 45,000 people have successfully attended courses.
Telemouse
Set up in 2009 as a partnership with the Fondazione Mondo Digitale, this initiative is in-tended to provide digital literacy courses in Rome for the over 60s. The basic courses are conducted in the IT classrooms of 60 schools throughout Rome and are run by selected students, who are awarded educational credits for their work.Telecom Internet Corners have also been set up in 50 social centres for the elderly in the Rome municipality. These are welcoming and familiar places where the elderly can practice the skills they have learned and, thanks to the experience of the first “tutor grannies and granddads”, introduce their peers to the new technologies. In 2009-2010, a total of 1500 people over the age of sixty were trained and a further 4500 used the Internet Corners. 98 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
Safe Browsing 
Tour  
The tour began in Turin and visit-
ed schools and 20 town squares in 10 regions of Italy, involving around 100,000 people across the country. Using the five multimedia worksta-tions installed on the Safe Browsing bus, and an interactive white board made available by Olivetti, a team of experts worked with children, teach-ers and parents throughout the jour-ney, introducing them to the web with exciting activities aimed at highlight-ing the extraordinary potential of the Internet and avoiding its potential dangers. This year, the Safe Browsing project was also extended to social networks like Facebook, 
youTube and
 
Twitter, with specific pages informing people about all the tour’s activities.Educational activities were organised for each stop on the tour and for each age band, in both primary and sec-ondary schools, and interactive activi-ties were carried out in town squares, where materials specifically targeted at young people and adults were dis-tributed.Finally an information and updating section was dedicated to parents and teachers on the relationship between children and the Internet. To mark the “2011 European 
year of Volunteering”,
 the first “Telemouse 3.0 - knowledge 
V
olunteers” competition has been launched with the sponsorship of the Ministry for young 
People. The prize is two scholar
ships for two students who have distinguished themselves 
for digital volunteering work done in the framework of the project.  
Fund raising
Fund raising is of particular importance, particularly in dealing with emergencies. For over ten years, Telecom Italia has been a key player in the solidarity chain that is created around hu-manitarian or scientific projects, which it supports by allowing people to make micro-donations of 1 or 2 euro, by sending a text message or calling a dedicated free number. The money raised is passed on in its entirety, without any deductions, neither by the tax au-thorities, who, thanks to an awareness campaign mounted by telecommunications companies and non-profit organisations, have exempted such operations from VAT , nor by the company to cover the costs incurred. In 2010, 109 fund raising events were organised and approximately 24 million euro were col-lected
24.
Safe Browsing
The project is based on a twice yearly course aimed at making children, young people and adults (parents and teachers) aware of how to use the Internet and digital technologies sensibly and responsibly. The initiative has its own dedicated website (www.navigaresicuri.org) and addresses the various target audiences using appropriate language and tools, including an illustrated handbook and publications featuring the Geronimo Stilton cartoon character for younger users, educational material and interactive activities for teenagers, information and a specialised support service for adults.The project benefits from the involvement, skills, authority and reliability of Fondazione Movimento Bambino, Save the Children and Atlantyca, copyright holder of the Geronimo Stilton cartoon character.A Safe Browsing tour around Italian schools and town squares began in November and will continue through the 2010-11 school year (see dedicated box).  24
the amount collected is not directly 
attributable to the initiatives men-
tioned due to the time lag betw
een 
invoicing and payment.| the COmmUnitY eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 99
TIM Mobile Care and TIM Mobile Speak 
Tim Mobile Care is a multimedia video assistance service developed with the Italian Na-
tional Organisation for the Protection of the deaf. It allows deaf people to receive infor-mation in Italian Sign Language on the use of mobile telephone services (e.g. configuring email, text and picture messaging, remaining credit, tariff profile etc.).TIM Mobile Speak is a more evolved version of “TIM Talks” produced in association with Loquendo (a Group company) and the Italian association for the blind and visually im-paired. It is a software application that allows the blind, visually impaired and the elderly to use all the functions of mobile phones thanks to an electronic voice that reads out the contents of the display, depending on the requirements and instructions of the user.Internet browsing services are also available on mobile handsets which use voice recogni-tion technologies, voice synthesising and audio streaming in order to customise various information services (tourism, entertainment etc.) for use by those with visual and audi-tory disabilities. 
Smart Inclusion
Implemented with the support of the Ministry for Public Administration and Innovation, the technological and financial support of Telecom Italia, the scientific and design supervision of the Institute for the Organic Synthesis and Photoreactivity of the CNR-ISOF (National Research Council) of Bologna, this project aims to reduce the discomfort of hospitalised children, allowing them to stay in contact with school. A single technological platform inte-grates remote teaching, entertainment and clinical data manage-ment services, allowing hospitalised children to participate actively in school lessons, play recordings of the lessons they have missed, do exercises and use individual self-tuition courses. Moreover, the children can communicate with their loved ones through video calls and access various entertainment programmes (cartoons, films, documentaries and sport). The medical staff can in turn use the system to display all the clinical files of patients with the option of updating them. Smart Inclusion is currently being used in several hospitals in the cities of Bologna, Rome, Padua, Florence, Genoa and Turin. 
initiatives for general community development
These are conducted primarily by the Telecom Italia Foundation and, to a lesser extent, by other Group companies.  
Telecom Italia Foundation
The Telecom Italia Foundation, established at the end of 2008, is one of the main Corpo-rate Social Responsibility instruments of Telecom Italia regarding the Community. Through its initiatives, the Group’s commitment to support the communities in which it operates is strengthened, promoting ideas and projects designed to improve people’s quality of life. In particular, the Foundation is active:•	in the social field, developing educational and support projects dedicated to the vulner-able and disadvantaged categories and sections of the population;
•	in developing projects dedicated to education, training and scientific research;
•	in protecting artistic and historical heritage, through innovative ways and means of en-joying and disseminating knowledge.  
The Telecom Italia Foundation is a business foundation primarily dedicated to disbursing the sOcial inclusi On Of hOspitalized  
children  is f
acilitated  by  
Our techn OlOgiesthe COmmUnitY | 100 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
funds, with a management fund tied to the profitability of the Telecom Italia Group, con-
sisting of 0.5 per thousand of the consolidated EBITDA for the previous year. In 2010, the Group contribution to the Foundation was  5 million 664 thousand euro. 
The Foundation’s activity plan is established every year and approved by the Board of Di-
rectors, which relies on the support of a Scientific Guidance Committee consisting of ex-perts from the various areas of intervention. 
In order to guarantee maximum transparency in the decision-mak-ing processes within the Foundation, a programme of stakeholder engagement was launched in 2009, with the support of authori-tative experts from outside the Foundation in the process of an-alysing and defining possible initiatives and projects in the field of historic and artistic heritage. This involvement has become an important tool with which to gain a better understanding of the dy-
namics and opportunities for supporting this heritage, in accordance with the Foundation’s mission, and resulted in an area of interest being identified for the tender entitled “Invis-ible cultural heritage: an Italian resource to be promoted”, published in October 2010.
The Foundation’s projects are monitored on the basis of the specific characteristics and 
objectives envisaged. The monitoring system is a requirement built into the Foundation’s tenders and represents one of the prerequisites for admission of the projects, in addition to being an assessment parameter.
how the projects are selected
F
or the purpose of identifying projects to be supported, the Telecom Italia Foundation pri-
marily uses tenders published on the www.fondazionetelecomitalia.it website. Each tender is open for a specific period of time and states the amount of the contribution made avail-able by the Foundation, the requirements of the recipients and the projects that are eligible for the disbursement. Projects are presented exclusively in electronic form by means of an appropriate procedure made available online when the tender is activated.The selection stage takes place according to an assessment procedure that complies with the parameters set by the tender and already been made public. The procedure is validat-ed by the Scientific Committee consisting of experts who are external to the Foundation. The short-list of projects resulting from the application of this procedure is subsequently submitted for assessment by the Scientific Committee and to the opinion of a panel of ex-ternal stakeholders identified for the specific areas of activity.For information about the projects implemented by the foundation in 2010 in the various areas of activity go to the Sustainability section of the corporate website www.telecomita-lia.com and www.fondazionetelecomitalia.com
telecom Italia Foundation’
s projects
In 2009, the Telecom Italia Foundation launched an intensive programme of activities, to-gether with the Italian  Dyslexia Association, to combat this disorder in Italian schools. The programme (which lasts for three school years and provides for an investment of 1.5 million euro) is split into four operating projects aimed at:•	recognising dyslexia early; 
•	training teachers;
•	disseminating technologies in schools;
•	disseminating technologies among families;by listening t O the OpiniOn Of external 
experts telecOm it
alia fOund
atiOn has 
defined the guidelines f Or prOJects 
dedica
ted t O the pr Otecti On Of Our 
histOrical-artistic herit
age| the COmmUnitY eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 101
In 2010, part of the programme (recognising dyslexia early and combating it in Italian 
schools) was the subject of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Telecom Italia Foundation, the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research and the Italian  Dyslexia Association.
other social initiatives of the group  
•	Telecom Italia is a founding member of Dynamo Camp, the first camp specifically set up to provide free accommodation for children affected by serious and chronic diseases, both during and after hospital treatment, in order to enable their psycho-physical recov-ery with a view to undergoing further treatment and returning home. A further 3 initiatives sprang from this partnership during 2010:
 ›Radio Dynamo (
www.radiodynamo.it): a web radio that broadcasts recreational thera-
py programmes in children’s hospitals, day hospitals and children’s homes, involving sick children and young people in the creation of radio programmes, with the help of volunteers, musicians and professional radio presenters. The project aims to achieve the same objectives as Dynamo Camp, involving children who cannot physically at-tend the premises and those who have been there in the past, during the time when they are at home or in hospital.
 ›Company volunteering: at Christmas 2009,
 Telecom Italia launched its first company 
volunteering project, supporting the involvement of twelve employees in the winter camp, following a rigorous selection based on aptitude. Given the satisfaction ex-pressed by the Association and the volunteers, the experience was repeated in the summer of 2010 with the involvement of a further 30 employees, using paid leave specifically authorised by the company. The tasks performed by the volunteers includ-ed welcoming guests (children, teenagers or families), accompanying them and sup-porting them with their requirements.
 ›Christmas gifts: instead of presenting gifts in 2010,
 Telecom Italia decided to pro-
mote a specific initiative with the Dynamo Camp Association, allocating the Christmas resources to purchasing 100 stays at the camp for an equal number of sick children.
•	Music in schools: launched in 2003 as a collaboration between the Group’s mobile communication companies in Latin America and the Brazilian government, this project is aimed to promote the social inclusion of children and teenagers living in at risk situ-ations in 13 Brazilian cities by means of musical education. During the music courses, notions of civic responsibility and peaceful co-existence are taught. In many cases, the musical knowledge acquired has smoothed the way for participants into the world of work. To date, 20,540 students from 62 public schools have benefited from the project.
•	
zambia Project: T
elecom Italia is involved in this project, promoted by the not-for-profit 
organisation Nexus Mundi Foundation (NMF), as a technological partner. The aim is to encourage agricultural, entrepreneurial and healthcare development in a number of 
zambian towns b
y providing connectivity. The initiative involves the installation of Com-
munity Media Centres (CMCs), which combine Internet access, computer and media and office equipment and allow content sharing, in the most important locations for the communities of Lusaka, Chikuni and 
kasisi: hospitals,
 schools, churches, radio sta-
tions, care homes, cultural centres. Each CMC is connected to the others by wi-fi and to the Internet by satellite, although a broadband cable connection is expected to be installed soon.the COmmUnitY | 102 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
6.5 traditional m Edia
involvement through the press office
The media - press agencies, newspapers, radio, television and the web - are the most di-
rect form of communication with the outside world and are an important stakeholder for Telecom Italia. They become involved through the Press Office, which writes and distributes press letters and releases, organises interviews, press conferences and meetings, and maintains direct relations with individual journalists. 
Where provided by current regulations, the financial markets and their supervisory bodies are also involved in the communication activities.All the activities are based on a map of key contacts with whom ongoing relationships are established and the resulting creation of 
ad hoc mailing lists when public meetings are held and presentations of products and ser-vices or specific announcements are made. These lists are compiled by carefully analysis of the entire Italian and international media reporting scenario.In carrying out its activities, the press office follows the Group’s specific procedure for the administration and communication of information and privileged data, which governs the internal management and external communication of documents and information regard-ing the Company and defines the operational methods for communicating price sensitive information to the market (the procedure is available on the www.telecomitalia.com web-site, in the Governance section).Communication with the media takes place both on a spontaneous and proactive basis, and in response to specific requests. Dialogue with the media was further strengthened at the end of 2009 with the creation of a specific territorial press office, launched in response to the company’s need for greater presence and greater dialogue at local level in all Italy. This office works alongside the other three press offices dedicated to corporate, market and regulatory matters.The results of the activities of the press office are periodically monitored by a research company. In particular, the visibility of articles mentioning Telecom Italia and its products and services is analysed on a monthly basis, comparing them to a standard consisting of a medium length article published on an internal page of a publication with an average dis-tribution, with no pictures or signature. By giving each article examined a positive or nega-tive value, according to whether it expresses facts and opinions for or against the company, an Index of the Quality of Visibility (IQV) is arrived at. In 2010, despite the negative impact that the TI Sparkle affair had on the Group’s image, even in the media, the activities of the Press Office allowed the generally positive quality figures recorded in the previous year to be substantially maintained:  in fact in 2009 Telecom Italia was the only operator to pre-sent a significant improvement in the IQV (+20%).
involvement through the group’s website 
The corporate site of Telecom Italia (www.telecomitalia.com) is the online point of access to the Group’s commercial, service and corporate content. The key stakeholders are: •	general visitors interested in finding out about the company and/or Telecom Italia’s of-fers:
•	customers or potential customers interested in finding out about the Group’s offers and promotions, who can use the Private and Business channels, subdivided by the type of public and nature of the offer;
•	customers interested in finding out about the opportunities for dialogue with the com-pany and/or who need support and assistance, who can use the the dedicated Parla the press  Office  manages  media  
relati Ons and represents  the grOup’s 
viewp Oint On issues  Of interest| the COmmUnitY eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 103
con noi [Talk to us] and Info & Assistenza channels, with the various different types of 
contact channels for residential, business and institutional customers;
•	researchers and students interested in finding out more about the Group;
•	institutional/retail investors and bondholders, both Italian and international;
•	analysts and financial and sustainability rating agencies;
•	ethical funds;
•	job seekers;
•	journalists.
There is a dedicated section for each section of the public, with content and in-depth ma-terial to meet their specific needs. Various methods are provided to give and receive feed-back.
Particular attention is paid to web ranking and classifications which allow comparison to 
be drawn with what our competitors are doing. On the basis of these indications, the site is continuously updated, enriched and modified with new content and functions of ever greater interest to users. In 2010, Telecom Italia achieved the following placings:•	third in Europe in the Hallvarsson&Halvarsson (H&H) “Webranking Europe 500”, which rewards the best corporate sites of the biggest listed companies based on the quality, transparency, richness and effectiveness of their online corporate and financial commu-nication. Within the same ranking, Telecom Italia was the top European company in the telecommunications sector, with a score of 86 over 100;
•	third in Italy in the same national H&H ranking for communication through the corporate website;
•	fourth in Italy for sustainability communication through the corporate website in the “CSR Online Awards,” the online Corporate Social Responsibility communication rank-ing administered by Lundquist, a company specialised on corporate on-line communica-tion, in collaboration with the economic and financial daily Il Sole 24 Ore.
involvement through the group’s broadcast stations
Through TI Media, the Group controls the televisions broadcast stations La7 and MTV . In order to select the programmes to be made, a dedicated office conducts regular market research on the needs of the existing and potential audience. La7, whose programmes are aimed at a mainly adult, culturally aware public, measures the satisfaction and enjoyment of the scheduled programmes mainly through Auditel and, additionally, through the blogs dedicated to specific programmes.MTV , which is aimed at a young public, does not use Auditel but instead creates specific focus groups to assess and formulate the programmes.Among the most appreciated programmes are the information services (particularly TG La7).The editor is responsible for the broadcast content and is therefore the guarantor of re-spect for the regulations, including independence, press freedom and journalistic expres-sion. Furthermore, the journalists’ membership of a specific professional body determines their rights and responsibilities. 
LA7
In 2010, LA7 continued its environmental campaign, which culminated with World Environ-ment Day on 5th June. Public awareness was raised by a dedicated multi-platform service. LA7, LA7d and the LA7.it website celebrated the event jointly by broadcasting documenta-the COmmUnitY | 104 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
ries, TV series and films that dealt with the subject of environmental protection. 
Other important social initiatives were supported by the LA7 television channel and web-site by broadcasting advertisements and announcements by presenters and displaying posters in the course of individual programmes, as well as by using blogs and forums:•	Save The Children’s “Every One” campaign to put a stop to child mortality;
•	the FAI [Italian environmental association] “Protect the Italy you love” campaign;
•	action for the people of Haiti in synergy with the Rava Foundation and Agire.
LA7 also participated in the Childhood Week and used Facebook to promote the initiative dedicated to the fifteenth anniversary of the ratification of the Charter of the Rights of Chil-dren and Adolescents, giving it visibility both on the “Lasettepuntoit” Facebook profile and using banners on the La7.it website home page.LA7 also launched a campaign for the flooded areas of Veneto, with a fund raising opera-tion led by the LA7 television news programme in association with the Corriere della Sera newspaper. 
6.6 Social mEdia and digital communication
Digital communication is a sector in which Telecom Italia has a stable and recognised na-tional presence. The Group is increasingly demonstrating its ability to attract attention in this field with innovative initiatives in the social media dimension, which is an increasingly common way for people to communicate between each other and with organisations.This system of interaction, which has become established globally in recent years, increas-ingly requires equality to be ensured in communication between organisations and their stakeholders and constitutes a forum which a company like Telecom Italia cannot ignore, both in its relations with customers and stakeholders and as part of the country’s cultural heritage.Aware of the importance of the new communication channels, this year the Group has further refined and strengthened its presence within them, using them in an increasingly integrated way with traditional media and making the most of their potential for dialogue in relations with its stakeholders: customers, suppliers, institutions, emerging players on the Internet (young talents, entrepreneurs, web early adopters, research centres, incuba-tors and financiers, universities, hi-tech companies), opinion leaders (bloggers and jour-nalists), public and private entities, who are able to innovate and promote sustainable de-velopment.  For further information on the objectives and strategies of stakeholders, the main projects carried out in 2010 (Working Capital, Venice Sessions, Social Media Camp, Avoicomunicare) and the results achieved in terms of involvement go to the Sustainability section of the corporate website www.telecomitalia.com
6.7 rESE arch and dEvElopm Ent 
Within Telecom Italia, research and development activities are car-ried out by Information Technology and TILab, both of which be-long to the Technology and Operations Department, which over-sees innovation by analysing new technologies and carrying out the engineering operations for Telecom Italia’s services and net-
work platforms, through strategic partnerships with the main producers of telecommunica-tions equipment and systems and with research centres of excellence at the most highly mOnitOring inn Ova tiOn techn OlOgy is 
a grOup’s pri Ority
, fOr which it has 
crea
ted dedicated departments| the COmmUnitY eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 105
qualified national and international academic institutions. Activities to enhance and gener-
ate competitive advantage for Telecom Italia Group are of particular importance and are pursued through strategic management of the relationship between research, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and business, aimed at developing the company’s assets in patents rights. in this context, 18 new applications for patents were filed in 2010..
relevant stakeholders and issues
The relevant stakeholders for Research and Development are:•	the areas of the company involved (e.g. Marketing and Purchasing);
•	the suppliers, for the joint development of solutions in accordance with the technical requirements of Telecom Italia;
•	Research Centres and Universities for collaboration and joint projects (e.g. the Nation-al Research Centre for the Smart Inclusion project) - § The Community/Responses to stakeholders.  In 2010, 23 new collaborative projects were begun with 12 Italian univer-sities and 1 foreign one (
keio), in addition to the 3 already under w
ay at the beginning 
of 2010, covering research into new technologies, encryption algorithms, new services and new communication standards;
•	Standardisation Bodies (NGMN , OpenIPTV Forum, OMA, 3GPP , TISPAN, ETSI,) in which Telecom Italia is actively involved;
•	Public Administration by carrying activities in partnership (see § The Community/Re-sponses to stakeholders and Institutions/Relations with local Institutions);
•	Non-governmental associations for joint projects (e.g. the 
zambia Project to install a 
Community Multimedia Centre in 
Africa to connect some educational and healthcare in-
stitutions with one another and the Internet);
•	International bodies such as the UN and UNESCO (e.g. organising study days and pre-senting action carried out by Telecom Italia in emergency situations).
The themes on which projects are developed are identified on the basis of the Three-
year 
Technological Plan,
 the reference document for the Telecom Group, which provides guide-
lines for the evolution of the network, platform and services.  The Plan is published once a year following a wide-ranging process of involvement of the corporate departments concerned.The Technological Plan also identifies the main external factors (regulations, standards, vendors, other market operators) that may influence the company’s strategies and high-lights the emerging and crossover technologies in other sectors that are of interest to the Group.Further information on how research and development projects are carried out is available at the Group website www.telecomitalia.com, in the Sustainability section.
project and initiatives in 2010
The themes identified can be arranged in 3 macro-strands:•	Information Technology to support business;
•	Services to reduce environmental impact; 
•	Services for the community
Information Technology to support business
Research and development activities in 2010 were carried out internally or contracted to outside suppliers and were directed towards the creation of:•	software products dedicated to the management of new commercial offers and new ser-vices for customers (Business Support Systems), to the proper functioning of network the COmmUnitY | 106 | eXterna L st akeh OLDers
support systems (Operational Support Systems), and to Security; 
•	testing and specific checks for tenders and new network architecture;
•	new hardware infrastructure in support of the applications.
The main activities have been:
•	development of a new Customer Centric platform, “CRM Business,” for the commercial management of the SOHO, SME, Enterprise and Top customers;
•	development of new Customer Centric “Single Convergent Billing” to manage the billing of fixed/mobile services for Consumer customers;
•	development of a Customer Centric Integrated Data Warehouse to support the Fixed/Mo-bile convergence;
•	development of a new “SINGLE SAP” platform to integrate the previous versions relating to previous organisations;
•	development of IT platforms in support of the business departments for the implemen-tation of new services for Consumer, Business & Top customers. In particular, activities were aimed at supporting the following offers: offerta famiglia; “Friend & Family”; MTV (main functions); IPTV; “Alice CASA” (naked); “Alice Total Security”; “Alice DATA 
kIT” (fixed-
mobile upselling); “Tim Affare F
atto al Lavoro”; “Impresa Semplice”; “Alice Affare Fatto” 
on VoIP; “Alice Business” (naked).  
 
Services to reduce environmental impact
•	Next Generation Data Center: this project is aimed at developing the hardware infra-structure according to virtualisation principles, based on replacing the physical servers in the Telecom Italia Data Center by making shared use of infrastructure between the various applications. The project, which aims to develop commercial offers for the ICT market (e.g. ospit@ virtuale), allows logistical and energy optimisations to be achieved (see § The Environment/Climate Change).
•	Next Generation Workplace: this is a personal computing evolution that allows centrally managed content and applications to be accessed remotely and in multichannel mode, creating highly “simplified” workstations that only contain the basic network information needed to communicate with the centralised infrastructure. In addition to contributing in a decisive way to reducing energy consumption, the project is aimed at improving the operational flexibility of employees, establishing the foundation for future development of work models (e.g. teleworking).
•	ITS & Infomobility Platform: intended to enable new services for vehicles, their occu-pants, Public Administration and private citizens, by gradually introducing the idea of a vehicle constantly connected with the outside world (e.g. service centre, roadside infra-structure, occupants, other vehicles, etc.). For further information see § Customers/Innovative services.
•	Smart metering: these are solutions that allow energy consumption to be monitored and optimised, including TI-Green and GreenHome, see § Customers/Innovative ser-vices; 
•	Smart Town: the solution provides a package of services for municipalities by using the public lighting network (see § Customers/Innovative services);
•	EARTH: this project studies network architectures and individual components of existing and above all future mobile systems with the aim of improving their energy efficiency by at least 50% compared to current standards.  
•	Telepresence: development of a prototype for the telepresence service for business customers, the features of which guarantee a high standard of video quality (resolution up to full HD), visibility of the whole person, smoothness in the reproduction of move-ments and polyphonic audio with echo and background noise suppression. The proto-| the COmmUnitY eXterna L stakeh OLDers | 107
type is distinguished by the use of low cost technologies such as HD webcam, low cost 
plasma 50” TV , medium range PC and new low cost sound cards.  
Services for the community
•	Solutions for reducing the geographical divide: they are intended to facilitate access to broadband in areas with digital divide problems and new urban areas. Further details of solutions developed or to be developed are available on the corporate website www.telecomitalia.com, in the Sustainability section. 
•	Laboratorio Accreditato di Prova (LAP) [accredited test laboratory]: it operates within TILab and carries out testing activities on ICT services and systems. The LAP has been accredited since the 1990s as a provider of various services to the Ministry of Eco-nomic Development, SIT (Italian calibration service) and Accredia (the new national ac-creditation body) based on European Regulation EC 765/2008. LAP works for internal Telecom Italia departments and for organisations and companies operating in the ICT sector, offering tests and services of various kinds, from hardware to operational as-pects, fixed terminals to mobile ones, exchanges to optical systems. Interoperability with the Telecom Italia network is completely simulated in the laboratory.
•	Smart Inclusion: this project allows young long term hospital patients to participate in social life by connecting with their school and home via a touch screen terminal fitted with a camera, while also allowing doctors to optimise the management of care proce-dures (see § The Community/Responses to stakeholders). The technical solution has 
been created by Telecom Italia by using innovative technologies such as plastic fibre op-tics and power lines, as well as specific software developments, mainly based on open source platforms. 
•	E-learning and evolved teaching methods: a series of initiatives were launched during 2010 in the field of schooling with the aim of fulfilling the demand for evolved systems based on collaboration, communication and the active involvement of end users (see § Customers/Innovative Services). 
•	MyDoctor@home: remote healthcare based on monitoring the physiological parameters of the patient directly from home or in appropriately equipped premises. The meas-urements are carried out by combining technologies developed by Telecom Italia with standard commercially available medical electronic apparatus (see § Customers/Digi-tal Divide).
•	MuoviTI: this is an experimental remote monitoring application for people with move-ment difficulties, which allows healthcare personnel to monitor the amount of move-ment of patients remotely. The system uses sensors that can be worn by the patient, process the data on site and transmit the results to the Telecom Italia remote monitor-ing platform for them to be checked by authorised personnel (doctors, relatives). The application is based on the SPINE framework, an open source project developed with the academic world (Universities of Calabria and Berkeley and the University of Texas in Dallas). The testing of MuoviTi on a number of patients being treated in the rehabili-tation department of the Novara University “Maggiore della Carità” Hospital began in 2010 with the assistance of the Mario Boella Institute.the COmmUnitY | Strat Egy
The Group companies recognise the cen-
trality of Human Resources, knowing that the principal factor in the success of any business is the professional contribution of the people who work in it, within a frame-work of openness and mutual trust.The Group companies ensure health and safety in the workplace and believe that respect for workers’ rights in the conduct of economic activity is a fundamental prin-ciple. The management of the workforce aims to guarantee equal opportunities and to promote the professional growth of each individual.
rElEvant StakEhold ErS
The relevant stakeholders are the employ-ees and trade unions. The Group recognises the centrality of Human 
Resources as the company’s principal  
1. human  Resou RCes
1.1 hEadcount and chang ES  
telecom italia group  
The headcount of personnel as of December 31, 2010 was divided as follows:
(units) 12.31.2010 12.31.2009 changes
ITALy 57,994 60,829 (2,835)
ABR
OAD 26,135 10,499 15,636
tot
al PeRsonnel on PayRoll 84,129 71,328 12,801
AGENC y CONTRA
CT W
ORkERS 71 56 15
tot
al PeRsonnel 84,200 71,384 12,816
NON-CURRENT  ASSETS  HELD  FOR 
SALE- 2,205 (2,205)
tot
al 84,200 73,589 10,611
112 | st akeh OLDer interni  
Excluding personnel concerned with “Non-current assets held for sale” (HanseNet) and 
agency contract workers, the Group’s workforce has increased by 12,801 units, compared to December 31, 2009.
The changes can be itemised as follows:
•	exit from the consolidation scope of the company Elettra Tlc S.p.A. (120 units) and of the BBNED Group companies (308 units);
•	entry into the consolidation scope of the Argentina Business Unit companies (15,562 units as of October 13, 2010);
•	net turnover down by 2,333 units, as detailed below by individual Business Unit:
(units) recruited depar ted net change
DOMESTIC 718 (3,438) (2,720)
BRAzIL 3,221 (2,890) 331
ARGENTINA 295 (225) 70
OLIVETTI ,
 MEDIA AND  
OTHERS227 (241) (14)
tuRno
veR 4,461 (6,794) (2,333)
(units) 12.31.2010 12.31.2009 changes
total PeRsonnel 
on PayRoll49,636 54,236 (4,600)
As of  December 31, 2010, Telecom Italia S.p.A. had 49,636 employees on its payroll.
Compared to December 31, 2009, an overall reduction of 4,600 units was recorded, due 
to:•	a balance of 2,129 units departing to join other Group companies, including 2,092 transferred to the company SSC (Shared Service Center S.r.l.) of the “IT Operations” line of business;
•	net turnover down by 2,471 units, as detailed below:
(units) recruited depar ted net change
tuRnove R oF teleCom 
ItalIa s.P.a.258 2,729 (2,471)
telecom italia S.p. a.(*)| hUman res OUrCes
*
in 2010, as in 2009, there were no 
agency contract w
orkers.  stakeh OLDer interni  | 113
(units) 12.31.2010 12.31.2009 changes
total PeRsonnel 
on PayRoll10,114 9,783 331
The Tim Brasil Group headcount as of December 31, 2010 was 10,114 units. 
Compared to December 31, 2009, an increase of 331 units was recorded, due to:
•	a balance of 3 units departing to join other Group companies;
•	net turnover up by 334 units, as detailed below:
(units) recruited depar ted net change
tuRnove R at tIm bRasIl 
GRouP3,220 2,886 334
(units) 12.31.2010 12.31.2009 changes
total PeRsonnel 
on PayRoll15,632 - 15,632
tim brasil group
argentina business unit
The headcount of the Argentina Business Unit, which was included in the consolidation scope of the Telecom Italia Group as of October 13, 2010, following an increase in the share-holding in Sofora, was 15,632 as of December 31, 2010.  hUman res OUrCes |114 | st akeh OLDer interni  
90.1%
Of/f_ice staff/
Specialists
8.1%
Middle Managers/Professionals  
1.6%
Senior 
Managers 
0.2%
Workers47.7%
33 to 45
44.6%
Over 45
7.7%
Up to 32TELECOM  ITALIA  GROUP  – ITALy: 
BREA kDO
WN OF EMPLO yEES By
PROFESSIONAL  CA
TEGOR yTELECOM  IT ALIA GR OUP – IT ALy: 
BREADOWN  OF EMPLO yEES
By A
GE BAND
71.0%
Diploma
holders
10.4%
Other
18.6%
Graduates
TELECOM  ITALIA  GROUP  – ITALy:BREA kDO WN OF EMPLO yEES By
ACADEMIC  QUALIFICA
TIONExcluding agency contract workers, the number of personnel operating in Italy is equal to 
69% of the Group total and can be broken down as follows:| hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 115
The distribution of personnel by geographic area, and the recruitment carried out by the Group, 
excluding agency contract workers, are shown below:
68.9%
Italy
31.1%
AbroadBREAkDOWN  OF TELECOM  ITALIA  
GR
OUP EMPLO yEES By GEOGRAPHI -
CAL AREA
84.0%
Abroad
16.0%
ItalyBREAkDOWN  OF TELECOM  ITALIA  
GR
OUP RECRUITMENTS  By GEO-
GRAPHICAL  AREA
The number of personnel operating in Tim Brasil Group is equal to 12% of the Group total and can be broken down as follows: 
97.8%
Of/f_ice Staff/
Specialists
1.9%
Middle Managers/Professionals  
0.3%
Senior Managers67.7%
Up to 32
26.2%
33 to 45
6.1%
Over 45TIM BRASIL  GROUP : BREA kDOWN  
OF EMPLO yEES By PR
OFESSIONAL  
CATEGOR yTIM BRASIL  GR OUP: BREA kDO WN OF 
EMPLO yEES By A
GE BAND hUman res OUrCes |116 | st akeh OLDer interni  
64.6%
Diploma 
holders
33.4%
Graduates
2.0%
Other
TIM BRASIL  GROUP : BREA kDOWN  OF EMPLO yEES By A CADEMIC   
QUALIFICATION
The number of personnel operating in the Argentina Business Unit is equal to 19% of the 
Group total and can be broken down as follows: 
87.5%
Of/f_ice Staff/
Specialists
10.6%
Middle Managers/Specialists
1.9%
Senior Managers45.2%
33 to 45
27.8%
Up to 32
27.0%
Over 45ARGENTINA  BUSINESS  UNIT: BREA k-
DOWN  OF EMPLO yEES  By PR
OFES -
SIONAL  CA
TEGOR yARGENTINA  BUSINESS  UNIT: BREA k-
DOWN  OF EMPLO yEES By A
GE BAND| hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 117
48.8%
Diploma
holders
32.0%
Other
19.2%
Graduates
ARGENTINA  BUSINESS  UNIT: BREA kDOWN  OF EMPLO yEES By A CADEMIC  
QUALIFICATION
1.2 gEndEr balanc E
MenWomen
75.0
0.0 %25.050.0100.0 %
2009 201028.3%
72.2%27.8%
71.7%DISTRIBUTION  OF MEN AND WOMEN  IN THE TELECOM  ITALIA  S.p.A. 
(2009-2010)
MenWomen
75.0
0.0 %25.050.0100.0 %
2009 201030.9%
69.7%30.3%
69.1%
DISTRIBUTION  OF MEN AND WOMEN  IN THE TI GROUP  (IN ITALy)  
(2009-2010)
 hUman res OUrCes |118 | st akeh OLDer interni  
In 2010, the percentage of women holding senior management positions in the Group (in 
Italy) was approximately 15% and, in middle management, the proportion was 26%. 
MenWomen
75.0
0.0 %25.050.0100.0 %
2009 201058.4%
41.5%58.5%
41.6%
DISTRIBUTION  OF MEN AND WOMEN  IN THE TIM BRASIL  GROUP  
(2009-2010)
In 2010, the percentage of women holding senior management positions at Tim Brasil 
was approximately 12% and, in middle management, the proportion of the total was 25%. 
At Tim Brasil, women employed by the Company rose from 3,263 in 2003 (54% of the total) 
to 5,726 in 2009 (58% of the total) and to 5,905 in 2010 (58% of the total).
1.3 pEoplE caring
Over the years, the Telecom Italia Group has developed several programmes and initiatives to support its employees, to improve the quality of their working lives and also to support those outside the Company.
People Caring is the structure created by Telecom Italia to respond to the expectations of 
employees regarding certain important issues, identified through active listening carried out both on line (Intranet, community, email) and through meetings and focus groups. The main themes identified are: 
•	work-life balance;
•	support for the needs of children and families in general;
•	support for volunteering initiatives by employees;
•	promoting the forms of diversity that exist in the workplace through diversity manage-
ment activities and projects
the work-life balance of employees
Initiatives within Telecom Italia
•	Pink Parking: throughout their period of employment leading up to the start of their ma-ternity leave, expectant mothers have a reserved parking space at all company offices that have their own car park.
•	Nurseries: in addition to the nine nurseries currently available at the company’s offices | hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 119
in Rome (3), Turin, Milan, Ancona, Naples, Catanzaro and Palermo, three agreements 
have been signed with an equal number of external nurseries (Rome, Naples and Pad-ua). 
•	Loans for mums and dads: 267 loans have been granted to new parents with children under the age of three.
•	Time saving: 
 ›Agency services: 32 
agency services for dealing with various practicalities (admin-
istration, post, etc.) are available in Turin, Milan, Venice, Padua, Bologna, Florence, Rome, Naples, Bari and Palermo.
 › Wellness areas: a
vailable in the Padua, Rome and Palermo offices.
 › Laundry/shoe repair
s: operational in four offices (Milan and Rome).
 › Newstands: a
vailable in three offices in Rome.
•	Price agreements: 45 online offers of products and services resulting from partnership agreements signed between Telecom Italia, primarily within Italy (various purchases, insurance for cars and motorbikes, home and family, culture and entertainment, fair trade, electronics, financial institutions, catering, health and well-being, sport, travel and holidays).
•	Company loans: 69 loans granted for house purchase/building purposes, 106 for home renovation work, 405 for various other purposes.
•	Time off for mothers and fathers: up to 150 hours of time off per year to be recovered through overtime, for employees up grade 5 of the collective labour agreement with chil-dren of up 8 years of age.
•	Time off to attend prenatal classes: paid leave, for up to 12 hours a month, to be recov-ered, granted to expectant mothers and fathers.
Initiatives at Tim Brasil
•	“Happy Day”: on their birthdays, employees are entitled to take a day off and receive a birthday card signed by all their work colleagues;
•
	exercise	and	ergonomics: 	at	the	company’
s	offices	that	include	call	centres	(Rio	de	Janei-
ro,
 Santo André, Recife and Curitiba) workplace exercise sessions take place to promote 
good posture and make proper use of work tools;A number of national and regional agreements have been signed for the purchase or use of goods and services under advantageous conditions, for car and motorbike insurance, cultural events and entertainment, restaurants, health and well-being and sport. 
Initiatives for the children of employees
•	Traditional summer camp: 15-day stays for children between the ages of 6 and 12, with 4,672 participants.
•	Themed summer camps: 
 ›14-day sta
ys for children between the ages of 11 and 17, dedicated to the study of 
English and sports (football, tennis, sailing, horse-riding, volleyball, basket ball, canoe-ing etc.) as well as music and theatre, with 1,892 participants.
 ›14-day study holida
ys in the U k for young people betw
een the ages of 15 and 17 at 
colleges in three towns, with 315 participants.
•	Foreign study bursaries: 90 four-week stays abroad, dedicated to the study of English and Spanish, for young people between the ages of 15 and 17 (Ireland, Finland, Spain); 20 study trips of one academic year for young people between the ages of 15 and 17 (Europe, United States, Canada, Argentina and Japan).
•	Refund of university fees: 213 applications for refunds of registration fees for the first year at university;  hUman res OUrCes |120 | st akeh OLDer interni  
•	Christmas Day at Telecom Italia: children up to the age of 10 visited their parents’ of-
fices on 17th December; in 69 offices they were offered snacks and a small gift. 
•	“TIM opens its doors”: on a day dedicated to children, the sons and daughters of Bra-zilian employees, aged between 3 and 12, had an opportunity to discover the environ-ments in which their parents work. Over 2,600 children took part in 23 different offices, where recreational activities and entertainment were organised.
Support for voluntary service initiatives 
•	Volunteering at Dynamo Camp: this is the first facility created to allow children and young people suffering from serious or chronic diseases to spend time playing and hav-ing fun, in contact with nature and in complete safety. A further 30 colleagues got in-volved in the second of these events organised in summer 2010. For further information see § The Community/Responses to stakeholders. 
•	Support for the two Telecom Italia Foundation projects: “Aboard the Nave Italia with AID”, which involved 15 children of employees affected by dyslexia, and “The environ-ment belongs to all of us”, focused on the environment and on the need to learn how to protect it, with the involvement of 19 children of employees.
•	137 charity events took place in Rome, Milan, Turin, Bologna, Florence and Padua.
•	During the year, the Telecom Donors Group organised 40 blood donation days in Turin, Milan, Rome, Naples, Bari and Palermo. 
•	Aware of the social environment in which it operates, Tim Brasil launched the “Citizen without Frontiers” project, under which the Company grants employees one free day a year to carry out volunteering work at organisations chosen by the employees or to par-ticipate in social action promoted within the Company, including: 
 › two days organised at the Romão Duar
te orphanage;  
 › blood donation at the Hermorio Institute;
 ›help with installing an IT room for the children of low income families to promote their digital inclusion;
 ›organisation of a day at A
CAPE (Centre for People with Special Needs) in order to pro-
vide an opportunity for leisure and donate food;
 ›support for the A
CRIDAS social assistance association, which involved several em-
ployees offering to help with day-to-day activities;
 ›support for the Junior Achie
vement activity to provide students with vocational train-
ing for the future;
 ›contribution to the volunteering activities of the Brazilian post office, which sor
ts and 
delivers letters of request for Christmas presents from poor Brazilian children to pri-vate citizens and associations.
Diversity Management activities and projects
Numerous information and awareness-building activities were carried out in this respect. These included:•	a themed blog launched on the company intranet together with a “Diversity Contest”, a game open to everyone that ended with a training and information event in Trieste for the top 110 finalist employees.
•	People Net, the internal network of volunteers belonging to the Telecom Group, dealt with the theme of “diversity and listening” at its latest meeting.
•	With the “I Communicate” project, a group of hearing impaired employees receive equip-ment to support them in their work.
•	Telecom Italia has signed the “Equal opportunities and equality at work charter”, a statement of intent signed voluntarily by 50 companies of all sizes with the aim of dis-| hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 121
seminating an inclusive corporate culture and human resource policy, free of discrimi-
nation and prejudice and able to make the most of talents leveraging on diversity. The initiative was launched on  October 5, 2009, building on the success of similar initiatives in France and Germany, with the support of the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Equal Opportunities. The supporting member is the “Valore D”, Donne al Vertice per l’Azienda di Domani Association, the first association created in Italy to promote female leadership in companies.
•	Internships have been organised within the Company for graduates of different ethnic backgrounds.
•	An Internal Committee for Diversity meets periodically to discuss the initiatives imple-mented, to make proposals and suggestions and to provide information on the subject to the many different people it represents.
•	A trial has begun in Friuli, Liguria, Lazio and Sicily of a counselling service for employees of Telecom Italia offered by the People Caring Centre and run by professional psycholo-gists with rigorous respect for privacy. The service is intended to support people experi-encing difficulty in the working environment or discrimination. If the initiative is success-ful, it may be extended to all Italian regions at the end of the pilot stage.
 For information on the other activities of a cultural or recreational nature carried out for employees and their families (Alatel and Spille d’Oro, CRALT) or intended to provide health-care services or refund medical expenses (ASSILT , ASSIDA and the private healthcare pro-gramme in Brazil), see the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com website.   
1.4 d EvElopm Ent
 The purpose of the Development area is to identify the technical and managerial skills of employees, drawing up plans for their development and loyalty, with particular regard to talent. 
performance assessment
The New Performance Assessment System launched in 2009 and completed in April 2010 involved around 54,800 non-managerial employees of the Telecom Italia Group.The New System was introduced in order to: •	promote behaviour that the Company considers to be essential for achievement of its excellence and customer satisfaction objectives according to the Customer Promise (see § Customers/Focus on customers);
•	further direct behaviour towards the achievement of the Company’s objectives in accord-ance with the principles established by the Group’s Code of Ethics;
•	promote a selection process that differentiates between the various contributions;
•	gather useful feedback about the development and self-development paths of individu-als;
•	streamline and simplify the process.
The system thus planned was checked by means of dedicated focus groups consisting of assessors and assessed employees from various company departments, as well as spe-cific comparisons with the best practices used by a number of national and international companies.Employees are assessed by means of a structured process that guarantees the uniform-ity of the criteria used.diversity  is an OppOrtunity  fOr  
peOple devel Opment hUman res OUrCes |122 | st akeh OLDer interni  
The uniformity of the assessment criteria used is ensured by appropriate Calibration Com-
mittees consisting of managers from the assessed employee’s department and Human Resources.The feedback interview between the manager and the employee is the key moment of the performance improvement process, in which strengths and areas for improvement are dis-cussed and the individual’s training and development are planned.
The result of the survey carried out among assessors showed that the system is particu-
larly appreciated (total overall score of 3.52 on a scale of 1 to 4)The application of the system confirmed its effectiveness based on the process dynam-ics. There was in fact a significant change in the assessments made in 2009 compared to 2008 - one assessed employee out of three received a different assessment to the pre-vious year - indicating that an accurate assessment of performance over the period had been made.
The Performance Assessment at Tim Brasil involved 100% of eligible employees. The as-
sessments made by managers are approved by a specific committee. The feedback be-tween assessor and employee assessed was also regarded as an obligatory stage in con-cluding the assessment process.
assessment of managers
The process involved around 200 managers in 2009 in order to assess their readiness to take on positions involving a broader managerial role. The results were discussed with the department managers and individual development plans were launched, including 56 coaching plans lasting 6 months, in order to boost their effectiveness and professional performance on the job. The assessment was extended to an additional 29 executives during 2010.In Tim Brasil, the assessment programme involved 120 managers in positions of respon-sibility. In order to fill the skills gap identified among managers, the opportunity was given to attend training courses at prestigious international business schools (LBS, INSEAD, Har-vard, Stanford, Warthon, MIT).
assessment of the potential of managers and employees
During 2010, 49 group assessment centre sessions were carried out involving a total of 295 employees, including 54 middle managers and 241 office workers.In 2010, the new “Guidelines for assessing the potential of managers and employees” were drawn up to fulfil the dual objective of:•	harmonising the assessment process within a broader process of development and en-hancement of the human capital;
•	rationalising and simplifying the methods and tools used to assess potential.
The “Guidelines” include and guarantee the dissemination and fulfilment of the principles of:•	“fairness and diversity”, based on providing every individual within the Group with equal opportunities for development;
•	“segmentation”, based on diversifying the tools used to measure potential according to the purposes of the assessment process and the relevant target, ensuring that they are applied to uniform groups of participants in terms of professional seniority and grade.
The following stages of the process that are subsequent to the assessment are particu-larly important:| hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 123
•	providing feedback to the individual on the results of the assessment;
•	training the individual in areas of self-development;
•	working together with the manager and Human Resources to draw up an action plan 
that is monitored throughout the year.
As of 2010, the task of carrying out assessments of potential has been entrusted to the company HR Services S.r.l. of the Telecom Italia Group.
At Tim Brasil, an online assessment system has been developed in order to map the po-
tential of all the company’s employees, identifying strengths and areas of improvement, and to provide proper guidance on development activities for employees. 
1.5 S ElEction 
An updated version of the Recruiting and Selection Policy has been issued for the Group’s companies in Italy which recognises the value of each individual’s diversity without dis-crimination based on gender, religion, ethnicity, opinion or ability. The Policy supports equal opportunities for men and women in the selection process. From 2010, the recruiting and selection service for professional positions has been entrusted to the company HR Ser-vices S.r.l.
telecom italia initiatives
Various forms of cooperation with the world of education and academia have been set up in Italy, including the presence of company representatives in Scientific Committees, com-pany representatives providing tuition on training courses, scholarships being granted to young people, paid internships being provided in company offices, financial support being given for specific training plans.
In 2010, Telecom Italia supported 30 different initiatives, including: 
•	“School-Company Network”: implemented with the cooperation of the Elis Training Cen-tre and the support of the Ministry of Education, Universities and Scientific Research (MIUR). The last edition (the second) involved around 1,000 students from the fourth and fifth years of higher technical education establishments, 22 technical institutions from across the country, 50 teachers and 22 colleagues (known as “professional ex-perts”). Set up to create a virtuous process of discussion between companies and schools and to support training that is consistent with the needs of companies, the project includes a teaching plan based on telecommunications themes, co-designed by teachers and “professional experts” directly involved in the project. 
•	“Campus”: implemented in collaboration with Elis, it features a structured recruiting and training course over three years, aimed at the best students of the Masters’ Degree course in Economics, Management Engineering and Business Communication. In July 2010, the five participants completed a three-week internship in the Company and will continue along this path by developing new project work in Autumn 2011.
•	“Innovation Master”: one of the established training paths run in association with the Polytechnic of Turin. The fourth of these was completed with the placement of 29 young engineering graduates until January 2011.  hUman res OUrCes |124 | st akeh OLDer interni  
•	“Leaders of the Future” - Development and Merit Scholarships: an initiative implement-
ed together with The European House-Ambrosetti and the Federazione Nazionale Cav-alieri del Lavoro for the purpose of providing deserving young people with concrete support in effectively planning and pursuing a path to success. Telecom Italia is partici-pating in the project by sponsoring 5 development and merit scholarships on various different themes (innovation, ICT systems, world of telecommunications and the Media, antitrust, homeland security, general management and labour law).
•	The “Future Skills” Project, an international initiative which led to a further five young students with Master’s Degrees or MBAs being recruited for internships in 2010 from Taiwan, South 
korea, India and China. The projects de
veloped during the internship pe-
riod at the Future Centre office in Venice, concerned the analysis of emerging business ecosystems in order to identify future opportunities. 
•	“Working Capital”, for details of which please see § The Community/Social media and digital communication. 
•	“Diversity/Work” promoted by Telecom Italia, UNAR (the Italian office against racial dis-crimination), the Sodalitas Foundation, Synesis Career Service and the Adecco Founda-tion. The initiative is intended to facilitate the placement in work of foreign nationals with disabilities, involving companies and institutions that are sensitive to the themes of diversity and social inclusion. Over 300 people attended the first edition in Rome on November 18, 2010 and had an opportunity to gather information and meet representa-tives from the major Italian and international companies in person. 
For the second year in a row Telecom Italia was one of the 25 “Top Employer” companies awarded a certificate by the CRF Institute, an international organisation that has been ana-lysing and certifying over 2,500 companies around the world since 1991 (12 countries in 3 continents). The assessment is based on the standards set by the Top Employers HR Best Practices Survey, which surveys human resource policies in terms of training and de-velopment, career opportunities, working conditions, remuneration and benefits and cor-porate culture.  
tim brasil initiatives
Tim Brasil continued to prioritise the recruitment of staff who had already worked in the Company, applying processes, criteria and instruments aimed at ensuring equal opportuni-ties and transparency. The main selection programmes implemented in 2010 were:•	“
young Apprentice”: this programme promotes the training of young people between the 
ages of 16 and 24 for potential emplo
yment throughout all areas of the Company. An 
administrative training course is provided for minors to prepare them to enter the world of work. The programme, begun in 2008, enrolled 194 participants in 2010.
•	“Talents without Frontiers”: launched in 2009 for the purpose of scouting the market for young graduates in order to create a talented team to be trained and developed to build the company management of the future.  At the beginning of 2010, 84 young talented people were recruited in strategic areas of the business.
•	“Internship Without Frontiers”: at the end of 2009, a new programme was set up to se-lect talented interns with the aim of offering young university students an opportunity to develop in diverse ways and prepare for the labour market, as well as to increase their potential for finding permanent employment in the Company and possibly access the “Talents with Frontiers” programme. In 2010, 128 interns were recruited by means of this programme.| hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 125
1.6 training 
In 2010, Telecom Italia provided 1.2 million hours of training, as shown in the following 
table. 81.3% of Telecom Italia S.p.A. personnel, equal to 40,381 employees, participated in at least one training session.
oRGanIsatIonal  FIelds total  by tRaInInG tyPe (teleCom It alIa sPa)
type of traininghour S
participations
 
(*) (no.)participants 
(no.)co
verage (%) total hours 
(no.)hour
s per 
head (no.)
TyPE OF TRAINING 1,099,680 22.2 148,819 34,561 69.6%
SENIOR  MANA
GERS 2,205 2.8 242 158 20.1%
MIDDLE  MANA
GERS 26,873 7.7 2,515 1,549 44.6%
OFFICE  ST
AFF/WORkERS 1,070,602 23.6 146,062 32,854 72.4%
MANAGEMENT TRAINING 46,555 0.9 4,169 2,654 5.3%
SENIOR  MANA
GERS 14,582 18.6 1,663 589 74.9%
MIDDLE  MANA
GERS 5,896 1.7 577 448 12.9%
OFFICE  ST
AFF/WORkERS 26,077 0.6 1,929 1,617 3.6%
INSTITUTIONAL TRAINING 22,230 0.4 12,356 12,108 24.4%
SENIOR  MANA
GERS 951 1.2 608 587 74.7%
MIDDLE  MANA
GERS 3,887 1.1 2,151 2,090 60.2%
OFFICE  ST
AFF/WORkERS 17,392 0.4 9,597 9,431 20.8%
TRAINING FOR NEWL y-HIRED 
EMPLO yEES37,947 0.8 1,817 612 1.2%
SENIOR  MANA
GERS 0 0.0 0 0 0.0%
MIDDLE  MANA
GERS 0 0.0 0 0 0.0%
OFFICE  ST
AFF/WORkERS 37,947 0.8 1,817 612 1.3%
LANGUAGE TRAINING 35,280 0.7 1,628 1,532 3.1%
SENIOR  MANA
GERS 6,617 8.4 203 171 21.8%
MIDDLE  MANA
GERS 9,404 2.7 485 454 13.1%
OFFICE  ST
AFF/WORkERS 19,259 0.4 940 907 2.0%
total 1,241,692 25.0 168,789 40,381 81.3%
SENIOR  MANA
GERS 24,355 31.0 2,716 740 94.1%
MIDDLE  MANA
GERS 46,060 13.3 5,728 2,834 81.6%
OFFICE  ST
AFF/WORkERS 1,171,277 25.8 160,345 36,807 81.1%
*
shows the overall number of participations in the various forms of training (class-
room, on-the-job
, online training). hUman res OUrCes |126 | st akeh OLDer interni  
In 2010, training at Telecom Italia S.p.A. supported:
•	business culture transformation by means of support plans for the management of or-ganisational changes;
•	the development of individual skills by means of personalised plans; 
•	professional retraining for the purpose of acquiring and reinforcing the skills required by organisational developments;
•	respect for the ethical and compliance principles declared by the Company (e.g. envi-ronmental protection, sustainability, ethics, Legislative Decree 231, respect for privacy). 
In December, the “Telecom Italia Industrial Relations School” was launched as a perma-nent forum for discussion between industrial relations operators from companies, insti-tutions and industry associations, thus promoting social dialogue. A scientific commit-tee consisting of representatives from the world of academia and the media, as well as top management people from Telecom Italia, will guide the decisions taken by the School, which will promote training sessions and workshops in which the Company’s em-ployees and managers, together with trade union representatives and industrial relations professionals, will be able to examine and discuss the main labour-related issues, industry trends and the evolution of national and international scenarios.In order to broaden the discussion further and encourage the development of a widespread understanding of these issues, the School will also promote a series of conferences. The first of these meetings, entitled “Social scenario and industrial relations models” was at-tended by the Minister of Employment and Social Policy, the general secretaries of the main trade union confederations and Telecom Italia’s top management. 
For information on corporate/cross-group management training and the monitoring of tech-
nological and business skills see the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com 
website. 
I Care 
aboutMyself 
In December, Telecom Italia promot-
ed an innovative project for all its employees, providing an opportuni-ty to sign up free of charge, for the 2010-2011 academic year, to any of the degree courses provided by the Law, Economics, Engineering, Communication Sciences and Psy-chology faculties of the Uninettuno International Telematic University, with the aim of promoting the de-velopment of their knowledge and skills. Set up with the agreement of the industry’s main trade unions - SLC-CGIL, FISTel-CISL and UILCOM-UIL, the initiative was so success-ful that the total number of applica-tions for which provision had initially been made was reached within an hour of applications being opened (over 3,000 people signed up). In view of this result, in order to ful-fil the wishes of people working for Telecom Italia to continue improving their knowledge and skills, the Com-pany decided, again in agreement with the trade unions, to review the terms of the initiative and to accept all the applications received.| hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 127
At Tim Brasil, training involved 82% of employees and the average training per head was 
40 hours.Once again this year the focus was on monitoring technological skills and strengthening the skills required by Customer Care and Sales personnel.Specific attention was paid to management training regarding innovation and decision-mak-ing, which involved dedicated meetings being held with international experts and manage-ment training school teachers.
One important training project was “Vagão da formação”, which allowed employees whose 
salaries are below a certain threshold to attend online degree courses in business admin-istration. The subsidy paid by the company amounts to as much as 80% of the cost of at-tending the university, depending on the employee’s wage band.
A specific training programme was developed for people taking part in the “Talents without 
Frontiers” project (see § Selection), involving a specialised part associated with the busi-ness and a general part providing management training (Finance, Project Management, etc.).
1.7 liStEning activiti ES and proj EctS
The instruments available to employees within the company to have their voice heard, both in a formal and informal way, are numerous.
In Telecom Italia and Tim Brasil, employees can make a series of approaches of an infor-
mal nature to various dedicated email addresses, obtaining prompt responses on the ser-vices required and the issues raised.Nevertheless, in a complex organisation such as Telecom Italia, unilateral communication is no longer sufficient to encourage involvement and give value to ideas.  For this reason, there is a gradual “conversion” from the traditional communication channels to more in-novative ways of favouring two-way communication, the exchange of ideas and dialogue between members of the corporate community. 
In this respect, the intranet and the portal are increasingly important components. These 
tools allow everyone to be reached, supplying information and organising more formal and informal “listening” opportunities, such as climate analysis, blogs and open virtual com-munities. In this way, discussion and debate are encouraged on internal issues linked to the business and more general current topics, including environmental and social issues.  
These activities also include projects that view staff participation as a decisive factor and 
which, for this reason, provide structured channels with which to gather contributions and proposals. Among these is the “Archimede” project launched by the Open Access struc-ture, now in its third year, which is intended to develop ideas for improving the transparen-cy, efficiency and quality of the structure and services. In 2010, over 13,000 contributions were sent in, thus confirming the validity of this tool provided by the Company for people to express their ideas, which can be used to read, develop, suggest, vote and comment on all the ideas, even setting up SuperIdeas or theme-based groups. In 2009, the project was extended to the Wholesale Department and in 2010 the second competition was held to gather innovative ideas from employees on how to develop quality and make the wholesale business more effective. hUman res OUrCes |128 | st akeh OLDer interni  
climate survey
The seventh corporate climate survey was carried after a two year interval. The survey in-
volved the use of a questionnaire updated with the assistance of SDA Bocconi and made available online for a period of two weeks. New questions were added in order to find out and make the most of interactions within the company. The listening activities included in-terviews and focus groups aimed at identifying the reason behind the problems identified and taking prompt and concrete improvement action. The general satisfaction rate in Italy, on a scale of 1 to 10, was 7.23 (6.35 in the previous survey) and at Tim Brasil in was 7.65 (7.36 in the previous survey).  
reports to the manager responsible for internal control in telecom italia
Pursuant to article 7 of the Code of Ethics, the “Whistleblowing Procedure”, published on the intranet and updated during 2010, is applicable to all Telecom Italia Group com-panies. This procedure, which is administered by the manager responsible for internal control in Telecom Italia, ensures the receipt, analysis and handling of reports on matters concerning the internal control system, company information, fraud and other matters (violations of the Code of Ethics, mobbing practices, theft, security etc.). Reports may be submitted in any form (in hard copy, electronically, by fax, etc.) by employees (including Top Management), associates, consultants, freelance workers, as well as third parties who have business relations with the Group. Each report is analysed and the outcomes of the proceedings are conveyed to the top management of the company, to the statutory con-trol bodies and to the company departments concerned, ensuring complete confidentiality for the individuals making the reports (for further information on activities carried out by the Manager responsible for internal control see § Shareholders/Corporate Governance). 
1.8 intErnal communication 
The internal communication events of 2010 were conducted for the purpose of involving the greatest possible number of employees and making them the driving force behind de-
cisions connected with the business and with improving customer satisfaction. A small number of people took part in these events live, while the majority used the well-established multimedia con-vention mode, with just a few people gathered in physical locations (auditoriums, large meeting rooms) interacting with a vast virtual audience consisting of colleagues connected from their worksta-tions by video streaming. People taking part in these multimedia conventions submit their questions to speakers during the event, 
interact on the subjects, and provide constructive feedback through blogs, forums and vir-tual networks. The online mode also allows the content to be used at a later date and con-tributes to minimising greenhouse gas emissions by avoiding the need for people to travel. People employed by the Group were also the subject of photographs, videos and stories that enriched and empowered the company’s media. Internal communication in 2010 also focused on informing people about the great or-ganisational and strategic innovations implemented by the company and involving them in these changes. In February 2010, the “Let’s talk about sustainability” event was held as the first opportunity for top managers and employees to meet and find out about Telecom Italia’s approach and activities regarding sustainability, to encourage discussion on social, environmental and strategic issued for the company’s business. The event was attended | hUman res OUrCes
innOvative  tOOls fOr internal  
cOmmunica
tiOn such  as blOgs,
 
virtual  cOmmunities ,
 and mul
timedia  
cOnventi Ons f
acilitate  dialOgue 
 
in the cOmp
any stakeh OLDer interni  | 129
by over 5,500 employees by video streaming.
For information about the other internal communication initiatives taken by Telecom Italia and Tim Brasil go to the www.telecomitalia.com website. 
1.9 hEalth and Saf Ety
 A number of specific projects and initiatives regarding health and safety at work were launched or pursued at Telecom Italia and Tim Brasil, a description of which is provided in the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com website. In accordance with current legislation, specific training courses were conducted on these matters for new recruits, people transferring to other jobs and/or following the introduction of new work equipment, technologies, apparatus or hazardous substances.The process aimed at developing awareness of the role of manager in charge of the health and safety of workers was completed, while training courses were provided for all call cen-tre operators on the noise-related risks linked to the use of headphones. An e-learning course was implemented to inform and train employees on current legisla-tion in this field, the main innovations introduced by Legislative Decree 81/2008 and how it is applied within Telecom Italia.During 2010, in order to fulfil the duties specified in the above mentioned Decree, four new Risk Assessment Documents were drawn up regarding the health and safety of workers. These are connected to the documents, procedures and provisions concerning the health and safety of workers and available on the company intranet.
accidents  
The figures for accidents relating to Telecom Italia S.p.A. are shown below, presenting a comparison with the data for previous years.  
2010 2009 2008
NUMBER  OF ACCIDENTS
(ExCLUDING  TRA
VEL)873 1,079 932
SEVERIT y INDEx(*)0.20 0.42 0.45
FREQUENC y RA
TE(*)10.91 11.28 9.77
AVERAGE  DURA
TION IN HOURS 136.44 127.73 127.31
UNPR
ODUCTIVIT y INDEx(*)1.80 1.44 1.24
ACCIDENTS  PER 100 W
ORkERS 1.70 1.97 1.63
 hUman res OUrCes |
*
the severity, frequency and unproduc-
tivity indexes are respectively:  
- the number of con
ventional working 
days lost in the year per thousand 
hours worked;  
- the number of accidents per million hours worked;  
- the number of hours lost due to acci-dents per thousand hours worked.130 | st akeh OLDer interni  
The number of accidents is slightly lower than the previous year. Of particular note is the 
fall in the severity index due to the absence of fatal accidents, compared to previous years, which is line with the objective set for this year (see § 2010 Objectives and results in the Appendix).Constant attention paid to verifying application of the risk control measures, the results of training programmes for telecommunication system operation and maintenance activities that require overhead work (on poles, ladders and pylons), “Safe Driving” course (which will continue in 2011), contributed to the achievement of this result.The increase in the frequency and unproductivity indexes is due to the fall in the number of employees, while the increase in the average number of hours is due to the higher number and severity of accidents while travelling for work purposes, which rose from 182 in 2009 to 265 in 2010. Nevertheless these accidents don’t come within the category of profes-sional accidents,which are those connected with the work done for the Company, and are therefore difficult to control.
1.10 induStrial r Elation S
On May 1, 2010, Telecom Italia S.p.A. transferred its line of business consisting of the “IT Operations” department, operating within the Technology & Operations/Information Tech-nology Department, to Shared Service Center (SSC), a limited company fully controlled by Telecom Italia.  The transfer of this department involved approximately 2,100 employees. As required by legislation, these employees were placed under the collective labour agree-ment currently applied within Shared Service Center Srl and the employment contracts were transferred directly from Telecom Italia S.p.A. to SSC Srl. The purpose of this operation is to allow SSC S.r.l. to provide IT services within the Tele-com Italia Group, focusing exclusively on the delivery of services offered through an organi-zation which, within the framework of requirements previously identified by Telecom Italia S.p.A., will provide end-to-end services that meet the highest market standards, in terms of quality and cost. As part of the overall IT sector reorganisation process, the Company has therefore con-firmed the strategic importance of IT activities and the respective professional assets with a view to maintaining them within the Group.
With regard to the Solidarity Contract applied to Directory Assistance workers between 
September 1, 2009 and August 31, 2010, in accordance with the Agreement of July 21, 2009, a verification meeting was held with the trade unions at Ministry offices in May. At this meeting, Telecom Italia illustrated the initial actions taken in an attempt to boosting directory assistance services and protect jobs.
Following the updating of Telecom Italia’s 2012 Strategic Plan, which was also commu-
nicated to the financial community, in April 2010, in a series of dedicated meetings, the Company provided trade unions with details of the current telecommunication market and its development prospects, both   technological and commercial.At the end of this process, Telecom Italia also illustrated the organisational effects of the 2010-2012 Strategic Plan and the consequences on employment levels. As part of the discussions held with trade unions, the Company confirmed its willingness to find socially sustainable solutions to deal with the surplus personnel forecast by the Plan, as always done in the past. 
In June 2010, SSC S.r.l. illustrated its 2010-2012 Business Plan to the trade unions. This | hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 131
plan identifies the guidelines needed to deal with the discontinuity in the relevant market, 
while at the same time recovering efficiency, competitiveness and the ability to innovate, ensuring an integrated view of Information Technology. During the same meeting, the Com-pany illustrated two projects to trade unions for the reallocation of around 100 employees from SSC S.r.l. to Telecom Italia in order to minimise the occupa-tional effects of the Plan. On August 4, 2010, the complex and detailed negotiations be-tween the social partners government, Telecom Italia and trade unions, were completed positively with the signing of a framework agreement to deal with the expected surplus of personnel at Tel-ecom Italia S.p.A. and SSC S.r.l.. 
The willingness to search for dialogue between the parties guided the discussion and is 
tangibly demonstrated by the agreement reached. 
The Agreement provides for recourse to mobility under Law 223/91, allowing workers to 
change jobs according to  agreed criteria, and for Solidarity Contracts to be implemented together with strategic training as an essential tool for promoting professional retraining and re-skilling in order to avoid  surplus of personnel.  Solidarity Contracts are agreements that provide for working hours to be reduced in order to avoid, partially or totally, downsizing or declaration of redundancy. For the workers to whom the contract will be applied, provision is made for INPS [social security] to make up part of the remuneration not received due to the reduction in working hours. 
In summary, the agreement of August 4, 2010 provides for the following:
•	recourse to mobility pursuant to Law 223/91 for 3,900 employees of Telecom Italia S.p.A. (including 200 from the previous mobility procedure pursuant to the agreement of  September 19, 2008);
•	Solidarity Contracts of the “defensive” type to be implemented to deal with the surplus of further 1,100 workers of Telecom Italia S.p.A.;
•	organisation of specific courses to allow the professional retraining and consequent re-employment of workers covered by the Solidarity Contract, with priority being given to the Directory Assistance employees;
•	provision to extend the Solidarity Contract of  July 21, 2009 for Directory Assistance (12.54) workers for a further two years;
•	application of the Solidarity Contract to a maximum of 450 surplus workers of SSC S.r.l. and the launch of a professional retraining plan;
•	recourse to mobility pursuant to Law 223/91 for the workers of SSC S.r.l. not covered by the Solidarity Contract.
The Company also committed itself to offering 40 former TILS workers, currently unem-ployed, the opportunity to be re-employed within the Group.
In October and November 2010, agreements were drawn up to apply the guidelines identi-
fied in the framework agreement of August 4, 2010.
On October 25, 2010, Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the most representative trade unions 
signed a solidarity contract of the “defensive” type at the Ministry of Employment and Social Policy, in accordance with current legal provisions, covering approximately 29,200 workers of Telecom Italia S.p.A. for a period of two years (until November 7, 2012), in order to prevent 1,100 redundancies resulting from the Company’s 2010-2012 Strategic Plan. hUman res OUrCes |
On august  4, 2010 an agreement  was 
reached  between  the sOcial p
arties ,
 
tO deal  with the surplus  pers Onnel  
fOrecasted  by the 2010-2012  
business  plan   132 | st akeh OLDer interni  
On the same day, an agreement was also signed on the initial training projects aimed at 
re-skilling the staff covered by the Solidarity Contract to take on other jobs. Worker partici-pation is voluntary. The Agreement also contains a commitment to provide training aimed at improving the knowledge of workers, in order to prevent the danger of professional ob-solescence.
On November 4, 2010, at the Ministry of Employment and Social Policy, SSC S.r.l. and 
the trade unions signed a Solidarity Contract of the “defensive” 
type, as required by current legislation, in respect of approximately 2,300 workers of SSC S.r.l., for a period of four years (until Novem-ber 14, 2012) in order to prevent 388 redundancies resulting from the Company’s 2010-2012 Business Plan, which was illustrated to the trade union during specific meetings.Again on November 4, 2010, an agreement was signed on train-ing projects for the professional retraining of the workers involved. 
Worker participation is voluntary.
In the context of the mobility procedure pursuant to Law 223/91, launched on October 26, 
2010 by Telecom Italia S.p.A., an agreement was signed with trade unions and the work-ers’ representatives on November 2, 2010 which allows 3,900 surplus workers of Telecom Italia to be put on mobility programmes by December 31, 2012. The primary criterion ap-plied to identifying the workers, as agreed between the parties, will be fulfilment of pension requirements during the period of the allowance. Only workers who do not object to the mobility programme will be admitted. In addition to the mobility allowance provided under Law 223/91, the Company will pay a voluntary redundancy incentive calculated according to pre-established criteria.
On  November 16, 2010, in the context of the mobility procedure under Law 223/91 
launched on  November 9, 2010 by SSC S.r.l., an agreement was signed with trade unions and unitary union representatives which allows 50 surplus workers of the company to be put on mobility programmes according to the same criteria and conditions set out above.
As regards Industrial Relations activities within Tim Brasil, following the acquisition of the 
company Intelig at the end of 2009, the collective labour agreements were unified by allow-ing Intelig to sign up to the agreements and standards of the TIM Group.At Tim Brasil, the 2010 collective union agreements are consistent with the current eco-nomic, political and legal situation of the country. The company is negotiating three agree-ments with the two federations representing all the employees: FITTEL and FENATTEL (the latter alone represents 82% of employees). These agreements relate to:•	economic and social conditions;
•	the company’s profit-sharing programme;
•	the hourly rate of pay. On the basis of this agreement, overtime hours may be met by a reduction in the normal working hours or through days off in the three months following the completion of the overtime. After that, the hours will be paid. 
The profit-sharing programme has now been approved. The other two negotiations are ex-pected to be completed by January 2011.| hUman res OUrCes
the agreement  Of august , 4 prOvides  
fOr the use Of mObility  pursuant  
tO la
w 223/91,
 and tO sOlid
arity  
cOntra
cts Of the “defensive ” type,
 
cOmbined  with training  initia
tives
25
in 2008 the contracts had been 
renewed for two years, leaving only the salary increase element open for annual discussion stakeh OLDer interni  | 133
telecom italia media
During the year, discussions held with the union representatives of journalists focused es-
sentially on the implementation aspects of the Solidarity Contract signed on February 2, 2009 for the period between March 1, 2009 and February 28, 2011.
On October 11, 2010, an agreement was signed with the Editorial Office Committee of 
La7, FNSI and ASR, establishing a different distribution of working hours under a solidarity system, following the increase in working hours resulting from the action taken by Telecom Italia Media S.p.A. in accordance with the aforementioned agreement of February 2, 2009.  On  December 14, 2010, Telecom Italia Media S.p.A. informed the Editorial Office Commit-tee, FNSI and ASR that, as a result of the actions taken under the Solidarity Contract, pur-suant to letters a) and b) of this contract, the reduction in the number of journalists and the more efficient use of these journalists would lead to an overall recovery of the redundan-cies during the month of December 2010 and that, consequently, the Solidarity Contract would end earlier than planned on  December 31, 2010, instead of  February 28, 2011.
As regards discussions with the union representatives of non-journalists, we report that on  
May 5, 2010 an agreement was signed with the unitary union representatives of Telecom Italia Media to extend from 12 to 24 months the maximum period for recourse to fixed term and temporary contracts for the launch and implementation of new projects and activities, pursuant to article 24, paragraph 1) point c) and article 25, paragraph 1, reason 3 of the na-tional collective labour agreement for employees of private radio and television companies. We also report that on November 8, 2010, the companies TI Media S.p.A. and TI Media Broadcasting srl signed an agreement with the national and local trade union representa-tives and the workers’ representatives regarding the performance-related pay applicable for the period 2010-2012.  In particular, the performance-related pay is split into two parts: one related to the income indicator (EBITDA), which counts for 70%, and one related to the quality indicator (for TI Media S.p.A. the AUDIENCE SHARE and for TI Media Broadcasting the NETWOR
k DIGIT
ALI-
SATION PLAN), which counts for 30%. For the period 2011-2012, the performance-related pay will be extended to staff on fixed term and agency contract workers as well. 
Finally we report that the national collective labour agreement for the employees of private 
radio and television companies expired on December 31, 2009. Various meetings were held in 2010 between the Radios and Televisions Federation delegation and both national and local union delegations. No agreement has yet been reached on renewing the national collective labour agreement.
1.11 rEmunEration policy
Remuneration policies and systems were focused in 2010 on guaranteeing competitiveness in the labour market in a way that was consistent with the objectives of attracting, develop-ing and retaining resources and differentiating pay according to objective and agreed criteria. 
The management of the fixed components is inspired by criteria of ever greater selectivity 
in the pool of resources concerned, consistent with the instructions contained in the 2010-2011 Business Plan. Its aim is primarily to reward resources who present subjective char- hUman res OUrCes |134 | st akeh OLDer interni  
acteristics of excellence, have essential skills and hold key positions, considering both their 
pay compared to the external market and their individual performance trend.The variable component of the remuneration has been established as an element of distinc-tion, with an ever closer correlation being established between the remuneration package and the performance and revenue of the company. The MBO 2010 system, a short term formalised incentive tool aimed at managers and par-ticularly valuable employees, confirmed the importance that the company continued to place on corporate and departmental macro-economic objectives in 2010.
Furthermore, within the MBO 2010 system, the following objectives were set in order to en-
sure that aspects relating to sustainability are taken into appropriate consideration in the decisions taken by Telecom Italia’s management.
The non-monetary component of the remuneration package continued to be monitored and 
calculated in 2010 with reference also to the potential impact in terms of environmental sustainability (presence of a range of cars producing less CO
2 emissions).
Stock options 
The instrument of stock options has been used within the Telecom Group in order to retain and offer long term incentives to members of management.
telecom italia
In the course of 2010, the deadline passed for exercising options relative to:•	the third lot of the 2002 stock option Plan;
•	the third lot of the 2002 Top stock option Plan;
•	the third lot of the 2003-2005 stock option Plan (formerly TIM).
A ban on exercising options included in existing Plans was imposed for the Shareholders’ Meeting, from  April 13, to  May 24, 2010, in accordance with the relevant Regulations.
The essential elements of the Telecom Italia stock option plans are summarised in the “Eq-
uity compensation Plan” Note included in the Telecom Italia Group’s Annual Report.Stakeholder of reference targets subject to incentives
Customers Customer Satisfaction
Quality of the service deliveredQuality of the service perceived by consumer and business customers (187, 191, 119 and Business Toll free number)  Quality of the service perceived by other national fixed and mobile telephony operators
Human Resources Health and safety of employeesProgrammes of training and professional growthWelfare activities (People Caring) and the wellbeing of employees  
The Environment Consumption of materials, energy and water
Shareholders and Institu-tionsQuality and speed of company information delivery
The Community Organisation of cultural exhibitionsQuality of initiatives/projects for the Community
| hUman res OUrCes stakeh OLDer interni  | 135
1.12 Employ EES SharE oWnErShip plan 2010-2014
On April 29, 2010, the Shareholders’ Meeting launched the 2010-2014 Employees Share 
Ownership Plan for all employees of Telecom Italian or its subsidiaries with registered of-fice in Italy on permanent employment contracts. 
The purpose of the initiative is to increase motivation to achieve corporate objectives and 
strengthen the sense of belonging to the company.
The Plan provides for employees to purchased ordinary shares with a 10% discount on the 
market price up to a maximum counter-value of 3,000 euros. Subscribers who keep their shares for a year and remain in employment will receive Bonus Shares equivalent to one free share for every 3 shares bought at a discount. 
The Plan complies with the conditions for access to the fiscal benefits of article 51 of the 
Consolidated Law on Income Tax. Therefore, employees who decide to retain ownership of the shares bought at a discount, and assigned free of charge for three years from the respective dates of purchase/assignment, will be entitled to and exemption from tax and contributions on the benefit paid by the company in terms of discount and bonus shares. 
During the subscription period, between June 28, and July 9, 2010, 
the ordinary shares were offered for purchase at a price of 0.84 euros each, corresponding to an arithmetical average of the official prices of shares recorded between  May 25, and  June 25, 2010 on the Electronic Stock Exchange, minus a discount of 10%. The of-fer was taken up by 9,474 employees (equal to 16% of the entitled employees), who purchased a total of 27,056,139 ordinary shares, equal to 87% of the total amount of 31,000,000 shares established by the Board of Directors’ meeting of  May 6, 2010, exercising the powers granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of  April 29, 2010. The shares, which amounted to 0.20% of the total ordinary shares in Telecom Italia were assigned to subscribers on July 13, and were issued on July 29, 2010. hUman res OUrCes |
9,474 empl Oyees subscribed  fOr the 
telec Om it
alia share  Ownership  plan ,
 
with a 10% discOunt On the  
market  price  Strat Egy
The Group companies are fully aware of the 
importance of supplying accurate informa-tion about their activities to the market, in-vestors and the Community in general. Subject to the confidentiality required in the conduct of business, communication with the market and investors respects the re-quirements for transparency, fairness, clar -
ity and equal access to information, with a commitment to ensuring equality of treat-ment among all categories of shareholders. The benefits deriving from being part of a Group of businesses are pursued in compli-ance with the applicable regulations and in the independent interest of each individu-al company in the profitability of its own business and the creation of value for its shareholders. Special attention is also paid to managing relations with bondholders. These are managed by a dedicated observa-tory in the Investor Relations (IR) depart-ment.
Stak Ehold ErS and th Eir ExpEctation S
Stakeholder need
Important shareholders and 
institutional and retail inves-torsGood financial and operational performance by the company.Positive total shareholder return (performance on the stock market of the share and dividends distributed).Good reputation of the Telecom Italia brand.Involvement in the life of the Group.
Socially responsible investors Positive total shareholder return.
Attention to the social and environmental impact of the company business.
Bondholders Stability of the yield from the investment.Certainty of repayment.Maintenance/improvement in the debt ratings.
Financial analysts Direct contact with the management on important issues to perceive present and future dynamics better.2. shaReholde Rs
The IR department manages day-to-day relations with its stakeholders: shareholders, institutional 
and retail investors, bondholders, socially responsible investors and financial analysts. 
Their shared expectations are:
•	to see the Group strengthen its position in the markets in which it operates;
•	to see the objectives reported to the market through the Strategic Plan confirmed;
•	to have the certainty of receiving a quick, effective response from the company to re-quests for information.
22.40%
Telco
21.17%
Other
shareholders
Italy
11.47%
Institutional shareholders Italy
1.03%
Legal entities Italy0.23%
Other shareholders abroad4.12%
Legal entities
abroad38.37%
Institutional shareholdersabroad
1.21%
Telecom Italia Group
*
source: shareholder register at  De-
cember 31, 2010,
 supplemented by 
communications received and other 
available information.The importance of
to all stakeholders
138 | st akeh OLDer interni  | shareh OLDers
2.1 financial communication
During 2010, the Company organised quarterly conference calls, road shows abroad, and 
meetings at the Group’s corporate centres (reverse road shows) and participated in sector conferences. During these events, meetings were held with over 300 investors. In addi-tion to these there are the direct meetings and telephone conversations which the IR team handles every day. The responses given to the financial market by the Group fulfil the requirements of rele-vance, sensitivity of information, consistency and  topicality in respect of the issues dealt with, the Group structure and the actions undertaken to achieve the targets of the Strate-gic Plan. 
Financial communication also takes into consideration the needs of investors linked to So-
cially Responsible Investing (SRI), which favours companies that pay attention to ethical, social and environmental factors as well as financial aspects. Communication with this category of investors, which is managed in accordance with the Group Sustainability de-partment, is developed through individual contacts and participation at dedicated events. 
As regards relations with individual shareholders (retail) - today there are nearly 550,000 
holders of ordinary shares – Telecom Italia’s strategy is aimed at increasing channels of communication to respond in a rapid and effective way to queries about the performance of the shares and, more generally, of the Group. Indications and ideas that emerge from dialogue with retail investors are collected and communicated to top management. The “TI Alw@ys ON” (www.telecomitaliaclub.it) Shareholders’ Club was launched in 2006 as a virtual meeting place between the company and its individual investors. However, the Club is also open to those who do not have shares in the Group, and just by joining the Club, members can obtain the same free services that are reserved to shareholders, that is:•	SMS alert, which every day reports the closing price and the percentage variations of Telecom Italia’s ordinary and savings shares compared to the previous day, as well as the daily percentage variations in the FTSE/Mib index;
•	Weekly Market report: sent every Monday morning, it summarises performance during the week that ended the previous Friday.
•	Quarterly newsletter: contains a commentary on the most recent economic and finan-cial results and details of events and trends that have influenced the performance of results, as well as clarifications on the financial and business strategy adopted by the top management.
In addition to these services, Telecom Italia offers shareholders the “Guide to the Individ-ual Shareholder,” an in-depth document about the Group, available on request and on the website, as well as constant updates through the press releases (institutional, concerning products, financial).As regards online financial communication, Telecom Italia’s website (www.telecomitalia.it) is constantly updated and renewed. This year, Telecom Italia achieved the following posi-tions in the rankings drawn up by Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, the Swedish company, which rewards the best companies in terms of financial and corporate communication:•	3rd place in the Web Ranking European Awards 2010 and first company in the telecom-munications sector;
•	3rd place in the Web Ranking Awards Italy 2010; stakeh OLDer interni  | 139
2.2 riSk manag EmEnt
In order to ensure a global approach to risk management, Telecom Italia Group has adopt-
ed an integrated process inspired by the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERM)26. 
This is a corporate risk governance tool used to identify, assess and manage risks.At the heart of the system is the Group Risk Management Committee which is chaired and coordinated by the “Administration, Finance and Control” Department Manager, and is made up of:•	the Managers of the “Domestic Market Operations”, “Technology & Operations” and “International Business” departments;
•	the Managers of the “General Counsel & Corporate and Legal Affairs”, “Human Re-sources and Organization”, “Purchasing” and “Security” departments;
•	the Manager of the “Risk Management” department of “Administration, Finance and Control.”
The Manager of the Risk Management department supports the coordination activity of the Committee. 
The Committee meets every three months (or when specifically required). Its purpose is 
to administer the Group’s risk management process, by coordinating the preventive action plan designed to ensure the operational continuity of the business, and monitoring the ef-fectiveness of the countermeasures adopted.The ERM approach, approved by the Group Risk Management Committee, is based on an assessment of the risk profile by management, in relation to both company processes and strategic objectives. This approach involves mapping the risks and focusing on the ones considered to be the most important, drawing up a Master Plan of mitigating actions and carrying out risk treatment activity involving the establishment of interdepartmental work-ing groups defined by the Group Risk Management Committee.  In detail, the ERM involves four main phases:1. analysis: 2. evaluation; 3. treatment and verification; 4. information.
The following chart summarises the phases of the ERM process and the activities involved 
in each individual phase.  Analytic description of each phase can be found on the Sustain-ability section of the TI Group website www.telecomitalia.com.
Analysis
Identi/f_ication
DescriptionSelection
Structuring
DisseminationAction
Implementation
Veri/f_ication of 
results
EstimateSeverity
Frequency
Establishment of
acceptable risk levelsEvaluation Treatment InformationRISk MANAGEMENT  PROCESSshareh OLDers |
*
enterprise risk management, 2004, 
by the Committee of sponsoring 
Org
anizations of the treadwa
y Com-
mission.140 | st akeh OLDer interni  
The process is updated on an annual basis (or more frequently) at the discretion of the 
Risk Management Committee. Updating and support is the responsibility of the Risk Man-agement department.
During 2010:
•	the phases specified by the ERM 2009 cycle were completed, which involved determin-ing the degree of maturity of the risk management process and establishing action plans for the main risks;
•	the ERM 2010 cycle was launched;
•	the corporate risk profile for 2010 was defined for the Group (excluding Tim Brasil), which involved the completion of the analysis phase and part of the evaluation phase (risk assessment and allocation). The subsequent phases are expected to be complet-ed during 2011. 
 
2.3 corporat E govErnanc E
The following is an extract of the Report on Corporate Governance and Share Ownership of Telecom Italia S.p.A. (hereinafter the “Report”). The full text of this report is available from the registered office, published on the Company’s website (www.telecomitalia.com) in the Corporate section - Governance channel and sent to Borsa Italiana, in the manner and within the terms provided for by current regulations.
issuer profile
Telecom Italia’s corporate governance system, set up in line with the traditional model, fo-cuses on the role of strategic leadership given to the Board of Directors; on the transpar-ency of management decisions both within the company and in relation to the market; on the efficiency and effectiveness of the internal control system; on the rigorous governance of potential conflicts of interest and on solid rules of conduct in executing transactions with related parties.
information on share ownership
Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding:•	share capital structure; 
•	restrictions on transfer of securities;
•	significant shareholdings;
•	any securities that confer special rights and special powers of the Minister of Economy and Finance;
•	employee shareholdings;
•	any restrictions on voting rights;
•	shareholders’ Agreements; 
•	change of control clauses; 
•	authorisation to increase share capital and share buy-back;
•	any management and coordination activities.
compliance
Telecom Italia is a limited company with registered office in Italy, subject to Italian and Eu-ropean Community law. Moreover,•	in relation to the listing of its shares on Borsa Italiana and of some of its bonds on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, it is required to comply with corresponding regulations;| shareh OLDers stakeh OLDer interni  | 141
•	in its capacity as a foreign issuer, registered at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Com-
mission and listed on the New york Stock Exchange,
 it is subject to U.S. law. In this 
regard, as specified in the Self-regulatory Code (available on the website www.telecomi-talia.com, Corporate Section, Governance Channel), the Board of Auditors performs the duties of the audit committee.
Telecom Italia adheres to the Self-regulatory Code of the Borsa Italiana (available at the link http://www.borsaitaliana.it) and aligns its corporate governance system with the best 
national and international practices.
Telecom Italia’s strategic subsidiaries include: 
•	the Tim Brasil group companies, the holding company of which, Tim Participações S.A. (indirectly controlled by Telecom Italia) is a company registered and listed in Brazil, as well as registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New 
york Stock Exchange;
•	the T
elecom Argentina group companies, controlled through Sofora S.A. and Nortel In-
versora S.A., both companies registered in Argentina. Nortel Inversora S.A. and Telecom Argentina S.A. are listed locally, registered with the US Securities and Exchange Com-mission and listed on the New 
york Stock Exchange. 
The cor
porate governance structure of Telecom Italia is not influenced by the legal provi-
sions governing Tim Partecipações S.A. and Telecom Argentina S.A.. Please refer to the full text of the Report for further information in this respect.
board of directors
Appointment and replacement
The bylaws regulation governing the process of appointing the Board of Directors was aligned with the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 27/2010 (implementing the so-called Shareholders’ Rights Directive) by resolution of the Board on 30 September 2010.Pursuant to Article 9 of the Bylaws as amended, the Board of Directors (composed of a minimum of 7 to a maximum of 19 Directors, as determined by the Shareholders’ meet-ing) is appointed on the basis of slates submitted to the Company’s registered office at least twenty five days before the date set for the Shareholders’ Meeting at the first call, presented by persons entitled to vote holding a total of at least 0.5% of the ordinary share capital or different proportion as required by Consob. In Resolution no. 17633 of 26 Janu-ary 2011, Consob set said share for Telecom Italia at 1%.Four-fifths of the Directors to be elected are chosen from the slate that obtains more votes (so-called Majority Slate) in the order they are listed on the slate; in the event of a fractional number, it shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number. The remaining directors are chosen from the other slates. To that end, the votes obtained are divided by pro-gressive whole numbers starting from one up to the number of Di-rectors to be elected and the quotients assigned to the respective candidates, in the order listed. The quotients assigned in this way are arranged in a single decreasing ranking and the candidates who have obtained the highest quotients are elect-ed, without prejudice to the legal provisions requiring the presence of at least one Director chosen from a slate not connected with the shareholders who have submitted or voted for the Majority Slate and at least two Directors meeting the requirements of independence legally established for the members of the Board of Auditors. For the appointment of Directors for any reason not appointed pursuant to the procedure described above, the Shareholders’ meeting passes the resolutions with the legal majority.
the appOintment  Of the bOard Of 
direct Ors is based  On the  
“sla
te system ”shareh OLDers |142 | st akeh OLDer interni  
Composition
The Shareholders’ meeting of April 14, 2008 appointed the current Board of Directors, 
setting the number of its members at 15 and a term of office of three financial years (therefore until the shareholders’ meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010). Pursuant to the regulations applicable at that time, three slates were presented. Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the composition of slates, the presenting shareholders, the elected candidates, the composition of the Board of Directors as of December 31, 2010 and the changes that took place in the 2010 finan-cial year.The curricula vitae of the members of the control body are available on the website www.telecomitalia.com, Corporate Section - Governance channel.Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the maximum number of directorships/auditorships that is compatible with the office of director of the Company according to the Self-regulatory Code of Telecom Italia.
Role of the Board of Directors
Telecom Italia’s Self-regulatory Code reserves an active role for the Board in the strategic guidance of the Company and in the control of operations, giving this body a broad range of strategic powers and responsibilities to intervene directly in decisions having a major impact on the activities of the Company and the Group. Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the matters and activities that come within the remit of the Board and on the strategic operations that are subject to prior approval by the Board.The evaluation of business is based on a continuous flow of information to non-executive Directors and Auditors, coordinated by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. This happens from time to time during the meetings and specifically, with a detailed comparison between the results obtained and the objectives of the budget, when examining financial reports.
The Board of Directors assesses the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and ac-
counting structure of the Company on the basis of information from management and, with specific reference to the internal control system, based on the preparatory work conducted by the Committee for internal control and corporate governance.  In exercising its duties as the corporate body in charge of the internal control system, the Board also avails •	of the internal control manager, who performs the internal control function, identified as the consortium company Telecom Audit & Compliance Services;
•	of the manager responsible for preparing corporate accounting documents, with particu-lar regard to internal control over financial reporting.
The self-assessment of the size, composition and operation of the Board and its Commit-tees was carried out for 2010, as for every year since 2005. As in 2009, support in the preparation and performance of this assessment was provided by Spencer Stuart. The specific objectives of the 2010 edition of the review were as follows: •	to prepare an outline of the results obtained in the closing three-year period, identifying what worked well and what could be improved further, also for the benefit of the Board 
to be appointed;•	to provide ideas aimed at identifying areas of possible improve-
ment;•	to explore the board decision-making process, the contribution 
made by the Committees and the informational support provided by management in relation to the most important decisions made during the year.The board review was conducted by means of (i) individual inter-views with Directors, involving the three components of self-assess-
the self-assessment  Of the 
bOard w
as carried  Out alsO in 
2010 thrOugh interviews  tO its 
members ,
 with the supp Ort Of a 
specialized  a
gency  | shareh OLDers stakeh OLDer interni  | 143
ment provided for by the Self-regulatory Code of Borsa Italiana (size, composition, opera-
tion), based on a “Guide to Interviewing” transmitted in advance; (ii) reading the minutes, to analyze issues covered as well as the duration and frequency of meetings. For each subject the respondents’ information and comments were collected, and feedback was requested on the effectiveness of the self-assessment method chosen as well as any suggestions for future editions.An overall positive picture emerged from the self-evaluation. This is a quality Board with bal-anced and diversified skills, which has succeeded in improving some important operating procedures over the three years. In general, management of the decision-making process was appreciated as regards the information received, the preparatory work undertaken by the Committees and the level of debate. The conducting of meetings was deemed effective, assuring each Director the opportunity to express his opinion, while respecting the time-frame of the agenda, in an atmosphere considered constructive and positive. The level of participation and degree of interaction between executive Members and others, including outside of institutional meetings, was considered extremely good. The minutes of the meet-ings are deemed complete and highly valued.The level of knowledge of the key factors of business and the market and competitive condi-tions of the Company and the Group is an area of improvement that the Board considers it should work on, including through the organization of ad hoc meetings.  In this respect, sat-isfaction was expressed on the organization of a workshop with the company management to review the technological aspects and business perspectives; it has been recommended that this experience be repeated. On the other hand, the majority of Directors consider it ap-propriate to organize a structured induction program, to be offered to any newly appointed Directors, and in any case greater involvement of the management in meetings. In general, the Board expresses the view that the assessment has effectively contributed to the improvement of its operations.  In particular, emphasis was placed on the implementa-tion of actions defined in the action plan in response to the previous self-assessment.Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the meetings held in 2010 and the percentages of attendance by the directors.
Delegated bodies
The assignment (and revocation) of powers to Directors is reserved to the Board, which defines the purpose, limits and methods of exercising the assigned powers, and receives a flow of information on their activities, the overall management performance and the most significant transactions.
On April 15, 2008, the Board of Directors appointed Chairman Gabriele Galateri di Genola 
and CEO Franco Bernabè.In addition to legal representation of the Company, the following tasks were attributed to the Chairman:•	supervision of the development of strategic, industrial and financial plans, as well as their implementation and development; 
•	supervision of the definition of organizational structures;
•	supervision of economic and financial performance;
•	responsibility for overseeing the review and definition of the guidelines of the internal control system.
In addition to the legal representation of the Company and all the powers to be exercised with a single signature, necessary to perform actions relevant to corporate activity in its various manifestations, none excluded, the Chief Executive Officer was attributed responsi-bility for the overall management of the Company and the Group and in particular:shareh OLDers |144 | st akeh OLDer interni  
•	the responsibility to define, propose to the Board of Directors and then develop and im-
plement strategic, industrial and financial plans;
•	the responsibility to define the organizational structures;
•	all the organizational responsibilities for management and business development, through the coordination of the organizational functions not attributed to the Chairman.
On April 15, 2008, the Board of Directors also approved the establishment of an Execu-tive Committee.The Executive Committee is composed of the executive Directors (who shall ensure coor-dination with the Group’s management) and some non-executive Directors; the Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Board of Directors.  Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding its current composition.As provided for by the Self-regulatory Code of the Company, the Committee has the task of monitoring the Company and Group performance, approving, upon the proposal of the executive Directors, the organizational macro-structures, formulating opinions to the Board of Directors on the budget and the strategic, industrial and financial plans of the Company and the Group and carrying out any other duties assigned by the Board of Directors relat-ing to matters that can be delegated.The Committee reports to the Board on the activities carried out in the most appropriate ways, and, in any case, each time at the following Board meeting.Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the meetings held in 2010 and the percentages of attendance by members of the Committee.
Other executive Directors
There are no executive Directors on the Board of Directors other than the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Independent Directors
Telecom Italia has adopted the criteria established by the Self-reg-ulatory Code of Borsa Italiana for the qualification of the independ-ence of Directors. Based on the information provided by the Di-
rectors, Paolo Baratta, Roland Berger, Elio Cosimo Catania, Jean Paul Fitoussi and Luigi 
zingales are independent Board member
s
The Board of Directors, at its meeting of February 24, 2011, verified the independence re-quirements of its members, pursuant to art. 147-ter, subsection 4, of the CFL, noting that the requirements of the composition of the administrative body in its entirety (the presence of at least two independent Directors according to the criteria established by law for Audi-tors) had been respected.The Board of Auditors monitored the verification of the requirements and the correct appli-cation of the criteria of independence.
Lead Independent Director
The Lead Independent Director, Paolo Baratta, is currently the Chairman of the Commit-tee for Internal control and corporate governance, as well as a member of the Supervisory Board under Legislative Decree no. 231/2001.The Lead Independent Director is the point of reference and coordination for the issues and contributions of the independent Directors. He is granted the right to use corporate structures to perform the tasks entrusted to him and to convene special meetings of the Independent Directors (Independent Directors’ Executive Sessions) to discuss issues af-fecting the functioning of the Board of Directors or the management of the business. Dur-ing 2010 the Independent Directors formally met once.Pursuant to the Self-regulatory Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is assisted the executive cOmmittee, made up 
Of executive and n On-executive 
direct Ors,
 has the task t O 
delibera
te On issues pr Ovided  
by the self-regulat Ory cOde 
while rep Orting its a
ctivities  
tO the bOard| shareh OLDers stakeh OLDer interni  | 145
by the Lead Independent Director in improving the functioning of the administrative body 
(including the identification of topics to be examined by the entire Board).
handling of corporate information
Please refer to the full text of the Report for information in this respect.
board committees
In addition to the aforementioned Executive Committee, the Board also has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee and a Committee for Internal Control and Corporate Govern-ance, whose functions are described in the Company’s Self-regulatory Code.
nomination and remuneration committee
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises non-executive Directors, the ma-jority of whom are independent directors, with at least one Director from a minority slate.  Its current composition can be found in the full text of the Report.The Committee is responsible for providing advice and recommendations •	on the remuneration of the Directors who hold particular positions, in order to ensure alignment with the objective of creating shareholder value over time; 
•	on the periodic evaluation of the criteria for the remuneration of the Company’s top man-agement and the adoption, following the indication of the managing directors, of any stock option plans or share assignment plans; 
•	on the monitoring of the implementation of decisions taken, and of corporate policy re-garding the compensation of top management, and 
•	on the proposal of candidates to the Board in case of the replacement, during the term of office, of an independent Director.
In 2010, the Committee examined market trends and the evolution of rules regarding re-muneration policies, in order to identify a remuneration structure that would be consist-ent with best practice, competitive and able to retain and motivate management resources identified as critical. With regard to the Top Management team, a policy was pursued of aligning remuneration levels in Telecom Italia with the median for the European Top Ex-ecutive management market. For the remaining managers, similar methods of comparing and aligning remuneration with the relevant national market were used. With regard to the short-term variable incentive system, in 2010, the Committee submitted to the plenary session of the Board of Directors the final proposals for assessing the 2009 performance targets and determining the 2010 performance targets for the CEO (targets that were then assessed in 2011). The performance conditions system of the CEO’s variable remuneration component was then used as the basis for setting the short-term incentive (MBO) for all executives. 
The Committee promoted a policy of alignment between the interests of shareholders and 
the interests of the management, broadening the scope of the incentives to resources in-volved in pursuing the company’s long term objectives. As a result, a long-term remunera-tion plan was launched in 2010 which involved a selected number of executives (“Long Term Incentive Plan 2010-2015”), who had not previously received remuneration based on financial instruments. With a view to ensuring the continuity of the new model, a prepara-tory work was then carried out that led to the formulation of a “Long Term Incentive Plan 2011” proposal on which the Shareholders’ Meeting will be asked to pass a resolution in April 2011.In order to promote share ownership among all employees and strengthen the sense of be-
the cOmmittee Oversees c Omp any 
managers’ n Omina
tiOn and 
remunera
tiOn in Order t O 
ensure alignment t O market 
cOnditi Ons and f
acilitate the 
retenti On Of key res Ourcesshareh OLDers |146 | st akeh OLDer interni  
longing to the Group, in 2010 the Committee also promoted the 2010-2014 Broad-based 
Employee Share Ownership Plan, submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting for approval on April 29, 2010 and launched by the summer, and positively received by its beneficiaries (87% of the share capital increase reserved for them was subscribed).
Finally, the monitoring that began in 2009 of the activities associated with the manage-
ment development system, and the succession planning process for strategic positions, as performed by the Human Resources and Organization department, continued in 2010. The implemented system – which assesses compliance with the Company’s leadership model and the extent to which individual potential can be used in other positions  – was considered by the Committee to be consistent with the strategies and policies of the Tel-ecom Italia Group.Building on this experience, the Committee was instructed by the Board of Directors to explore international best practices with a view to establishing a method for the succes-sion planning of the Chief Executive Officer, essentially in the event of him having to be re-placed prior to the normal expiry of his term of office. This will remedy the current lack of a pre-established succession plan for such an event: the objective being in this case not to have a succession table but to formalise a process which, based on a pre-established profile, allows emergency situations to be handled quickly and in an orderly fashion, with the nomination of candidates remaining in the hands of shareholders in normal situations.The Board of Directors was kept informed of the various activities of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee at its first available meeting.
To fulfil its duties, the Committee has made use of both the internal structures of the Com-
pany and external consultants of its choice (which have no relations with the Company that may compromise the independence of opinion). During 2010, there were eight meetings, all duly minuted and held in plenary sessions. At the meetings (average length: 1.9 hours), from time to time, the managers responsible for the issues under discussion were invited to offer support.In 2011 three meetings have already taken place.
remuneration of directors, general managers and key managers with strategic re-
sponsibilities  
The remunerations received by Directors, General Managers and key Manager s in 2010 
are provided in Note 44 (Other information) to the financial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A..
The Board of Directors, at its meeting of April 15, 2008, proceeded to the distribution of 
the  annual aggregate remuneration of 2.2 million euros approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April, 14 2008, for the three-year period 2008-2010, as follows:•	a remuneration of 110,000 euros for each Director in office;
•	an additional remuneration of 35,000 euros for each member of the Executive Board;
•	an additional remuneration of 45,000 euros for each member of the Committee for in-ternal control and corporate governance;
•	an additional remuneration of 20,000 euros for each member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
•	an additional remuneration of 20,000 euros for the Director appointed to the Supervi-sory Board under Legislative Decree no. 231/2001.
Non-executive Directors receive a remuneration resulting from the distribution of the ag-gregate sum established by the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 14, 2008, as specified above. Their remuneration is not related to the Company’s financial performance nor are they granted access to share plans.| shareh OLDers stakeh OLDer interni  | 147
The Board of Directors, upon the proposal of the Nomination and Remuneration Commit-
tee and after hearing the opinion of the Board of Auditors, established for the executive directors, in addition to the aforementioned remuneration, a fixed remuneration for the po-sition, respectively, equal to 1,300,000 euros for the Chairman and 1,400,000 euros for the CEO, in addition to: •	the availability of a service apartment for the Chairman; 
•	the payment, for social security purposes, of an amount equal to 10% of the fixed remuneration for the CEO; 
•	for both, (i) health insurance coverage and insurance against ac-cidents at and outside of work, life insurance and insurance cov-ering permanent disability due to illness; (ii) an amount equal to the sum necessary in order to pay the applicable taxes on these taxable benefits.
A short-term incentive system is also provided for the CEO with an annual value of between 50% and 200% of his fixed remuneration, depending on the level of achievement of suit-able certifiable indicators, which in the 2010 financial year related to some of the priorities of the 2009-2011 business plan:•	Consolidated Net Income post minorities (weight: 20%), 
•	Net Financial Position (weight: 15%), 
•	consolidated organic ebitda (weight: 15%),
•	total organic domestic revenues (weight: 15%), 
•	Quality, in terms of Customer Satisfaction Index (weight: 15%). 
The objectives of these parameters were set by the 2010 budget target, with the possibility of a negative deviation up to a minimum threshold and maximum pay out when a predeter-mined positive deviation is reached. The variance was differentiated depending on the indi-cator and intermediate performance results were measured according to a linear function. In addition to the quantitative parameters (which accounted for 80% in total) there was a qualitative overall performance evaluation criterion applied to the CEO (accounting for 20%), based on the discretional opinion of the Board of Directors, on a proposal from the Nomina-tion and Remuneration Committee. Based on the degree of achievement of the aforesaid quantitative objectives by the company and the discretional and qualitative evaluation of the activities of the CEO, the bonus awarded to him for 2010 amounted to one full year’s fixed remuneration (100%).For completeness, we note that in 2010 the CEO declined part of the 2009 accrued bonus, which was used to finance scholarships for children of the employees of Group companies. The amount declined equalled 194,000 euros, with regard to an accrued bonus of 980,000 euros.The Chairman and CEO, moreover (see table in Note 44 - Other information to the financial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A.), are assigned stock options pursuant to the plan ap-proved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 14, 2008, in the amount of 3,000,000 for the Chairman and 8,400,000 for the CEO. The applicable terms are best described in the public disclosure published in accordance with art. 84-bis of the Issuer Regulations, available at www.telecomitalia.com, Corporate Section, Governance channel. It should be noted however that 25% of those options is to be considered closed, due to the failure to achieve the per-formance targets to which they were subject, correlated to the Total Shareholders Return of Telecom Italia over the period December 2007-December 2010 with respect to the ten larg-est companies of the DJ Stoxx Tlc index. Therefore, 2,250,000 options remain in the hands of the Chairman and 6,300,000 options in those of the Chief Executive Officer, which are not subject to performance conditions and can be exercised for three years from the expiry of the bOard Of direct Ors 
est
ablishes executive direct Ors’ 
remunera
tiOn,
 fOllOwing the 
prOpOsal Of the n Omina
tiOn and 
remunera
tiOn cOmmitteeshareh OLDers |148 | st akeh OLDer interni  
the vesting period (April 15, 2011), with a purchase strike price set at 1.95 euro per share.
The right to exercise the options is conditioned by the fact that directorship in the Company 
must be retained until the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the 2010 fi-nancial statements. A provision exists however for early vesting and immediate exercisability of options that are not subject to performance conditions in the event of a takeover bid and/or tender offer involving Telecom Italia shares, termination of employment at the Company’s initiative not for just cause, resignation for just cause. The stock option plan also provides for a portion of the options not subject to performance conditions, that is proportional to the fraction of the three-year period that has elapsed before any early cessation of the whole Board of Directors or death of the holder of the options, to be considered vested and imme-diately exercisable.Finally, payment of the sums due up until expiry of their term of office, supplemented by an indemnity equal to one year’s annual remuneration, is contemplated for the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, should they leave office before the expiry of the mandate granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 14, 2008 (approval of financial statements as at De-cember, 31 2010). For the CEO, the variable component is included in the calculation, which is valued as the av-erage of actual payments which have already been made. Severance payment is due in the event of the early termination of the relationship as directors
•	for objective reasons (such as the merger of the Company or the dismissal of the whole 
Board pursuant to Art. 9.10 of the Bylaws), 
•	at the initiative of the Company (except in case of just cause) or 
•	at the initiative of those interested for just cause (e.g.: change in the position, having regard, in particular, to the powers conferred, and significant change of the relevant sharholders). 
At the meeting held on February 3, 2011, the Board of Directors took note of the new team 
of Executives with strategic responsibilities (also called executive officers or key managers), resulting after the entry of the Telecom Argentina Group into the consolidation area of Tel-ecom Italia S.p.A.. These Executives are identified in the persons who hold, pro tempore, the following positions: 
•	Managers of Domestic Market Operations, Technology and Operations, Diretor Presi-
dente of Tim Brasil, Director General Ejecutivo of Telecom Argentina, 
•	General Counsel, Managers of Administration, Finance and Control, Human Resources and Organization, Purchasing, 
to whom the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer (to whom the 
information given below does not apply) are added.The total remuneration paid during the year 2010 to pro tempore executives recognized as having strategic responsibilities is given, in aggregate form, in Note 44 (Other information) to the financial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A.The remuneration of key managers with strategic responsibilities has a variable short-term component linked to the finanical results achieved by the Company and/or the achievement of specific annual objectives in the form of the so-called MBO. A free allocation of a prede-termined number of ordinary shares (under the plan called “Performance Share Granting”) which is variable depending on the actual period of participation in the 2008-2011 Incentive Plan and the degree of achievement of predetermined share performance targets, expressed in terms of absolute and relative Total Shareholder Return, are then granted to key managers and senior management. The information document on the plan is available at the website www.telecomitalia.com, Corporate Section - Governance channel.| shareh OLDers stakeh OLDer interni  | 149
internal control and corporate governance committee
The Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, which has been part of the 
Company’s governance structures since 2000, has the consultative and advisory functions stated in the full text of the Report. Please also refer to the full text of the Report for infor-mation on the main activities performed by the Committee in 2010.The Board has entrusted the Committee, among other responsi-bilities, with the task of high-level supervision related to corporate social responsibility, monitoring, ex post, the consistency of the ac-tions performed in the sector with the principles laid down by the Code of Conduct and Ethics of the Group and the values of Telecom Italia.Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the composition of the Committee (all non-executive directors, most of whom are independent, with at least one taken from a minority slate) and the meetings held in 2010.  
internal control System
The internal control system is a set of rules, procedures and organizational structures that, through a process of identifying, measuring, managing and monitoring the main risks, al-lows the sound and fair operation of the company in line with the pre-established objec-tives. As such this process is aimed at pursuing the values of both procedural and sub-stantial fairness, and transparency and accountability, which are considered key factors for Telecom Italia business, in compliance with the Code of Conduct and Ethics of the Group and the Company’s Self-regulatory Code (both of which can be found on the company web-site www.telecomitalia.com, Corporate section Governance channel).  This process, con-
stantly monitored in light of steady improvement, is intended to ensure, in particular, the efficiency of company operations and entrepreneurial conduct, its transparency and veri-fiability, the reliability of information and management and accounting data, compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as the safeguarding of company integrity and its assets, also in order to prevent fraud against the Company and the financial markets. The Board of Directors, insofar as it is responsible for the internal control system, sets the guidelines, verifying its adequacy, effectiveness and proper functioning, so that the main company risks (operational, compliance-related, economic and financial) are properly iden-tified and managed over time.To ensure a comprehensive approach to risk management, the Telecom Italia Group has implemented an integrated process on the basis of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), which is based on self-assessment of the risk profile by management. Please see § Shareholders / Risk Management for further information.The risks that were mapped were classified into ten clusters (corresponding to the follow-ing macro-causes: Processes, Strategy, Human Resources, Ethics & Compliance, Technol-ogy, Regulations, Markets, Budget, Damages and Finance) which can be organised into five classes: Management Risks, Compliance-related Risks, Risks of Fraud, Continuity Risks and Financial Risks. Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the financial risks identified.
Chief executive in charge of the internal control system
The Board of Directors has identified, in the Chairman, the Director responsible for overseeing the functioning of the internal control system; he/she is then assigned the task of designing tools and methods to adapt the system, and seeing to their adjustment to changes in operat-ing conditions and the legislative and regulatory framework. amOng the resp Onsibilities  
Of the cOmmittee  there  is the 
supervisi On Of the grOup’s 
sustainability  a
ctivitiesshareh OLDers |150 | st akeh OLDer interni  
The Executive Directors, each with reference to the extent of its own powers and in collabora-
tion with the manager responsible for preparing corporate accounting documents and the head of internal control for aspects of specific expertise, using tools and in compliance with condi-tions set as above, ensure the overall adequacy of the system and its practical features, from a risk-based perspective, which is also considered  in the definition of the agenda of the Board meetings.
Manager responsible for internal control
In exercising its responsibility for the internal control system, the Board uses, as well as the Committee for Internal control and Corporate Governance, a person in charge (as al-ready referred to in previous Reports of governance: the consortium Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services) provided with an appropriate level of independence and resources to perform the function, including the ability to access directly, with full autonomy, all the information necessary to perform the assignment. 
The person in charge is responsible for supporting the management and control boards in 
assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the control system and consequently to pro-pose corrective measures in case of anomalies and malfunctions.
Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services and the internal control supervision activities performed in 2010.In 2010, 99 reports were received, 46 of which concerned com-pany business (mainly, alleged collusion between employees and suppliers, employees who carry out the alleged activities in compe-tition with Telecom Italia, probable fraud towards ASSILT and CRALT , unethical behaviour of employees, potential commercial fraud, dis-putes between customers/suppliers and Telecom Italia, criticism of organizational decisions or business rules). Of the reports re-
ceived, in-depth examinations have been conducted (or are in progress/planned), and if necessary, corrective measures have been implemented (or are in progress) by the perti-nent structures. Corrective actions have been taken, judged to be reasonable for the elimi-nation of weaknesses, and specific follow-ups made, according to predetermined criteria and objectives, and continuous monitoring of the individual actions carried out progres-sively according to a new operating model that consists of systematic feedback on compli-ance with the time limits set for implementing the measures, as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of the initiatives taken in terms of overcoming the weaknesses identified in the course of operations.Therefore, with reference to the specific operational contexts analyzed in 2010 and the resulting corrective actions planned and implemented, the internal auditing system as a whole has been deemed appropriate to reduce the risk profiles at a physiological level ac-ceptable to enable the correct operation of its processes.
Organizational model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001
The internal control system is completed with the so-called “Organizational Model 231”, i.e. a model of organization and management adopted pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001, aimed at preventing offences that can result in liability for the Company. This Organizational Model is comprised of: •	the Code of Conduct and Ethics of the Telecom Italia Group, where the general principles (transparency, fairness, loyalty) that guide the Company in the organization and conduct of business are indicated; 
•	the “general principles of internal control” tools to provide a guarantee with regard to the cOnsOrtium telecOm italia 
audit cOmpliance services is 
resp Onsible Of the internal 
cOntrOl,
 supp Orting the Other 
administra
tiOn and c OntrOl 
bOdies in verifying the adequa
cy 
and effectiveness Of the 
prOcesses | shareh OLDers stakeh OLDer interni  | 151
the objectives of efficiency and operational effectiveness, reliability of financial and 
management information, compliance with laws and regulations, safeguarding of assets against possible fraud; 
•	the “principles of conduct”, which consist of specific rules for relations with representa-tives of public administration and for all fulfilments and activities of a corporate nature, and
•	the “internal control checklists” that describe business processes at risk of crime, any crimes committed in relation to them, the preventive control activities aimed at avoiding the related risks. 
The internal control plans have been compiled in accordance with the following basic prin-ciples of control systems: (i) the separation of roles in undertaking the principal activities involved in business processes; (ii) the traceability of decisions, to allow for identification of specific points of responsibility and the motivations for the decisions themselves; and (iii) the objectification of the decision-making processes, so that decisions are not to be purely subjective considerations, but based on pre-established criteria. 
The Organizational Model is a dynamic instrument, which affects the corporate opera-
tion, which in turn must be constantly checked and updated in the light of feedback, as well as the evolution of the regulatory framework. During 2010, it was therefore subject to updating and refinement; in particular, an internal control checklist was introduced aimed at preventing the “risk 231” resulting from the inclusion in the category of rel-evant offences of criminal association and of mafia-type associa-tion. The adoption of the internal control checklist was considered necessary because the criminal cases relating to criminal associa-tion are instrumental with respect to “target-crimes” under the Criminal Code and special laws: hence a considerable expansion of crime-risk relevant to the Legislative Decree No. 231/2001, since most business processes are potentially capable of generating criminal cases (target-crimes) committed as an association. A special working group (also sup-ported by external legal counsel) has therefore identified the main types of “target-crimes” relevant to the Company and the crimes associated with organized crime.
The modifications have been developed by a management committee called the Steer-
ing Committee 231 (composed of the General Counsel, the Head of Human Resources & Organization, the Chairman of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services and the Group Compliance Officer), prepared by the Supervisory body and approved by the Board of Direc-tors when of a significant nature.The Supervisory body monitors the operation and compliance with the Organizational Mod-el 231. It is composed of one member of the Board of Auditors (Board Chairman Ferdi-nando Superti Furga), an independent Director of the Committee for Internal Control and corporate governance (Paolo Baratta), the person responsible for internal control, Chair-man of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services (Federico Maurizio d’Andrea) and an external member (Vincenzo Salafia) identified in 2009 by the Remuneration and Appoint-ment Committee. The Supervisory body, appointed on April 15, 2008, after the renewal of the Board of Directors and for its duration in office, refers to the Board, the Committee for internal control and corporate governance and the Board of Auditors in order to check the activities performed and their results. In order to support the Supervisory bodies of the Companies belonging to the Group, Tele-com Italia Audit & Compliance Services has a specific structure (Compliance 231) in charge of managing the violations of the Organizational Model and carrying out compliance interven-tions according to the evidence received for the information flows instituted inside the Group. 
the Organizati Onal mOdel 231 
is aimed  a
t preventing  Offences  
that can resul
t in liability  fOr 
the cOmp
anyshareh OLDers |152 | st akeh OLDer interni  
Statutory Auditor
The shareholders’ meeting held on April 29, 2010 inter alia, appointed Pricewaterhouse-
Coopers S.p.A. as the statutory auditor, for the nine-year period 2010–2018 (separated financial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A., annual consolidated financial statements, ab-breviated half-yearly consolidated financial statements, annual report pursuant to the US Se-curities Laws). This decision was taken on the basis of the reasoned proposal put forward by the Board of Auditors.Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the procedure adopted by Telecom Italia to assign tasks to the auditing company according to specific Guidelines.
Information about other subjects
Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the office of Executive responsible for preparing the company’s accounting documents, the risk management and internal control system in relation to the financial reporting process and the specific focus on “Material Weakness” regarding the internal control system.
Please refer to the full text of the Report for information on the rules regarding the inter-
ests of directors and transactions with related parties. The new Procedure for Transactions with Related Parties is available at www.telecomitalia.com – Corporate section – Govern-ance channel. 
appointment of auditors
Pursuant to Art. 17 of the Bylaws (modified on September 30, 2010, in light of Legislative Decree No. 27/2010), the Board of Auditors is composed of five standing auditors. The Meeting also appoints four alternate auditors.The Board of Auditors is appointed in accordance with the law and applicable regulations, on the basis of slates presented to the registered office of the Company (at least twenty five days prior to the date set for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting first call) made by per-sons entitled to vote who jointly or separately hold shares representing at least 0.5% of share capital with voting rights, or the different measure required by Consob for presenta-tion of the slates of candidates for the appointment of the Board of Directors (Resolution No. 17633 of January 26, 2011 set the said percentage for Telecom Italia at 1%).
The slates are divided into two sections: one for candidates for the office of Standing Au-
ditor and the other for candidates for the office of Alternate Auditor.  Three standing and two alternate auditors are chosen from the slate that obtains the majority of the votes (so-called Majority Slate), while the remaining standing and alternate auditors are chosen from other slates (so-called Minority Slates), in compliance with the applicable regulations concerning the limits of connection with the Majority Slate. For this purpose, the votes ob-tained from the Minority Slate are divided first by one and then by two and the quotients are assigned to the candidates of one section and of the other, according to the order listed. On the basis of the quotients assigned, the candidates on the various slates are arranged in a single decreasing ranking for the appointment of the standing auditor position and in a single decreasing ranking for the appointment of the alternate auditor position and those who have obtained the two highest quotients are elected. If more than one candidate ob-tains the same quotient, the candidate from the slate that has not yet elected an auditor is elected or, subordinately, there is a tiebreaker vote by the entire Shareholders’ Meeting and the candidate who obtains the majority of the votes is elected
In the event that an auditor chosen from the Majority Slate or one of the Minority Slates 
should cease to serve, the alternate from the Majority Slate or the Minority Slate shall take his/her place. In the event that a standing auditor chosen from the Minority Slate should | shareh OLDers stakeh OLDer interni  | 153
cease to serve, the principle of necessary representation of the minority shall be deemed 
to have occurred if one of the alternate auditors chosen from the Minority Slate takes his/her place.Please refer to the full text of the Report for information regarding the composition of the Board of Auditors, the composition of the slates from which the members are drawn, the remunerations fixed by the Shareholders’ Meeting and the number of meetings held in 2010.
The curricula vitae of the members of the control body are available at www.telecomitalia.
com, Corporate Section - Governance channel. Please refer to the Board of Auditor’s Re-port to the Shareholders’ Meeting, drawn up in accordance with article 153 of the Con-solidated Finance Law, for detailed information on the activities performed by the Board of Auditors.
Shareholders meetings
The Bylaws were amended pursuant to the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 27/2010 as regards legitimacy to attend the Meeting and procedures for notifying proxies by elec-tronic means with Board resolution of September 30, 2010. Pursuant to law, the shareholders entitled to attend the Meeting and to vote are those for whom the reference intermediary sent the Company specific communication certifying such right at the record date (seventh working day prior to the meeting first call). Those who are holders of shares only after such date will not be entitled to attend the Meeting and vote. Ordinary shareholders may exercise their right to vote by mail, as well as be represent-ed, by giving a proxy to a physical or legal person, including the representative appointed by the Company (which has not exercised the opt-out allowed by Legislative Decree No. 27/2010). In order to facilitate the collection of proxies among employee ordinary shareholders of the Company and its subsidiaries who belong to shareholder associations satisfying the requirements established by law, special areas shall be made available for the communica-tion and performance of the activity. To ensure the regular conduct of shareholders’ meetings, since 2000 the Company has adopted the Regulations for the Shareholders’ Meetings, available at www.telecomitalia.com, Corporate section, Governance channel.
the greenfield project 
Please refer to the summary attached to the Report for information regarding the reason-ing, scope of work, results and considerations of the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia regarding the internal review known as the “Greenfield Project”.shareh OLDers |*
target status:  
    achie
ved 
    not achieved1
the full list of mobile service quality 
indicators, and the respectiv
e objec-
tives and actual figures for 2009, are 
available at www.tim.it.  
the full list of quality indicators for 
fixed netw
ork and iPtV inter
net access 
services, and the respective objec-tives and actual figures for 2009, are available at www.telecomitalia.it.. 
the 
results are communicated during the y
ear following publication of the sus-
tainability report for the year to which the objectives refer.1. 2009 Results  
The results achieved in respect of the objectives for 2009, published in the 2008 Sustain-
ability Report are shown below.
1.1 tElEcom italia S.p . a. – cuStomErS(1)
area of  
referenceindicator unit of 
measure-
menttargets 
2009results  
2009Status target
(*) 
2009
Customers - 
MobileActivation time for voice service – Pre-paid service – Percent-age of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract % 97 99.9
Customers - MobileActivation time for voice service – Post-paid service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract % 97 99.1
Customers - MobileCustomer assistance services  – Average response time of the operator to incoming calls Seconds 40 26
Customers - MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received during the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period  (post-paid service)% 1.8 0.4
Customers - MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 5 0.3
Customers - InternetActivation time for services of broadband access – Percent-age of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines) % 90 99.9
Customers - InternetActivation time for services of broadband access –  Average time of supply (active telephone lines) Days 11 6
Customers - InternetBroadband internet access service faults  – Average repair timeHours 34 23
Customers - InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period  % 1.5 0.52
Customers   Fixed (Inter-net/IPTV)Customer assistance response time – Average time of operator response to incoming calls  Seconds 105 80
Customers - IPTVActivation time of the IPTV service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer  % 78 79.4
Customers - IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.6 0.23
Customers - IPTVAvailability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of the serviceHours/
year50 13
158 | aPPenDiX
2. 2010 Results 
The results achieved in respect of the objectives published in the 2009 Sustainability Re-
port are shown below.
2.1 tElEcom italia S.p. a. – othEr St akEhold ErS
area of  
referenceindicator unit of 
measure-
menttargets
2010results  
2010target 
status2010
The Community Telecom Italia Foundation – Fi-
nancial commitment provided 
with respect to the Group’s EBITDA % 0.05 0.05
(1)
Human Resourc-es - TrainingTraining in Health, Safety and Environment issues
(2)Hours of training95,000 64,421
Human Resourc-es - TrainingTraining – Training hours per head
(3)  Training hours per head33 25
Human Resourc-es - TrainingTraining - Coverage (percent-age of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one training session)% 80 81.3
Human Resourc-es - AccidentsAccidents per 100 workers Number <1.97 1.70
Human Resourc-es - AccidentsReduction in the severity index
(4)Number <0.42 0.20
The Environment - EnergyEco-efficiency indicator
(5)bit/Joule 1,410 1,699
The Environment - EnergySelf-production of electricity from renewable sourceskWh 500,000 216,000
The Environment - EnergyTotal electrical energy pro-cured or producedGWh 2,136 2,064
The Environment - EnergyNumber of fuel cell plants in replacement of lead batter-ies
(6)Number 80 85
The Environment - Atmospheric emissionsReduction of the quantity of ozone-harmful gas used in air-conditioning systems and cooling systemskg 5,970 7,357
The Environment - Atmospheric emissionsReduction of CO
2 emissions 
resulting from the replace-ment of Euro3 cars with Euro5 cars
(7)Tonnes 1,660 1684
The Environment - PaperFSC certified paper purchased for office use
(8)% 100 100
The Environment - PaperUsed paper sent for recycling Tonnes 20,000 21,198
1
in 2009, the ti Group’ s eBitDa was 
11,115 million euro.
 thereb
y the 
amount disbursed to the telecom 
italia Foundation in 2010 was 
5,557,000 euro.
2
training delivered directly by the 
sPPa (Pre
vention, Protection and 
en
vironment ser
vices) function of the 
human resources and Org
anization 
Department.
3
the figure includes classroom, online 
and on-the-hob training.
4
the severity index shows the working 
days lost during the y
ear for every 
thousand hours worked.
5
For further information on the eco-
efficiency indicator see § the en
viron-
ment/ energ
y.
6
the introduction of an additional 80 
plants, planned as an objectiv
e for 
2010, avoids the use (and subse-quent disposal) of 240 tonnes of lead. 
an assessment of the total life 
cycle sho
ws a benefit in CO2 not emit-
ted equal to around 100 tonnes com-pared to traditional batteries.
7
a reduction of over 30% in CO2 emis-
sions is achieved using euro5 cars
 
instead of euro3.
 the objectiv
e was 
calculated considering the emissions of cars to be replaced in 2011.
8
measured against the total paper 
purchased for office use F sC = Forest 
ste
wardship Council.  aPPenDiX | 159
The Environment 
– Electromagnetic emissionsSAR qualification
(9)% 100 100
Digital Inclusion ADSL coverage(10)% 97.2 97.02
Digital Inclusion IPTV coverage(10)% 59.3 61.8 (12)
Digital Inclusion UMTS and HSDPA coverage(11)% 84.3 83.95 (13)
2.2 tElEcom italia S.p. a. – cuStomErS
area of  
referenceindicator(1)unit of 
measure-
menttargets
2010results 
2010(2)
Customers - 
MobileActivation time for voice service – Pre-paid Service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers - MobileActivation time for voice service – Post-paid Service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers - MobileCustomer assistance services  – Average re-sponse time of the operator to incoming callsSeconds 40
Customers - MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period  (post-paid service)% 1.6
Customers - MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.3
Customers - InternetActivation time for broadband Internet ac-cess services – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)% 92
Customers - InternetActivation time for broadband Internet access services –  Average time of supply (active telephone lines)Days 10
Customers - InternetBroadband internet access service faults  – Average repair timeHours 32
Customers - InternetCustomer assistance services  – Average re-sponse time of the operator to incoming callsSeconds 78
Customers - InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period% 1.4
Customers - IPTVActivation time of the IPTV service – percent-age of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer% 78
9
this is the percentage of mobile 
phones subject to the sar (specific 
absorption rate) qualification.
 the 
percentag
e is calculated on the most 
widespread and technologically in-
novative models of mobile phone handsets.
10
the percentage refers to fixed tel-
ephone lines.
11
the percentage refers to the resident 
population.
12
the increased speed of growth in 
iPtV co
verage is a result of the aDsL 
desaturation plan (w
hich involves the 
widespread use of D sLam ether
net, 
with a resulting benefit for the growth of 
iPtV).
13
the result was below target because 
2.1 G hz frequencies w
ere used (in-
stead of 900 mhz frequencies) w
hich 
have a lower signal capacity.
1
the full list of mobile service quality 
indicators, and the respectiv
e objec-
tives and actual figures for 2010, are available at www.tim.it.  
the full list of quality indicators for 
fixed netw
ork and iPtV inter
net access 
services, and the respective objec-tives for 2010, are available at www.telecomitalia.it.
2
the actual figures for 2010 will be 
published in July 2011 on the web-sites stated in note (1).160 | aPPenDiX
Customers - 
IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time of operator response to incoming callsSeconds 80
Customers - IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices con-taining charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.4
Customers - IPTVAvailability of IPTV service – Average unavail-ability of the serviceHours/
year40
2.3 tim braSil
area of  
referenceindicator unit of 
measure-
menttargets 
2010results  
2010target 
status 2010
Human  
ResourcesVoluntary service work (per-centage of employees who benefit from at least 1 day’s leave in lieu for taking part in voluntary activities) % 1 1,6
Human  Resources Training (total number of hours: in class + on line + on the job) provided to its own employees, outsourced employees and interns.Training hours715,000 897,954
Human  Resources Training – coverage (percentage of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one training session) % 97 82
Human  ResourcesTraining - sustainability (n° of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one training session on sustainability issues)% 20 35
The Environment Ratio between recycled waste and the total waste generated in the offices% 51 60
The Environment Reduction of electricity con-sumption in the offices
(1)GWh 1 0.7
The Environment Reduction of water consump-tion in the officesm
32,400 22,094
The Environment Mobile phones, batteries and accessories collected and sent for recyclingTonnes 12 15
The Environment SAR qualification Brazil
(2)% 25 25
1
a further reduction in electricity con-
sumption in offices until the objective 
is achie
ved has been planned once 
again for 2011. 
2
this is the percentage of mobile 
phones subject to the sar (specific 
absorption rate) qualification.
 the 
percentag
e is calculated on the most 
widespread and technologically in-novative models of mobile phone handsets. aPPenDiX | 161
Suppliers Percentage of suppliers as-
sessed under sustainability 
criteria(6)Number 70 70
3. 2011 objeCtIves 
The objectives for 2011 are shown below.
3.1 tElEcom italia S.p. a. – cuStomErS
area of  
referenceindicator(1)unit of 
measure-
menttargets  
2011
Customers - 
MobileActivation time for voice service – Pre-paid Service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers - MobileActivation time for voice service – Post-paid Service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers - MobileCustomer assistance services  – Average response time of the operator to incoming callsSeconds 35
Customers - MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period  (post-paid service)% 1.4
Customers - MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.2
Customers - InternetActivation time for broadband access services – Percent-age of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)% 94
Customers - InternetActivation time for broadband access services –  Average time of supply (active telephone lines)Days 9
Customers - InternetBroadband internet access service faults  – Average repair timeHours 30
Customers - InternetCustomer assistance services  – Average response time of the operator to incoming callsSeconds 70
Customers - InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period% 1.2
Customers - IPTVActivation time of the IPTV service – percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer% 78
Customers - IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time of operator response to incoming callsSeconds 70
1
the full list of mobile service quality 
indicators, and the respectiv
e objec-
tives and actual figures for 2011, are 
available at www.tim.it.  
the full list of quality indicators for 
fixed netw
ork and iPtV inter
net access 
services, and the respective objec-tives for 2011, are available at www.telecomitalia.it.162 | aPPenDiX
3.2 tElEcom italia S.p. a. – othEr St akEhold Er
area of  
referenceindicator unit of 
measure-
mentresults 
2010results 
2011
The Commu-
nity Telecom Italia Foundation – Financial commitment provided with respect to the Group’s EBITDA % 0.05 0.05
Human Resources - TrainingTraining in Health, Safety and Environ-ment issues
(1)Training hours64,421 75,000
Human Resources - TrainingTraining – Training hours per head
(2)Training hours per head25 28
Human Resources - TrainingTraining – companies coverage (no. of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one train-ing session)% 81.3 81.5
Human Resources - AccidentsAccidents per 100 workers Number 1.70 <1.97
The Environ-ment - EnergyEco-efficiency indicator
(3)bit/Joule 1,699 1,900
The Environ-ment - EnergyTotal electricity procured or produced GWh 2,064 2,064
The Environ-ment - EnergySelf-production of electricity from renew-able sourceskWh 216,000 300,000
The Environ-ment - EnergySelf-production of electricity from mixed sources (cogeneration)MWh 63,753 75,000
The Environ-ment - EnergyNumber of fuel cell plants in replacement of lead batteries
(4)Number 85 45
The Environ-ment - EnergyNumber of fluorescent lighting installa-tions replaces
(5)Number - 70,000
The Environ-ment - EnergyPurchase of new high energy efficiency Access Gateways with the Telecom Italia Green logoNumber - 500,000
The Environ-ment - Atmospheric emissionsReduction of the quantity of ozone-harm-ful gas used in air-conditioning systems and cooling systems
kg 7,357
8,000
The Environ-ment - Atmospheric emissionsReduction of CO
2 emissions resulting 
from the replacement of Euro3 cars with Euro4 cars
(6)Tonnes 1,684 510
1
training delivered directly by sPPa 
(Pre
vention, Protection and en
viron-
ment).  
2
the data includes classroom, online 
and on-the-job training.
3
For further information on the eco-
efficiency indicator see the en
viron-
ment/ energ
y.
4
the introduction of an additional 45 
plants, planned as an objectiv
e for 
2011, avoids the use (and subse-quent disposal) of 135 tonnes of lead. 
an assessment of the total life 
cycle sho
ws a benefit in CO2 not emit-
ted of over 50 tonnes compared to traditional batteries.
5
modern L eD lighting systems provide 
significant benefits in terms of lo
wer 
electricity consumption and reduc-tions in the disposal of materials/use of resources.
6
a reduction of around 30% in CO2 
emissions is achieved with euro4 cars 
compared to euro3 cars.
 the targ
et 
has been calculated considering the emissions of the models that have been effectively replaced.
7
this is the percentage of mobile 
phones subject to the sar (specific 
absorption rate) qualification.
 the 
percentag
e is calculated on the most 
widespread and  technologically in-novative models of mobile phone handsets.
8 
the percentage refers to fixed tel-
ephone lines.
9 
the percentage refers to the resident 
population.Customers - 
IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.2
Customers - IPTVAvailability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of the serviceHours/
year36 aPPenDiX | 163
The Environ-
ment - PaperUsed paper sent for recycling Tonnes 21,198 20,000
The Environ-ment – Elec-tromagnetic emissionsSAR qualification
(7)% 100 100
Digital Inclu-sionADSL coverage
(8)% 97.02 98
Digital Inclu-sionIPTV coverage
(8)% 61.8 67.3
Digital Inclu-sionUMTS and HSDPA coverage
(9)% 83.95 84.5
3.3 tim braSil
area of  
referenceindicator unit of 
measure-
mentresults 
2010targets 
2011
Human  
ResourcesVoluntary service work (percentage of employees who benefit from at least 1 day’s leave in lieu for taking part in voluntary activities) % 1.6 1
Human  ResourcesTraining (total number of hours: in class + on line + on the job) provided to its own employees, outsourced employees and interns.Training hours897,954 715,000
Human  ResourcesTraining: percentage of own employees, outsourced employees and interns out of the total workforce who took part in at least one training session on sustain-ability issues% 35 20
The Environment Ratio between recycled waste and the total waste generated in the offices% 60 55
The Environment Reduction of electricity consumption in the officesGWh 0.7 0.3
The Environment Mobile phones, batteries and accesso-ries collected and sent for recyclingTonnes 15 12
Suppliers Percentage of the main suppliers as-
sessed under sustainability criteriaNumber 74 140
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Sede legale: Milano 20149 Via Monte Rosa 91 Tel. 02667201 Fax 0266720501 Cap. Soc. 1.800.000 Euro i.v.
Imp.Milano N. 03230150967 – Altri Uffici:
40069 Via Tevere 18 Tel. 0516186211
58 Tel. 08136181 - Padova 35138 Via Vicenza 4 Tel. 049873431 Fax 0498734399
0917829221 - Roma 00154 Largo Fochetti 28 Tel. 06570831 Fax 0657083236
0115773299- Treviso 31100 Viale Felissent 90 Tel. 0422696911 Fax 0422696902
040364737
www.pwc.com/it
INDEPENDENT REPORT ON THE LIMITED
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
To the Shareholders of
Telecom Italia SpA
1. We have carried out
Telecom Italia Group (hereafter the “Group”)
following the verification procedures summarized in paragraph 3 to this Report.
Directors of Telecom Italia SpA
with the Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness principles included in
AccountAbility Principles Standard
(Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability), as described in the
Planning”. The Board of
Group objectives with regard to the sustainabili
The Board of Directors are
significant aspects to report, as well as for the implementation and maintenance of appropriate
management and internal control processes concerning data and information included in the
Report . We are responsible for the preparation of this Report on
performed.
2. Our work has been conducted in accordance with the principles
limited assurance engagement
3000 - Assurance Engagements other than A
Information (ISAE 3000)
Board. These principle
Ethics for Professional Accountants
professional independence. It also requires that our work
aim of obtaining a limited assurance,
of material errors.
Furthermore, our work has been conducted taking into account, consistently with the
AccountAbility Assurance Standard (2008)
valuation of the reliability of
Appendix 1.
A limited assurance engagement of
with company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information
sustainability report, in the analysis of the
procedures.
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
20149 Via Monte Rosa 91 Tel. 02667201 Fax 0266720501 Cap. Soc. 1.800.000 Euro i.v.
Altri Uffici: Bari 70124 Via Don Luigi Guanella 17 Tel. 0805640311 Fax 0805640349
-Firenze 50121 Viale Gramsci 15 Tel. 0552482811 Fax 0552482899
35138 Via Vicenza 4 Tel. 049873431 Fax 0498734399 -Palermo 90141 Via Marchese Ugo 60 Tel
00154 Largo Fochetti 28 Tel. 06570831 Fax 0657083236 -Torino 10129 Corso Montevecchio 37 Tel. 0115773211 Fax
31100 Viale Felissent 90 Tel. 0422696911 Fax 0422696902 –Trieste 34125 Via Cesare Battisti 1INDEPENDENT REPORT ON THE LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
We have carried out the limited assurance engagement of the S ustainability
Telecom Italia Group (hereafter the “Group”) as of 31 December 2010 (hereafter the “Report”),
verification procedures summarized in paragraph 3 to this Report.
Telecom Italia SpA are responsible for the preparation o f the
Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness principles included in
AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) (AA1000APS - 2008), issued by
(Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability), as described in the paragraph
Board of Directors of Telecom Italia SpA are responsible for
Group objectives with regard to the sustainabili ty performance and reporting results achieved
of Directors are also responsible for the identification of the stakeholders and
significant aspects to report, as well as for the implementation and maintenance of appropriate
management and internal control processes concerning data and information included in the
. We are responsible for the preparation of this Report on the basis of
Our work has been conducted in accordance with the principles and guidelines established,
assurance engagement , by the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
Assurance Engagements other than A udits or Reviews of Historical Financial
Information (ISAE 3000) , issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards
principle srequire the compliance with applicable ethical
Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants
professional independence. It also requires that our work is planned and performed with the
a limited assurance, rather than a reasonable assurance
Furthermore, our work has been conducted taking into account, consistently with the
AccountAbility Assurance Standard (2008) (AA1000AS - 2008), those aspects relevant for the
reliability of data and information on sustain ability performance
assurance engagement of the sustainability report consists in
company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information
sustainability report, in the analysis of the sustainability report and in other
20149 Via Monte Rosa 91 Tel. 02667201 Fax 0266720501 Cap. Soc. 1.800.000 Euro i.v. - C.F. e P.IVA e Iscrizione al Reg.
70124 Via Don Luigi Guanella 17 Tel. 0805640311 Fax 0805640349 -Bologna Zola Predosa
50121 Viale Gramsci 15 Tel. 0552482811 Fax 0552482899 -Napoli 80121 Piazza dei Martiri
90141 Via Marchese Ugo 60 Tel . 0916256313 Fax
10129 Corso Montevecchio 37 Tel. 0115773211 Fax
34125 Via Cesare Battisti 1 8 Tel. 0403480781 FaxASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT
ustainability Report of the
31 December 2010 (hereafter the “Report”),
verification procedures summarized in paragraph 3 to this Report. The Board of
f the Report in accordance
Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness principles included in AA1000
2008), issued by AccountAbility
paragraph “Reporting and
responsible for the definition of the
ty performance and reporting results achieved .
the stakeholders and of the
significant aspects to report, as well as for the implementation and maintenance of appropriate
management and internal control processes concerning data and information included in the
the basis of the work
and guidelines established, for a
International Standard on Assurance Engagements
udits or Reviews of Historical Financial
International Auditing and Assurance Standards
require the compliance with applicable ethical principles ( Code of
International Federation of Accountants ), including
is planned and performed with the
rather than a reasonable assurance , that the Report is free
Furthermore, our work has been conducted taking into account, consistently with the AA1000
those aspects relevant for the
ability performance detailed in
the sustainability report consists in interviews, primarily
company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information included in the
report and in other verification3 The verification procedures performe
 comparison between the
Report with those
December 2010;
 analysis of design and implementation of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
issues to them;
 analysis of the processes underlying the
quantitative data included in the Rep
with Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA
Services Srl management representatives
qualitative risk analysis,
accounting and reporting system
control process
transmission of data and
 meetings and discussions with
Participaçoes SA
the processes utilized to
principles included in the
 analysis, on a sample basis, of the
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information
in the above- mentioned
performance , as
 verification of the
 participation, as observers,
 analysis of the most relevant aspects
comparison
 meetings and interviews with
sustainability reporting
 obtaining a representation letter, s
relating to the completeness and reliability of t
included in it, as well as to the compliance with the
A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
carried out in accordance with
assurance that we bec
reasonable assurance engagement could have identifiedprocedures performe don the Report are summarized
between the economic and financial information and
those included in the Group consolidated financial statements
2010;
design and implementation of governanc e and management system of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of Telecom Italia SpA
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
nalysis of the processes underlying the generation, recording and management
quantitative data included in the Rep ort. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA
management representatives selected on the basis of a
risk analysis, in order to achieve a general understanding of
accounting and reporting system in use to prepare the Report , as well as
process esand procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing and
transmission of data and information to the department responsible for
eetings and discussions with Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIM
Participaçoes SA and HR Services Srl management, in order to unde
the processes utilized to comply with the Inclusivity, Materiality
principles included in the AA1000APS – 2008 standard;
nalysis, on a sample basis, of the documentation supporting the Report
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information
mentioned meetings and discussions and regarding
, asincluded in Appendix 1;
erification of the engagement of stakeholders, through:
articipation, as observers, to some of the focus groups organized
nalysis of the most relevant aspects arisen and documented in internal minutes
comparison with data and information included in the Report
eetings and interviews with some employees to understand their awareness
sustainability reporting process;
btaining a representation letter, s igned by the legal representative
relating to the completeness and reliability of t he Report and of the information and data
included in it, as well as to the compliance with the principles referred to in paragraph 1
assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
in accordance with ISAE 3000 and, as a consequence, it provides a lower level of
became aware of all the significant events and circumstances
reasonable assurance engagement could have identified .
2d i3on the Report are summarized as follows:
anddata included in the
in the Group consolidated financial statements as of 31
e and management system of
elecom Italia SpA , as well as of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
generation, recording and management of
ort. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA and HR
selected on the basis of a quantitative and
to achieve a general understanding of the information,
, as well as of the internal
and procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing and
information to the department responsible for drawing it up;
Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIM
management, in order to unde rstand and evaluate
Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness
supporting the Report in order to obtain
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information obtained
and regarding the sustainability
organized ,
documented in internal minutes and
included in the Report ,
to understand their awareness on the
legal representative of Telecom Italia SpA,
he Report and of the information and data
principles referred to in paragraph 1 .
assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
provides a lower level of
events and circumstances that aAs far as data and information concerning the sustainab
for comparative purposes, are concerned, refer to the
by another audit firm
4 Based on the procedures carried out
the sustainability r eport of Telecom Italia Group
in all material respects, with
the paragraph “Reporting
included in Appendix 1
Turin, 28 March 2011
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
Paolo Bersani
(Partner)
This report has been translated from the original, which was issued in Italian.
Wehave not performed any control on the Sustainability Report 2010 translation.As far as data and information concerning the sustainab ility report of
for comparative purposes, are concerned, refer to the assurance report issued on 20 April 2010
by another audit firm .
Based on the procedures carried out , nothing came to our attention that causes us to believe
eport of Telecom Italia Group as of 31 December 2010
in all material respects, with AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard
“Reporting and Planning” of the Re port, and that the sustainability performance
included in Appendix 1 is not reliable.
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
This report has been translated from the original, which was issued in Italian.
have not performed any control on the Sustainability Report 2010 translation.
3 di 3ofthe prior year, presented
report issued on 20 April 2010
that causes us to believe that
31 December 2010 is not in compliance,
AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) , as stated in
port, and that the sustainability performance
This report has been translated from the original, which was issued in Italian.
have not performed any control on the Sustainability Report 2010 translation.Appendix 1 D ata and information
Area Informa
Economic value Economic value generated and distributed
Human Resources Training Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Human Resources Training
Human Resources Accidents Telecom Italia S.p.A
Human Resources People caring
Human Resources Turn
Environment Heating
Environment Vehicles
Environment Number of vehicles and distance travelled
Environment Electricity procured and produced
Environment Atmospheric emissions
Environment Waste consigned
EnvironmentMobile phones, batteries and accessories collected and sent for
recycling TIM Brasil
Stakeholder
InvolvementStakeholder Involvement
Community How the contribution to the community is measured
Community Initiatives consistent with the core business
Community Initiatives for general community development
Customers Customer Satisfaction Index
Customers C ustomer satisfaction concerning customer care
Customers Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage
Customers The conciliation procedures
Customers Certifications
Suppliers Suppliers and
Suppliers Definition of the Ethics and Sustainability check list
Suppliers Percentage of the main suppliers assessed under sustainability criteria
Competitors The Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM)
Competitors Competitive positioning
Institutions Relations with local institutions
Institutions Smart Services
Shareholders Financial communication
Shareholders Risk Management
Shareholders Corporate Governanceata and information on sustainability performance
Informa tion/KPI
Economic value generated and distributed
Training Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Training TIM Brasil
Accidents Telecom Italia S.p.A
People caring
Turn over Telecom Italia SpA, Turnover TIM Brasil
Heating systems
Vehicles
Number of vehicles and distance travelled
Electricity procured and produced
Atmospheric emissions
Waste consigned Telecom Italia SpA
Mobile phones, batteries and accessories collected and sent for
recycling TIM Brasil
Stakeholder Involvement
How the contribution to the community is measured
Initiatives consistent with the core business
Initiatives for general community development
Customer Satisfaction Index
ustomer satisfaction concerning customer care
Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage
The conciliation procedures
Certifications
Suppliers and subcontractor audits
Definition of the Ethics and Sustainability check list
Percentage of the main suppliers assessed under sustainability criteria
The Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM)
Competitive positioning
Relations with local institutions
Smart Services
Financial communication
Risk Management
Corporate GovernancePage
34
125
163
129
118
112
72
73
74
76
78
83
Mobile phones, batteries and accessories collected and sent for163
29
96
97
99
41
41
Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage 44
51
43
58
59
Percentage of the main suppliers assessed under sustainability criteria 163
68
66
62
63
138
139
140cont actS
Group Sustainability
Telecom Italia S.p.A.Corso d’Italia, 4100198 RomaFax: +39 06 3688 2803www.telecomitalia.com
SEnd your  SuggEStionS to:
groupsustainability@telecomitalia.itGRAPHIC DESIGN
CB’a Design Solutions
Printed in May 2011
Cert no. SQS-COC-100548
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2010
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010