>> Sustainability Section
extract from 2006 Annual Report Sustainability Section » Summary 1Summary
Executive Deputy Chairman’s message 2
Introduction Results 3
Acknowledgements 5
Sustainability strategy for 2007-2009 6
2007 Objectives 7
Stakeholder Involvement 8
References 9
Charters, Codes and Values 11
Reporting and planning 12
Hot Topics 13
Financial data and added value 14
External Customers 15
Stakeholders Suppliers 22
Competitors 25
Institutions 28
The Environment 32
The Community 41
Internal Human Resources 49
Stakeholders Shareholders 61
Auditors’ report Auditors’ report (Ernst & Young) 80Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Sustainability section » Executive Deputy Chairman 2The vocation of Telecom Italia to operate in the hi-technology telecommunications industry
blends with the awareness of the fundamental service that a Group like ours provides in
the economic and social development of all the countries in which it operates.This awareness is closely tied with the firm belief that our business activities have to be
carried out taking into account the stakeholders’expectations, in line with internationally
accredited Sustainability standards.
Telecom Italia, which adhered in 2002 to the Global Compact promoted by the United
Nations, confirms its commitment to supporting GC principles and to spreading them inthe countries in which it operates. 
In 2006 the Group has been confirmed in the main sector stock indexes, both at national
and international level; the qualitative targets set for 2006 with regard to the environmentwere reached, while quantitative targets relative to Customers, Human Resources, The
Environment and Digital Divide were defined for 2007; two corporate policies were
developed, one related to the safeguard of working conditions and human rights for all
the Group's subsidiaries in Italy and abroad, and the other related to the safeguard of thevalues on which the Group’s Code of Ethics hinges, in supplier relations.In 2007 we will again promote important national and international initiatives in line with
the commitments undertaken with regard to Sustainability, including the attention to thelevel of emissions responsible for the greenhouse effect. We will give special support to
the “Alliance” launched by the European Commission in 2006 in order to make our
continent a pole of excellence in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility.
We do believe in our commitments and we will continue to operate with resolution in
order to confirm Telecom Italia as an industrial asset which is vital for the modernisationand the social and economic development of Italy and all those countries where we areconfirming the quality of our technologies, services and people.
Carlo Buora
Executive Deputy ChairmanExecutive Deputy Chairman’s message
For the past ten years the Telecom Italia Group has been analysing its own performance
towards the stakeholders on which the Group depends and, at the same time, influences byits own activities: Customers, Suppliers, Competitors, Institutions, the Environment, the
Community, Human Resources, Shareholders.
The Sustainability Section is included in the Annual Report, thus confirming the intention
of the Group to present its financial performance together with the non-financial one.
Sustainability Section » Introduction »Results 3
IntroductionIntroduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Results
The results achieved in 2006 with respect to goals set in the 2005 reporting are detailed
below.
•“Evolution” Project: it has been developed according to the performance improvement goals
set with regard to customers, in particular concerning the time for fixed line activation and
for technical assistance. A detailed description of results attained is included in paragraph
“Customer focus” in the “Customers” chapter.
• Environmental targets:
–Energy :the Group focus on the development of the most promising technologies to
produce energy from alternative sources, in order to contribute to the reduction of
environmental pollution, has been realized with the implementation of photovoltaic andfuel cell projects.
In order to evaluate at best the energy performance of Telecom Italia, an indicator has
been defined to measure energy efficiency both considering energy consumption and thewider service offer. As compared to 2005, the improvement of eco-efficiency, measured
by such indicator, is equal to approximately 60%.
–
Waste :the differentiated waste collection of paper, cardboard, wood and multimaterial
has been extended to the main Group’s offices (over 30 new premises were 
concerned).
–Paper :during the last months of 2006 an awareness campaign involved all the
employees in Italy, in order to promote a reduction of paper use, favouring recycled
paper instead of new one.
–Emission of carbon dioxide :
Vehicles: the car fleet renewal involved a 28.5% reduction of CO 2emissions as
compared to potential emissions by dismissed vehicles.
Heating systems: the replacements done allowed a reduction of CO 2emissions equal to
800 tons.Sustainability Section » Results 4Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
–Electromagnetic emissions :
-88% of the most widespread and technologically innovative mobile handsets models
have been concerned by the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification.
-The goal to reduce, during maximum voice traffic periods, the power emitted by some
GSM Base Transceiver Stations, thus reducing electromagnetic field intensity, hasbeen attained. In some stations having quite significant electromagnetic emissions,
power has been reduced using the Half Rate code (instead of Full Rate), achieving a15% reduction.
Further details on the achievement of environmental targets are included in “The
Environment” chapter.
•Apolicy concerning labour standards and human rights has been defined for all
subsidiaries both in Italy and abroad, in order to ensure adequate employee protection in
the various countries where the Group operates. The policy is available in the Sustainability
section of the Group website.
• A policy on the methods adopted by the Telecom Italia Group in its relations with suppliers
has been defined. The policy is meant to safeguard ethical, environmental and socialvalues, consistently with the principles of the Group’s Code of Ethics. Further details on the
policy, that also foresees confidential reporting on possible irregularities observed by
suppliers in the purchasing process, are included in the “Suppliers” chapter.
• In consideration of the ever-increasing significance of on-line financial communication, the
Telecom Italia website (http://www.telecomitalia.it) review has been completed, includingthe Sustainability section, in order to make it more appropriate to meet analysts, investorsand other stakeholders’ information requirements. In the “Webranking” survey, conductedin 2006 by Hallvarsson & Halvarsson (Swedish company leader in financialcommunication), Telecom Italia ranked first in Italy (among 83 companies with highestcapitalization) and third in Europe (among 165 companies with highest capitalization)
concerning the quality of on-line communication. In particular the Sustainability section of
the Telecom Italia website ranked among the three best Italian sections on Corporate
Social Responsibility.
• The Group has defined a theoretical model for the representation of internally generated
intangible assets that cannot be measured by common accounting metrics, such as for
instance the ability to innovate, the valorisation of human capital, the quality of servicesoffered, the respect of the environment and the relations with the other stakeholders.
These topics contribute to the non financial corporate performance attracting an ever-increasing market interest. The results achieved have been presented during a conference
at the Bocconi University of Milan.
•Telecom Italia has contributed to the drafting of guidelines aimed at minimising energy
consumption for broadband technology. The initiative has been promoted by the European
Commission through the Joint Research Centre and has involved the most importantplayers of the sector in the drafting of a Code of Conduct (CoC) defining power
management methods and technical solutions to contain energy consumptions, avoiding
any negative impact on the quality of services in offer. The CoC has been submitted forapproval to equipment manufacturers and TLC providers. Telecom Italia is currently
evaluating adhesion procedures.Acknowledgements
The inclusion of Telecom Italia S.p.A. in both the categories of indexes managed by Dow
Jones has been confirmed:
– “Dow Jones Sustainability World” Indexes (DJSI World), including 318 companies,
Sustainability leaders at World level;
– “Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability” Indexes (DJSI STOXX), including 162 companies,
Sustainability leaders at European level.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. has also been confirmed as a component of all the significant indexes
(tradable and non tradable) of FTSE4Good:
– “FTSE4Good Global” (755 companies), the first 100 companies by market capitalization are
included in the FTSE4Good Global 100 - tradable index.
– “FTSE4Good Europe” (296 companies): the first 50 companies by market capitalization are
included in the FTSE4Good Europe 50 - tradable index.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. is also included the following indexes:
– the “Pioneer” index managed by ESI (Ethibel Sustainability Index), including 200 companies
selected at global level among those accepted in the “Excellence” index (280);
– the “ASPI (Advanced Sustainable Performance Index) Eurozone” including 120 companies;
– the “ECPI Global” index consisting of 300 securities while the Europe index includes 150
securities, managed by E.Capital Partners;
– the “Euro Ethical” and “Euro CSR” indexes, including 40 securities, managed by Axia.
Telecom Italia has been ranked among the best 100 companies at world level with reference
to the quality of its Sustainability reports in the “The Global Reporters 2006 Survey”
conducted by the specialised agency SustainAbility in co-operation with UNEP (United Nations
Environment Programme) and the rating agency Standard & Poor’s.
Sustainability Section » Acknowledgements 5Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportSustainability strategy for 2007-2009
TheGroup is fully convinced that business activities have to be carried out taking into
consideration the stakeholders’ expectations, consistently with principles included in the
internationally accepted standards to which the Group refers (in this regard see the
“References” paragraph in the Introduction). Corporate management should aim at the pursuitof economic results always considering the environmental and social context within which the
company operates.
The Sustainability strategy for the above-mentioned three-year period is based on the following
pillars:
– care on service quality, constantly monitored by the departments in charge (in this regard
see the “Customer Satisfaction” paragraph in the “Customers” chapter);
– inclusion of Sustainability reporting within Annual reports, thus confirming the Group
intention to jointly present its financial and non financial performance;
– assessment of the Sustainability impact of business projects submitted to the approval of
the Group’s Investment Committee by filling a specific investment form (in this regard see
the “Reporting and planning” paragraph in Introduction);
–stakeholder involvement in corporate processes (in this regard see the “Stakeholder
Involvement” paragraph in the Introduction);
– evolution of reporting towards a better correspondence with the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) guidelines;
–definition of quantitative goals in line with issues deemed most significant with respect to
Sustainability (in this regard see the “2007 Objectives” paragraph in the Introduction);
–integration between Sustainability and innovation: a specific section has been devoted to
Corporate Responsibility within the Technological Plan, i.e. the document in which the
company defines its strategy in terms of technological evolution;
–inclusion of specific questions on customer perception of the Sustainability model adopted
by the Group, into questionnaires for the assessment of customer satisfaction, starting
from the end of 2006;
–confirmation of international commitments on Sustainability among which the adhesion to
Global Compact and the support to the Alliance among the European Commission, national
partner organizations and European companies leaders in Sustainability, launched on March22,2006 in order to promote the development of CSR and to make Europe a pole of
excellence.
At the beginning of each chapter of this section the specific strategy defined for the related
stakeholder is described.
To make sure that Sustainability issues are appropriately considered in the Group’s
management decision-making process, objectives associated to the variable remunerationsystem have been set. The table below summarises such objectives by stakeholder.
Stakeholder Incentive-associated objectives
Customers -Customer Satisfaction
- Quality of the service provided
Human Resources - Surveys on staff attitude
-Employee Health and Safety
- Training on safety and environment issues
-Training and professional growth programs
- Welfare activities and employee well-being
The Environment - Materials, energy and water consumption
-Atmospheric emissions
- Waste management
-Environmental remediation
Institutions - Compliance with laws, regulations and codes
- Quality and timeliness of corporate communication
Suppliers -Environmental audits at suppliers’ premises
The Community -Organisation of cultural events
- Quality of the initiatives/projects for the Community
Sustainability Section » Sustainability strategy for 2007-2009 6Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report2007 Objectives
Consistently with the analysis on the most significant Sustainability topics (in this regard see
the “Hot Topics” paragraph in the Introduction) and with commitments undertaken, the Group
has defined quantitative targets concerning Customers, Human Resources, The Environment
and Digital Divide, briefly described below and more widely discussed in the related chapters.These targets are included in the 2007-2009 Sustainability Plan and are available in the
Sustainability section of the Group’s website.
Area Target Description
Customers Improvement of time efficiency in activing new connections to fixed line voice 
services
Customers Improvement of time efficiency in activing new connections to ADSL services
Customers Improvement of time efficiency for technical assistance
Customers Increase of automated setting up of new fixed line connections (Ready Access mode)
Staff attitude Maintenance of the last recorded satisfaction level
Training Increase of training hours per person
Sickness Maintenance of the last recorded sickness rate
Equal opportunities Increase in the number of employed women
Energy efficiency Improvement of TLC services eco-efficiency
Electromagnetism Power emission reduction through the installation of a second carrier on 
UMTS cells
Electromagnetism Specif Absorption Rate measures on mobiles on the market
Waste Increase of corporate offices adopting recycling waste management programs
Paper Increase of the percentage of purchased recycled paper
Emissions Reduction of carbon dioxide emissions (CO 2)
Digital Divide Increase in the percentage of ADSL, UMTS and IPTV services coverage
Sustainability Section » 2007 objectives 7Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportStakeholder Involvement
The involvement of stakeholders in the company decision making processes is one of the
most qualifying aspects of a sustainable company.
The Telecom Italia Group’s stakeholder involvement mainly refers to the following activities:
STAKEHOLDER ACTIVITY CHAPTER/PARAGRAPH
Customers The co-operation with Consumers’ Associations involves meetings Customers/Relations
aimed at safeguarding the consumers’ rights with regard to the with Consumers’ 
Group’s products and services as well as providing information on Associations
the company organisational changes possibly affecting customers.
Customers Customer Satisfaction is measured through the Integrated Feedback Customers/
System (IFS) based on over 200,000 telephone interviews to Customer Satisfaction
customers and on thematic focus groups, whose composition ensures 
the participation of all customer ranges. Data collected are processed 
to improve organisational processes and service quality.
Competitors At national level Telecom Italia takes part with competitors in the Competitors/
(National level) following associative activities: Organizations
•DGTVì - Association for the development of Terrestrial Digital in Italy and associations
•Radio and Television Federation (FRT)
•Digital Environment
•High-Definition Forum (HD Forum)
Competitors At international level Telecom Italia takes part with competitors in the Competitors/
(International following associative activities: Organizationslevel) • BRT (Brussels Round Table) and associations
•ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association)
•GSME (GSM Europe)
•EIF (European Internet Foundation)
•ERT (European Round Table of Industrialists)
•ESF (European Services Forum)
•EABC (European American Business Council)
•BRUEGEL (Brussels European and Global Economic Laboratory)
•ETP (European Telecommunications Platform)
•ITU (International Telecommunications Union)
•BIAC (Business and Industry Advisory Committee)
Institutions The Group co-operates with both national and international institutions Institutions/
with the aim of establishing collaborative and transparent relations Relations
and providing support if required.
The Together with the most important TLC players Telecom Italia took part Environment/
Environment in the drafting of a Code of Conduct aimed at the reduction of Energy
energy consumption and promoted by the European Commission 
through the Joint Research Centre.
The Many initiatives in favour of the Community are designed and realised Community/
Community in partnership with Institutions and Non Governmental Organisations Initiatives in
in order to address efforts towards the satisfaction of the principal the Community,
needs as perceived by the Community. Investments in
Within the initiatives carried out: the Community
•two call centers in the S. Vittore and Rebibbia prisons in co-operation 
with the Ministry of Justice.
• the project “Tim Music in the schools”, in partnership with the 
Brazilian Government.
• the digital inclusion program in the North-East of Brazil “Sou ligado!” 
(“I am connected!”) in co-operation with the Non Governmental 
Organisation Visão Mundial.
Human The fifth edition of the survey on staff attitude “Group Photo” based Human Resources/
Resources on an on-line questionnaire for employees in Italy, Germany and Brazil Internal communication
has been realized. The results have been published on the Intranet 
and spread through specific meetings.
Human “The Lighthouse” project is an internal feedback initiative aimed at proposing Human Resources/
Resources actions plans to improve the staff attitude, develop internal loyalty Internal communication
indicators and to start actions aimed at developing corporate business.
Human The Project “Values in progress”, aimed at spreading behaviours Human Resources/
Resources compliant with corporate values, has seen the participation of 2,200 Internal communication
Group’s resources including senior managers, middle managers 
and office staff.
Human The organizational changes described have been carried out involving Human Resources/
Resources the Trade Unions. Internal communication
Shareholders A new financial communication channel with retail shareholders Shareholders/Financial 
has been opened through the Shareholders Club TI Alw@ys ON. communication
Shareholders Organisation of formal meetings with the market plus daily contacts Shareholders/Financial 
through direct meetings and telephone conversations as well as a communication
specific road show devoted to the SRI investors (Socially Responsible 
Investing).
Sustainability Section » Stakeholder Involvement 8Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportReferences
In defining and implementing Sustainability strategies and programs, the Telecom Italia 
Group refers to the guidelines issued by the most important world organisations for strategyand standardisation on Corporate Responsibility, particularly by UN Agencies and Programs for
Environment and Human Rights and by OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development).
Since 2002 Telecom Italia has adhered to the principles set out by Global Compact, 
the most important initiative at world level, launched in 2000 by UN to promote
environment conservation, respect of human rights and labour standards, 
and anti-corruption practices.
Sustainability Section » References 9Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
The following table shows the paragraphs and the pages whose contents directly or indirectly
refer to the Global Compact’s principles and to the relative GRI’s (Global Reporting Initiative)indicators. During 2006, the Group has adopted the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 
in particular with reference to the materiality, inclusiveness and the completeness principles.
As far as the GRI Application Levels defined in G3 Guidelines, the Group’s currently ranked atLevel C+, as confirmed by the GRI. Relevant actions to attain Level B+ have been undertaken.
Global Directly Indirectly Paragraph Page
Compact’s relevant relevant related to the number
Principles GRI Indicators GRI Indicators GC Principle
01 Businesses should HR1-7 LA4, LA13, Results, Sustainability 3, 6, 7, 8, 9,
support and respect SO1 strategy for 2007-2009, 22-24, 41-48,the protection of 2007 Objectives, 49-60
internationally proclaimed Stakeholder Involvement, 
human rights. References, Suppliers,
The Community,
Human Resources
02 Businesses should HR1-2 2007 Objectives, 7, 22-24,
make sure that they are Suppliers, 49-60
not complicit in human Human Resources
rights abuses.
03 Businesses should uphold HR5, LA4, Human Resources 49-60
the freedom of association LA5and the effective recognition 
of the right to collective 
bargaining.
04Businesses should uphold HR7 HR1-3 2007 Objectives, 7, 22-24,
the elimination of all Suppliers, 49-60
forms of forced and Human Resources
compulsory labour.
05 Businesses should uphold HR6 HR1-3 2007 Objectives, 7, 22-24,
the effective abolition Suppliers, 49-60
of child labour. Human Resources
06Businesses should uphold HR4, LA2, HR1-2 2007 Objectives, 7, 22-24,
the elimination of LA13 Suppliers, 49-60
discrimination in respect Human Resourcesof employment and 
occupation.
07Businesses should support Profile EC2 2007 Objectives, 7, 8, 22-24,
aprecautionary approach Disclosure Stakeholder Involvement, 32-40
to environmental challenges. 4.11 Suppliers, The Environment
08Businesses should undertake EN5, EN18, EC2, EN3-4, Results, 2007 Objectives, 3, 7, 8, 
initiatives to promote EN22, EN30 EN17, EN20, Stakeholder Involvement, 22-24, 32-40greater environmental EN23 Suppliers,
responsibility. The Environment
09Businesses should EN5, EN18, The Environment, 32-40, 41-48
encourage the development The Community
and diffusion of environmentally
friendly technologies.
10Businesses should work SO2-4 2007 Objectives, 7, 11, 22-24,
against corruption in all Charters, Codes 61-79
its forms, including and Values,
extortion and bribery. Suppliers, Shareholders
Further information on “Core” Indicators (GRI, G3) is available on the website
www.telecomitalia.it, Sustainability Section.The management system for Sustainability also takes into account the main international
standards specifically concerning the various stakeholders:
– the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 certifications for Quality and Environmental Management
Systems, ensuring the quality of service to customers and the safeguard of the
environment;
– the Social Accountability 8000 standard (SA8000), aimed at favouring the respect of
human rights and labour standards by companies and by their supply chain;
– the method suggested by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) for measuring investments
in the Community;
– the principles stated in the Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) for
the respect of the fundamental rights of workers.
Aimed at protecting Shareholders, the Group Corporate Governance system hinges on the
Code of Ethics and reflects the highest national and international standards. It is based onthe central role of the Board of Directors and of independent Directors, the transparency of
operational decisions, the effectiveness of the internal control system and the strict regulation
of potential conflicts of interest. Within the internal control system, the Organizational Model,
ex Legislative Decree dated June 8, 2001, no. 231 is aimed at preventing specific offencesincluding corruption, extortion and corporate crimes.
Further information is included in the "Corporate Governance" chapter of this report.
Sustainability Section » References 10Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportCharters, Codes and Values
The Charters of Services describe the principles of conduct with regard to customers and the
commitments undertaken by the main companies of the Group in terms of quality of the
service. The Charter of Services and the General Subscription Conditions of Telecom Italia are
available on the Group’s companies’ websites (www.187.it; www.tim.it and www.la7.it).
Codes, procedures and principles supporting the governance system are available in the
relevant section of the www.telecomitalia.it website and on the Group Intranet, providing easy
access to all the staff.
The pillar of the system is the Code of Ethics, representing the primary component of the
organisational model and of the overall internal control system of Telecom Italia Group,
founded on the belief that ethics in the conduct of business is a condition for business
success. The respect of the Code of Ethics is a requirement for governing bodies,
management and employees of all the companies of the Group, within the boundaries of theircompetences, functions and responsibilities.
The System of Values adopted by Telecom Italia is a constant benchmark of conduct for all
the Group’s employees, creating a sense of belonging to a single organisation. The variouscorporate processes and systems for the development and rewarding, assessment andtraining of the staff, are inspired by the Charter of Values thus consistently orienting individual
attitudes in a common direction for the whole Group.
•
Customer focus
To consider customers as the main employer and customer satisfaction as the basic value.
To be ready to listen both internal and external customers’ needs and to take steps to
anticipate requests and rapidly provide answers.
•Taking responsibility
To take responsibility in the achievement of tangible results and to accept delegation as an
opportunity, without referring to management all problems that can be solved in one’s fieldof competence.
•
Innovation
To ensure the development of innovative solutions and promote new modes for the
improvement of the existing processes and systems, in order to strengthen the positioning
of the company on the market.
•Pro-action
To cause things to happen rather than reacting to events. To seize and develop
opportunities occurring in one’s own reference context, no matter how weak is the
indication, and to advance proposals and initiatives useful to achieve the company and
Group’s goals.
•Efficiency
To consider time-efficiency as a very important asset affecting the costs of services
provided and the loyalty of both internal and external customers. To handle needs and
problems tackling multiple and defective inputs, working out timely and practical solutions.
•
Integration
To work with the colleagues as a team, minimising conflict and maximising the
effectiveness of information exchange and professional contribution, in view of a commonresult for the company and the Group.
•
Trasparency
To ensure an ethically-oriented conduct of business; to entertain internal and external
relations that are correct and loyal, favouring information exchange.
•Professional excellence
To continuously improve one’s own competences, undertaking responsibility on personal
professional growth project in view of contributing to the success of the Company and of
the Group.
Sustainability Section » Charters, Codes and Values 11Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportReporting and Planning
The analysis of the performance and the related reporting are based on a multi-stakeholder
approach and on a set of approximately 200 KPI (Key Performance Indicators). KPI have been
developed on the basis of the GRI analysis (Global Reporting Initiative), of the Global Compact
principles, and of the questionnaires sent by the main rating agencies (SAM for Dow JonesSustainability Indexes, EIRIS for FTSE4Good, SIRI, Vigeo, Ethibel, Oekom and others) for the
purpose of admission to the Sustainability stock-exchange indexes.
The KPIs are managed through a centralised software platform, also used to manage other
Company’s applications governing accounting, financial and control processes. This also
allows data sharing among the various platforms, thus ensuring the maximum integration of
Sustainability in the other corporate processes.
The Group’s companies considered for the purpose of Sustainability reporting must meet at
least one of the following requisites: revenues exceeding euro 50 thousand, number of
employees exceeding 50, excluding sold/destined to be sold companies.
The selection of issues to be published in the report, or on TI website, is made on the basis
of the principle of materiality considering the level of societal concern and the related impactof the Telecom Italia Group activities.
For the investments projects exceeding a defined threshold (euro 2.6 million for Operations,
euro 1.0 million for Media and Olivetti) submitted to approval of the Group Investment
Committee, an assessment form stating the investment impact in terms of Sustainability has
to be filled in. The project managers state whether the project they are submitting for approval
has a positive, negative or neutral impact in terms of Sustainability on certain significantareas identified for each stakeholder. The analysis of such impacts is part of the decisionmaking process for project approval.
The evaluations reported on the investment forms, together with other projects submitted by
the Sustainability responsible for each corporate department, are included in the Sustainability
Plan that covers 3 years.
DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes): equity indexes including companies meeting defined 
Sustainability parameters, managed by Dow Jones in co-operation with SAM (Sustainable Asset Management).
FTSE4Good (Financial Times Stock Exchange): equity indexes including companies respecting defined
standards of responsibility, managed by FTSE in co-operation with EIRIS (Ethical Investment ResearchService).
SIRI (Sustainable Investment Research International Company): company operating in the SRI 
(Socially Responsible Investment) sector providing research and consultancy services.
Sustainability Section » Reporting and Planning 12Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportHot Topics
Sustainability concerns all the corporate processes however certain issues are particularly
significant and require specific consideration with regard to the implementation of the
Corporate Responsibility model defined by the company. Such Sustainability “hot topics” have
been identified by the Telecom Italia Group on the basis of:• requests by Sustainability rating agencies for inclusion in sector indexes, through
questionnaires for the assessment of the Group performance;
• requests by investors during dedicated Road Shows or one-to-one contacts;
• analysis of media and reports published by specialised companies;
• benchmarking of Sustainability activities carried out by other companies, both national and
foreign.
With regard to all the identified hot topics the Group has set goals, that are listed in the
“2007 Objectives” paragraph of the Introduction. The Group’s position on each hot topic isdescribed in the relative paragraphs, as indicated below:
•
Customer Care
To improve customer satisfaction Telecom Italia has put into action several initiatives.
Among these there is the “Evolution” project, aimed at dealing with customers with
transparency on fixed line activation and technical assistance. Detailed information is
available in the “Customer focus” paragraph of the “Customers” chapter.
•Human Capital
It is one of the key success factors for a company and represents one of the aspects on
which the Group is focusing the most. Initiatives on Equal Opportunities, Development,Education and training, Health and Safety, and Welfare are described in the “HumanResources” chapter.
•
Electromagnetism
This is an issue that has all along been given special consideration by the scientific
community and public opinion. The Group commitment to reduce emissions is described inthe “Electromagnetic emissions” paragraph of “The Environment” chapter.
•
Climate Change
The need to reduce CO2emissions arises from scientific evidence supporting the
cause/effect link between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. The Group iscommitted to reduce its emissions and both encourages and supports the dematerializationof assets and services through actions and strategies described in “The Environment”
chapter, at the “Climate change” paragraph.
•
Energy
Due to the exhaustibility of fossil fuels and their negative impact on environment, energy
saving and alternative source studies are issues of burning topicality. The initiatives
undertaken by the Group on this matters are described in the “Energy” paragraph in “TheEnvironment” chapter.
•
Waste
The monitoring of waste production, particularly the most polluting kind, and the adoption 
of differentiated waste collection are issues attracting deep attention by economic
operators. Further information is available in the “Waste management” paragraph of “The Environment” chapter.
•
Digital Divide
The diffusion of communication technologies may involve cultural and geographical
discriminations and Telecom Italia has undertaken specific actions to face both risks.
Further information is available in the “Customers” chapter, “Digital Divide” paragraph.
Sustainability Section » Hot Topics 13Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportFinancial data and added value
Thefollowing tables show the added value of Telecom Italia Group, calculated on the basis of
accounting data, its distribution among stakeholders and the related contribution.
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
2006 2005 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Sales and services revenues 31,275 29,919 4.53%
Total revenues and operation income 31,881 30,597 4.20%
Gross Operating Profit (GOP) 12,850 12,517 2.66%
Operating Profit 7,437 7,499 (0.83%)
Net income (loss) before minority interest 3,003 3,690 (18.62%)
Net income (loss) - Parent Company 3,014 3,216 (6.28%)
Shareholders’ equity at December 31 
(Parent Company + minority interests) 27,098 26,985 0.42%
Net borrowing at December 31 37,301 39,858 (6.42%)
Investments 5,320 20,107 (73,54%)
Employees at year end 83,209 85,484 (2.66%)
ADDED VALUE
12.31.2006 12.31.2005 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Standard production value (1)31,767 30,409 4.5%
Raw materials and external services (14,191) (12,937) 9.7%
Added value 17,576 17,472 0.6%
Other items (2)2,982 1,913 55.9%
Gross added value 20,558 19,385 6.1%
(1) Including revenues, work in progress change, inventory change, costs for internal works capitalised, contributions for
operating expenses.
(2) Representing the balance between the following items of the income statement: other operating costs/other
operating income, dividends deliberated, value adjustments to financial assets, net income from equity investments,financial income, profit on exchange rates, net result from sold/destined to be sold activities, end of year resultowing to Parent Company or third parties.
DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE AMONG STAKEHOLDERS AND OTHER PARTIES
12.31.2006 12.31.2005 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Employees 3,005 2,868 4.8%
Institutions 3,691 3,524 4.7%
of which
• Social security costs 796 807 (1.4%)
• Income taxes 2,519 2,395 5.2%
• Indirect taxes 141 141 0.0%
• TLC license fees 235 181 29.8%
Shareholders 3,002 2,342 28.2%
Financers 5,014 5,113 (1.9%)
Business (depreciation and amortization, reserve funds for risks 
and fees, other accruals and adjustments) 5,846 5,538 5.6%
Added value distributed to stakeholders 20,558 19,385 6.1%
CONTRIBUTION TO THE STAKEHOLDERS
(millions of euro)
Suppliers (1)17,768 Consumption of raw materials and external services, industrial investments
Institutions (2)3,691 Expenses, taxes and TLC license fees
Employees 3,005 Cost of labour net of compulsory contributions
Shareholders 3,002 Dividends deliberated
Financers 5,014 Interest and other financial costs
(1) The breakdown of the contribution to this stakeholder is described in the “Suppliers” chapter.
(2) The breakdown of the contribution to this stakeholder is described in the “Institutions” chapter.
Sustainability Section » Financial data and added value 14Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Strategy
The Group’s companies aim at providing excellent products and services through their close
attention to customers and their will to listen to the customers’ requests. The goal we pursueis assuring immediate, competent and reliable answers to the customers’ requests, while
being polite, kind and collaborative.
/L50298Focus on Customers
The Group’s actions for improving customer satisfaction are listed below, set into three
different categories:
Services
• A project called “Evolution” – launched in 2005 in order to provide customers with clear
and reliable answers concerning access and maintenance – is currently ongoing and itstargets are progressively increasing:
–since February 2006 it has been including voice services for residential customers,
micro and small business customers everywhere in Italy;
–since May 2006 it has been extended to the “Alice Standard” (ADSL) offer for residential
customers.
The main targets of 2006 concerned:
– keeping the technicians’ appointments at the customer premises (target achieved in
more than 98% of cases for plain phone services and 97% for ADSL);
– providing new access lines through “Ready access”, a way of providing new access lines
fast and automatically, without technical assistance, which covered over 15% ofrequests.
Thanks to its results, the project will predictably be extended to other services:
– “Alice Voice” and “Alice Home TV” starting in May/June 2007.– “ADSL Business” starting in September/October 2007.
The project’s targets for 2007 are reported in the Sustainability section of the Group’s
website.
Registered customers may access the websites www.187.it and www.191.it to exploit a
series of services among which:
– preview of the Telecom Italia bill directly online before receiving the paper invoice; online
customers can view details of each phone call (the last figures of called numbers areomitted) specifying type of call, offer, date, called number, time, length and cost.
Residential customers may also obtain explanations on all items of the invoice or on
possible variations as compared to previous ones. They may also lodge inquiries toCustomer Service, obtaining an answer within 24 hours;
– the service “Your records” allows to track progress of customer records concerning
purchases, requests for new access or access variations, fault repair requests (the latteronly for residential customers) and back-up of both sent and received e-mails;
Sustainability Section » Customers 15Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Customers
– the service “phone-line data” allowing online request of: moving their phone number to a
new address (residential customers may alternatively ask for keeping the phone number
previously assigned to the new home, free of charge), change of billing address, details of calls together with the possibility of blocking premium services such as “144”,
“166”, “899”;
– the service “tell us online” allows customers to inform Telecom Italia about payments
made after the expiry date or about bills whose payment has not yet been recorded byTelecom Italia, in order to avoid service termination or to allow for reactivation of the
telephone line.
• The www.187.it portal now features the “Digital Assistant” service, a digital version of
customer care providing customers with support in surfing among all the services available
on the site, which also helps them to quickly solve many of their needs associated to fixedline management. The Digital Assistant offers in particular on-line information and helps
customers to lodge requests to Customer Care. In the latter case the time required to 
reply is clearly stated, and the customer receives via e-mail clear information about the
progress of his records. The Digital Assistant may prove to be a useful support also for
hearing-impaired customers as they may choose to display a written version of all
information.
•Concerning ADSL service provision, the Alice portal for residential customers has 
been expanded, adding a section on technical assistance named “Alice Help”. 
The portal also integrates the “Alice helps you” system, offering two main advantages:
–customers are enabled to identify and solve, on their own, certain technical 
problems;
– Telecom Italia technicians are provided with a tool which displays information and any
detected problem associated to the customer workstation.
Products
• All products marketed by Telecom Italia undergo strict technical tests to assure their
compliance to European directives and to the directives’ implementation laws at nationallevel, some of which are:
– EU rules on equipment protection and safety of use for the customer;
–RoHS rules prohibiting to use certain substances in electric and electronic 
equipment;
– RAEE rules on disposal of product at end of life.
Various quality tests/trials are carried out to assure that the product is compliant with the
technical and performance requisites which were agreed and undersigned by Telecom Italia
with its suppliers.
Furthermore, product usability is tested/analysed, to make sure end users receive products
whose use is simple, practical and fast.
Employee incentive system
• Within the framework of performance related compensation, Telecom Italia S.p.A. has a
target relative to customer satisfaction. The income indicator (Gross Operating profit) has infact been associated to a customer loyalty indicator. Such indicator is an average of
customer satisfaction with regard to service, of Customer Relationship Management, of
image and of technical quality.
/L50298Customer Satisfaction
The Group has adopted a multi-channel approach to CRM (Customer Relationship
Management), providing customers with technical assistance both through toll-free numbersand websites.
Through the support of the CRM system, the customer care staff:
• provides information and technical support;
• directly manages customer requests (One Call Solution) or warns the relevant departments
in charge of solving the detected problem;
•manages commercial contacts, sells and activates contracts.
Sustainability Section » Customers 16Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportFurthermore, the CRM system keeps track of calls received by Call Centers.
The CRM staff is adequately trained, both on technical aspects and behaviour, and it is
supported by a portal providing guidelines for solving problems, in the “One Call Solution”
perspective.
The Customer Satisfaction model developed in past years for the fixed network has been
expanded in 2006 to the mobile network customers.
Customer Satisfaction monitoring occurs through the Integrated Feedback System (IFS) that
takes customer needs into consideration, both general needs (collected through pastcontacts) and specific recent needs (for instance, the request for a specific service such as a
new ADSL line), but it also takes into consideration calls made to the Call Center requesting
information, administrative issues, or reporting inefficiency claims.
IFS is based on over 200,000 telephone interviews to customers. Collected data are used to
improve organisational processes in order to better meet customer needs. Starting with the
end of 2006, interviews include specific questions on the perception of Telecom Italia’sSustainability model.
IFS also involves qualitative analyses based on focus groups. In 2006 the latter paid special
attention to broadband (analysing reason for choice, kinds of use, problems with the service).
They were carried out on groups of people representative of Italian geography, chosen on the
basis of length of ADSL connections, kind of offer, provider.
Telecom Italia uses two methods in order to survey Customer Satisfaction:
– a kind of survey on the customer’s overall perception, unrelated to any recent specific
experience by the customer, which allows to analyse the cause-and-effect relations
determining customer satisfaction.
This methodology, similar to the one underlying the ACSI (American Customer Satisfaction
Index), is based on an indicator which allows for inter-sector and international comparisons,which is stable and predictive. Such indicator provides important clues on the drivers which
can improve customer satisfaction. This type of survey is applied to all customer segments,
whether consumer or business;
–another kind of survey is carried out immediately after the event being analysed (for
instance a contact with the Call Center operator). People interviewed are asked to provide,
about a recent call, both an overall evaluation of the service they experienced (e.g. overall
satisfaction) and an evaluation on each specific aspect of the experience (e.g. waiting time
to speak to the operator, courtesy and competence).
Data included in the table below refer to the second kind of surveys.
Customer satisfaction on customer care
Customer Overall Courtesy Competence 
segment satisfaction of operator of operator
Fixed telephony Consumer (1)61.6% 90.2% 78.7%
Business (2)54.1% 88.4% 72.0%
Mobile telephony Consumer (3)81.1% 93.5% 86.0%
Business (4)75.8% 94.0% 79.0%
(1) Satisfaction with the assistance provided by 187.1 on information, marketing and administrative calls: 2006 weighed
average (TOP2). TOP2 refers to the % of “very satisfied+satisfied” in the 5-point scale (very satisfied, satisfied, not
entirely satisfied, unsatisfied, very unsatisfied).
(2)Satisfaction with the assistance provided by 191.1 and 191.9.1 for information, marketing and administrative calls
(TOP2): weighed average of TOP2 in 2006.
(3) Satisfaction with the assistance provided by 119: weighed average (TOP3) in 2006. TOP3 refers the % of people
answering “excellent+very good+good” in the five-point satisfaction scale (excellent, very good, good, limited,inadequate).
(4) Satisfaction with the assistance provided by the toll-free number for Businesses: weighed average (TOP3) 
in 2006.
Sustainability Section » Customers 17Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Digital Divide
The spread of information and communication technologies has given rise to noticeable
opportunities of development for the population but it has, at the same time, generated the
risk of new gaps due to social and geographic reasons: this is an issue deserving special
consideration by the ICT sector.
Geographic Digital Divide
Telecom Italia has undertaken a series of initiatives aimed at expanding ADSL coverage: 
from 86% at the end of 2005 to 89.5% at the end of 2006 (data refer to the total of TelecomItalia’s fixed lines).
At the end of 2006 IPTV was available for 45% of Telecom Italia’s lines. 
UMTS coverage, in terms of resident population, was 70.8%; for broader bandwidths on
mobile networks Telecom Italia adopts HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access)technology, allowing to achieve 3.6 Mbp/s: at the end of 2006 it was implemented through
3,500 antennas amounting to an HSDPA coverage of about 35% of the population.
Aworking group has been set up, with the participation of all competent departments, 
in order to:
– define the company’s strategic positioning on this topic;
– monitor its development both at national and international level;
– coordinate the various activities carried out by the company.The working group has developed an IT system named “Digital Divide Project” (DDP) as an
operational tool for its activities. For each Italian municipality, DDP collects and presents datarelative to the current status and its development (whether planned or still under analysis)
from both perspectives: market and technical aspects.
Social Digital Divide
Many social reasons lead to the exclusion of some people from benefits achievable through
ICT: belonging to underprivileged social groups (because of age or income), but often simply
lack of access of appropriate information. The main areas of intervention of the Telecom Italia
Group for the reduction of the social Digital Divide are:
• Spreading ICT culture: the “Future Centre” in Venice is a place where Telecom Italia
displays some of the most innovative technologies, which can be tried for free, and wheremeetings are held on issues associated to new technologies and their social and
environmental impacts. The Group also contributes to the “Science Festivals”. Still, the
Group’s website contains detailed explanations and references on the latest ICT
innovations and trends.
• Support for the elderly: Telecom Italia offers free classes for the elderly, teaching the use
of the Internet.
• Support for people with disabilities: a service allowing the hearing-impaired people to use
several functions of mobile handsets is operating.
• Support in developing areas: Telecom Italia runs projects in Latin America to reduce
technological Digital Divide (Sou Ligado!) and projects aimed at reducing the illiteracy rate
among poor children.
More information on single projects is available in the “The Community” chapter.
/L50298Research and tests on innovative services
The main innovative services under study in the Group’s laboratories – in co-operation with
research institutes and both Italian and foreign universities – having a positive environmental
and social impact are described below.
Infomobility: vehicular platforms on board
Telecom Italia is developing a platform devoted to infomobility services and mainly based on
localisation systems. Infomobility services aim at optimising management of both public and
private transportation (sorting traffic to avoid jams), of parking and limited traffic areas, and
they enable “Mobile Payments” (automatic or assisted payments) and vehicle control(intelligent navigation, entertainment, etc.).
Sustainability Section » Customers 18Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe infomobility platform and the related services offer several advantages for the environment
and the population as they allow to:
– reduce the polluting impact of transportation thanks to lower average kilometric hauls;– reduce traffic pressure on urban fabric;
– save energy;– rationalise traffic and urban infrastructure use (i.e. parking) through the diffusion of online
on board systems.
Dynamic-TV: users may become a “source” of contents
The “Dynamic-TV” project changes TV pattern use: no more broadcast only, but users may
become a “source” of contents, making them available to other users and sharing them.
Exploiting the attractiveness of mass contents sent through digital terrestrial TV or IPTV, perhapsby joint offers, “Dyamic-TV” may promote high-quality niche contents, available at low cost.
Other innovative sustainable services under test
The table below lists some services under test in our laboratories which might have positive
impacts in terms of Sustainability.
ZigBee ticketing System issuing tickets for public transportation via mobile handsets
(mobile ticketing).
Vehicular access to controlled areas Platform for the dynamic management of access to controlled 
areas through systems wearable by drivers or mounted 
on vehicle.
Post Accident Remote Diagnosis “eCall enabled” service for remote diagnosis of patients made on
the accident spot (for instance, transferring biometric parameters to
emergency centers).
Fire Brigade Remote real time monitoring of the Fire Brigade’s actions 
through a ZigBee sensor network (Body Area Network) integrated 
in clothes.
Net computing platform The platform provides workers, at home and on demand, with
applications, storage and processors based on shared virtual resources.
Services for house management Solutions for improving management of consumption (water and
electric energy), systems for theft prevention and for remote
management of home appliances.
/L50298Certifications
In 2006 the Group’s quality systems achieved the following certifications:
Certification Departments/Companies
Telecom ISO 9001 Departments: Sales & Customer Services, Marketing, Technology (*)
Italia S.p.A. Companies: TI Sparkle, Elettra, Pathnet, Loquendo
OperationsISO 14001 Departments: Technology
Companies: TI Sparkle, Elettra
AUDIWEB Companies: Matrix
ISO 27001 Departments: ICT Operations (inside Technology dept.)
Olivetti S.p.A. ISO 9001 Departments: Business & Market Development, Product & Technology 
Development, Industrial Operations, Market Communication
ISO 14001 Olivetti plant at Arnad (AO)
(*)The Technology Department now includes the following Departments/Companies: Wireline Network, Tim Network,
TILab and IT Telecom.
/L50298Protection of minors
To protect minors from adult contents or more generally from contents possibly damaging their
psycho-physical development (e.g. violence, racism, offences to religion), the Group’s
companies have undertaken the initiatives described below.Aworking group has been set up for each platform (fixed, mobile, TV). Each group is
coordinated at central level and it contains representatives of the departments in charge of
the offer of services, with the view of:
1. assuring compliance to national ruling normative and European directives;
2.meeting the needs expressed by the associations and movements for the protection of
consumers and of minors;
3. promoting correct and socially responsible behaviours.
Sustainability Section » Customers 19Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThese are the main activities carried out in 2006:
• Guidelines have been issued for the classification and control of contents provided by the
Group. These guidelines concern not only contents that are directly offered by TelecomItalia, but also contents offered by third parties buying spaces within Telecom Italia 
portals.
• Filtering systems and procedures for the Group’s offer of adult content on the Internet have
been defined. These measures aim at preventing minors to access adult content availableon the Group’s portals.
• Contents proposed by the Group through its mobile platform do not fall in the class 
subject to filtering. However parents (or whoever involved) can activate “blacklists”, that is the possibility to prevent surfing from mobile handsets to selected sites. Moreover,
the Group ascertained its own compliance with recent Resolution no. 661/06/CONS
“Safety measures for minor protection to be implemented on videophone mobile handsets”
published on the Italian Communication Authority (AGCOM) website on November 29, 
2006.
• Concerning premium voice services, Telecom Italia requires the use of a PIN code for
access to services which might be ranked as “adult”, such services however are not
offered by the Group.
• The Group’s televisions do not broadcast contents requiring filtering systems. 
Broadcasting is compliant with ruling normative and with the above mentioned guidelines.
In 2006 the Group continued its control activities to prevent the diffusion of juvenile
pornography. The Group’s companies have set up abuse management teams, “Abuse Desks”,where service users can report abuses or inappropriate use of services to the Group’scompanies. In the case of Internet services, Abuse Desks are differentiated according toservice typology (mobile, residential, business): besides managing alarms on problemsassociated to the Group’s services, desks inform competent authorities about any significant
event, such as the presence of pedopornographic contents on the Group’s networks. 
As for interactive services such as Chats, Forums and Blogs, offered by the Group’s suppliers of services, a prevention system based on the presence of “moderators” has been set up and it is in charge of identifying and reporting the presence of illicit content,blocking its transmission.
/L50298Research and innovation in e-security
Research and development activities on the issue focus on:
• protection and early detection of attacks on new network and service infrastructures;
•development of innovative tools for predictive analysis of risk exposure level (i.e. through
advanced use of modelling and simulation techniques);
•methods allowing to manage security measures available on the network, for instance
filtering and monitoring systems, so as to automatically change configurations andintervention rules following changes in risk scenarios, so as to respect established security
targets;
•development of innovative security services based for instance on new generation SIM and
mobile handsets.
Research activities are associated to patent development, in order to protect achievements,
as well as to scientific publications. The last year saw the development of ten patent
applications.
Sustainability Section » Customers 20Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Relations with Consumers’ Associations
The company started its collaboration with consumers’ Associations in 1983, when it was still
named “SIP”. In the years several agreements have been signed and, in 2006, the Telecom
Italia Group has actively collaborated with 17 among the main Associations. Such
collaboration involves meetings aimed at safeguarding consumers’ rights with regard to the
Group’s products and services, and the presentation by the Group’s managers of the main
projects of organisational development possibly affecting customers, as for instance thereorganisation of Customer Care services (“Evolution” project).
The collaboration with Associations involves informative meetings on the launch of new
services and their relative contractual terms. A positive outcome of the collaboration with
Associations is constituted by the “parity” conciliation procedures that since 1991 have
allowed the resolution of about 40,000 disputes with customers.
The Group takes part, as a founder member, in the Consumers’ Forum, which brings together
Consumers’ Associations, companies and research institutes. The Forum deals with issues
related to consumerism. Within the Forum’s activities, with Telecom Italia’s support inplanning and organizing, there are initiatives of joint training with Associations on Conciliation.
Projects and initiatives have been developed in order to promote a “collaborative
consumerism” and to provide strategic feedback to the appropriate Group departments.
The Group’s commitment with regard to consumers’ rights is also shown by its actions in
support of access to services by disabled customers.
The Telecom Italia Group is firmly determined to protect consumers’ interests in a framework
of loyal collaboration and transparent mutual information. Its recent decision to put off theincrease in line rental charge expected in 2007 for residential customers confirms the Group’s
commitment to protect the general interests of consumers.
Conciliation
The conciliation procedure between Telecom Italia and Consumers’ Associations is based on
the “parity” model involving direct responsibility of both parties: the customer, who chooses a
Consumers’ Association and fully entrusts the relevant representative to deal about his
dispute, and the Company who participates with his representative having an equivalent
mandate. Conciliation applications are presented at appropriate offices included in Telecom
Italia’s premises over the national territory. The procedure is entirely free of charge for thecustomer. Starting with the application date and for the ensuing 45 days Telecom Italia
refrains from any activity concerning the customer and undertakes to offer within such
deadline a proposal to solve the dispute. Conciliation proceedings are then drafted and the customer is free to sign or refuse. If the conciliation proceeding are signed by both
parties, the document becomes immediately operational. If the customer refuses to sign 
the proceedings, he/she is free to have resort to ordinary legal actions as appropriate. The conciliation procedure is accessible by Telecom Italia’s customers only if ordinary claim
procedures proved unsatisfactory.
Sustainability Section » Customers 21Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe contribution of the Group to the stakeholder “Suppliers” is reported below.
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
(millions of euro) 2006 2005
Expenditure for raw materials and external services 
(net of TLC licence fee) 13,956 12,756
–of which correlated entities 263 414 (*)
Industrial investments 5,114 5,173
– of which correlated entities and internal capitalization 1,039 1,006
Total contribution 19,070 17,929
– of which correlated entities and internal capitalization (1,302) (1,420)
Total net contribution 17,768 16,509
(*)Including euro 5 million relative to “sold/destined to be sold activities”.
/L50298Strategy
Purchasing processes within the Telecom Italia Group are designed to procure
products/services at the best market conditions while assuring requisites such as quality,safety and respect for the environment. Procurement processes call for the competitivecomparison of technical/economic offers from suppliers selected on the basis of companyprocedures in force at Group level and characterised by ethical negotiation.
/L50298General
For high-risk commodity categories, the selection, evaluation and control process of the
Group’s potential suppliers involves a pre-contractual “qualification” phase to assess their
economic/financial and technical/organisational characteristics in light of their possibleinclusion in the Group’s Supplier Register.
Regardless of the commodity risk level, each of the Group’s suppliers is required to commit,
both personally and on behalf of any authorised sub-contractors, collaborators and employees,
to comply with the ethical-behavioural principles included in the Group’s Code of Ethics.
Once included in the Group’s Supplier Register, companies receiving purchase orders after the
competition/negotiations process undergo controls during the supply phase. 
These controls range from the Vendor Rating monitoring (systematic assessment of supply) to Incoming Quality Control (mandatory with regard to acceptation/use of the 
purchased item).
More information on these activities is available in the Purchase section of the Suppliersportal (http://suppliers.telecomitalia.it/).
Sustainability Section » Suppliers 22Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Suppliers
/L50298Controls
Summary of controls on the Suppliers carried out during 2006.
•Supplier Qualification: 448 controls (relative to 755 commodity categories), of which 15%
with a negative outcome and 20% with a fixed-term qualification.
• Sub-contractor qualification: 173 controls (relative to 262 commodity categories), of which
13% with a negative outcome and 27% with a fixed-term qualification.
• Vendor Rating monitoring: 82 reports issued relative to approximately 500 Suppliers and to
58purchase categories.
• Technical-organisational audits at Supplier’s premises to perform Incoming Quality Controls
on products and services: over 250 controls for a total of approximately 350 batches of
controlled products. Of these, about 70 were exceptionally accepted due to secondary
nonconformities, while 21 were rejected for severe nonconformities and thus sent for
reworking.
• Technical-organisational audits at Supplier’s premises to perform qualification procedures:
120 relative to 190 commodity categories, of which approximately 7% with a negativeoutcome while about 6% obtained fixed-term qualification due to technical deficiencies and
thus subjected to further examination.
• Technical-organisational audits at the premises of high-risk sub-contractors (plant
engineering-operational activities), to perform qualification procedures in view of use by
Suppliers: 151 audits relative to 196 commodity categories of which approximately 9% withanegative outcome and about 17% with fixed-term qualification due to technical
deficiencies and thus subjected to further examination.
More than 6,000 controls were also performed on the execution of technical works, mainly
focused on the installation phase of new plants and on the provision of services and works.
/L50298Main Sustainability initiatives
In 2006 the following initiatives were carried out:
– In line with the principles included in the Group’s Code of Ethics and with the rules
established in the Group’s Procedure for “Purchases of Products and Services”, a“Policy on relations with Suppliers” has been defined. This illustrates how the principles
of Sustainability and ethical negotiation are promoted and pursued throughout theprocurement process to ensure legal, transparent and correct relations with Suppliers. This
Policy has been published in the Purchase section of the Supplier Portal
(http://suppliers.telecomitalia.it/) and it also allows suppliers to confidentially report anyeventual misconduct by the Group’s staff with regard to the business relationship.
– The Group has defined its Guidelines for the assessment of products and suppliers with
regard to their environmental compatibility; on the basis of this document, the eco-compatibility assessment has been tested with some international suppliers during the
second half of 2006, confirming the adopted model’s substantial validity.
– The Group has also defined a check list aimed to assess, during supply quality audits at
supplier’s headquarters/plants, any Supplier initiatives on Ethics and Sustainability, with
special reference to the safeguard of the environment, the health, safety and rights ofemployees. The test assessments performed on 43 companies also aimed at promoting a
tangible commitment to pursuing the aforementioned Sustainability values throughout the
supply chain with the involvement of their suppliers (sub-contractors of the Group).Nearly 40% of the suppliers, showing various deficiencies with respect to the Group’s
expectations, made a firm commitment to implement the first improvement initiatives
during 2007.
–Audit procedures on the suppliers of foreign subsidiaries also continued. 
In particular, before being included in the Supplier’s List, all the new suppliers of 
Telecom Italia S.A. (France) are required to submit a self-certification in compliance with Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. This includes a statement of commitment to 
the principles of the Code of Ethics of the Telecom Italia Group and a declaration 
that no insolvency proceedings, protests or severe administrative sanctions are ongoing.
Sustainability Section » Suppliers 23Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report– Telecom Italia Group took part in a strategically oriented workshop on Sustainability 
and Integrity in Relations with Suppliers (SIRF) involving some of the most important 
Italian companies that operate in the services and manufacturing sectors. Following the formalisation of conduct rules and of implementation criteria for the
procurement process that were based on guidelines inspired by international standards of corporate responsibility, an assessment was carried out which also involved the 
Telecom Italia Group. The Group’s compliance rating, according to the SIRF standard,
assessed by an independent company on a five-point scale (inadequate, limited, adequate, good, very good) was “very good”.
/L50298Commitments for 2007
–Expansion of audits (request to commit to the principles of the Group’s Code of Ethics 
and to provide a self-certification statement on the absence of prejudicial conditions,
supplier qualification, Vendor Rating) for the suppliers of foreign subsidiaries 
(in particular Tim Partecipaçoes, Telecom Italia S.A. and Hansenet).
– Start of the ISO 9001 certification for the Purchasing Department of the Telecom Italia
Group.
– Publication of the English version of the Supplier Portal along with the related 
documents.
–Application of the Guidelines for the eco-compatibility assessment of products and
suppliers to a greater number of products.
– Extension of audits to a greater number of suppliers (in 2006 audit tests were performed
on 43 suppliers) on initiatives adopted by suppliers on the Ethics and Sustainability issues together with follow-ups on the suppliers’ commitments made during the first audit cycle.
Sustainability Section » Suppliers 24Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Strategy
The Telecom Italia Group is committed to the promotion of fair competition that is considered
positive both for the Group’s interests and those of all market operators, as well ascustomers and stakeholders in general. Furthermore Telecom Italia pursues excellence and
competitiveness on the market, offering to its customers services characterised by quality andefficiency.
/L50298Organizations and associations
Co-operation with competitors at national level
In 2006 Telecom Italia has chaired DGTVì, the Association for the development of the
Terrestrial Digital broadcasting in Italy to which Rai, Mediaset, Bordoni Foundation (FUB),Radio and Television Federation, Aeranti-Corallo and D-free also take part. In December FUB has officially declared its intention to leave the Association starting from February 2007.Participation in the DGTVì enables the TI Media Group broadcasters to interact with the radio-
television market players and to actively take part in the evolution process towards the
Terrestrial Digital.
In the year the Association promoted several activities:
• organisation of the second national conference on Terrestrial Digital, held in Naples on July
14-15. During the event, the establishment of a ministerial committee as supervisor of the
digitalisation process in Italy has been announced;
• implementation of two market surveys aimed at assessing the diffusion of decoders, both
at national level and in the so-called “all digital” areas. The surveys have beencommissioned to two distinct companies.
DGTVì is also actively taking part in the National Committee Digital Italy: such Committee 
has been established after the Naples conference and sees the participation of the mainplayers in the digitalisation process (Institutions, television broadcasters, cable and satellite
operators, publishers, consumers). It deploys its strategy and analysis activities through 
aTechnical Committee articulated in nine thematic subgroups.
As at September 2006 over 4,300,000 decoders had been sold.
Telecom Italia adheres to the Radio and Television Federation (FRT) as a member of the
Chairing Committee. Besides the national and satellite broadcasters, FRT gathers 150 local
and radio broadcasters.
In concert with the involved operational departments, the Group continues to take part in 
the activities of Digital Environment, an Association promoted by FUB, gathering all the ICT
players in the Terrestrial Digital sector. The Association aims at the identification ofappropriate solutions to harmonise the interactivity development of Digital TV in terms of 
user services and applications. In the second half of 2006 the Association undertook 
no initiatives also because of new sector regulations changing the reference framework.
Sustainability Section » Competitors 25Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Competitors
The membership of the Group, as founder, to the High Definition Forum (HDF) is being
formalised. Promoted by FUB and established on September 19, 2006 the Forum has as its
main goal the promotion and spread in Italy of high-definition. Founders are Eutelsat, Fastweb,FUB, IDS Multimedia, Sony Italia, ST Microelectronics, Telsey and Mediaset.
The Group membership has been promoted in agreement with the involved operationaldepartments (Television and Rosso Alice) and offers the following advantages:
– constant updating on competitor activities concerning high-definition (in particular Sky,
Mediaset and Fastweb);
–greater influence in promoting initiatives pertaining to standardisation or regulations.
Since 2002 Telecom Italia Media is a shareholder of Auditel with a 3.33% share, and has one
representative in the Board of Directors and one in the Technical Committee. 
Auditel is the only subject, in terms of audience rating, recognised in Italy also by advertisingcompanies who – on the basis of Auditel data – price advertisements on single 
TV channels.
Telecom Italia is involved in the management of association relations, co-ordination of lobbying
and representation activities with Confindustria and its Associations.These initiatives, involving in some cases joint actions with competitors consist, both at
national and local level, of actions and meetings relative to the development of business 
and safeguarding the corporate interests on the economic, legislative, trade unions and 
labour themes.The Group is a member of 99 territorial Associations and of the following Federations/National partner organizations: Confindustria Servizi Innovativi, Asstel,Assoelettrica and Assografici.
Co-operation with competitors at international level
•BRT(Brussels Round Table) which gathers various European TLC and manufacturing
companies, is established to maintain a constant dialogue with European Institutions 
on significant themes concerning the ICT sector at Community level, in particular concerning regulations.
•ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association) is the largest
continental sector Association. Among its goals there is the development of a competitive
and efficient European telecommunication market, to be achieved through co-ordination
among operators and dialogue with the Institutions. Telecom Italia is a member of the
Executive Board and chairs the working groups “Sustainability” and “Frequency
management”.
• GSME (GSM Europe) is an Association gathering the European mobile operators. 
One of its objectives is the development of the European mobile market, paying special
attention to the market regulations aspect. Telecom Italia takes part in the 
Strategy Forum
and in the work groups “Regulatory”,” Mobile content”, “Frequency” and “Health and
environment”.
• EIF (European Internet Foundation) gathers members of the European Parliament, TLC
manufacturers and operators, software providers, ISPs and content providers. The
Association aims at creating, within the European Parliament and among the variouscommunications operators represented in Brussels, a favourable environment for fastdevelopment of the Internet, broadband, convergence and multimedia technologies and
services, benefiting the final consumer;
• ERT (European Round Table of Industrialists) is a forum gathering about 45 leaders 
of European industry for the purpose of promoting competitiveness and European 
economy growth;
•ESF (European Services Forum) includes the European operators in the services sector and
aims at promoting the interests of the European services industry and the liberalization of
the services sector worldwide in the framework of the GATS 2000 negotiations;
•EABC (European American Business Council) is an Association headquartered in
Washington and Brussels whose aim is supporting and facilitating transatlantic dialogue 
on the most significant development issues concerning industrial sectors strategic both forEU and USA.
Sustainability Section » Competitors 26Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report• BRUEGEL (Brussels European and Global Economic Laboratory) is a European Study Center
established on January 18, 2005 on the basis of joint collaboration among the
Governments of the European Union and the main business players of the continent. It is dedicated to the analysis of international economy, development of chief industrial
sectors and role of EU in the global economic context.
• ETP (European Telecommunication Platform) unites European Telecommunications and
manufacturing companies for the purpose of promoting and discussing common issuesrelative to electronic communications.
• ITU (International Telecommunications Union) is a UN agency and aims at promoting 
co-operation between Governments and private sector on international technical standards,
onoperational procedures for wireless services and development programs for
telecommunication infrastructures in developing countries. Adhesion to ITU as a
representative of the private sector enables the Group to take part in the thematic Study
Groups and Project Groups in the sectors ITU-Telecommunication Standardization (ITU-T)and ITU-Radiocommunications (ITU-R). Within the sector ITU-Development (ITU-D), Telecom
Italia chairs the Group on “Question 10-2/1: Regulation for licensing and authorization of
converging services”.
• BIAC (Business and Industry Advisory Committee) represents industrial associations of
OECD countries and is a preferential channel for dialogue with OECD (who has contacts
with governments only).
/L50298Activities regarding competition
In the first few months of 2006 the guidelines relative to an “antitrust compliance
programme” have been defined. The program consists of multilevel information and training
initiatives and aims at spreading within the Group the correct cultural approach to the 
antitrust regulation, as well as awareness that competition is not a threat but, on the contrary,
an essential asset for business activities.
Substantial changes in Telecom Italia organisation chart occurred in the second half of 2006and in January 2007, prompting a phase of analysis extended to all Group processes andactivities having a potential antitrust impact. We are now reviewing and completing suchanalysis.
With Resolution no. 587/06/CONS of September 27, 2006 a task force aimed at studying 
the technical/economic aspects and the related regulation evolution of the re-organizationalprocess of Telecom Italia network has been established within AGCOM. The technical taskforce, in which Telecom Italia takes part, is committed to the pre-analysis of the
technical/economic aspects and of implications and perspectives – also in terms of regulatory
evolution – of a possible break-up process related to Telecom Italia access network, as wellas of the possible development of the Next Generation Network.
Sustainability Section » Competitors 27Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe contribution of the Group to the stakeholder “Institutions” is reported below.
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
2006 2005
(millions of euro) Total Italy Abroad Total Italy Abroad
Social security and pensions 796 720 76 807 750 57
Income taxes 2,519 2,519 0 2,395 2,395 0
Indirect taxes 141 95 46 141 93 48
TLC license fees 235 53 182 181 39 142
Total 3,691 3,387 304 3,524 3,277 247
/L50298Strategy
The Telecom Italia Group is determined to continue its collaborative and transparent relations
with the European Union and national institutions in view of facilitating dialogue on specificissues.
/L50298Relations
The legislation activities of Central National Institutions (Parliament, Government) and local
Institutions (Regions, Local Entities and independent sector Authorities) are constantly
monitored by the Telecom Italia Group.The approval procedure of legislation concerning sector issues is therefore constantly
monitored. When requested, the Group also provides technical support to the competent
institutions (Parliamentary Commissions, Ministry of Communications and other Ministries,local Authorities) in drafting the legislation for the relative areas of interest.
The Group subsidiaries and/or associated companies operating abroad directly interact, with
the operational support of the parent company, with sector Authorities (Antitrust and
Regulatory Authorities) and competent Institutions (Ministries of Communications,
Parliamentary Committees) in the various countries, to represent and support the Groupposition and to ensure a correct competition dynamics in the related markets. Foreign
companies also provide Institutions with support in the drafting of sector legislation, acting in
observance of procedures adopted.
For the purpose of monitoring the activities with a significant impact on the Group, 
Telecom Italia interacts with the European Commission and its Regulatory Committees (for example the Communication Committee and Radio Spectrum Policy Group regarding 
spectrum management), the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and ERG 
(European Regulators Group).
Sustainability Section » Institutions 28Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Institutions
/L50298National legislation
The laws of interest to the Group, both approved or under examination during 2006, are
reported below:
Approved laws
• On June 25, 2006, the constitutional law changing the second part of the Constitution,
passed by the Berlusconi Government, underwent a confirmative referendum with negative outcome thus restoring the former constitutional reform of 2001. 
The “communication regulation” is therefore currently included in concurrent legislation
matter with legislation control entrusted to the Regions, except for the determination offundamental principles still a competence of the State. Within the framework of the
Constitutional Bill proposed by the former Berlusconi government, Telecom Italia 
had supported a change then included in the final version of the law undergoing the
referendum and meant to bring electronic communications regulation back among theissues subject to exclusive State legislation; this would have solved several critical 
points of the former 2001 reform. In the Group view, following the referendum outcome, 
the critical points of the former reform – i.e. the “communication regulation” included in
concurrent legislation matter – still remain.
• Law 38/2006 on the fight against paedophilia, imposing the obligation on providers of
electronic communication services to cooperate with a central institute at the Ministry of
the Interior to counteract this phenomenon by providing information on businesses andpeople spreading paedo-pornographic contents.
•Legislative Decree no. 140/2006 adopting in national legislation the Directive 48/2004 
on the protection of intellectual property rights and the fight to counterfeiting and piracy
phenomena.The Decree includes measures to counteract the violation of intellectual property rights.
The initial draft equated, in terms of responsibility and of the consequent sanctions, the
perpetrator of the infringement and the intermediary whose services are used by thirdparties to infringe intellectual property rights; this critical provision has been subsequently attenuated by the inclusion of a reference to the provisions ofLegislative Decree 70/2003 on e-commerce, excluding any responsibility of the Service
Provider.
•Law 51/2006 converting Decree Law 273/2005 concerning the definition and the
extension of terms related to preceding legislative provisions; among other things it
includes the extension from 2006 to 2008 of the deadline for the complete switchover of the television system on terrestrial frequencies from analogical to digital 
broadcasting.
•Law 296/2006 (2007 Financial Act) including, among many provisions, the reduction of the
tax burden for businesses, implemented by reducing IRAP (Regional tax on production) on
labour cost; the mechanism excludes several subjects among which businesses operatingon licence and fee in a series of sectors including telecommunications. A further provisionaffecting the sector business is the equalization of fiscal deductibility on a single rate,
equal to 80% of business expenditure for electronic communication services. 
AFund has been moreover established at the Ministry of Communications for conversion 
to digital, aimed at the diffusion of digital TV technology to the whole national territory; 
atax allowance on individual income tax has been provided for replacement of television
sets in view of conversion from analogical television to digital; appropriations have beenprovided for executive interventions by the Ministry of Communications to be implemented
through Infratel in support of the new processes implementing broadband infrastructure 
in Southern Italy.
Laws under examination
•Bill including provisions for the regulation of the television sector during the conversion to
digital technology.In October the Council of Ministers has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies
the so-called “Gentiloni bill” on television reform. The bill is a legislative initiative fromGovernment aimed at implementing in national legislation the EU recommendations,  in the
framework of the infringement procedure against Italy initiated in July 2006 disputing some
aspects of the “Gasparri law” and of the radio-television Consolidating Act with respect toEuropean regulations. The bill provisions mainly concern: conversion in advance to digital
Sustainability Section » Institutions 29Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportsystem of one network for operators owning 3 networks (within 15 months since the
approval of the law); a 20% ceiling on broadcasting capacity for each content provider in the
digital television system. The stricter limit on financial resource collection (included in theradiotelevision Consolidating Act), concerning businesses with revenues exceeding 40% 
in the electronic communication sector has been replaced with the prohibition to thesesame businesses to merge with dominant television broadcasters.
• Bill delegating the Government on review of regulation concerning ownership and 
marketing of transmission rights, both on television and on other electronic networks, 
of football events.
The bill approved by the Council of Ministers in July and submitted to the Chamber of
Deputies institutes a new system based on the centralised sale of television rights by thesubject in charge of organising sporting competitions. This regulation includes all existing
platforms: satellite digital, terrestrial digital, cable, UMTS, broadband, encoded terrestrialanalogical.
• Bill on wire-tapping. The bill has been approved by the Council of Ministers in August and is
currently under examination at the Chamber of Deputies. It redesigns the subjects mainly
concerning the duration of wiretapping, the publication of investigation reports and therelated sanction regulation.
•Bill on collective compensation safeguarding consumers. The Government bill approved in
July by the Council of Ministers and being examined by the Chamber of Deputies, regulates
the “class action” mechanism.
• Draft resolution concerning the new regulation on the transfer of 40% broadcasting
capacity. This draft has been approved by AGCOM on November 23 and the Authorityintends to submit it to public consultation though no decision has been taken yet. 
The obligation to the 40% transfer and the related regulation concern Rai, 
Mediaset and TI Media. The latter is also included among subjects having the requisites to access the 40%capacity (minimum coverage not being achieved as provided by Law 249/97, equal to 80% of the territory including all provincial chief towns). Such right is 
however limited to area not supplied by digital plants. The most important 
news are:
–all operators owning more than one analogical concession are obliged to transfer
capacity with no exception;
– access to the reserve is granted to content providers not having any control or
connection relation with the operator obliged to reserve, satellite and cable operators
and both local and national television broadcasters not reaching the territory minimumcoverage.
The Regulation also establishes the numbering to be applied to the automatic ordering for
LCN channels (Logical Channel Numbering) offered on the Terrestrial Digital platform.
/L50298European legislation
The Group activity focused on the following issues:
• analysis of EU Communications about the revision of the Regulatory Framework on
Electronic Communications and participation in the consultation based on a
Communication, a working document of the Commission’s services and an impactassessment illustrating the most significant strategic alternatives considered;
• analysis of the review proposal regarding the Recommendation about significant markets
that are liable to the imposition of ex ante regulatory obligations and participation in the
related consultation launched by the European Commission. The Commission review
proposal, published in parallel with the Framework review documentation, involves areduction from 18 to 12 of the reference markets. The new Recommendation would remove
in particular the retail voice market and the retail leased line market. The Group
contribution emphasized support to the proposal involving a reduction of the number ofmarkets liable to the imposition of ex-ante obligations;
Sustainability Section » Institutions 30Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report• review of the “Television Without Frontiers” Directive through a Directive proposal by the
European Commission, currently under discussion at the European Parliament and 
EU Council, that distinguishes between linear (traditional television) and non linear (on demand audiovisual contents) services extending some traditional television provisions
to on demand services;
• adoption process of EU recommendations on collecting societies;
•adoption by the European Commission of the proposal of a directive on retention of data
processed through electronic communication services;
• adoption process of the EU Directive on domestic service market (Service Directive);• adoption process and approval procedure of the EU Directive on penalties for intellectual
property rights infringement;
• proposal for a regulation of international roaming and adoption of this regulation by the
European Parliament and EU Council;
•analysis of the activity of European bodies in charge of the implementation of the regulation
framework (Sector Committee – Cocom – and European Regulators Group – ERG).
/L50298International legislation
The Group activity focused on the following issues:
• analysis of the regulatory development in countries of interest and support to the Group
companies abroad in the management of relations with Regulatory and Antitrust Authoritiesand in the definition of regulatory strategies, consistently with the Group positioning in Italy; 
• participation to both national and European public consultations and to the working groups
within the various Regulatory Authorities;
• participation to Merger & Acquisition processes and to foreign companies sell procedures in
strict co-operation with the relevant central departments; drafting of the related antitrustand regulatory notifications;
•control of regulatory compliance of foreign subsidiaries and safeguard of the related
licences.
Sustainability Section » Institutions 31Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Strategy
It is based on the following principles:
– to improve the efficiency of both energy and natural resources;– to minimise the negative environmental impacts and maximise the positive ones;
– to spread the culture of a correct approach to environmental issues;– to ensure the commitment towards an ever-increasing improvement of environmental
performances;
–to adopt purchase policies considering environmental issues.
/L50298Environmental performance indicators
The environmental performance data shown below refer to:
– waste– water–energy
–atmospheric, electromagnetic and acoustic emissions
The data reported have been calculated on the basis of management data appropriately
reclassified.
/L50298Waste
Data shown in the table below refer to the quantity of waste handed over (1)to carriers and
booked in compliance with the related law (2).
WASTE HANDED OVER
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 (*) (**) vs 2005 vs 2004
Hazardous waste kg 2,838,949 3.99% –36.62%
Non hazardous waste kg 7,715,179 –18.32% –5.69%
Total quantity of waste kg 10,554,128 –13.32% –16.64%
Waste for recycling/recuperation purposes kg 10,029,708 –3.48% 0.08%
Ratio between recycled/recuperated waste and total waste 95.03% 9.68% 15.87%
(*) Tables referring to Telecom Italia S.p.A. include TIM Italia S.p.A., merged by incorporation with effect from March 1,
2006. Data pertaining to the preceding years have been recalculated for homogeneous comparison purposes.
(**) Data do not include removed telephone poles, which are reported in the relevant table.
(1) The term “handed over” refers to waste delivered to carriers and destined to be recuperated, recycled or 
destroyed.
(2) Slight variances as compared to statements at December 31 might occur up to March 30 as data are derived 
from waste accounting books that are only consolidated once the real weight has been verified at destination. 
Such information is provided to the waste producer within three months from delivery, hence data variances 
are possible.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 32Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
The Environment
Waste for recycling/recuperation purposesHazardous waste
Total quantity of waste Non hazardous wasteWastehanded ov er (kg)
2,000,0004,000,0006,000,0008,000,00010,000,00012,000,000Non hazardous waste production appears reduced as compared to 2005, due to the decrease
ofcomponents mainly included in such waste (equipment, packaging and metals) depending
on operational requirements of activities.The last quarter saw an increase of waste handed over to authorised carriers for recycling 
and disposal also due to a new contract for waste management signed in September 2006.The continuation of such trend is expected in 2007.
As far as hazardous waste, the quantities handed over to carriers as compared to 2005
appear substantially stable while the significant market decrease as compared to 2004 isessentially due to the lower quantity of batteries and of waste containing hazardous materials.
The ratio between recuperated/recycled waste and total waste handed over is affected by the
related nature and by ever-increasing interaction with companies. The sustained high-level of
such indicator shows the efficiency of the process.
WASTE HANDED OVER
Group breakdown by BU (%)
Group Operations and Media Olivetti
2006 other activities (*)
kg 14,706,881 88.52% 0.23% 11.24%
(*) In “The Environment” chapter tables, the scope relative to Operations and other activities include Wireline, Domestic
Mobile, Mobile Brasil, Central Departments and Entel Bolivia Group.
/L50298Waste Management
Computerised waste accounting books, that expedite the management of waste produced by
Telecom Italia and also allow regular monitoring, have been updated in 2006 to implement
changes brought forth by the recent Legislative Decree 152/06.
The operational procedures on waste management of Telecom Italia and Telecom ItaliaSparkle have been updated to conform to the new organisational structure.
Office differentiated waste collection activity has been increased and has involved over 30 offices in Rome and Milan. In 2007 such project will concern other national offices. Paper, glass, plastic, aluminium and wood separately collected will be handed over toconsortiums specialised in recycle/recuperation. An information campaign has been launched
on this issue to raise staff awareness and involve them.In Latin America, Tim Brasil premises and shops have been equipped with containers
appropriate to collect used batteries.The organisational, logistic and economic impacts of Legislative Decree 151/05 – dealing with
the management of waste from electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) – on Telecom Italia
have been thoroughly investigated. Telecom Italia is concerned by the above mentioned
Legislative Decree as both an indirect and sometimes direct producer of such waste.
From this viewpoint and considering the need to manage mobile terminals handed in byemployees upon periodic renewals of service equipment, a project has been launched
involving the withdrawal of technically obsolete equipment. Mobile terminals are either sold to
be reused or undergo recuperation, particularly concerning substances representing potentialenvironmental and social risks (mercury, lead, cadmium, chrome, and tantalum).
/L50298Recuperation of wooden telephone poles
In compliance with the Agreement Program on wooden telephone poles, signed in 2003 with
the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Production Activities, the Conference of Stateand Regions and the recuperation company, in 2006 the Group continued the recovery of the
poles. Details are shown in the table below.
TELEPHONE POLES REMOVED
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 vs 2005 vs 2004
no. 190,124 –7.49% 15.23%
The number of poles removed with respect to 2005 is decreased, showing the failed
achievement of the objective set out in the Agreement Program for 2006. The failure was
mostly due to the lack of available connection technologies alternative to wooden poles,
compared to program forecast.The recuperation activity will continue in 2007 in line with the engagements undertaken.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 33Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Paper
Paper consumption breakdown by Business Unit and related incidences on Group’s total
volume are reported below.
PAPER
Group breakdown by BU (%)
Group Operations and Media Olivetti
2006 other activities
Non recycled paper purchased kg 1,119,712 96.97% 1.74% 1.28%
Recycled paper purchased kg 25,233 98.93% 1.07% –
Total paper purchased kg 1,144,945 97.01% 1.73% 1.26%
Paper consumption is in line with 2005 data.
To improve the trend an awareness campaign concerning all employees of Italian offices has
been launched, in order to promote a reduction of paper consumption and use of recycledpaper instead of new one.
TIM Brasil adopted specific procedures to reduce paper consumption in offices (two-sided
print, shared printers).
/L50298Water
Water consumption data relative to Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Group are reported below.
WATER CONSUMPTION
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 vs 2005 vs 2004
m34,220,492 –11.38% –24.04%
WATER CONSUMPTION
Group breakdown by BU (%)
Group Operations and Media Olivetti
2006 other activities
m34,856,550 93.98% 0.42% 5.60%
Decreasing trends are the result of special monitoring of water consumption carried out on 
the most staffed premises of Telecom Italia S.p.A..
The rationalisation of office spaces had led to the closure of over 400 premises, thus
contributing to the decrease of water consumption.In Southern America TIM Brasil has promoted several water consumption rationalisation
activities, among which the installation of timers on office taps, the reuse of rainwater, the
collection and reuse of waste water.
/L50298Energy
Electricity consumption data relative to Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Group are reported
below.
/L50298Electricity
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ELECTRICAL ENERGY
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 vs 2005 vs 2004
Electricity from non-renewable or mixed energy sources kWh 2,076,938,000 7.95% 12.08%
Electricity from renewable energy sources kWh 30,000,000 –63.55% –78.96%
Total purchased or produced electricity kWh 2,106,938,000 5.02% 5.57%
Sustainability Section » The Environment 34Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
MEDIA OPERATIONS AND
OTHER ACTIVITIESRecycl ed paper pur chased (%)OLIVETTIMEDIA
OPERATIONS
AND OTHER ACTIVITIESNon recycled paper pu rchased  (%)
20%40%60%80%100%Waterconsumption
Operations and other activitiesMedia Olivetti
2006
vs20042006
vs2005Purchased or produced elect rical
energy
1%2%3%4%5%6%PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ELECTRICAL ENERGY
Group breakdown by BU (%)
Group Operations and Media Olivetti
2006 other activities
kWh 2,571,429,921 97.87% 1.27% 0.86%
The increasing trend characterising electrical energy consumptions of Telecom Italia S.p.A.
stems from growing energy requirements in the TLC sector, essentially due to data traffic
increase and new services being offered. In this regard Telecom Italia is focusing on energyefficiency: as detailed below, the eco-efficiency indicator shows an approximately 60%
improvement.
The decrease of energy certified as purchased from renewable sources is due to lower import
band (energy imports from abroad) acquisitions in 2006 following the increase of customers
on the free market in Italy. Approximately 20% of the energy comes from renewablehydroelectric and geothermic sources, solar energy plants and wind-farms.The Group interest in the most promising technologies in the field of alternative energy
sources is also showed by the following initiatives:
• installation of fuel cells in five locations (in Trentino Alto Adige, Piemonte, Sicilia). Through
new storage technologies, these plants use hydrogen as energetic back up for poweringmobile telephony transmission equipment;
•implementation of four photovoltaic plants, each having 30 kW nominal power, as back-up
of as many telephone exchanges;
• assessment of innovative self-routing concentration photovoltaic plants for company
purposes, enabling an increase of electric yield up to 35% as well as a reduction of costsfor plants and spaces occupied.
Energetic efficiency in the industrial consumptions of the Technology has been improved
through the following initiatives:
– replacement of energy stations with lower conversion yield;–installation of new Free Cooling plants;
–replacement, rationalisation and optimisation of conditioning plants;
–compacting of commutation modules;
–switch-off of obsolete plants and equipment.
TIM Brasil implemented several projects to rationalise electrical energy consumption, too:
–automatic lighting and conditioning;
–electrical circuit sectioning;
–installation of presence sensors;
–replacement of incandescence lamps with fluorescence ones.
Eco-efficiency indicator
The formulation of this indicator is meant to monitor and improve the Group’s energetic
efficiency. It is the ratio between the service offered to customers (simplified to the quantity 
of transmitted bits) and the related environmental impact (proportional to energy
consumption).
We considered the voice and traffic data, both from fixed and mobile networks, as well as
industrial (conditioning of plants, network operation) and civilian energetic consumptions 
(i.e. office heating, vehicle fuel consumption, office electricity consumption).
The evidence of an eco-efficiency improvement trend of TLC processes/services is given in the
following table relative to the indicator that measures transmitted bits on energy consumption. 
Sustainability Section » The Environment 35Purchased or produced ener gy (%)
OLIVETTIMEDIA
OPERATIONS
AND OTHER ACTIVITIESIntroduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe 2006 improvement compared to 2005 is due to the increased number of transmitted bits
deriving especially from the increase of new broadband lines and a larger use of the existing
ones. Our commitment continues with the definition of an improvement goal for 2007published on our website www.telecomitalia.it, in the Sustainability section.
Year kBit/kWh Bit/Joule
2003 492,082 137
2004 777,248 216
2005 1,311,676 364
2006 2,144,178 596 (*)
(*) 2006 data has been calculated on the basis of management data (period January/September) and based on
estimates of traffic and consumption volumes (period October/December).
Concerning energetic efficiency, the European Union, through the Joint Research Centre (JRC)
and with the involvement of the most important players of the sector, has promoted a Code of
Conduct (CoC) aimed at minimising energy consumption for broadband connection services.
The CoC has been established also thanks to Telecom Italia coordination and is in force since
January 2007. It defines power management methods and technical solutions for thecontainment of energy consumption concerning both customers and providers, withoutcompromising the technological development and the quality of services.
Adhesion to CoC is voluntary and is also promoted by ETNO as it implies to undertakeengagements in line with ETNO Sustainability Charter and ETNO Energy Policy. Telecom Italiais currently evaluating adhesion procedures to CoC.
/L50298Heating fuels
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING SYSTEMS
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 vs 2005 vs 2004
Energy consumed - heating fuel MJ 161,740,466 –2.81% –8.06%
Energy consumed - methane heating MJ 726,164,586 –4.72% –4.30%
Total energy consumed for heating MJ 887,905,052 –4.37% –5.01%
Heating consumption data show a remarkable reduction due to the optimisation of office
space. The fuel mix used reflects the company’s commitment on the improvement and
modernisation of heating systems, through the replacement of obsolete diesel oil heating
systems with methane ones.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING SYSTEMS
Group breakdown by BU (%)
Group Operations and Media Olivetti
2006 other activities
MJ 1,002,395,510 92.51% 0.43% 7.06%
/L50298Vehicle fuels
VEHICLE FUEL CONSUMPTION
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 vs 2005 vs 2004
Unleaded petrol consumption l 16,985,560 –10.28% –13.27%
Diesel oil consumption l 8,949,711 7.93% –4.10%
Total vehicle fuel consumption (*)MJ 865,767,950 –4.33% –10.11%
(*)Represents the conversion in MJ of unleaded petrol and diesel oil consumption expressed in liters.
Total consumption data in megajoule show decreased vehicle consumptions consistently with
the decrease of distance travelled (see the following table), thanks to corporate rationalisation
policies on vehicle use.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 36Energy co nsum ption for he ating systems
(MJ)
Energy consumed - methane heatin gEnergy consumed - heatin gfuel
20%40%60%80%100%Energy consumption for heatin g
systems
Operations and other activitiesMedia OlivettiIntroduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe increase of diesel oil consumption and the reduction of petrol consumption are due to a
partial fleet renewal in favour of diesel vehicles.
LPG consumptions have not been included in the preceding table as not remarkable.
NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 vs 2005 vs 2004
Total number of vehicles no. 22,133 –2.64% 0.98%
Number of low-emitting vehicles (*)no. 21,775 –3.80% –0.36%
Overall distance travelled by vehicles km 314,338,775 –5.80% –7.65%
(*) Unleaded petrol vehicles, eco-diesel, bludiesel, LPG (compliant in Europe to the Euro4 standard or higher), electrical
vehicles or vehicles using other fuels with comparable or lower emissions.
NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED (*)
Distance travelled breakdown by BU (%)
Group Operations and Media Olivetti
2006 other activities
Total number of vehicles no. 24,309 98.52% 0.44% 1.04%
Overall distance travelled by vehicles km 356,619.773 97.60% 0.63% 1.77%
(*) Data shown are related to distances travelled and number of all the Group’s vehicles (industrial, commercial, granted
inuse to senior/middle managers), both through leasing and ownership. Concerning Entel Bolivia and TIM
Partecipaçoes, vehicles owned by the sales force and the related distances travelled are included only in the case of
significant use for corporate purposes and when characterised by continuity of use.
/L50298Atmospheric emissions
The only significant concern of Telecom Italia as to atmospheric emissions is carbon 
dioxide (CO 2). These are divided by indirect emissions (deriving from electrical energy used to
power telephone and data networks and premises) and direct emissions (fuel used for heatingand vehicles).
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2006 2006
2006 vs 2005 vs 2004
CO 2emissions from consumption of electrical energy 
produced by mixed sources kg 908,907,531 7.31% 14.74%
CO 2emissions due to heating systems kg 59,107,598 –4.33% –5.10%
CO 2emissions due to vehicle consumption kg 61,693,999 –3.98% –9.92%
Total CO 2emissions kg 1,029,709,127 5.83% 11.57%
In 2006, notwithstanding the confirmation of the reduced emission consumption trend
concerning vehicles and heating, the increased consumption of electrical energy from non
renewable sources has caused an increase of CO 2emissions as compared to 2005.
CO 2emissions have been calculated according to UNEP (The GHG Indicator: United Nations
Environment Programme Guidelines for Calculating GreenHouse Gas Emissions for Businessesand Non-Commercial Organizations) and ETNO criteria within the framework of the “Climate
Change” project.
Data pertaining to emissions from electrical energy consumption have been derived from
parameters published by Enel in its 2005 Environmental Report.
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Group breakdown by BU (%)
Group Operations and Media Olivetti
2006 other activities
CO 2emissions from consumption of electrical 
energy produced by mixed sources kg 977,273,841 98.24% 1.46% 0.30%
CO 2emissions due to heating systems kg 66,643,908 92.56% 0.42% 7.02%
CO 2emissions due to vehicle consumption kg 94,220,405 98.05% 0.55% 1.40%
Total CO 2emissions kg 1,138,138,153 97.89% 1.32% 0.78%
Sustainability Section » The Environment 37Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Vehicle fue lconsumpt ion
(liters)
5,000,00010,000,00015,000,00020,000,000
Diesel oil consumptionUnleaded petrol consumption
-8.0%-6.0%-4.0%-2.0%
2006
vs20042006
vs2005Overall distance t ravelled
byvehicles
Emissi on change
2006
vs20042006
vs2005
CO2emissions due to heating systemsCO2emissions due to vehicle consumption
CO2emissions from consumption of electrical
energy produced by mixed sources-15%-10%-5%5%10%15%20%/L50298Climate change
Scientific evidence supports the causal relationship between greenhouse gas emissions and
climate change, hence the need to reduce CO 2emissions, also involving significant economic
repercussions.
The TLC sector may play a significant role both by developing technologies and prompting
behaviours helping to reduce greenhouse gas. The Telecom Italia Group is well aware of this.
The Group approach is based on two different action levels: to reduce its own greenhouse gas
emission on one side, to favour and support the dematerialisation of assets and services on
the other side.
As far as the reduction of the Group’s greenhouse gases, the following initiatives were
launched in 2006:
– a multi-year modernisation program, designed to renew vehicles and heating systems
through technological choices having lower environmental impact, has been launched in
view of reducing direct emissions. In 2006 1,600 Euro3 vehicles have been replaced with1,500 Euro4 vehicles. Such vehicle renewal brought forth an approximate 30% reduction of CO
2emissions that would have been produced by the replaced vehicles. We are also
continuing to replace thermal plants fuelled by oil with methane-fuelled plants, allowing to
reduce CO 2emissions for the heating of buildings. The replacements implemented in 2006
achieved a CO 2emissions reduction equal to 800 tons.
In the “Energy” and “Atmospheric emissions” paragraphs of this chapter the trends related
to the consumption of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions are reported;
– as compared to 2005, an approximate 60% improvement of eco-efficiency has been
achieved, with the related effects in terms of greehouse gas emissions reduction.
As far as asset and service dematerialisation, the Group provides products and services
enabling to eliminate or reduce the greenhouse gas emissions caused by people and objectdisplacement. Here are some examples 
(3):
• Videoconference and audio conference services avoid the physical displacement of 
people.
• TLC services allow telework and the consequent reduction of house/office displacement of
employees.
• Online invoicing and payments, besides allowing saving paper and consequently 
the energy related to production and transportation, eliminate displacements to make payment.
• Thanks to Telemedicine services (see the related paragraph in “The Community” chapter)
the need for doctors and patients to meet is reduced, thus avoiding displacements and therelated greenhouse gas emissions.
• By using information obtained from mobile terminals, Infomobility projects (see the 
related paragraph “Study and experimentation of innovative services” in the “Customers” chapter) allow to better manage traffic, thus reducing both travel time and 
CO
2emissions.
The Group also takes part in the initiative launched by ETNO and by WWF “Saving the climate
@the speed of light” – information & communication technology for CO 2reductions”.
The initiative, supported by Margot Wallström, current Vice-President of the EuropeanCommission, is set out in two objectives:
• to demonstrate the concrete possibility to reduce CO
2emissions through the application 
of ICT solutions, giving specific examples of applications developed by European TLCoperators in co-operation with University centres and Research Institutes;
• to promote within the European Commission context the implementation of such solutions
and their inclusion in EU strategies for sustainable development.
(3)According to estimates: 100 million audio conferences avoiding physical displacement would lead to save more 
than 2 million CO 2tons; 10 million teleworkers, working just two days a week from home, would save 
approximately 11 million tons of CO 2;10 million users receiving on-line invoices for telephone services, instead 
of traditional paper invoices, would made it possible to save approximately 11,000 tons of CO 2.
Examples are purely indicative and the purpose is just to give a concrete idea of TLC service potential. 
They are based on projects that are audited by independent third parties, and are tested on a small scale 
by ETNO members within the framework of the initiative “Saving the climate @ the speed of light”, developed 
together with WWF (www.etno.be/sustainability).
Sustainability Section » The Environment 38Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportAs far as the emission of substances depleting stratospheric ozone that protectively shields
life on earth filtrating harmful UV radiation, starting from January 1st,2009, the marketing 
of ozone-depleting substances (e.g. HCFC) for conditioning plants will be banned.The Group is therefore taking steps to upgrade its plants using ozone-depleting gases 
(about 25,000 units, 90% with respect to the total plants). A gas compatible with ozone-protecting requirements has been successfully tested on a sample of about 
100 conditioning plants.
/L50298Electromagnetic emissions
The commitment of Telecom Italia Group to the electromagnetic emission issue is
substantiated by the following:
• careful and accurate management of plants along their whole life cycle, in observance of
regulations in force and of internal standards of efficiency and security;
• use and continuous research of advanced technological tools for control and 
monitoring.
The most significant initiatives of the year are detailed below.
The SAR qualification (Specific Absorption Rate) for mobile terminals is applied to assure
electromagnetic field levels lower than limits established by national and EU regulations.
Controls on terminal Specific Absorption Rates, carried out by Telecom Italia laboratories, are
meant to control manufacturers’ assurances. In this regard the Group has fulfilled its
commitments for 2006 (we qualified the 88% of mobile terminals (4))and has defined a
challenging goal for 2007 (see the Sustainability section of the Group website).
Concerning the electromagnetic emissions of Base Transceiver Stations (BTS), the goal to
reduce, during maximum voice traffic periods, the power emitted by the GSM Base Transceiver
Stations, thus reducing electromagnetic field intensity has been attained.
The GSM standard involves as a matter of fact multiple voice codes: Full Rate (FR), requiring a
radio resource for each conversation, Half Rate (HR) requiring one radio resource for two
simultaneous conversations. The power emitted by radio transceivers is lower with the HR
code but it requires a careful design of the network.
In this regard we have identified locations that are particularly significant in terms of
emissions and have reduced BTS emissions using the Half-Rate code (instead of Full Rate).
Our goal for 2007 (see the Sustainability section of the Group website), has been
reformulated in view of the growing importance of UMTS technology. The basic consideration,in order to reduce magnetic field emissions, is that as the traffic carried by UMTS BTS
increases, there is an augmentation in the power emitted and therefore a higher intensity of
the electromagnetic field. Traffic carried being the same, if two radiofrequency carriers areused (additional reception/transmission frequency), instead of a single carrier, the total 
power emitted by the Station is lower. In high-traffic conditions a 15% power reduction is
achieved.
The TI Media Group substantiates its commitment on the issue of electromagnetic 
emissions also thanks to co-operation with the Department of Occupational Medicine of theUniversity of Turin.
Aprogram has been launched for the systematic and periodic monitoring of electromagnetic
emissions levels of La7, MTV and TIMB plants (Telecom Italia Media Broadcasting), in order 
to ensure the observance of law limits in force and high safety standards. The Telecom Italia
Media Group controls in particular that:
• the electromagnetic field levels produced by the emissions of its plants are always lower
than 20 V/m in areas that can be reached by people not belonging to the Company and that in areas including houses, nurseries, schools or in any case attended for more
than 4 hours daily, electromagnetic fields levels must be lower than 6 V/m;
•worker exposure levels are not higher than limits established by Directive 2004/40/EC.
(4)The percentage refers to the total of mobile terminals of the most widespread and technologically 
innovative type.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 39Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportOn the basis of controls performed on the Italian territory in 2006, the electromagnetic
emissions generated by La7 and MTV resulted within lawful limits, showing significantly lower
values with digital television transmission (5).
Electromagnetism and the study of its potential effects on biological systems has been for
several years the subject of much debate within the scientific community and public opinion.
The regulations, studies and research on this subject are available on the Italian version of
the website www.tim.it (per il sociale/ambiente/elettromagnetismo).
/L50298Acoustic emissions
In observance of regulations in force the control of acoustic emissions by corporate plants
continued.
In 2006, 414 intensity measurements on the noise produced by conditioning plants and power
plants of telephone exchanges and Base Transceiver Stations have been performed, and
appropriate steps have been taken in the occurrence of non-conformance.
/L50298Environmental Management Systems
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) contribute to the sustainable management of
productive and support processes and stimulate a continuous improvement of theenvironmental performance.
The four systems, i.e. fixed network, mobile network, TILab (having ISO 14001 and ISO 9001
certification) and ICT (having ISO 9001 certification) have been integrated in a single Systemdeveloped in compliance the UNI EN ISO 9001 and UNI EN ISO 14001 requirements andmanaged by the Technology Department of Telecom Italia.
The system has been verified with positive outcome during three audit sessions by the CSQ
certification Board. Audits involved two territorial areas and the central departments. Several
internal audits have moreover been held in order to check the implementation and application
of the Environmental Management System in observance of the ISO 14001 and of
requirements defined by corporate procedures regulating all activities having an environmental
impact.
Olivetti I-Jet and TI Sparkle confirmed their certification for ISO 14001 also for 2006.
In the “Customers” chapter the environmental certifications achieved or confirmed in 2006 are
reported.
“The Environment” Project
Started in 2004 with an action plan spanning over the three years 2004-2006 the 
project has been reviewed in 2006 to ensure the appropriate monitoring of environmentalissues within the Group. For each approved project, a project manager in charge of the
implementation has been identified while an Operation Committee and a Steering
Committee have been established to assure constant monitoring on activity progress, theapproval of new projects and the related funding.
Among the new proposals already approved by the Steering Committee there are the
implementation of new Environmental Management Systems, the management of wastefrom electrical and electronic equipment and the intervention on conditioning plants
operating with stratospheric ozone-depleting gases.
(5) The digital technique allows a 75% reduction of electromagnetic emissions with respect to traditional 
analogical techniques.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 40Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Strategy
The Group aims at assisting in the economic welfare and growth of the communities in which
it operates by providing efficient and technologically advanced services.
In keeping with these objectives and with the engagements undertaken with stakeholders, the
Group’s companies consider research and innovation to be priority factors for growth andsuccess.
Compatibly with their own nature of private subjects and the need for economic efficiency, in
their decision-making processes, the Group’s companies do consider the social significance oftelecommunication services, meeting the needs of the Community and of its less fortunatemembers.
The Group favourably regards and supports social, cultural and educational initiatives meant to
promote the human being and to improve its life standards.
/L50298Classification of the contribution according to the LBG model
In 2006, the contribution of the Group to the Community, calculated according to the
guidelines of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG), is equal to approximately euro 42.4
million (euro 41.8 million in 2005).Contributions have been calculated on the basis of management data appropriatelyreclassified and partly based on estimates.
Founded in 1994, the LBG is an association comprising over 100 large international
companies and represents the worldwide standard of reference for the classification of
contributions to the Community.
To measure and report corporate commitment to the Community, the LBG has devised a
pyramid model that reclassifies contributions according to three different categories 
(1)
(Charity, Investments in the Community, Initiatives in the Community).
The criteria adopted for the allocation of contributions to the various levels of the pyramid are
reported in the following table.
Sustainability Section » The Community 41Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
The Community
LBG model (millions euro)
C1
Charity
20
Investme nts
intheComm unity
21.4 
Initiatives in th eCommunity
(1)The LBG model foresees the inclusion of  the activities mainly characterised by the Group’s sense of moral
responsibility into the first three levels of the pyramid, leaving to the companies the choice of reporting on the
activities directly linked to core business (business basics). This year the business basics are not reported, 
therefore the 2006  data is comparable with the sum of the first 3 levels of the pyramid that amounted to 
euro 41.8 million in 2005./L50298Progetto Italia
Telecom Italia Group’s commitment to the Community was coordinated by the Brand
Enrichment Department, with the goal of promoting and valorising the image of the Group withrespect to Institutions, society, public and private bodies, and single citizens, both Italian andforeign, contributing to the cultural and social growth of our Country.
At the beginning of 2005, the Group established an ad hoc company, the Progetto Italia
S.p.A., continuing its commitment towards the Community throughout the 2006 year.
From January 2007, the Brand Enrichment initiatives carried out by Progetto Italia are a
responsibility of the External Relations Department.
In 2006 Progetto Italia organised about 100 initiatives in 80 Italian towns that involved nearly
600 protagonists from the world of culture, solidarity, education, entertainment and sports
and the direct participation of more than one million people.
Some events were broadcast live at no charge through Internet on Rosso Alice: a new type of
diffusion, that doubled the number of people enjoying these initiatives and that will be replied
in the future for high-impact public events.
The most significant areas of intervention for 2006, classified in the second and third levels
of the LBG model, are reported below.
The complete list of initiatives is available on the website: www.telecomprogettoitalia.it.
/L50298Culture
Progetto Italia has spread the knowledge of our artistic and literary heritage to the greater
public by organising events involving important protagonists of the Italian and worldwideculture qualifying the Group as a first-class promoter of the protection and management of the
Italian cultural heritage.
/L50298The contemporary
Through the creation of spaces, itineraries and ad hoc events Progetto Italia has valorised the
contemporary and contributed to stimulate the discussion on authors and works of our time,
with a multi-faceted approach that mixes literature, music and cinema.
Sustainability Section » The Community 42Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Charity
Intermittent support to a wide
range of good causes in responseto the needs and appeals ofcharitable and communityorganisations, increasinglythrough partnerships between thecompany, its employees,customers and suppliers.Contributions to national/international organisations not based on a
specific medium/long-term program.
Sponsorship of causes or events, not part of a marketing strategy.
Company matching of employee giving and fundraising.
Costs of supporting and promoting employee involvement.
Costs of facilitating giving by customers and suppliers.
Investments in the Community
Long-term strategic involvement of
the company to address a limitedrange of “social” issues.Memberships and subscriptions.
Grants and donations based on a specific medium/long-term program.
Initiatives in the Community
Activities in the Community,
usually by commercialdepartments, to support directly
the success of the company, also
in partnership with charities andcommunity-based organizations.Sponsorship of events, publications and activities to promote the brand
and the corporate identity.
Cause related marketing, promoting sales.Support to scientific and university research and to charitable
organisations.
Community-based care for consumers with special needs.
Civil protection activities.Breakd own of contrib utions to the
Communit yby the Telecom Italia Group  (%)L
Charity 2%
Initiatives in the Community 51%Investme nts in the Community 47%/L50298Solidarity
The Group’s solidarity initiatives by Progetto Italia consisted of significant contributions to
improving the living conditions of the less fortunate such as minors and disabled people.
The Trovanoprofit.it portal has been designed and launched with the aim to facilitate contactsamong companies, non-profit organisations and people wishing to participate in voluntary
activities.
/L50298Training
Progetto Italia has favoured innovative methods of spreading the technologies that support the
Group services, paying special attention to sectors of the population having fewer
opportunities for enrichment and learning, such as the elderly.
/L50298Sports
Sports activities promote positive values such as loyalty, team-work and respect towards the
opponent. Progetto Italia has contributed to the diffusion of these values through dedicated
projects, ranging from competition in schools to events in clubs and town squares.
Abreakdown – according to the LBG model – of some of the Group’s initiatives undertaken in
2006 is reported below.
/L50298Lev.1-Charity
/L50298SMS and solidarity calls
This is a fundraising tool created with the purpose of enabling customers to donate to non
profit associations by sending an SMS or by a telephone call. The immediacy and simplicity ofthis tool allows a more direct appeal to people’s generosity and easier donations.All funds raised have been allocated without deductions by tax authorities (thanks to the awareness campaign launched by telecommunications companies and by non profitorganisations, this kind of fundraising is exempt from VAT) and by the company for the costs incurred.
The most significant fundraising initiatives are detailed below:
–
Thirty hours for life ,meant to support the treatment of severe pathologies, scientific
research and the fight for social malaise;
–Chances for Children ,an initiative promoted by UNICEF whose objective is to allow 
access to primary education for 50,000 children in India, Brazil and Ethiopia 
within 2007;
–SMS Lebanon emergency ,aproject launched by WFP (United Nations World Food
Programme), in agreement with all mobile operators, to support people affected by the
Lebanon war.
/L50298School in Bolivia
Entel Bolivia has implemented several initiatives aimed at supporting children’s education:
– donation of scholastic materials to children coming from rural areas among the poorest 
of the country;
– activation of educational Tele-centres equipped with PCs and satellite broadband access 
to the Internet, aimed at promoting the use of IC technologies as educational tools forteachers and students in the rural areas of the country. The initiative brought to 34 the
number of Tele-centres currently operating in the country in support of the education of
15,000 children;
–24 grants awarded to deserving students from low-income families, selected through public
competitive examinations.
/L50298Lev. 2 - Investments in the Community
/L50298Telecom Italia - Let’s train for life
It is a recreational-educational programme designed by Progetto Italia for schools, and aimed
at contributing to the cultural, civil and social growth of young people through motor education
and sports as promoters of positive values.
Sustainability Section » The Community 43Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe project is meant for schools at all levels and offers a series of educational tools and
multidisciplinary didactic materials modulated according to age ranges, to teachers, students
and families. The project is linked to the “Athletics-live” initiative that organises numerousmeetings in schools between students and athletes from various sports disciplines each year.
In 2006 99 meetings were organised throughout the Country, involving over 16,000 students,97 schools and 178 athletes.
/L50298The solidarity ponies
In 2006, thanks to the joint commitment of TIM and Progetto Italia, “The solidarity ponies”
project, now in its eighth edition, has been renewed: it’s a free initiative to support the “over65s” aimed at providing assistance in the home.
The elderly may call a telephone number provided by their Municipality or by the Associations
participating in the project to request help. The Municipality operators, connected to anoperating exchange, switch calls to the mobile phones of volunteers who can readily swing
into action also on holidays.
In 2006 the project involved six important Italian towns (Milan, Turin, Bologna, Rome, Naples,
Palermo).
/L50298TIM Music in the schools
Originated in 2003 thanks to the partnership between the Brazilian Government and TIM Brasil
this project aims – through musical education – at the social recovery of children and
teenagers who live in at risk situations.
To date, the program saw the participation of 14,540 children from 42 different public
schools: during the weekly music courses notions of civics and peaceful coexistence are
imparted to students. Teachers use novels, poetry, films, and comedies as a basis for theirlessons, in the attempt to attract young people to studies.The project covers eight towns and also involves shows in hospitals, organised by the studentsthemselves, now known as “Pequenos Ambaixadores de Paz” (Little Ambassadors of Peace).
/L50298Sou ligado!
The Group’s mobile companies and the Visão Mundial NGO have implemented the “Sou
ligado!”(I’m connected!) project, a digital inclusion program in Pernambuco, in the North-East
of Brazil.
By supplying mobile phones and granting Internet access to small traders and low-incomeprofessionals, along with providing them lessons on the use of basic communication
technologies, this project has improved their economic performance.
/L50298Lev. 3 - Initiatives in the Community
/L50298Call centres in the prisons of Rebibbia and San V ittore
The Ministry of Justice and Telecom Italia jointly operated to organise two call centres – the
first in 2003 in the San Vittore district prison in Milan and the other in 2005, at the Rebibbiaprison in Rome – for the provision of Direct Assistance services by the convicts.This is the first initiative of its kind implemented at a penal institution in Europe, both
considering its organisational characteristics and the kind of activity carried out. The initiative
received an award for the best Community partnership program, in the fourth edition of theSodalitas Social Awards that rewards the most significant social initiatives each year carried
out by Italian companies in the various sectors of corporate responsibility.
/L50298Future Centre
The Centre is located in the heart of Venice and offers a program including both cultural and
social initiatives. It is a permanent exhibition on technological innovation allowing visitors toboth see, touch and try out the new technologies created in TILab, as well as to attend
exhibitions and conferences.
The Future Centre also offers an Internet Saloon, a teaching centre launched in January 2005 andoffering free courses to people aged over 60 on Internet navigation and information technology
basics. The participants receive a certificate confirming their ability as “Internet surfers”.
/L50298Technology in support of minors
Through its services and telecommunications infrastructure, Progetto Italia has realized
several initiatives in support of minors:
Sustainability Section » The Community 44Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report–114 Childhood emergency :it is a free service, accessible from fixed networks, to report
situations of distress or immediate danger for the personal psycho-physical safety of
children and teenagers. The management of reports has been entrusted to TelefonoAzzurro, the most important Italian association for the safeguard and protection of children.
–
Parents telephone service :it is an initiative promoted by the Fondazione Movimento
Bambino and involves a listening service for parents, free of charge and covering the entirenational territory, aimed at providing answers to questions that may arise from the parent-
child relationship.
–
Dreams Mission :a“mini-portal” has been created in order to offer hospitalised children a
double possibility: a video-chat to communicate with their families, teachers and friends as
well as a series of films, sports events, games and didactic content, thus lessening theburden of hospitalisation. The service is operating at the Paediatrics Department of the
Tumor Institute of Milano.
/L50298Relations with Univer sities
The Telecom Italia Group is strongly committed to support the University world and training
centres for young university graduated. At this purpose, it sponsors scholarships and masterprograms. Through an internship mechanism, the Group supports the technical training of
approximately 300 young people every year with a financial commitment equal to about euro
800,000. Moreover, in 2006 a master fully supported by the Group has been launched at the
Turin Polytechnic Institute. The master aims at favouring training on the innovation of networksand services for 40 young engineering graduates.The Group’s contribution to youth training also involves the time dedicated by many of itsmanagers to university courses and masters, as well as to internship workers, students and
undergraduates.
/L50298Business basics
Business basics are the Group’s initiatives linked to core business having a significant impact
on the Community.
/L50298Mobile Care
It is a multimedia video-assistance service for hearing impaired people developed in co-
operation with ENS (National Agency for Deaf-Mutes). It allows receiving free of charge all
information required to use mobiles and mobile telephony services in the Italian signlanguage. The hearing impaired people just connect to the WAP 119 service, access thededicated area and navigate within a menu. Once the information required is selected, a
recorded film is displayed on the mobile, providing all the necessary explanations in the Italian
sign language.
/L50298Telemedicine
Telecom Italia, shareholder of Telbios, continues its strict collaboration with this company for
the development of joint offers that integrate their relative operational and businesscompetences.
Telbios develops Telemedicine networks designed to share images, data and medical-scientific
competences among renowned hospital centres and remote healthcare facilities, in order to
extend the availability of appropriate specialised assistance and to expand the offer ofservices to patients throughout the Country, thus ensuring the continuity of treatments
administered in the hospital and reducing the number of medical checks and unnecessary
hospitalisations.
Telbios telemedicine services are Teleassistance, Telecardiology and Telemonitoring. Directly
from the home, the patient may record his vital parameters using cutting-edge telemedicineequipment provided by Telbios: electrocardiographs, spirometers, sphygmomanometers, digital
balances, etc. The data recorded may be transmitted through a simple telephone connection
or by using a GSM mobile to the Telemedicine Service Centre of Telbios, where specialisedoperators and specialists of the cardiology team of the San Raffaele Scientific Institute of
Milan are available around the clock. Data are analysed in real time at the Centre or are sent
to specialists of other healthcare facilities that are treating the patient.
The goal of the Telbios services is the improvement of medical assistance, of the collaboration
between doctors and patients, in view of a better and more efficient healthcare system.
Sustainability Section » The Community 45Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Research, Development and Innovation
The TLC Italian market is considered among the most advanced, both from the technological
viewpoint and evolution of customer attitudes as well as customer consumption profiles.
ToTelecom Italia Group technological innovation is therefore an essential and differentiating
element in order to develop a competitive advantage and maintain leadership in an
increasingly competitive market.
The wealth of technological and innovative competences of the Group has allowed in these
years the design, development and adoption on the field of cutting-edge networks, terminals
and services, a wealth to be used also in foreign countries where the Group operates.
Technological innovation activities are carried out not only by the “TILab - Innovation,
Engineering & Testing” department of Operations – where the activities and expertise neededfor basic research are concentrated, to evaluate emerging technologies and intra-moenia
development – but also by some Operating Units and Business Units (Network, Market,Information Technology, Web & Media and Security) and by Olivetti.
The technological innovation of the Telecom Italia Group is also the result of strategic
partnerships with leading manufacturers of TLC equipment and systems and with top research
labs belonging to world-class academic institutions in Italy and abroad.
Technological innovation activities range from reviewing basic technologies with the aim of
increasing efficiency of networks and systems, to complex activities which involve an in-depthreview of the platforms, services and architectures; the effort bestowed on the field byBusiness Units’ operational departments is therefore essential to ensure that new services
meet customer requirements and continuously improve quality levels.
In 2006 the overall innovative investments of the Telecom Italia Group in tangible and
intangible assets amount to approximately euro 3,200 million. Internal staff devoted tothese activities as well as to research is approximately 6,300, with an overall commitment
of around euro 540 million (of which about euro 130 million already included under
investments).
In 2006 the R&D centres of the Telecom Italia Group carried out in particular the following
activities.
/L50298TILab - Innovation, Engineering & Testing
“TILab - Innovation, Engineering & Testing”, a department of the Operations Technology
division, operates as a competence centre for the activities of Research, Development and
Testing of the Telecom Italia Group, catalysing technological innovation in support ofdepartments in charge of business development. It also operates externally as excellence
centre for the TLC sector.
Consistently with such commitment, its technical experts operate therefore for innovationengineering and testing, to make it rapidly and economically accessible to the Group’s
customers in the context of the Italian telecommunications market, considered among the
most advanced at world level both from the technological viewpoint and that of customerattitudes and consumption evolution.
Technological innovation is therefore for the Telecom Italia Group the essential and qualifying
issue enabling their competitiveness and leadership in a market characterised by growingcompetition levels.
The technological innovation of the Telecom Italia Group is also the result of strategic
partnerships with leading manufacturers of TLC equipment and systems and with top researchlabs belonging to world-class academic institutions in Italy and abroad (Polytechnic of Turin
and Milan, Universities of Pisa, Genoa, Florence, Rome, Naples, Bologna, Reggio Emilia,
Brescia and Verona, University of Berkeley, Ministry of Innovation and technologies).In co-operation with the Technical University-Polytechnic of Turin we also launched a University
Master on the subject “Network and service innovation in the ICT sector”, with the view to
train on specific technological competences thanks to a marked integration betweenclassroom and laboratory activities.
Sustainability Section » The Community 46Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportIn the field of technological innovation the strong focus put on the opportunity to generate
competitive advantages and to create value for the Telecom Italia Group is also being pursued
through a strategic management of relations among research, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)and business, aimed at developing the corporate patent portfolio. In this context and as a
consequence of placing more emphasis on the quality of patents instead of large numbers asin the past, in 2006 sixty-three new patents have been registered (86 in 2005), of which 4
following joint research projects with Pirelli Labs. A breakdown by activity sector is reported
below:
Sustainability Section » The Community 47Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
WIREL INE
21%
MOB ILE
44%FIXED-MOBILE
32%OTHER JOINT
PROJECTS T I
PIRELLI  LABS
3%
Among the ongoing activities that in the next few years will be significantly perceived by the
general public, the following are worth mentioned: the development of mobile communicationsand the spreading of broadband in a perspective of evolution of the network and servicesprojected up to 2015.
In particular, results accomplished by TILab in 2006 have been addressed on one side to
achieve a network platform appropriate to the new requirements in terms of traffic andgeographic coverage of operating services and on the other side to favour the introduction of newservice/terminals and new network architectures capable of increasing the Group’s revenues.TILab also contributed, in co-operation with other departments, to improve the quality of existingservices and to rationalise the acquisition costs for new network and user equipment.
Concerning the evolution of Network Architectures towards the Next Generation Network 2
(NGN2) , the Group projected the evolution course that will lead in the next few years 
to the introduction in the Telecom Italia network of innovative architectures based on FTTB
(Fiber to-the-Building) and FTTCAB (Fiber to-the-Cabinet) technologies. The new network and user technological platforms, the bases of these future developments, have been
analysed and characterised whenever possible in the laboratory and through specific trials.
The RFI/Requests for Information, to achieve vendors’ state-of-the-art in the sector, have also been started.
As far as the updating of network platforms with the new requirements related to traffic and
geographic coverage of operating services, several initiatives have been carried out in strict 
co-operation with Network Operation, which can be summarised as follows:
– expansion of ADSL functions in 1,125 further exchanges, also considering the requirements
associated to the “digital divide” initiative;
– introduction of the ADSL2+ function for residential and business customers in 899 further
exchanges, thus achieving 1,200 installations at the end of 2006;
–expansion in 497 exchanges of the network function supporting the Alice Home TV service;
equipped sites are thus 836 at the end of 2006;
–expansion of network nodes for the UMTS service achieving an incremental total of 1,635
nodes;
– enrichment of UMTS nodes with functions enabling a markedly increased speed of data
transmission on mobile terminals (HSDPA function) in 3,528 sites;
–start of the deployment of Core Network equipment, thus avoiding alterations in the mobile
network traffic clearance following changes in 2G-3G user mixing;
– installation of a new release of the IMS platform (IP Multimedia Subsystem) enabling the
Alice Mia and Push-Over-Cellular services over the whole national territory.With reference to the contribution given by TILab to the launch of new services and terminals
thefollowing events are worth mentioning:
– organisation of the network and user terminal for the marketing launch of “Hi-Speed”, 
data transmission service on mobile based on HSDPA functions and with bit-rate up 
to3.6 Mbit/s;
– organisation of the network and user terminal for the Telecom Italia fixed-mobile offer “Unica”;
– in co-operation with Mediaset, implementation of the DVB-H trial for the winter Olympic
games in Turin and organisation of the network and user terminal for the marketing launch
ofthe Mobile TV service;
– organisation of the network and terminal for the marketing launch of the Video-
communication service based on the Combo terminal and of “Alice’s telephone”;
–development and organisation of network platforms for the launch of the “Instant
Messaging” service between fixed and mobile network communities, the so-called “Alice
Messenger”;
– activation of the Push-over-Cellular service for residential mobile users, within the “TIM
Tribù” offer, enabling an innovative communication mode within a community of mobile
customers;
– demonstration at the dealers convention of October 2006 and network organisation in view
of the launch of the “News Click” service, providing multimedia content in the push mode
to mobile customers;
– demonstration of statistical localisation solutions applied to city infomobility (Venice
Biennial - Telecom Italia/MIT pavilion and subsequently in Rome);
–start of a Telecom Italia - Magneti Marelli project for a “service brokering” prototype
solution for the automotive market, tested with the “Intelligent Parking” service on a
prototype version of platform on vehicle;
–completion of the certification for the new product Aladino VoIP enabling the self-installation
of the “Alice Voice” service within the “Alice All Included 30 euros” offer;
– experimentation and introduction of Home Networking solutions to simplify home wiring in
support of the Alice Home TV service, based on radio technologies (Wi-Fi) or pre-existinghome wiring (Powerline on mains or coaxial plant);
– tests in laboratory and in the field on m-commerce and m-ticketing solutions based on
mobile terminal with ZSIM (Zigbee enabled SIM);
–certification of the new service for Business “2in1” customers (two numbers associated in
the same SIM).
With respect to service quality quite significant are the TILab contributions to quality
improvement on ADSL accesses and the Video-communication service.
TILab has also defined the technical solutions favouring the launch by the Group of important
tenders related to Network Transport and Optical Packet Metro as well as to the secondsupplier of Access Gateway, with significant cost rationalisation results.
/L50298Olivetti S.p.A.
The Olivetti Business Unit devotes a significant number of its employees to the technological
research and development sector. Its research centres, located both in Italy and abroad, arestaffed by about 250 people, corresponding to 18% of its total workforce.In particular, the ink-jet technology, exclusively owned at European level by Olivetti, and by five
other companies worldwide, was created and developed in the Arnad (Aosta) plant, where over
200 employees are engaged in the entire production cycle of thermal ink-jet technology: fromsilicon processing to print cartridges assembly. In 2006 the Olivetti research centre focused
most of all on the development of new models of multifunctional printers and new generations
of ink-jet print heads.
Sustainability Section » The Community 48Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Strategy
The Group’s companies strongly believe in the centrality of Human Resources and consider
the professional contribution of people operating in it as a key factor for business success,
within a mutual loyalty and trust framework.
The Group’s companies safeguard health and safety in the workplace and consider therespect of workers’ rights as an essential issue in business.
The management of industrial relations aims at ensuring equal opportunities and favouring
individual professional growth.
/L50298Headcount and changes in Telecom Italia Group
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 49Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Changes in the period
Headcount at Recruited Terminated Decrease Changes Total Headcount at
12.31.2005 of temporary in report change 12.31.2006
(*) staff scope (*)
86,531 6,086 (7,127) (728) (1,553) (3,322) 83,209
(*)includes staff on temporary contract, equal to 3,382 in 2005 and 2,654 at December 2006.
Headcount at December 31, 2006 is 83,209.
The reduction of 3,322 employees with respect to December 31, 2005, is due to:
– the sale of Buffetti (– 183 employees), Wirelab (– 54 employees), Eustema 
(– 134 employees), TILS (– 195 employees), Digitel Venezuela (– 915 employees) and 
of the “Radio-maritime services” (– 72 employees) by Telecom Italia S.p.A.;
–the entry of 6,086 employees (of which 119 related to sold/destined to be sold 
activities, i.e. “discontinued operations”) and the termination of 7,127 employees (of which 67 related to “discontinued operations”), plus a decrease of 728 employees 
oftemporary staff.
Headcount at 12.31.2005
52,731 9 52,740 10,315 1,303 526 (2,820) 360 48 (72) 9,660 61,040 1,360 62,400/L50298Headcount and changes in T elecom Italia S.p.A.
Incorporated company
RecruitedTermi-
natedTransfers
among
Group’s
companies
(including 
the entry of
Nuova Tin.it)Increase 
of
temporary
staffSale of
“Radio-
maritime
services”Total
change
StaffTemporary
staffTotal StaffTemporary
staffTotal StaffTemporary
staffTIM ITALIA
03.01.2006Headcount at 12.31.2006Changes in the periodHuman Resources
Headcount of Telecom Italia S.p.A. at December 31, 2006 is 62,400.Sustainability Section » Human Resources 50In Italy the Group’s payroll headcount is equal to 83.4% of the total with the following
characteristics:
Telecom Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by pr ofessio nal cat egory
MIDDLE MANAGERS/
PROFESSIONALS 6.4%SENIOR MANAGERS 1.8%
OFFICE
STAFF/SPE CIALIST S
91.2%WORKERS 0.6%Telecom Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by ag egroup
OVER 45 YEARS
36.0%UP TO 32 YEARS
11.9%
FROM 33 TO
45 YEARS
52.1%Telecom Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by acad emic q ualification
HIGH
SCHOOLGRADUATES66.1%OTHER
17.9%
UNIVERSITY
DEGREES
16.0%
Telecom Italia Gro up: employ eebreak down
bygeographic area
SOUTHERN
ITALY21.4%ABROAD
16.6%
ITALY
83.4%Telecom Italia Gro up: recru itment
breakdown by ge ographic area
ABROAD
81.0%ITALY
19.0%
SOUTHERN
ITALY
4.7%
Latin America :emplo yee br eakdown
by acad emic qualification
HIGH
SCHOOLGRADUATES59.0%OTHER
1.8%
UNIVERSITY
DEGREES
39.2%Latin America : employee br eakdown
by prof essional categ ory
SENIOR MANAGERS 0.5%
MIDDL E MANAGERS /
PROFESSIONA LS 3.4%WORKERS
0.0%
OFFICE
STAFF/SPECIALISTS
96.1%Latin America : employee br eakdown
by age group
UP TO 32 YEARS
69.8%OVER 45 YEARS
5.7%
FROM 33 TO
45 YEARS
24.5%/L50298Focus on Latin AmericaAs compared to December 31, 2005 an overall increase of 9,660 employees is observed.
This is mainly due to the merger by incorporation of TIM Italia into Telecom Italia S.p.A.
(+11,618 employees).
The sale of the “Radio-maritime services” (– 72 employees) occurred in September 2006.Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportIn 2006 the percentage of women holding senior management positions in the Group (in Italy)
was approximately 15%; at middle management level it was about 24%.
Equal opportunities
Initiatives in favour of women professional growth and of the diffusion of equal 
opportunities have been launched, developing and consolidating issues included in the“Woman Project” of 2003.
The following activities have been developed in particular in 2006:
–Childcare centres: a new childcare has been inaugurated in Milan. Others have already
been open in Rivoli (TO), Palermo, Naples and Rome (Parco dei Medici and ViaFaustiniana).
– Loans for mothers: 147 loans have been granted to new mothers with children up to three
years of age.
– Children day: on May 26, 2006, the “working mother’s and father’s day”, the employees’
children had access to all Telecom Italia offices to visit their parents’ workplace. Seventeenoffices organised entertainments with snacks and gadgets distribution.
– Christmas day: visit of the offices in 5 corporate premises with entertainment and small
gifts for employees’ children up to 12 years of age.
– Time off for mothers and fathers: “time chequebooks” for employees up to the fifth level
(according to the Italian labour contract) and children up to 8 years of age, with 150 hoursof time off every year to be repaid with overtime.
– Time off to attend: paid time off up to 12 monthly hours to be recuperated, granted to
pregnant employees and fathers.
–Development of management policies: (training courses, training on the job, coaching,
working time flexibility, etc.) to help women employees resume their jobs after maternity
leave (i.e. temporary renewable part-time for a year, granted to mothers with children up to 8 years).
/L50298Development
Several projects concerning the  development of specific position at the various organisational
levels have been launched in the year. In particular specific initiatives have been designed in
order to define medium-term Individual Development Plans for key resources to our business
in several segments of corporate staff: managers, middle managers, high-potential youngemployees.
Upon conclusion of the two-year Competence mapping process we continued in 2006 to
identify the Key Professional Roles for business development within the various organisational
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 51/L50298Gender balance
Distribution of men a nd women
Telecom Italia S.p.A.  (2005-2 006)
MenWomen25%50%75%100%
2006 200522.7
77.326.7
73.3Distribution of men a nd women
TI Group (in Italy)  (2005 -2006)
MenWomen25%50%75%100%
2005 200628.7
71.328.9
71.1Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportprofiles mapped in the corporate Professional System. On the basis of the single gap analyses
specific action plans have been defined, aimed at competence development through training
programs, job rotation and recruitment initiatives.
Concerning in particular job rotations, in 2006 our policy meant to develop competences
through intra-group mobility continued, thus favouring resource development and allowing to
meet staff requirements using skills available within the Group. During the year 137
announces were posted on the Group Job Posting (as compared to 80 in 2005) and 1,084curricula were collected (as compared to 500 in 2005).
In 2006 a new system (System for Performance Evaluation & Development) was designed 
and its implementation started. The basic idea was to simplify human resources assessmentprocesses and to promote a more integrated assessment of individual performances. 
The project thus merges the yearly process of Performance Assessment and the biennialprocess of Competence Mapping in a single logic and computerised work flow. 
This new work flow integrates in the process the existing stand alone procedures, introducing
the paperless processing.
Also in 2006 the “Management Review” allowed the analysis of the qualitative profiles 
of the whole management, assessing about 1,600 senior and middle managers. 
The process, through a new methodology using a specific leadership model, made it possibleto elaborate more complete and richer assessment profiles. This helps to increasingly steer
assessments on a succession management basis and to plan actions for organisational andmanagerial development.
In this regard, on the basis of the Management Review, a new initiative called “Individual
Leadership Center” started. It refers to a part of senior managers and aims at analysing, with
the support of external professionals and the co-operation of the concerned managers, singlemanagerial profiles in view of specific development and training programs.
Recruiting
In 2006 the “University Tour” project, aimed at presenting our company in the main Italian
universities, continued as well as the selection and recruiting plan concerning university
graduates, mostly in Engineering. Within the initiatives promoted by the Group and involving
student grants, the Master “Innovation” started, devoted to the placement of young engineers
in study and training stages in technologically innovating sectors, in co-operation with thePolytechnic (Technical University) of Turin.
/L50298Training
In 2006 training activities implemented for Telecom Italia Group’s staff in Italy involved
approximately about 1.9 million hours (class sessions, on-line, training on the job) 
and about euro 21.8 million of outlay costs (excluding the cost of labour and logisticexpenses).
In the same period the 83% of the Group’s staff has at least been involved in one training
initiative. These activities can be traced back to two essential themes: the overall Groupprojects and training as a tool to safeguard the business competences.
Overall Group Projects
In 2006 the basic theme of training activities has been the improvement of leadership 
abilities and the management and development of innovation.
We also supported the wide diffusion of operational aspects associated to the project“Sarbanes Oxley (404)” through a “cascade” approach (567 people trained on the 
overall).
In order to expand the Group training an e-learning project, “Formimpres@”, involving about200 resources and offering 52 on-line courses, has been realized.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 52Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Training as a safeguard of business competences
Operations
Specific projects and trainings for the various organisational structures have been developed
with the view to favouring more business-oriented skills:
• convergence of fixed/mobile networks and relative technological developments with respect
to Added Value Services and Multimedia services for Network staff;
• improvement of management competences and development of team working;• focus on Customer Satisfaction and improvement of competences on advanced
technological services for Sales staff;
• consultancy skills for staff operating in the Large Business Customers segment.
With regard to technical assistance management, the activities related to the CISCO
certification program started some years ago, have been continued with the aim of improvingthe process management level.
Media
In line with 2005, training initiatives have concerned the “People enhancement” theme.
Programs have been realised on “Management of complexity”, involving senior and middle
managers, and on “Self Empowerment,” meant to develop individual attitudes and abilities of MTV middle management. Furthermore, training courses on Terrestrial Digital and specificsoftware for the management of the TV process have been organised for technical and
specialist staff.
Olivetti
The Olivetti Business Unit has addressed training activities to managerial skills for middle
managers, to the culture of business economic value for managers with higher seniority and
on updating professional competences for the technical sector staff.
A training project on Leadership concerning the Central Departments has been realized. 
The project is meant for a limited number of middle managers for which a career development
is foreseen and aims at reinforcing – through the application of an innovative outdoor, indoorand sailing methodology – those managerial behaviours that can be related to the Leadershipmodel based on the System of Values.
The monitoring of the training activities for the Telecom Italia Group staff abroad refers 
to 95% of people operating in Brazil, Bolivia and Europe. For the first time the subsidiariesoperating in France and Germany have been included in the analysis.
Training hours were approximately 830,000 and the overall cost was about euro 3.3 million.
More specifically, TIM Brasil implemented a very intensive training plan for Customer Care 
and Information Technology staff for the new Sant’André technological centre.
/L50298Internal communication
In 2006 an extensive internal communication program in support of the change process
towards the One Company has been launched.
Conventions and meetings
–Annual Convention (March 16, 2006) with the participation of about 6,000 senior and
middle managers of the Telecom Italia Group in Italy, Europe and Latin America. The event was also broadcast both live and “on demand” through video streaming on 
the Intranet.
– Business Reviews on the territory (March-April 2006): with the participation of the Chief
Executive Officer Riccardo Ruggiero in Rome, Milan, Naples and Bologna.
– Other meetings: several other meetings have been organised in the main business
departments to spread information on specific corporate issues (Privacy, Safety,Environment) as well as events supporting the corporate welfare system.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 53Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportCorporate Press
Three more issues of the house organ noi.magazine have been distributed to all employees
both in Italy and abroad, besides to over 30,000 senior ex-employees of Telecom Italia. 
These three issues, among which a special double one at the end of the year, focused on
themes such as customer service, integration and innovation.
Again in 2006 we launched the Portuguese edition of noi.magazine for TIM Brasil 
employees.
On-line communication
Several improvements were achieved as far as the Intranet, such as:
– stabilisation and consolidation of the new Group Intranet on SAP platform;
– harmonisation of TIM and Wireline Intranet with a new Intranet Operations;
– enrichment of the community with new features devoted to leisure time and culture.
On the overall over 1 million visits have been recorded per month with an average of single
visitors exceeding 20,000.
A new tool, noi.flash , devoted to monographic issues having special corporate impact has
been realized. The paper version of the newsletter has been created for network 
technical staff.
Concerning audiovisual communication, the experimental diffusion of short corporate news
items on service mobiles, palmtops (Blackberry and Q-Tech), over the Intranet and IP-TV has
been successfully implemented.
We also expanded and consolidated the plasma screen network installed in the communal
areas of the main office buildings, transmitting information and corporate life programs; theinitiative has been named “Scoop” and is also accessible through the Intranet where it isregularly broadcast.
Video-streaming is now a consolidated practice in the occurrence of special corporate events
(ranging from meetings with the Financial Community, broadcast both live and in the recordedversion, to the Group convention and top management video-messages).
Survey on staff attitude
The fifth edition of the staff attitude survey “Group photograph” has been realized. 
The online questionnaire, presented to the Group employees in Italy, Germany and Brazil, 
saw a 73% participation (on the overall 57,000 questionnaires were completed). The analysis
confirmed the satisfactory attitude level of last year: in Italy the performance is 6.21 on a 10-point scale, in Brazil 4.17 on a 5-point scale and in Germany 6.64 on a 10-point scale.Results have been posted on the Group Intranet portal and are also being circulated 
through ad hoc meetings.
Special initiatives for employees
Among these activities, the following projects have been carried out:
–noi.shop project, an on-line window containing Group products and services offered to
employees.
–Photographic contest involving all the Group’s employees. The 12 best images have been
used to realize the noi.2007 calendar.
– Telecom Italia “100 torch-bearers” Project at the Winter Olympic Games in Turin.
– Participation and involvement of employees in the main Brand Enrichment initiatives carried
out by Progetto Italia, such as the “2006 Telecomcert” at the Fori Imperiali in Rome, sportevents (Golf Open and Sailing together), literary (Lifetime classics) and musical events
(Story Tellers), the Science Festival in Genoa.
– EmotionArt Project, art at the service of integration and change through film projections in
Operations offices, to discuss and meet.
– The Lighthouse Project, an internal feedback initiative meant to define action plans to
improve staff attitude, develop internal loyalty indicators and start actions favouringcorporate business development.
It articulates into three subprojects:
• “Foreground”, itinerant focus on the territory to establish close relations with employees,
analyse their needs and expectations.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 54Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report• “Viewpoint and Service Experimentation Club”, a panel including 2,000 employees that
are periodically consulted to assess their acceptance, receive suggestions and 
feelings on various corporate issues (such as innovation, internal communication,corporate life issues). They are also asked to test product/services to perfect our offer
to customers.
• “Reporter”, an electronic suggestion box, allowing collecting and valorising employees’
suggestions on various corporate issues (137 new proposals on the theme “Innovationof products/services”.
The “Values” Project
In July 2006 the first phase of the “Values in Progress” Project, aimed at spreading
behaviours in line with corporate values, ended. 
The project saw the participation of about 2,200 Group’s resources among which seniormanagers, middle managers and office staff.
Behaviours improving practices such as transparency, customer-orientation and integration
have been defined; further actions will be carried out in order to facilitate the practice of such
values in the second phase of the project.
/L50298Remuneration policies
In 2006 the management of the fixed-compensation policy, inspired by equity and selectivity
principles, has ensured market competitiveness management and valorisation of excellence in
individual performances.
The “variable” component of compensation, correlated to company/individual performance, 
is confirmed as the distinctive element of the compensation package; to short-term formalised
incentive tools – for managers (Management By Objectives) and professionals (Performance
Bonus Program) – in 2006 a new three-year incentive plan (LTI 2006-2008 cash), involving 
a wide range of management on the Group’s strategic objectives creation of value and 
Customer Satisfaction, was added.
The commitment to harmonize policies on benefits has been continued, as well as to 
increase the population receiving benefits; within such framework the “Cellular for us” is worthmentioning. The project is a significant working tool and a daily benefit for all employees as it consolidates a feeling of identity and belonging to the Group.
/L50298Stock options
Stock options have been used over the years within the Telecom Italia Group for retention
purposes and as a long-term incentive for managers.
In 2006 no new stock option plans have been launched.
At the end of 2006 the stock option plans existing in the Group are related to options granted
in preceding years and entitling to the subscription of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Telecom ItaliaMedia S.p.A. shares.
Information requested by Consob with Communication no. 11508 of February 15, 2000
relative to Telecom Italia Stock Option Plans (including those formerly assigned by Tim SpA) as
well as to Telecom Italia Media Stock Option Plans, is summarized in the Notes “Stock option
Plans”. They are included respectively in Telecom Italia S.p.A. Annual Report and in TelecomItalia Group Annual Report.
/L50298Industrial relations
Collective Group bargaining mainly concerned the activities reported below.
Consistently with the agreement reached with trade unions in the 2005-2007 Industrial Plan
(One Company Model) on February 27, 2006, the industrial procedure related to the merger by incorporation of TIM Italia S.p.A. into Telecom Italia S.p.A. has been accomplished.
The integrated business model, representing a significant innovation in the TLC market and
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 55Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportconsisting in joint management of the fixed and mobile businesses, is based on technological
infrastructure optimisation, on integrated offer to customers and on the unification of
processes and resources. At the same date an agreement has been subscribed with Unions in order to harmonise different treatments for employees of the above mentioned 
companies.
Within the framework of the Group focus on core business activities, on July , 2006, Telecom
Italia sold the 100% share capital of Telecom Italia Learning Services S.p.A. (TILS) to a newlyestablished company (TILS HOLDING S.p.A.) jointly owned by Cegos and Camporlecchio
Educational. In line with the Industrial Relations Department participatory model, the company
has organized meetings with Trade Unions to provide information.
Within the framework of rationalisation activity, the sale of the branch Radiomaritime
Customers Services by Telecom Italia S.p.A to ITS Servizi Marittimi e Satellitari S.p.A. hasoccurred, as of September 16, 2006. The meetings with Trade Unions for the relative labour
procedure also saw the participation of the company buyer.
As far as reorganization within the Group, on October 1, 2006 the Nuova Tin.it S.r.l has 
been merged by incorporation into Telecom Italia S.p.A.. The related labour procedure was
carried out after due consultation with Trade Unions as provided by the law and Industrial
Relations Protocol.
On March 20, 2006 an agreement with Unions has been signed on the use of Intranet,
Internet and e-mail. In compliance with art. 4 of law no. 300 of May 20, 1970, (workers
Statute of rights), the agreement reconciles the respect of employee dignity and privacy with
corporate authority to monitor the correct use of these tools should any hypothesis of illicit
conduct by employees arise.
Following the agreements signed on December 20, 2005 with Trade Unions, in 2006 the
Group enrolled on mobility lists 1,246 resources (using as a priority identification criterion the
early retirement option during mobility).
Consistently with agreements signed with Trade Unions, mobility ex lege 223/91 has been
implemented on the basis of voluntary assent by the involved resources. 
These have been granted, upon termination of employment, an addition to TFR (end ofemployment settlement) such as to ensure appropriate income for the time to retirementpension. More generally, the management of resources in view of staff reduction has beenimplemented aiming at mutually agreed employment termination and, whenever possible,through professional re-employment solutions.
The Group also signed agreements with the manager’s bargaining Group on supplementary
health assistance and complementary security for managers: on March 6, 2006 an agreement
has been signed to redefine contributions to ASSIDA (Supplementary Health Assistance Fundfor Group companies senior managers), in order to oppose the growing unbalance between
operating managers and associated retired managers; on July 19, 2006 and November 9,
2006 agreements have been signed to define contributions to Fontedir (SupplementaryPension Fund for Telecom Italia managers), consistently with similar solutions adopted by
Confindustria and Federmanager for the National Fund of the category.
/L50298Health and safety
In 2006 the realization of some important projects continued, at Group level:
• the survey on wellbeing in call-centres has been expanded to a sample of structures all
over the national territory, using a special computerised questionnaire prepared by the
University of Turin, that involves approximately 3,000 employees;
• the assessment of concentration levels of radon gas in some workplaces, by means of
scientific collaboration with the Superior Health Institute continued, in order to develop a
working methodology and an accredited laboratory;
• concerning the assessment of the biological risk occurring in underground plants, operated
by Telecom Italia technical staff, the phase involving environmental and haematic sample
collection as required by the Superior Health Institute has been concluded.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 56Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportFurthermore, in order to ensure and promote health and safety on the job, several
interventions have been implemented, the most significant of which are:
• updating of the Group Risk Assessment documentation;• training on health and safety in the workplace – approximately 35,000 hours directly
provided by the Prevention, Protection and Environment Service – devoted in particular toemployees in charge of emergency management, to newly hired employees and to workers
exposed to specific risk;
• preparatory activities related to an important project on information, education and training
on “safe driving”, which will involve in the two-year span 2007-2008 the appropriate
corporate staff with diversified modes;
• health surveillance and inspections of video terminal workstations carried out by competent
physicians;
• preparatory activities in view of the application of the Safety Management System;
• controls and monitoring on buildings, plants, equipment and processes;
• evacuation tests to verify the efficiency of the Emergency Plans;
• updating of First Aid Operative Plans.
Accidents
Data on accidents occurred in Telecom Italia S.p.A. are shown in comparison with last year
data. These have been recalculated considering changes in the report scope.
Telecom Italia Value aggregation 
S.p.A. for TI S.p.A.
and TIM S.p.A.
2006 2005
Total accidents no. 973 943
Accident severity index (*) % 0.25 0.30
Frequency rate (*) % 10.97 9.34
Average duration days 125.2 108.50
Unproductiveness rate (*) % 1.37 1.02
% workers on total % 1.67 1.51
(*)The severity, frequency and unproductiveness indexes represent respectively:
– the number of conventional days lost per year per thousand hours worked;– the number of accidents per million hours worked;– the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked.
/L50298Initiatives for employees
Welfare
In 2006 the Welfare Department ensured the operation of the Group Recreational and Welfare
Organisations through the provision of social services for the improvement of employees
wellbeing, the implementation of health assistance/prevention and medicine in the workplaceinitiatives, and solutions for leisure time.
The following projects and initiatives have been carried out for employees:
•
Personal affairs service : twenty-one corporate offices feature a permanent counter for the
management of errands (administration, post office, etc.).
•Wellness/Laundry/On-line shopping : within the corporate offices of Turin, Padua, Rome
and Palermo an area has been equipped for fitness purposes (mild exercise, postural,
shiatsu massage, etc.). An office in Rome offers a laundry service (with collection anddelivery) and an on-line shopping service.
•
Price agreements : national and/or territorial agreement for purchase/use of goods and
services at reduced cost (hotel chains, tourist packages, car rent, event booking);agreements with finance companies for personal loans at special conditions.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 57Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report•Company loans : the Group granted 380 loans, of which 55 to buy house and 60 for
renovating houses.
•Corporate loyalty : in the year approximately 3,600 employees were rewarded for 25, 30
and 35 years seniority.
•Intranet and Internet websites : information/communication with the Group’s employees,
access to Social Services.
•Health information : dedicated interactive section via Intranet.
The following initiatives are devoted to employees’ children:
•Traditional summer holiday camps : 15-day camps for Group company employees’ children
aged 6-12. Participants in 2006: 4,747 children.
•Thematic summer holidays : 14-day holiday devoted to learning English and sport practice
for Group company employees’ children aged 7-15. In 2006, thanks to a higher availabilityof dedicated structures, 1,051 participations have been recorded. A thematic linguistic
holiday has been also experimentally organised in England (Eastbourne). Twenty-nine
children took part in it.
•
Scholarships : 60 scholarships abroad devoted to the English language. Four weeks for boys
and girls aged 15-16 (30 in Ireland and 30 in Finland); 20 one-year study stays for boys
and girls aged 16-17 (Europe, United States and Canada).
•Refund of university fees : refund of first-year enrolment fee for Group employees’ children
with high school degree mark at least 90/100.
ALATEL
Association for the Elderly (ALATEL and Gold Pins)
The Senior Worker’s Association of the Telecom Italia Group (23,000 members, of which
4,500 are working employees) continued the realization of its institutional activities,confirming the co-operation with the Olivetti Gold Pins Association (4,161 members).
ASSILT
At December 31, 2006 over 208,500 people were enrolled in the Association for Integrative
Healthcare for Telecom Italia Group workers: 66,700 employees, 38,200 retirees, 103,600employees’ family members.
Besides reimbursing healthcare expenses to integrate the National Healthcare Service
(551,000 cases in 2006 totalling over euro 58.9 million), the association conducts campaigns
for preventive medicine and healthcare education, using its mobile diagnostic units and
support from public healthcare facilities.
Also in 2006 the programs for multidisciplinary Oncological Prevention to discover breast and
skin pathologies continued (Lombardia, Campania, Lazio and Piemonte), as well as theprogram for the prevention of respiratory allergies (Toscana, Sardegna, Calabria, Marche,
Emilia Romagna and Basilicata).
CRALT
The Workers Recreational Club of the Telecom Italia Group organizes, in favour of employees
and retirees, tourist initiatives (collective and individual tours with a 15% indicative saving as
compared to market prices), sport initiatives (participation in the main national and regionalsport meetings), cultural and recreational events (guided tours, music courses, painting,
photography, theatre and cinema).
The contribution in favour of members may reach 40% and dues for all initiatives may be paid
in instalments deducted from salary/wages.
At December 31, 2006 about 55,000 members has joined the club (47,800 employees and
7,200 retirees).
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 58Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Labour and human rights in Latin America
The following shows the main actions undertaken by the Group in Latin American countries –
Brazil and Bolivia – to implement the principles of the Global Compact regarding human rights
and safeguard of labour standards.
Human Rights
In TIM Partecipaçoes the company kept strictly to the specific protection rules against
discrimination provided by the Federal Constitution, in line with the ILO principles (International
Labour Organization) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Human Resources department, through their holding and territorial structures, monitors
the essential processes related to human resources (recruitment, management and
development). Following the introduction of the first corporate Code of Ethics (inspired by the
general principles of the Group’s code and in line with the Global Compact principles), an
Intranet interactive application (quiz on the Code content) was developed in 2006 in view offavouring its spread among employees.
Entel Bolivia adopted a Code of Ethics whose mandatory rules gained a good acceptance
within the company and have been approved by the Ministry of Labour and Microenterprise.The employer/employee relationships are defined by a Collective Labour Contract, approved bythe Ministry of Labour and Microenterprise, subject to periodical mandatory review by the
parties. The Contract reaffirms and boosts equal opportunities and defines the mechanismsregulating rights and obligations of the parties, not only in view of regulating contractualissues, but to valorise diversity as well.
Entel Bolivia adopts moreover the ILO recommendations, in the observance of all regulations
provided by Bolivian law and in particular the Labour Code.
Safeguards for labour
Concerning freedom to associate, the Group’s companies operating in Latin America ensure
the observance of the general rules in force in each country.
In 2006 TIM Partecipaçoes renewed the Collective Contracts of all operating companies.
Entel Bolivia recognizes and actively cooperates with Trade Unions representing the workers
(FESENTEL), ensuring freedom to associate, and is compliant to Constitutional provisionsconcerning employee remuneration.
Some data concerning Unions:
– TIM Brasil: approximately 5.37% of workers are members of Trade Unions Organizations;
– Entel Bolivia: 59% of workers are members of Union Associations.
In both countries the results of negotiations affect all employees, including non Union
members.
In TIM Brasil the company agrees with trade unions the reorganisation processes, though no
mandatory requirement is provided by legislation, and discharges its legal duties towards
institutional bodies such as ANATEL (regulatory) and CADE (antitrust).
On the subject of regulations protecting child labour, all Group companies conform to national
and international regulations.
In order to fight exploitation and disadvantaged socio-economic conditions specific social
initiatives have been launched at national level:
– TIM Partecipaçoes supports project of social inclusion and fight against discriminations
through the teaching of music (e.g., TIM Music in the school, benefiting 15,000 children,
TIM Arteducação, benefiting 10,000 children, etc.) and alphabetization projects (e.g. Alfa
100, Pastoral da Criança, benefiting 28,000 people). In June 2006 a healthcare project,named “Adopt a community”, has been launched benefiting 56 communities (approximately
15,000 people).
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 59Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report– Entel Bolivia favours and supports socio-economic development projects, as well as
education and sport projects, with its own initiatives or through agreements with both public
and private institutions. In 2006 a voluntary program based on the Christmas campaignachieved its goal to give a Christmas present to more than 1,500 children.
In 2006, in order to support and promote the professional development of the Country’suniversity students, Entel signed agreements for stages at national level with 17 public and
private universities, offering an opportunity to put knowledge into practice and to complete
the learning process.Entel has moreover defined a series of agreements with Public and Private Institutions 
to improve the life standard of children and youngsters in disadvantaged conditions. 
Some of the most important projects implemented in 2006 to help children in their
education are described in “The Community” chapter.
In 2006 TIM Brasil started the implementation of the private Security Plan for all employees.
At the end of October 90% of employees had adhered, thus confirming the validity of the
initiative.
Training and development
To create a shared-values base and raise employee involvement on corporate 
management-related issues, the Group launched initiatives to spread the Group’s values 
and to communicate the corporate strategic plans.The results of such actions have been monitored through the “Group photo” survey.
In TIM Partecipaçoes talent enhancement programs are active, such as the enrolment of
employees to University post-graduate masters with company contributions to expenses. 
An internal job-posting system allows to fill vacancies through intranet or posting on company
notice boards.
Entel Bolivia promotes personal, professional and social development through training
programmes. At the end of 2006, 81% of employees had achieved a professional educationcertificate. A Safe Driving program has moreover been launched whose goal is employeesafeguard.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 60Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Strategy
The Group’s companies are well aware of the significance of correct information on their
activities with respect to the market, investors and the Community. Aside from the necessaryconfidentiality in business management, the Group’s companies set transparency as their goalin goal in stakeholder relations. In particular, Telecom Italia communicates with market andinvestors adopting correctness, clearness and equal access to information criteria.
Outward communication is regulated – in compliance with regulations in force – by appropriate
internal procedures.
The Investor Relations department is in charge for the relation between financial markets and
the company, and it represents the information contact for Telecom Italia investors.
/L50298Financial communication
Efficient, fast and transparent financial communication with shareholders is a strategic
element for the Group.
In 2006 the most significant financial communication event has been the annual meeting 
with the Financial Community, held in Milan on March 8. During such meeting Telecom Italia
presented its targets for the three-year period 2006-2008 and the strategies to achieve 
them.
The new organisational model of the Group, finalised in the second half of 2006, is consistent
with the choice of a functional structure capable of efficiently implementing the strategic 
goals involved in the convergence between fixed mobile telecommunications, broadband
Internet and media content, already presented to the market on October 25, 2006. Such organisational model involves four business units (Fixed, Mobile, Network and Top
Client/ICT), directly reporting to Chief Executive Officer Riccardo Ruggiero, who reports to 
the Executive Vice President Carlo Buora.
In 2006 the company has organised over 200 formal meetings with the market (financial
analysts, institutional and individual investors) involving quarterly conference calls, roadshows, attendance at conferences, as well as daily contacts with financial analysts andinvestors both one-to-one and by telephone.
Particularly important is financial communication with investors, specifically focused on
Socially Responsible Investing (SRI), in co-operation with the Group Sustainability Department.
These financial operators favour investment in companies respecting ethical, social and
environmental issues without neglecting economics. A specific road show has been devoted to SRI investors.
Concerning relations with individual shareholders (retail), today approximately 770,000,
Telecom Italia has launched in 2006 a new financial communication channel to efficiently
meet the growing demand for information and timely updating on the Group.
Sustainability Section » Shareholders 61Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Shareholders
The main tool of such channel is the shareholder Club “TI Alw@ys ON”
(http://ticlub.telecomitalia.it). Created in March 2006, the Club helps individual shareholders
to establish lasting relations with the company both receiving and exchanging information(Newsletter, Faxletter, Stock weekly Report and alerts via e-mail and/or SMS) not only related
to the Telecom Italia Group, but to the overall TLC world.As far as on-line financial communication, the institutional website of Telecom Italia
(http://www.telecomitalia.it) has been completely renewed, thus gaining the Group an
excellent position in the classification of Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, a Sweedish companyleader in financial communication.
Further information on this significant result is available in the “Results” paragraph of the
Introduction.
/L50298Safeguarding privacy and protecting data
The Telecom Italia Group, in compliance with regulations in force and consistently with the
Group’s Code of Ethics, is strongly committed to ensure the observance of the laws in force concerning the protection of personal data (Legislative Decree 196/03, the so-called
“Privacy Code”).
Significant initiatives are being in particular implemented on the technical side, also on the
basis of analyses and audits conducted by KPMG Advisory, leading international consultants.These huge investments aim at establishing a stricter control on the most important ITsystems handling personal data, with special focus on telephone and telematic data trafficand mandatory obligations by judicial authorities.
Telecom Italia has a specific “Privacy” department which is entrusted with the correct
application of sector regulations at Group level. The implementation of these regulations ismonitored in Telecom Italia through an audit system based on periodical self-assessmentprocedures of managers in charge of data handling and on periodical audits by the Privacy andInformation Security departments, according to criteria and methodologies defined under theguidance of the Group’s Auditing company. In 2006, in particular, audits concerned the privacyrequirements related to personnel management, the privacy role in contracts with suppliers,video-surveillance and data safety measures. At Group level, some subsidiaries underwent
audits on the status of implementation of privacy rules. Audits also involved third parties, in
particular customer data handling and the adoption of the safety measures provided by thelaw at dealers, partners and software service suppliers.
Among other initiatives undertaken to improve the data safety level, it is worth to be
mentioned, from the organizational point of view, the updating of Group policies regulatingaccess to corporate IT resources, the management of requests for personal data extraction
from the systems, the classification and safeguard of corporate information as well as the
tracking of individual access to traffic data.
Furthermore the spreading of privacy culture at company level has been boosted, also by
implementing a training and awareness plan on the application of rules on the protection ofemployees and customers’ personal data. This involved, among else, 691 department
managers and key professionals of Marketing, Sales, Customer assistance and caring, Human
Resources departments.
Lastly, in compliance with provision 26 of attachment B (Technical Manual on Minimal
Required Security Measures) of the Privacy Code, Telecom Italia confirms of having drawn upthe Personal Data Security document for 2006. This document describes the technical and
organizational criteria adopted to protect common, sensitive and judicial personal data
handled with information technology tools, as well as the training plan designed for peopleresponsible of handling personal data.
Please note that for 2006 the first edition of Personal Data Security document has been
issued within the March 31 deadline and has then been updated in September, to incorporatethe organisational, procedural and operational changes in the personal data handling
reference framework, consequent to the merger by incorporation of TIM Italia into Telecom
Italia and to the new organisation of Operations.
Sustainability Section » Shareholders 62Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Risk Management
The Telecom Italia Group has set up in 2006, within the corporate governance system, the
Risk Management Committee, in charge of managing risks and to ensure business operational
continuity. It also set up a Group Risk Officer office, in charge of implementing the Enterprise
Risk Management system, spreading the related methodologies and tools and coordinating
the risk assessment process.
ERM – Enterprise Risk Management – is the method and the set of tools available to support the organisation, whose goal is coordinating the risk assessment processes. 
This is a framework adopted at international level to assess the development of risk
management processes and correctly identify the acceptable risk level.
CRSA (Control & Risk Self Assessment), operating within this framework, is the governance
tool on corporate risk, already in place for more then three years, through which the
identification, assessment and management of operational risk is carried out.
CRSA is based on risk self-assessment by the management, with the help of
qualitative/quantitative measures and parameters, followed by surveys on existing audits and
improvement proposals. The yearly CRSA cycle of risk identification and management involves
the following operational phases:
–definition of Group’s general targets by Top Management. For 2007 the following have been
defined: Focus on customers, Market Leadership and Competitiveness, Image andReputation, Reliability and Transparency of Information, Cash generation and Operational
efficiency, Integration, Implementation of the New Organisational Structure;
– definition of specific Group’s targets for each department with reference to their
organisational context;
–identification and consolidation of risks possibly jeopardising the achievement of targets;
–assessment of identified risks in terms of impact and probability of occurrence and
“weighing” of the same through the assignment of a qualitative/quantitative coefficient of
relevance;
–identification of acceptable risks and of those involving special protective measures;
– development of action plans including protective measures;
– update of the Internal Control System and follow up if required.
The CRSA cycle for 2006 led to the identification of 218 actions related to the Consolidated
Risk Portfolio at Central Department/Operations/Business Unit level (180 identified risks) and14 actions related to Group Risk Portfolio (6 identified risks).
The management of the subsequent steps is supported by a web-based application integrating
the CRSA and APM (Action Plan Monitoring) systems. It allows the automatic management and
monitoring of Action Plans deadlines defined by CRSA, as well as it has been done for actionplans deriving from audits. All employee involved in the various CRSA steps, both in Italy and
abroad, underwent specific training.
The integrated APM and CRSA systems are currently managing approximately 1,750 users,
2,600 actions from Audit action plans and 550 actions from CRSA action plans.
Sustainability Section » Shareholders 63Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportCorporate Governance
/L50298Foreword
The report on corporate governance in 2006 is divided into two parts.
The first part describes the “architecture” of the Company’s system of corporate governance
and the practical application of the various mechanisms making up the system as it came 
to be configured during the year, partly in response to innovations in the relevant legislation
and self-regulation.
In the first place the reference here is to the changes made in implementing new legislation,
such as that on the protection of savings (Law 262/2005 and Legislative Decree 303/2006)and the transposition of the so-called Market Abuse Directive. In the second place it is to the
adjustments made in light of the recommendations contained in the latest version of BorsaItaliana’s Corporate Governance Code (March 2006). 
In this connection it should be noted that the Company has invoked the right to refer to the
2002 version of the Code for the report on corporate governance to be published in its Annual
Report for 2006, while also indicating the steps taken to comply with the new prescriptions ofthe 2006 version.
The second part contains the report prepared by the Company’s Internal Control and 
Corporate Governance Committee with an account of the activities performed and the checksmade in 2006 and through to the middle of February 2007 as regards the events involving theformer head of the Security Department, Giuliano Tavaroli, the security of the network andquestions concerning the handling of traffic data.
Herein below, you will find an excerpt from Part One of the Report on Corporate Governance,
contained in the 2006 Annual Report, to which reference is made for the complete text (alsoavailable, as well as all the other corporate governance documents mentioned herein, at thewebsite: www.telecomitalia.it, Governance).
/L50298Introduction
The Company’s system of corporate governance is made up of a series of principles, rules
and procedures that are constantly updated and, where necessary, adapted to legislative and
regulatory developments and to changes in international best practice. In particular, the
revision of the Company’s corporate governance mechanisms in 2006 involved incorporating
the changes made necessary and/or desirable by the legislation on the protection of savings
(Law 262/2005 and Legislative Decree 303/2006) and the transposition of the so-calledMarket Abuse Directive. As part of the overall revision, the Company also took steps to comply
with the recommendations contained in the March 2006 version of Borsa Italiana’s Code of
Corporate Governance (to which Telecom Italia first adhered in 1999).
As indicated in the foreword, this report has been prepared with reference to the 2002 version
of the Code of Corporate Governance but also contains an account of the steps taken to
comply with the 2006 version.
For the purpose of revising its corporate governance mechanisms, the Company set up an
internal working group supported by consultants of high standing; the results of the group’sactivity were regularly examined by the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
and the Board of Auditors. On the basis of the group’s work the Committee submitted its own
proposals for changes to the Company’s system of corporate governance to the Board ofDirectors, which approved them and resolved that the amendments to the bylaws and the
Meeting Regulations should be submitted to the shareholders’ meeting called to approve the
financial statements for 2006.
Very briefly and before the detailed analysis of the individual changes, it needs to be stressed
that the revision activity referred to above did not significantly alter the Company’s system of
corporate governance, which was already broadly in line with the substance, if not the letter,of the new reference framework.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 64Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Board of Directors
As indicated in earlier Annual Reports, the Company’s system of corporate governance hinges
on the central role of the Board of Directors in providing guidance and on the transparency and
fairness of operational decisions, both within the Company and in relation to the market.
/L50298Role and tasks
Effective and correct corporate governance requires the Board to play an active role both in
the strategic guidance of the Company and in the control of operations, with powers to direct
the business as a whole and to intervene in a series of decisions necessary or serving topromote the Company’s purpose.
In the first place Telecom Italia has embraced the principle that the Board of Directors has the
right (and the duty) to direct the Company’s activity with the ultimate objective of creatingvalue for its shareholders. To that end, among the tasks reserved exclusively to the Board
under the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code, the following are especially noteworthy:
• examining and approving the strategic, business and financial plans of the Company and
the Group;
• reviewing and approving the budget of the Company and the Group;
• examining and approving transactions – including investments and disinvestments – with a
significant impact on the Company’s or the Group’s activity in view of their nature, strategicimportance or size. As part of the revision of the corporate governance mechanisms,express provision has been made in the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code for the Board of
Directors to establish general criteria for identifying such transactions;
• verifying the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and accounting structure of the
Company and the Group, with special reference to the internal control system;
• preparing and adopting the Company’s corporate governance rules and drawing up the
Group’s governance guidelines;
• appointing the Supervisory Panel set up under Legislative Decree 231/2001;
• nominating the persons who are to hold the offices of Chairman and Managing Director in
strategic subsidiaries;
•assessing the overall performance of operations and periodically comparing the results
achieved with those planned. In addition, the Board of Directors carefully examines
transactions in which one or more directors have an interest, directly or on behalf of third
parties, with special account taken of the reports received from the Managing Directors, the
Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and the person responsible for
internal control;
•examining and approving the periodic financial reports;
•exercising the powers and performing the tasks entrusted to it by law and the bylaws.
/L50298Meetings
In 2006 the Board of Directors met eight times. The meetings were always well attended, with
more than 92% of the directors present on average (the independent directors also recorded
an attendance rate of more than 92%).
When board meetings were to be held, documentation permitting effective participation in theproceedings was normally provided well in advance. In this respect it should be noted that as
part of the revision of the corporate governance mechanisms the Company has adopted a new
procedure governing the flow of information to the members of the Board of Directors andthe Board of Auditors. The new procedure incorporates the one introduced in the past to fulfill
the information requirements laid down by Article 150 of the Consolidated Law on Finance.
The aim of the new procedure is to regulate and coordinate all the mechanisms serving thecommon purpose of providing directors and members of the board of auditors with the
information they need on a continuous basis, so that they can perform their management and
control functions properly.On November 6, 2006 the Company released a calendar showing the meetings scheduled for
the Board of Directors in 2007. It should also be noted that in 2007 Telecom Italia has again
opted to publish its annual financial statements and half-yearly report respectively within 90days of the close of the fiscal year and 75 days of the close of the half year (which allows it to
benefit from the exemption from the obligation to prepare the last quarterly report for 2006
and the second quarterly report for 2007).
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 65Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report/L50298Election of directors
Article 9 of the Company’s bylaws already provided for the members of the Board of Directors
to be elected using the slate system, which the legislation on the protection of savings
subsequently made mandatory as of 2006. Under this system the directors are elected on thebasis of slates presented by shareholders at the Company’s registered office and published 
in a national newspaper at least ten days before the date of the shareholders’ meeting. 
A proposal to increase this time limit to fifteen days will be submitted to the shareholders’
meeting as part of the revision of the bylaws.Individual candidates are required to file acceptances of their candidacy and declarations in
which they attest that there are no grounds for ineligibility or incompatibility; they are alsorequired to submit curricula vitae setting out their main personal and professional data with 
an indication of the grounds, if any, for their qualifying as independent. The shareholders’
meeting called to approve the financial statements for 2006 will be invited to approve an
amendment to the bylaws requiring the above-mentioned CVs to show the positions held in
management and control bodies of companies not belonging to the Telecom Italia Group. The proposed amendment is also in relation to the introduction in the Company’s 
Self-Regulatory Code of a cap, discussed below, on the number of positions that may be 
held in management and control bodies.The CVs of the directors in office are available in the Governance section of the Company’s
website www.telecomitalia.it.
The slate voting system is intended to ensure the presence on the Board of Directors of
persons elected from slates submitted by minority shareholders. Pending the issue of the
relevant Consob regulation, which may establish a different value, the minimum holding for thepresentation of a slate is fixed by the bylaws at 1% of the share capital entitled to vote at theordinary shareholders’ meeting.The Company took the view that using the slate voting system met the needs otherwise
served by the creation of a nominations committee. Moreover, following the recent revision,
the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code entrusts the Internal Control and Corporate Governance
Committee with special powers when it is necessary to co-opt an independent director. 
In fact in such cases it is the Committee that proposes candidates for the Board to make thereplacement.
/L50298Composition
Telecom Italia’s bylaws provide for the Board of Directors to have not less than 7 and 
not more than 23 members. The shareholders’ meeting of April 7, 2005 fixed the 
number at 21.The present Board of Directors was elected for three years starting from the shareholders’meeting held on May 6, 2004 on the basis of two slates, one presented by the largestshareholder, Olimpia S.p.A., and the other by a group of Italian institutional investors.
Consequently, the Board’s term of office ends with the shareholders’ meeting called to
approve the financial statements for 2006.During 2006 there were some changes in the composition of the Board. On April 13 the
ordinary shareholders’ meeting appointed Diana Bracco and Vittorio Merloni in place of 
Marco De Benedetti and Giovanni Consorte, who had resigned on October 5, 2005 andJanuary 23, 2006 respectively. The slate voting system is envisaged by the Company’s 
bylaws only for the complete renewal of the Board and therefore did not apply to the
appointments in question, which increased the number of independent directors from 11 to 13 since both Diana Bracco and Vittorio Merloni were classified as independent on the
basis of their declarations.
Following the resignation of the Chairman, Marco Tronchetti Provera, on September 15, 2006,the Board co-opted a new Chairman in the person of Guido Rossi. Lastly, the death of Enzo
Grilli on October 29, 2006 resulted in the membership of the Board falling from 21 to 20 and
the number of independent directors from 13 to 12, though they remained the majority.On March 8, 2007 Telecom Italia’s Board of Directors consisted of 20 directors, of whom 3
were executive and 17 non-executive; of the latter 12 were classified as independent.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 66Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportGuido Rossi Chairman and Member of the Strategy Committee
Gilberto Benetton Deputy Chairman
Carlo Buora Executive Deputy Chairman and Member of the Strategy Committee
Riccardo Ruggiero Managing Director and General Manager
Paolo Baratta Member of the Remuneration Committee
John Robert Sotheby Boas
Diana Bracco
Domenico De Sole Member of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee 
and of the Strategy Committee
Francesco Denozza Member of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
Luigi Fausti Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Guido Ferrarini Chairman of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee 
(Lead Independent Director)
Jean Paul Fitoussi
Vittorio Merloni
Gianni Mion
Massimo Moratti
Marco Onado Member of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee 
and of the Strategy Committee
Renato Pagliaro
Pasquale Pistorio Member of the Remuneration Committee and of the Strategy Committee
Carlo Alessandro Puri Negri
Luigi Roth
The Directors Francesco Denozza, Guido Ferrarini, Jean Paul Fitoussi and Pasquale Pistorio
were elected from the slate presented by the group of institutional investors and the others(except for Diana Bracco and Vittorio Merloni) from the slate presented by Olimpia S.p.A., theholder of approximately 18% of the ordinary share capital at March 8, 2007. Neither DianaBracco nor Vittorio Merloni, whose names were put forward by Olimpia S.p.A., were appointed
using the slate voting system since this is envisaged by the Company’s bylaws only for the
complete renewal of the Board.
As part of the revision of the Company’s corporate governance mechanisms based on the
recommendations of Borsa Italiana’s 2006 Corporate Governance Code, provision has beenmade, as was already the case for the members of the Board of Auditors, for restrictions onthe number of management and control positions that Directors may hold outside the Group.On a general basis the limit has been set at five positions on the board of directors/auditors
of: (i) listed companies included in the S&P/MIB index; (ii) financial companies operating on a
public basis; (iii) companies engaged in banking or insurance. In addition, not more than three
executive positions may be held in non-Group companies of the types specified above. Such
number may be increased or decreased by a reasoned decision of the Board of Directorsbased on the companies’ size and organization and interlocking equity interests. The decision
shall be made public in the annual report on corporate governance.
/L50298Board performance evaluation
In 2005, before it was recommended by Borsa Italiana’s new Corporate Governance Code
(2006), Telecom Italia’s directors had carried out a Board performance evaluation, in line with
international best practice. The evaluation was concerned with the size, composition andworking of the Board and its committees.
That exercise permitted two objectives to be achieved: on the one hand to monitor and verify
the performance of the Board and on the other to create awareness of the improvements tobe made in the coming years.
For the second Board evaluation the Directors felt the need to call on an outside consultant
specialized in this field to work alongside the independent Director chosen to act as theinternal facilitator, both in preparing and performing the self-evaluation methodologies and in
processing the results obtained. The first part of the evaluation was paper based and
consisted of responding to questionnaires that differed according to individual directors’membership of the various board committees, while the second part consisted of an interview
with the outside consultant, Egon Zehnder International. On the basis of checks and
assessments made using techniques and standards developed in its international experience,this firm issued a professional opinion.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 67Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe factors considered in the evaluation were the independence, size and composition of the
Board and the role and functioning of the Board and the Board Committees, with special
reference to matters such as the flow of information, decision-making procedures, andrelations with the shareholders and other stakeholders. The Board of Directors examined and
assessed the outside consultant’s activity and conclusions.Attention was focused on the areas offering room for improvement and on the initiatives most
likely to increase the effectiveness of the Board’s activity, with a view to passing on the
experience gained in the Board’s three years in office to the new body that will be elected bythe shareholders’ meeting in April 2007.
/L50298Independent Directors
In compliance with international best practice and the indications of Borsa Italiana’s 2002
Corporate Governance Code, the Company had already established a set of principles bymeans of which to determine whether Directors qualified as independent.
On the basis of the information provided by the Directors and of that in the Company’s
possession, the Board of Directors verified, both at the time of the appointment of self-
declared independent Directors’ and subsequently once a year that each one satisfied theindependence requirements referred to in the Corporate Governance Code. The market was
duly informed of the results of these verifications, which were supervised by the Board of
Auditors.According to the declarations made by the parties concerned, at present 12 of the 
20 members of the Board qualify as independent, namely: Paolo Baratta, John Robert 
Sotheby Boas, Diana Bracco, Domenico De Sole, Francesco Denozza, Luigi Fausti, 
Guido Ferrarini, Jean Paul Fitoussi, Vittorio Merloni, Marco Onado, Pasquale Pistorio and Luigi Roth.The Company’s Self-Regulatory Code provides for directors to be deemed independent who
neither have nor have recently had business dealings with Group companies or executive
directors or members of their families on a scale able to influence their judgement and whoare not in a position to exercise a significant influence over the Company as a consequence of the shares they hold or their participation in shareholders’ agreements. This requirement isinterpreted extensively, in order to assess “substantial” independence; accordingly, directorswho have material dealings with natural or legal persons who are parties to a shareholders’agreement do not qualify as independent.Following the adoption of Borsa Italiana’s new Corporate Governance Code in March 2006, the Company decided it would be preferable to rely exclusively on the independence criteriaset out therein.
Since 2004 Telecom Italia’s Board of Directors has had a Lead Independent Director. 
As part of the revision of the Company’s corporate governance mechanisms referred to above,it was considered desirable to formalize this position, which is intended to provide a point of
reference and coordination for the needs and inputs of the independent directors and which is
held at present by Guido Ferrarini, who is also Chairman of the Internal Control and CorporateGovernance Committee and a member of the Supervisory Panel. The Lead Independent
Director may use the Company’s structures in performing his tasks and call special meetings
of the independent directors to discuss issues related to the working of the Board or themanagement of the business. It should also be noted that the Chairman of the Board of
Directors avails himself of the collaboration of the Lead Independent Director to improve the
working of the Board.In 2006 a total of five Independent Directors’ Executive Sessions were held; the subjectsdiscussed included strategic scenarios and the possible reorganization of the Group.
/L50298Executive directors
The authority to grant delegated powers to directors and revoke such mandates is reserved to
the Board of Directors, which also establishes their objects, limits, manner of exercise and the
intervals – of not more than three months – at which persons with delegated powers mustreport to the Board on their activity, the general results of operations, and the transactions of
greatest economic, financial or balance sheet significance concluded by the Company or its
subsidiaries.In 2004 the Board of Directors appointed Marco Tronchetti Provera as Chairman and 
Carlo Orazio Buora and Riccardo Ruggiero as Managing Directors; Gilberto Benetton was 
made Deputy Chairman. Following the resignation of the Chairman, Marco Tronchetti Provera,on September 15, 2006, the Board of Directors appointed Guido Rossi as Chairman and 
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 68Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportCarlo Orazio Buora as Executive Deputy Chairman entrusted with the powers and
responsibilities previously assigned to Marco Tronchetti Provera. At the same time the 
Board confirmed Gilberto Benetton in the position of Deputy Chairman and Riccardo Ruggieroin that of Managing Director.
Despite the broad scope of the mandates granted to the executive directors, the power totake decisions on transactions of particular significance continues to be exercised by the
Board as a whole, even when such decisions theoretically fall within the limits of the executive
directors’ mandates. This is because such mandates are not considered a way of attributingexclusive competences but as a means of ensuring, from the standpoint of organizing the
management function, the greatest possible operational flexibility, both within the Company
and in relation to third parties. In 2005, moreover, executive directors’ powers were
reclassified as internal limits to the relationship of trust between the Board that delegates thepowers and the persons who exercise them. In fact the Chairman and the Managing Directors
are all legal representatives of the Company and they are individually authorized to carry outany transaction relating to the Company’s activity.
It is worth remembering that on October 5, 2005, consistently with the adoption of the One
Company Model, responsibility for the development of fixed, mobile and Internet services was
assigned to the same person. This provides for the unitary direction of the business inaddition to the unitary direction of corporate affairs. The original allocation of functions and
related organizational responsibilities remained in force until September 15, 2006 and is
summarized below:
– Riccardo Ruggiero, Managing Director, responsible for operations from the standpoint of the
management and development of the business;
– Carlo Buora, Managing Director, responsible for the guidance and control of the business
and for matters of a transversal nature affecting the entire business;
–Marco Tronchetti Provera, Chairman, entrusted (until his resignation on September 15,
2006) with coordinating the activity of the two Managing Directors and with establishing,
together with them, the strategic guidelines for the Group and its development, with directresponsibility for the following areas: institutional affairs, communications and image, andinvestor relations.
As reported above, on September 15, 2006 the Board assigned the Executive Deputy
Chairman, Carlo Buora, the organizational responsibilities and powers previously assigned toMarco Tronchetti Provera, except for the general counsel functions and the management ofinstitutional affairs, which are assigned to the Chairman, Guido Rossi.
Following the adoption of the new organizational arrangements on January 22, 2007, the
Managing Director, Riccardo Ruggiero, heads the four business areas: Domestic FixedServices, Domestic Mobile Services, Top Clients & ICT Services and Technology. This
organizational structure was completed on February 16, 2007 with the appointment of four
General Managers: Massimo Castelli (Domestic Fixed Services), Luca Luciani (DomesticMobile Services), Stefano Pileri (Technology) and Enrico Parazzini (Finance, Administration 
and Control).
As for the ways in which the Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the ManagingDirector report to the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors, the general procedure
governing the flow of information to the members of the two Boards lays down rules and
methods for gathering and transmitting information on their activity, transactions with majorimplications for the profitability, financial position and/or assets and liabilities of the Company
and the Group, transactions with related parties (including intra-group business) and atypical
or unusual transactions.
/L50298Directors’ remuneration
As approved by the shareholders’ meeting of April 7, 2005 and in accordance with the first
paragraph of Article 2389 of the Civil Code, the maximum total annual remuneration of theBoard for 2006 was euro 3 million allocated as follows:
• euro 114,000 to be paid to each director in office;
•an additional euro 63,000 to be paid to each of the four members of the Internal Control
and Corporate Governance Committee (Guido Ferrarini, Francesco Denozza, Domenico DeSole and Marco Onado);
•an additional euro 52,000 to be paid to each of the three members of the Remuneration
Committee (Luigi Fausti, Paolo Baratta and Pasquale Pistorio);
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 69Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report• an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to each of the three members of the Strategy
Committee other than the Chairman of the Board and the Managing Director (now Executive
Deputy Chairman) Carlo Buora (i.e. Domenico De Sole, Marco Onado and PasqualePistorio);
•an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to the director appointed to the Supervisory Panel set
up under Legislative Decree 231/2001 (Guido Ferrarini).
The current remuneration system for the executive directors provides for them to receive a
fixed component and an additional payment subject to the achievement of the objective for
consolidated EBIT with positive Delta EVA, in other words when value is created for all
investors. In the same way as for the incentive schemes for managers, there is a margin 
of tolerance of up to 10%, with a corresponding progressive reduction to 10% of the additional amount.
This form of remuneration applies to the Executive Directors with operational responsibilities
(until September 2006, the Chairman and the Managing Directors; with the present
configuration, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Managing Director). In view of the
responsibilities assigned to the current Chairman, which exclude his direct involvement in the
running of the business, Guido Rossi’s remuneration does not include a component based on the financial condition and operating results of the business.
There is no provision for directors to receive stock options 
(1).
Further information on the compensation paid to the executive directors (including 
benefits) can be found in the relevant table in the Notes to the financial statements of
Telecom Italia S.p.A..
As of 2000 proposals for the remuneration of the directors who hold particular offices are
prepared by a Remuneration Committee made up exclusively of independent directors, which
is also charged with proposing the criteria for the remuneration of the Company’s senior
management. In this connection the Committee has prepared the proposal for the award ofshares to the top management to be approved by the shareholders’ meeting called toapproved the financial statements for 2006.
The new version of the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code formally authorizes the Remuneration
Committee’s practice of having recourse to outside consultants. At the same time it confirmsthe Committee’s power with respect to the remuneration of the directors who hold particularoffices and specifies that the related proposals must be compatible with the objective ofcreating value for shareholders over time. As regards the remuneration of the senior
management, the new Code provides for the Committee to assess the criteria periodically and
to perform a monitoring function.Since May 6, 2004 the membership of the Remuneration Committee has been as follows:
Paolo Baratta, Pasquale Pistorio and Luigi Fausti, chairman. In 2006 the Committee met five
times; the average attendance rate was more than 93%.
/L50298The internal control system
The effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control system are key aspects of Telecom
Italia’s corporate governance. Following the recommendations put forward in the 2006 version
of Borsa Italiana’s Corporate Governance Code, the Company revised its own Self-Regulatory
Code. It should be noted, however, that the nature of the adjustments and amendmentsintroduced was more formal than substantial because operational practices were often moreadvanced than the Company’s official declarations.
The internal control system is a process made up of rules, procedures and organizational
structures and designed to pursue substantial and procedural fairness, transparency andaccountability, values that are considered fundamental for Telecom Italia’s business dealings,
as laid down in the Group Code of Ethics. The aim of the process is to ensure that the
management of the business is efficient and can be known and verified, that accounting andoperational data are reliable, that applicable laws and regulations are complied with, and that
the assets of the business are safeguarded, not least with a view to preventing fraud against
the Company and financial markets.
(1) The Managing Director Riccardo Ruggiero is an exception in this respect since, prior to his being co-opted to the
Board of Directors, as General Manager he was among the beneficiaries of a stock-option plan.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 70Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe cardinal rules of the Company’s internal control system concern:
•the separation of roles in the performance of the principal activities involved in each
operating process;
• the traceability and constant visibility of decisions;
• the management of decision-making processes on the basis of objective criteria.
As the body responsible for the internal control system, the Board of Directors lays down the
guidelines for the system and verifies its adequacy, efficacy and proper functioning, whilemaking sure that the main operational, compliance, economic and financial risks are
appropriately identified and managed. To this end the Board uses the Internal Control and
Corporate Governance Committee and a suitably independent person from the internal audit
function appointed to be responsible for internal control and endowed with the resourcesneeded to perform the task.
The Executive Deputy Chairman, Carlo Buora, is charged with the task of determining themechanisms of the system and the manner in which it is to be implemented in accordance
with the guidelines established by the Board; he is also responsible for ensuring the system’s
overall adequacy, its effectiveness and its adaptation to changes in operating conditions and
the legislative and regulatory framework. In particular, he is responsible for the identification,monitoring and management of corporate risks, which he submits for examination by the
Board of Directors.
The functions assigned to the person responsible for internal control are to verify theadequacy and effectiveness of the system and, where anomalies are found, to propose
appropriate remedies. The Board has appointed the Company’s internal auditor (theconsortium company Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services), in the person of the director
of the consortium company designated by Telecom Italia, to be responsible for its internal
control system. This company reports on its activity to the Internal Control and Corporate
Governance Committee, the Board of Auditors and the Managing Director in charge of the
internal control system. The aim of entrusting internal auditing to the consortium companyTelecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services, in which TI Media also holds an interest, is tomaximize the independence of the person responsible for internal control from Telecom Italia’scorporate structures, with respect to which the audit function is completely autonomous.The Managing Director in charge of the internal control system is entrusted with theimplementation of any maintenance work on the system found to be necessary on the basis of
the checks performed and for this purpose appoints one or more persons responsible for
implementation. In 2005 the position of Group Compliance Officer was created with a view to
better coordinating implementation of the Group’s internal control system. The GroupCompliance Officer performs a role of liaison and coordination among the various plans for the
improvement of the Group’s internal control system and is responsible for monitoring andfacilitating the relationship between management and the internal control system, so as to
guarantee, with the assistance of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services, methodological
correctness in the management of risk. Furthermore, to further strengthen the system, thepersons responsible for implementation were flanked by compliance managers coordinated by
the Group Compliance Officer. The position of Group Compliance Officer was also formally
incorporated into the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code and the related tasks and dutiesspecified. In addition, to ensure coordination of risk management at the top level, in 2006 a
Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Executive Deputy Chairman and composed of the
heads of the Head Office departments, was established and, within Telecom Italia Audit &Compliance Services, the position of Group Risk Officer created.
As regards compliance with the provisions implementing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, last year saw
further progress in carrying out Project 404, which involves the whole Group and, under theguidance of the related Steering Committee, is intended to ensure the traceability,
documentation and adaptation of the controls used in the gathering and processing of
administrative and accounting information so as to permit the efficacy of internal controlssafeguarding the reliability of financial reporting to be assessed, in compliance with the
applicable accounting standards, as required by Section 404 of the Act. Telecom Italia is
subject to these requirements starting with its Annual Report for 2006, which thereforecontains the first management’s report on internal control over financial reporting, on which
the external auditor will be called upon to express an opinion.
In addition, following the insertion by the Law on the Protection for Savings of Article 154-bisinto the Consolidated Law on Finance, the shareholders’ meeting called to approve the 
Annual Report for 2006 will introduce the position of “person responsible for preparing the
Company’s financial reports” into the Company’s bylaws. The bylaws will specify the
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 71Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportexperience requirements (in the fields of administration, finance and auditing) for this new
position, which is treated in a special report to the shareholders’ meeting. The Board of
Directors will appoint (and remove) this officer after consulting the Board of Auditors and willalso determine the powers and duties of the office.
The Company’s internal control system is completed by the so-called 231 OrganizationalModel, which goes beyond the mere application of the provisions of Legislative Decree
231/2001, since it provides a paradigm for the conduct of all those who act in the Company’s
name and on its behalf. More specifically, the model comprises “principles for dealings withgovernmental bodies” (elaborated as a set of rules for relations with representatives of such
bodies) and “internal control checklists” listing (i) the main stages of every process, (ii) the
offences that may be committed in relation to individual processes, and (iii) the control
activities to prevent the related risks from arising.The organizational model is reviewed periodically. In 2006 some modifications were necessary
in order to adapt the model to changes in legislation, others were deemed appropriate in thelight of the results of the model’s application (for the changes made in connection with the
judicial problems involving the Company’s former Head of Security, see Part Two of this
Governance Report). In addition, through the 231 Steering Committee the Company checked
the adequacy of the internal control system with respect to the new types of offenceconsidered, with special reference to crimes of market abuse.
Monitoring of the functioning and compliance with the model is performed by a Supervisory
Panel made up of a member of the Board of Auditors (Ferdinando Superti Furga, chairman), an independent director on the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee 
(Guido Ferrarini) and the person responsible for the internal control system. This compositionensures that the Panel is completely autonomous and independent and that it embodies all
the professional skills involved, in different capacities, in the control of the Company’s
operations. The Panel reports to the Board of Directors, the Internal Control and Corporate
Governance Committee and the Board of Auditors on the checks performed and their results.
Lastly, it should be noted that a special unit (the Compliance Support Group) has beencreated within Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services to provide operational support tothe Supervisory Panels of Group companies by handling reports of violations of theorganizational model and conducting compliance audits on the basis of the data received byway of the information flows that have been put in place.
/L50298The Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
Since 2000 the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia has had an Internal Control and 
Corporate Governance Committee, charged with advisory functions and the formulation 
of proposals.
In particular, with the assistance of outside consultants where this is deemed desirable, the
Committee:
– evaluates the adequacy of the internal control system;
–evaluates the work plan prepared by the person responsible for internal control, from whom
it receives periodic reports;
–assesses, together with the heads of the Company’s administrative departments and the
external auditors, whether the accounting policies have been correctly applied and are
homogeneous for the purpose of preparing the consolidated financial statements;
–evaluates the proposals made by the external auditors in order to be awarded the
appointment, the audit plan and the results set out in any letter of suggestions;
– reports to the Board of Directors on the activity performed from time to time and in any
case on the adequacy of the internal control system on the occasion of the meetings heldto approve the annual financial statements and the half-yearly report.;
–performs the additional tasks that may be assigned to it by the Board of Directors,
particularly as regards relations with the external auditors; and;
–monitors compliance with the rules of corporate governance and their periodic updating.
In response to the recommendations of the 2006 version of Borsa Italiana’s Corporate
Governance Code, the Company has made some amendments to its own Self-Regulatory Code
on the basis of which the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, in addition tothe tasks described above, is also called upon to:
–express its opinion on the proposals for appointing, removing and assigning duties to the
person responsible for internal control and the person responsible for preparing the
Company’s financial reports;
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 72Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report– assesses, together with the person responsible for preparing the Company’s financial
reports, whether the accounting policies have been correctly applied for the purpose of
preparing the consolidated financial statements;
– in cases of substitution of an independent director, proposes the candidates for co-optation
to the Board of Directors; and
– defines the procedures and time limits for conducting the “board performance evaluation”.
The Committee is composed entirely of independent directors. In its meeting of May 6, 2004
the Board of Directors appointed Francesco Denozza, Domenico De Sole, Marco Onado and
Guido Ferrarini (chairman).
In 2006 the Committee met 15 times and the attendance rate was 95%. Committee meetings
were also attended by the Chairman of the Board of Auditors or by the auditor he designated.Where it was deemed desirable in the light of the issues on the agenda, the Committee and
the Board of Auditors held joint meetings (this refers, in particular, to the issues that will bedealt with in Part Two of this Governance Report).
During the year the Committee contributed to the implementation and updating of the
Company’s instruments of corporate governance. In particular, following the transposition of
the Market Abuse Directive into Italian law, the enactment of the law on the protection ofsavings and the issue of Borsa Italiana’s “new” Corporate Governance Code (March 2006),
the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee monitored the activity of the offices
of the Company. This activity led, in 2006, to the preparation of procedures for the disclosureof inside information and for transactions with related parties and, in 2007, to the approval of
the Company’s new Self-Regulatory Code, a procedure governing the flow of information todirectors and members of the Board of Auditors and the new Rules of the Disclosure
Committee, as well as to the formulation of proposed amendments to the Company’s bylaws
and shareholders’ meeting regulations submitted to the shareholders’ meeting called to
approve the financial statements for 2006.
On another front, the Committee monitored the introduction and application of IAS/IFRS, first to the Group’s consolidated financial statements (for 2005) and then to the parentcompany’s financial statements (for 2006) and kept abreast of the progress made by Project 404.As well as monitoring transactions that the Board deemed to be especially delicate, theCommittee examined the quarterly plans of the person responsible for internal control, from
whom it received periodic reports on the results of the audits performed and the progress
made by the projects known as Control Risk Self-Assessment and Check-Up of 
Administrative Systems.In addition, the Committee and representatives of the external auditors, Reconta Ernst &
Young, discussed the external audit plan and the proposals for the appointment of theexternal auditors for 2007-2009.
Lastly, during the Board meeting of March 8, 2007 the Committee reported on the state of 
the internal control system, expressing a positive opinion on the ability to respond that thesystem demonstrated in relation to the ascertainment of anomalies and irregularities (non-
compliance with the legislation on privacy) and episodes of fraud (the Security Department
affair). The Committee observed that in these circumstances of objective difficulty, aggravatedby strong outside pressure, the Company’s reaction was prompt and adequate, inasmuch as 
it first identified the irregularities and anomalies, and then corrected and reported them to the
competent authorities, confirming the overall soundness and efficiency of a system whichnevertheless can be improved.
/L50298The Strategy Committee
Since 2004 the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia has had a Strategy Committee to increase
the involvement of the Board in the Company’s strategic decision-making, especially as
regards guiding the evolutionary processes under way in the Group’s business in the light of
the rapid transformation of technologies and markets.The Committee is entrusted with the task of assisting the Board of Directors in making
strategic choices, in particular in the fields of technology, organizational strategies and
corporate finance. As part of the revision of the mechanisms of corporate governance, in itsSelf-Regulatory Code the Company has formally established the required composition of the
Committee as well as its tasks and functions.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 73Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe Strategy Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, the Executive Deputy
Chairman and three independent directors (Domenico De Sole, Marco Onado and 
Pasquale Pistorio) specialized in the fields of technology, organizational strategies andcorporate finance.
The Committee met three times in 2006, with an attendance rate of 93%. The meetings were also attended by managers of the Group, invited according to their specific expertise to
provide inputs with regard to the matters on the agenda. The Committee examined and 
offered its assessments of the evolution of Group’s strategies and the development of theOne Company Model against the background of the national and European scenario, analyzing
technological, competitive and regulatory contexts, opportunities and risks. It also examined
the strategic prospects and opportunities for enhancing the value of the Group’s activities
outside Europe.
/L50298Board of Auditors
The shareholders’ meeting of April 13, 2006 appointed the current Board of Auditors. The
election, held using the slate voting system under procedures exactly equivalent to thoseadopted for the Board of Directors, resulted in the appointment of a Board of Auditors for the
three years 2006-08, consisting of Paolo Golia and Stefano Meroi (elected from the slate
presented by minority shareholders) and Salvatore Spiniello, Ferdinando Superti Furga and
Gianfranco Zanda (elected from the slate presented by the largest shareholder, Olimpia). The Company immediately applied the provision of the law on the protection of savingsregarding the appointment of the chairman of the Board of Auditors by the shareholders’meeting, which duly elected Paolo Golia from among the members who had been presented by the minority slate.The original composition of the Board of Auditors subsequently changed owing to the
resignation of a “minority” member, Stefano Meroi, on October 20, 2006, who was replaced
by the alternate member elected from the same slate, Enrico Maria Bignami.
The shareholders’ meeting of April 13, 2006 set the gross annual remuneration of each
member of the Board of Auditors at euro 128,000 and the gross annual remuneration of theChairman of the Board of Auditors at euro 171,000. It also decided to award an additionaleuro 20,000 to the member of the Board of Auditors appointed to the Supervisory Panel setup under Legislative Decree 231/2001 (Ferdinando Superti Furga).In 2006 the Board of Auditors met 32 times, in numerous cases jointly with the Internal
Control and Corporate Governance Committee and with the an attendance rate of 92%. Its
members participated in the meetings of the Board of Directors and periodically received thereports from the bodies with delegated powers, as provided for in the reporting procedure
mentioned earlier.
The Board of Auditors plays a key role in the Company’s system of corporate governance. Itsimportance is confirmed by the fact that in 2003, in advance of the requirements introduced
by the law on the protection of savings concerning the appointment of external auditors, the
Telecom Italia Group adopted a procedure that makes the choices of the Board of Directorssubject to the corroborating opinion of the Board of Auditors (the procedure is available on the
Company’s website, under Governance). Under the law now in force the Board of Auditors is
called upon to submit the proposals directly to the shareholders’ meeting for the appointmentof the external auditors.
Telecom Italia has determined that the Board of Auditors meets the requirements laid down by
US law (to which it is subject as a company registered with the Securities and ExchangeCommission) and, availing itself of the general exemption provided for therein, has therefore
assigned the responsibilities and tasks of the Audit Committee to the Board of Auditors. 
This role has been formalized within the Company’s new Self-Regulatory Code.In its Audit Committee capacity, the Board of Auditors, under the above-mentioned 
procedure for the appointment of external auditors, is at the centre of the mechanism
governing the services supplied by the auditing firm within the Group. In addition, in 2005 the Board of Auditors adopted a procedure for receiving, retaining and handling the 
reports it receives.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 74Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportSuch reports can be of the following kinds:
•statements of violations submitted by shareholders concerning matters deemed to be
censurable;
• complaints by any person, thus including non-shareholders, concerning alleged
irregularities, censurable facts or, more generally, any problem or issue deemed to meritinvestigation by the control body;
• complaints by any person specifically regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or
auditing matters.
• confidential, possibly anonymous submissions of “concerns” by employees of the Company
or the Group regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
In addition to the tasks performed in its Audit Committee capacity, the Board of Auditors
carried out supervisory functions provided for under Italian law: verifying that the transactions
of greatest significance for the Company’s profitability, financial position and assets andliabilities conformed with the law, the bylaws and the principles of correct management;
checking that transactions with related parties complied with the self-regulatory principles and
procedures adopted by the Company and that they were in its interest; and checking the
adequacy of the organizational structure. The Board of Auditors also monitored the adequacyof the internal control system and that of the administrative and accounting system and the
latter’s reliability in correctly representing transactions.
During 2006, in connection with specific problems regarding the Group’s Security Function,network security and the handling of traffic data, the Board of Auditors took a series of steps
to evaluate the adequacy of the Company’s organizational structure and internal controlsystem, holding numerous joint meetings with the Internal Control and Corporate Governance
Committee.
/L50298Shareholders’ meetings
The annual meeting was held on April 13, 2006 and the shareholders approved the financial
statements for 2005. In addition, as discussed in greater detail in the section on the Board ofDirectors, the shareholders’ meeting brought the Board up to full strength by appointing DianaBracco and Vittorio Merloni as directors. This was done without applying the slate votingsystem, which the Company’s bylaws requires only for the renewal of the entire Board.As reported above, during the same meeting the shareholders appointed the new Board ofAuditors for the three years 2006-08, consisting of Paolo Golia and Stefano Meroi (elected
from a slate presented by minority shareholders pursuant to Article 17.11 of the bylaws) and
Salvatore Spiniello, Ferdinando Superti Furga and Gianfranco Zanda (presented by Olimpia). Asalready mentioned, the Company immediately applied the provision of the law on the
protection of savings regarding the appointment of the chairman of the Board of Auditors by
the shareholders’ meeting, which elected Paolo Golia to that office.In addition, the shareholders’ meeting authorized the purchase of treasury shares within the
legal limits and in any case with a maximum outlay of euro 1 billion. The Board of Directors
was empowered to make disposals of the treasury shares purchased or already held by theCompany, whose cancellation is not currently foreseen.
As usual, the Company sought to increase shareholders’ attendance at the meetings by
providing the documents needed for informed participation to all those who requested themand, as provided for in the bylaws, ordinary shareholders were able to vote by mail.
/L50298Code of Ethics
The Code of Ethics of the Telecom Italia Group enshrines the Group’s fundamental values and
establishes the principal ethical rules that must guide the Group in carrying on its activity, as
well as the ethical and social responsibility of each member of the corporate organization. It
can be considered as lying upstream of the whole corporate governance system, since everyinstrument of corporate governance is based on the principles of transparency, fairness and
loyalty specified in the Code. With the adoption of the Code of Ethics the Telecom Italia Group
is committed to ethically-oriented conduct in relations with all the main internal and externalstakeholders the member companies interact with every day (shareholders, financial markets,
customers, local communities and employees), in the belief that ethical conduct is essential
to the success of the business.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 75Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe Group Code of Ethics was drawn up on the basis of generally accepted ethical principles
and in accordance with the highest international standards for the conduct of business with
transparency, fairness and loyalty. In addition, it takes account of US requirements, primarilyas regards the Code of Ethics referred to in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Code of Conduct
required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, which make it mandatory tohave a code of conduct for certain categories of officers (executives and financial and
accounting officers).
Like all the other corporate governance mechanisms adopted by the Company and the Group,the Code of Ethics is periodically evaluated and checked for the purpose of adapting it to 
the applicable laws and regulations, practical experience with its application and the most
advanced national and international practices. Some suggestions received from institutional
investors concerning, in particular, the desirability of publishing a summary of the ascertained cases of violation of the Code of Ethics and the Organizational Model, are
currently being evaluated.
/L50298Rules of conduct for transactions with related 
parties
In 2002 the Company adopted guidelines for carrying out transactions with related parties,
including intra-group transactions.The rules are intended to ensure both procedural and substantial fairness and transparency in
transactions of transactions carried out by Telecom Italia, directly or through subsidiaries, with
parties related to the Company. In particular, the Board of Directors is required to give
advance approval to transactions with related parties, including intra-group transactions, apartfrom those of a customary nature to be concluded at standard conditions. To this end,provision is made for the Board to be adequately informed of all the relevant aspects: thenature of the relationship, the manner of carrying out the transaction, the economic and otherconditions, the evaluation procedures used, the rationale for the transaction, the Company’sinterest in its implementation and the associated risks. Moreover, if the related party is a
director or a party related via a director, he or she may only provide clarifications and must
leave the meeting when the motion is examined and put to a vote. Depending on the nature,
value and other aspects of related-party transactions, the Board may be assisted by outside
experts in order to prevent contracts being concluded at inappropriate conditions
The rules are accompanied by a specific procedure serving to ensure: (i) the standardized
treatment of concrete situations; (ii) the identification of the decision-making responsibilities
by explicitly stating the related criteria and competences; and (iii) the traceability of the
operational processes.The procedure provides for the existence of a relationship with Telecom Italia to be checked in
advance by consulting an expert system, which uses a database of the parties related to
Telecom Italia. The expert system is able to provide automatic indications concerning decision-making powers (the Board or management), internal information flows for reporting purposes,
and the need for an outside opinion in evaluating the fairness of transactions.
Lastly, as also indicated by Consob, with a view to defining the notion of related party theCompany has adopted the notion found in IAS/IFRS (specifically IAS 24).
/L50298Information management
Transparent relations with the market and the provision of accurate, clear and complete
information are standards for the conduct of the members of the governing bodies, the
management and all the employees of the Telecom Italia Group. Specific procedures are used
for classifying and managing information from the standpoint of confidentiality.The role and procedures of the Disclosure Committee (a managerial body that provides
assistance to the Board of Directors and top management in disclosures to the market) have
been revised as part of the adaptation and revision of the Company’s different mechanisms ofcorporate governance, so that the Disclosure Committee is now responsible for validating,
monitoring and checking the effectiveness of the procedures and controls used for gathering,
analyzing, retaining and processing the data and information to be transmitted to themembers of the Boards of Directors and Auditors on the one hand and to be disclosed to the
market on the other.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 76Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportThe 2002 procedure for disclosing price-sensitive information was replaced in 2006 by a more
general procedure for the disclosure of inside information, prepared by a working group set 
up at the initiative of the Disclosure Committee to evaluate the impact of the transposition ofthe Market Abuse Directive into Italian law.
The procedure governs the management of inside information concerning Telecom Italia, itsunlisted subsidiaries and listed financial instruments of the Group and is addressed to all the
members of the governing bodies, employees and outside collaborators of Group companies
who have access to potentially inside information. It also applies as an instruction to allsubsidiaries for the purpose of promptly obtaining the necessary information for timely and
correct compliance with public disclosure requirements. The procedure also governs the
register of persons with access to inside information, which has been operational since 
April 1, 2006.
/L50298Rules on Insider Dealing
The transparency of transactions involving Telecom Italia shares or financial instruments
linked thereto carried out directly or through a nominee by relevant persons or persons closelyassociated with relevant persons is currently governed by Consob Regulation 11971/1999 
on Issuers (Articles 152-
sexies et seq.), which supersedes the Code of Conduct on Insider
Dealing that the Company adopted in December 2002.
The law imposes a disclosure obligation on the directors and members of the board ofauditors of a listed company and “persons performing administrative, supervisory andmanagement functions in a listed issuer and managers who have regular access to insideinformation and the power to make managerial decisions affecting the future development and prospects of the issuer” for so-called insider-dealing transactions involving shares of the company or financial instruments linked thereto amounting to more than euro 5,000 
per year.
Telecom Italia has chosen to identify “managers who have access to privileged information
and who have the power to make managerial decisions affecting the future development and
prospects of the issuer” in the key managers referred to in IAS/IFRS 24 and in executiveofficers for the purposes of US law.In 2006 the Company and persons defined as relevant made three filings in accordance withArticle 152-
octies of Consob Regulation 11971/1999 on issuers.
As part of the more general revision of the mechanisms of corporate governance, even in theabsence of regulatory requirements it was decided to introduce an obligation into the
Company’s Self-Regulatory Code requiring abstention from carrying out transactions involving
Telecom Italia shares or financial instruments linked thereto in specific periods of the year (so-called blackout periods). In extraordinary circumstances the Board of Directors may extend or
suspend these periods.
/L50298Meeting regulations
As provided for in the bylaws, the shareholders have approved a set of regulations for their
meetings. The document also contains the procedure for ordinary shareholders to vote by
mail, as provided for in the bylaws, so as to ensure the fullest possible guidance on theorganizational and procedural aspects of this important moment in shareholders’ participation
in the life of the Company.
As a consequence of the issue of the law on the protection of savings, proposed amendmentsto the Meeting Regulations will be submitted to the shareholders’ meeting called to approve
the 2006 financial statements. The changes concern additions to the agenda at the request
of shareholders and provisions intended to simplify voting by mail.
/L50298Shareholders’ agreements
Relations between the shareholders of Olimpia (on March 8, 2007 Telecom Italia’s largest
shareholder with an interest of approximately 18% in the Company’s ordinary share capital)
are governed by an agreement that was concluded on August 7, 2001, and subsequently
amended on September 14, 2001 and February 13, 2002, with clauses of relevance to
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 77Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportTelecom Italia pursuant to Article 122 of Legislative Decree 58/1998. As of March 2, 2007
Edizione Holding S.p.A. has been replaced by Sintonia S.p.A., while Edizione Finance
International S.A. has changed its name to Sintonia S.A..
Under the agreement (which is due to expire on October 4, 2007) Pirelli & C. S.p.A. on 
the one hand and Edizione Holding S.p.A. and Edizione Finance International S.A. (now
respectively Sintonia S.p.A. and Sintonia S.A. and jointly: Sintonia) on the other undertook 
to do everything in their power to ensure, within the limits allowed by law, that in Telecom
Italia’s Board of Directors:
– one fifth of the directors (rounded up to the nearest whole number up to two) whose
appointment is not reserved by law, regulation or the bylaws to the market or other persons
are appointed as indicated by Sintonia;
– the Deputy Chairman is appointed with powers of legal representation from among the
directors designated by Sintonia;
– if an Executive Committee is set up, one of its members is appointed from among the
directors designated by Sintonia.
In addition, Pirelli & C. undertook to ensure, within the limits allowed by law, that no resolution
is adopted by Telecom Italia’s Board of Directors without the favourable vote of at least one of
the directors designated by Sintonia, if such are present, on the following matters:
– individual investments in excess of euro 250 million;–the purchase, sale or disposal in any other manner of controlling interests or interests in
affiliates in excess of euro 250 million on an individual basis;
–the disposal in any way of businesses or business units in excess of euro 250 million on
an individual basis;
– proposals to call an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting;
–transactions between the Telecom Italia Group and the Pirelli Group in excess of euro 250
million on an individual basis;
–transactions with related parties.
On July 12, 2006 Olimpia concluded an agreement with Holinvest S.p.A. governing the
former’s right of pre-emption with regard to some (specifically 320,253,610) of the TelecomItalia ordinary shares held by the latter, which simultaneously undertook, both on its ownbehalf and on behalf of its subsidiary Hopa S.p.A., not to increase the above-mentionedholding without Olimpia’s prior consent. This agreement expires on July 12, 2008.Lastly, notices were published in the Italian press containing an extract of the agreementconcluded on October 18, 2006 between Pirelli & C. S.p.A., Edizione Holding S.p.A. (now Sintonia S.p.A.), Edizione Finance International S.A. (now Sintonia S.A.), Olimpia S.p.A.,
Mediobanca S.p.A. and Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A., with clauses of relevance to Telecom
Italia pursuant to Article 122 of Legislative Decree 58/1998. The agreement is managed by acommittee made up of an even number of members. half of whom are appointed by Olimpia(currently Marco Tronchetti Provera - Chairman and Gilberto Benetton) and of the remainderone each by the other participants except Pirelli and Sintonia (currently Renato Pagliaro forMediobanca and Giovanni Perissinotto for Generali). The agreement requires consultation
among the participants before each Telecom Italia shareholders’ meeting on the manner of
casting the votes covered by the agreement, without prejudice to the right of each party tocast its votes as it deems fit if the committee fails to resolve unanimously.
The following Telecom Italia ordinary shares were initially committed to the agreement, which
is due to last for three years.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 78Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportParticipant Number of % of ordinary
ordinary shares share capital
Olimpia S.p.A. 2,407,345,359 17.99%
Gruppo Generali 490,580,064 3.67%
Mediobanca S.p.A. 206,464,069 1.54%
Total 3,104,389,492 23.20%
The above-mentioned shares are the subject of lock-up and standstill agreements with
provision made for a series of exceptions. In particular, by way of derogation from the
commitment not to transfer the Telecom Italia shares it committed, Olimpia has the right to
dispose of its entire holding, provided it gives Generali and Mediobanca a right of pre-emption,
which would not be exercisable if the acquirer undertook to acquire the shares committed tothe agreement by Generali and Mediobanca at the same conditions. The same mechanism
also applies in the event of Pirelli, on its own or jointly with Sintonia, disposing of an interest
of more than 50% of Olimpia’s capital.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 79Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’reportSustainability Section » Auditors’ report 80Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Auditors’ report
Sustainability Section » Auditors’ report 81Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’report
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Corso d’Italia, 4100198 Rome
Tel.: +39.06.3688.2843
Fax: +39.06.3688.2803e-mail: GroupSustainability@telecomitalia.itCover: Richard Meier & Partners, The Getty Center, Los Angeles, California, USA
Page 03: Frank O. Gehry, Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao, Spain
Page 15: I.M. Pei's Louvre Pyramid, Paris, FrancePage 22: Norman Foster, Millau Viaduct, Millau, FrancePage 25: La Defense, Paris, FrancePage 28: Frank O. Gehry, Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USAPage 32: Frank Lloyd Wright's Taliesin estate, Spring Green, Wisconsin, USA Page 41: Renzo Piano, Sala Santa Cecilia at Rome Auditorium, Rome, Italy
Page 49: Richard Meier & Partners, J. Paul Getty Museum, Brentwood, Los Angeles, California, USA 
Page 61: Santiago Calatrava, City of Arts and Sciences, Valencia, SpainDesigned and produced by CRM S.r.l. - www.crm.it
Printed by Lucini, Milanin May 2007
on ecological paper
Telecom Italia participates in Impatto Zero® (Zero Impact) compensating CO2emissions deriving
from the printing process leading to 2006 Sustainability Section.Impatto Zero® is a LifeGate’s project (the platform which was born to spread ecologic awarnessand to promote ethic, eco-sustainable and fair lifestyle) which measures CO
2emissions from
goods and services, thus implementing the Kyoto Protocol. It acts adopting a method devised in
co-operation with both Italian and foreign Universities, as well as scientific partners, specialized inLyfe Cycle Assessment.Greenhouse gases emissions are compensated with the reforestation and the safeguard of
wooden areas in Italy and in Costa Rica. The whole process is controlled and certified by BIOS.
