SuStainability report 2012SuStainability
re
port  2012
Sustainability 
Report 
2012 Chairman’s 
Letter 
In 2012, the sharp decline in domestic consumption led to a more than 2% reduction in 
Italian Gross Domestic Product. The worsening of the international macroeconomic situa-tion also had repercussions in Argentina and Brazil, which experienced a significant slow-down in growth rates.
At such a difficult time for the national and international economy, sustainable businesses 
are those that are able to cope with the crisis by improving their efficiency and productivity while at the same time having a positive effect on the economic and social context in which they operate. This second aspect is all the more important when, as in the case of Telecom Italia, the bond and mutual influence between the business and its context are strong.
Telecom Italia has primarily had a positive impact on the economy through the investments 
it has made in developing broadband and ultra-broadband fixed and mobile networks. The recent launch of LTE services further improves the performance of the mobile network, al-lowing the range of mobile digital services to be greatly expanded.
In recent years, our work has been driven by the achievement of major objectives in terms 
of reducing debt, containing costs and relaunching competitiveness. At the same time, however, we have endeavoured to mitigate the social impact of the efficiency and rationali-sation measures required through major training and retraining activities. 
As a whole, in addition to improving the strength of our Group, our actions have had a posi-
tive effect on citizens and businesses, both by significantly reducing prices and ensuring a greater focus on service quality and by introducing innovative services, such as the cloud computing services known as Nuvola Italiana. In this context, Telecom Italia’s offer is evolv-ing towards solutions that combine economic benefits, flexibility and technological perfor-mance with guarantees in terms of data security and energy efficiency. 
The sustainability report provides a detailed description of the main initiatives undertak-
en by our Group over the past year. In particular, Telecom Italia signed an agreement with other major European telecommunications groups, known as the JAC (Joint Audit Coopera-tion), to improve the general standard of sustainability regarding environmental protection, human rights and workers’ rights. With regard to energy efficiency, considering that the Telecom Italia Group is Italy’s second biggest electricity consumer, we achieved equally significant and important results by cutting our electricity consumption and carbon dioxide 
emissions by over 14%. 
In an economic crisis, it is essential to support communities and particularly the weakest 
members of society. In this context, we continued to implement cultural, solidarity and en-vironmental protection projects and activities, both directly and through the Telecom Italia Foundation.
Our commitment to supporting the values of sustainability and the initiatives carried out 
have won us major national and international recognition, including our continued inclusion in all the major global sustainability indexes.
We continue to support the United National Global Compact through our involvement in the 
Italian network and our reporting of the progress achieved in applying the ten principles.
Digital networks and services are an increasingly integral part of the social and economic 
context in which we live. For our Group, in the context of its activities, being sustainable is therefore even more important. Achieving ever better standards of sustainability is a journey made up of continuing headway towards increasingly ambitious targets, a journey to which Telecom Italia has always been and will always be committed, with all its profes-sional resources and its technological skills.
Franco Bernabè
(Chairman & Ceo)
Introduction
External 
stakeholdersEXECUTIVE SUMMARY  7
1. REFERENCES AND GOVERNANCE  17
2. CODES, CHARTERS AND VALUES  18
3. HOT TOPICS  20
4. PLACEMENT IN THE INDEXES  20
5. OTHER ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  23
6. COMMUNICATION OF NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  23
7. REPORTING  24
8. 2012 RESULTS AND 2013 OBJECTIVES  27
9. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT  27 
10. STAKEHOLDER INVOL
VEMENT  28
11. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED  32 
1. CUSTOMERS  37
1.1 STRATEGY  37
1.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS  37
1.3 QUALITY OF THE SERVICE  38
1.4 CUSTOMER SATISFA
CTION  39
1.5 CERTIFICATIONS  40
1.6 DIGITAL DIVIDE  41
1.7 INNOVA
TIVE SERVICES  42
1.8 CHILD PROTECTION  44
1.9 CONCILIATION PROCEDURES  45
1.10 SAFEGUARDING PRIVACY AND PERSONAL D
ATA PROTECTION  46
2. SUPPLIERS  49
2.1 STRATEGY  49
2.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS  49
2.3 GENERAL MATTERS  49
2.4 SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES  50
2.5 SUSTAINABILITY CHECKS  51
2.6 INVOLVEMENT INITIA
TIVES  52
2.7 2012 RESULTS AND 2013 COMMITMENTS  53
3. THE ENVIRONMENT  55
3.1 STRATEGY  56
3.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS  56
3.3 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE  57
3.4 CLIMATE CHANGE  72
3.5 COMMUNICATING SUSTAINABILITY  74
3.6 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY  76
4. THE COMMUNITY  79
4.1 STRATEGY  79
4.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS  80
4.3 THE MEASUREMENT OF OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY  80
4.4 RESPONSES TO STAKEHOLDERS  81
4.5 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT  88
1. HUMAN RESOURCES  97
1.1 STRATEGY  97
1.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS  97
1.3 HEADCOUNT AND CHANGES  97
1.4 GENDER BALANCE  101
1.5 PEOPLE CARING  102
1.6 DEVELOPMENT  107
1.7 SELECTION  108
1.8 TRAINING  110
1.9 LISTENING ACTIVITIES AND PROJECTS  111
1.10 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION  112
1.11 HEALTH AND SAFETY  114
1.12 INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS  116
1.13 REMUNERATION POLICY  118
2. SHAREHOLDERS  121
2.1 STRATEGY  121
2.2 STAKEHOLDERS AND THEIR EXPECTA
TIONS  121
2.3 FINANCIAL COMMUNICATION  123
2.4 RISK MANAGEMENT  123
2.5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  124
2011 AND 2012 RESULTS  147
2013 OBJECTIVES  150
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS (P RICEwATERHOUSE COOPERS ) 154Internal 
stakeholders
Appendix
Auditors’report
GROUP  STRUCTURE
The Telecom Italia Group offers telecommunication services and state-of-the-art ICT and 
media solutions, contributing to the digitalization and development of the Countries in which it operates. In addition to its domestic leadership, the Group has a significant inter-national presence in the South American market with the “Brazil” Business Unit and the “Argentina” Business Unit.
The Group operates in the following business sectors:
•
 The “Domestic” Business Unit operates as the consolidated market leader in the sphere of
 
voice and data services on fixed and mobile networks for final retail customers and other wholesale operators. In the international field, the Business Unit develops fibre optic net-works for wholesale customers (in Europe, in the Mediterranean and in South America).
•
 The “Brazil” Business Unit (TIM Brasil Group) offers services using UMTS and GSM tech
-
nologies. Moreover, with the acquisitions of Intelig telecomunicações, Tim Fiber RJ and Tim Fiber SP ,  the portfolio of services has been expanded by offering fibre optic data transmis-sion and offering residential broadband services. 
•
 The “Argentina” Business Unit (Sofora - Telecom Argentina Group) operates in Argentina and
 
Paraguay. Specifically, in Argentina it operates in fixed telecommunications through the Com-pany Telecom Argentina and in mobile telecommunications through the Company Telecom Personal and in Paraguay it operates in the mobile sector with the Company Nucleo and in the Broadband through the “Arnet” brand.
•
 Media operates in the business segments of television broadcasting through La7, La7d and
 
the MTV Group, the production of multimedia music platforms and satellite channels and also the management of analogue and digital broadcasting networks as well as accessory services and additional radio signal broadcasting services.
•
 Olivetti operates in the sector of office products and services for Information T
echnology. It 
carries out Solution Provider activities to automate processes and business activities for 
8 | EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
ITALY BRAZIL ARGENTINA
OLIVETTI MEDIA
small and medium-size enterprises, large corporations and vertical markets. The reference 
market is focused mainly in Europe, Asia and South America.
• “Other Activities” includes the financial companies and other minor companies not strictly connected with the “core business” of the Telecom Italia Group and not included in the
 
scope of the Sustainability Report.
 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY | 9
MAIN ECONOMIC , FINANCIAL  AND OPERATIONAL  DATA
Telecom Italia Group – Main economic and financial consolidated data
Revenues EBITDA EBIT Industrial 
InvestmentsHeadcount at the end of 
the period (units)
(million euros) 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 12.31.2012 12.31.2011
Domestic 17,884 18,997 8,676 9,173 1,078 (1,996) 3,072 4,185 53,224 55,047
Brazil 7,477 7,343 1,996 1,990 966 984 1,500 1,290 11,622 10,539
Argentina 3,784 3,220 1,121 1,035 214 509 557 556 16,803 16,350
Media 222 238 (45) 27 (263) (88) 57 61 735 765
Olivetti 280 343 (57) (36) (65) (43) 3 5 778 1,075
Other activities 62 119 (37) (17) (3) (37) 7 16 22 378
Adjustments and 
eliminations(206) (297) (9) (1) (1) (9) - (18) - -
Consolidated total 29,503 29,957 11,645 12,171 1,926 (680) 5,196 6,095 83,184 84,154
Telecom Italia Group – Other economic and financial consolidated data
12.31.2012 12.31.2011
(million euros)
Total equity 23,012 26,694
• attributable to owners of the Parent Compan
y 19,378 22,790
• attributable to minority shareholdings 3,634 3,904
Profit (loss) for the financial year attributable to Parent Company Shareholder
s (1,627) (4,811)
Profit (loss) for the financial year attributable to Minority Shareholdings 350 445
Net financial accounting debt 29,053 30,819
Telecom Italia Group – Main operational data of the Business Units
12.31.2012 12.31.2011
DOMESTIC FIXEDConnections to the fixed network in Italy at year end (thousands) 21,153 21,712
Broadband connections in Italy at year end (thousands) 8,967 9,089
DOMESTIC MOBILENumber of lines at year end (thousands) 32,159 32,227
BRAZILNumber of lines at year end (thousands) 70,362 64,070
ARGENTINANumber of fixed lines at year end (thousands) 4,128 4,141
Number of broadband connections at year end (thousands) 1,629 1,550
MEDIALa7 audience share Free to Air (analogue mode) – (average for the year in %) 3.5 3.8
Gross advertising revenues (million euros) 225 24210 | EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACkGROUND
Telecom Italia began to deal with sustainability in 1997 by creating a specific department 
and by publishing the first socio-environmental report. The document then evolved into the Sustainability Report and included an analysis of performance in respect of stakeholders with whom the Company interacts on a daily basis: the stakeholders. As of 2003, the data and information regarding sustainability became part of the Report on Operations for the consolidated Financial Statements, thus confirming the Group’s inten-tion to present its financial data together with its non-financial data. In 2002, Telecom Italia published the Group’s first Code of Ethics and signed up to the Global Compact, the global pact by the UN to promote the protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corruption practices. In 2003, a structured system for managing sustainability based on indicators (Key Per-formance Indicators) was implemented to measure the results achieved in respect of all stakeholders and allow appropriate improvement actions to be planned.In 2007, Telecom Italia participated as co-leader in the laboratory set up in the context of the Alliance with the European Commission in March 2006 on the evaluation and commu-nication of non-financial performance. The laboratory then drew up an original communi-cation template (investorvalue.org) presented in Brussels in May 2010 during the Senior Leaders Forum of the Academy for Business in Society (ABIS).Further development work is currently being carried out on the model devised in the con-text of a project moderated by ABIS and CSR Europe in which Telecom Italia continues to share a leadership role with other multinational companies.At the end of 2008, sustainability was formally brought to the attention of the Board of Directors through the Control and Risk Committee, which performs a senior supervision function in this respect.In 2009, the Sustainability Report was drawn up for the first time according to the princi-ples of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS), which are based on the in-volvement of stakeholders in the reporting and the underlying processes. This is the most advanced standard in this area.As a confirmation of the results achieved, Telecom Italia was included in the most prestig-ious international sustainability indexes, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) and the Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good). 
THE MAIN  SUSTAINABILITY  CHALLENGES  FOR TELECOM  ITALIA  
Focus on customers
The achievement of high standards of customer satisfaction is a priority for Telecom Italia. The listening system was further enhanced in 2012 to ensure more effective monitoring of the interaction with customers, analyse perception and identify areas of development for the services with a view to achieving ongoing improvements. Specific attention has also been paid to customer care, which provides for the use of social networks to ensure quick and effective interaction with operators. Customer satisfaction is taken into consideration in the manager and staff incentives system. As a fundamental player in the broadband ecosystem, the Telecom Italia Group is responsible for ensuring that the technological development it brings by offering innovative services is always associated with the balanced development of the population in terms  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY | 11
of computer literacy, thus contributing to overcoming the socio-cultural barriers that can 
restrict the opportunity to participate in the information society and enjoy its benefits. Particular attention is therefore paid to customers with specific needs or belonging to the weakest layers of society, such as children, the elderly, the sick and the disabled. For example, the “Smart Inclusion” project, implemented in some Italian paediatric hospitals, provides a single technological platform allowing hospitalised children to participate actively in school lessons, communicate with their families and access various entertainment programmes, while allowing healthcare staff to view and update clinical patient documentation. As regards children, safe Internet browsing is a priority for Telecom Italia, which now provides various online protection and control tools. It has also launched a “Safe Browsing” (Navigare Sicuri) project aimed at teaching children, teenagers and adults (parents and teachers) to make an informed and responsible use of the Internet and digital technologies. For further information see § Customers, and The Community .
Closeness to our people 
Telecom Italia confirms its care for the people who work in the Company.The People Caring initiatives, implemented by listening to the needs of employees, are in-tended to improve the work life balance and to provide a concrete response to the require-ments of daily life. Telecom Italia supports the involvement of employees in volunteering ini-tiatives and pays specific attention to diversity within the Company. Talents are attracted and retained with specific initiatives, particularly by establishing direct links with universities and further education institutions. With the “I care myself” project, for employees who have passed the required examinations, Telecom Italia covers tuition fees for a number of degree courses provided by the Uninet-tuno International Telematic University. Dialogue with employees takes place through various channels, including tools that promote bilateralism, exchange and discussion between mem-bers of the corporate community through such things as blogs, open virtual communities, climate analysis and the intranet portal. A training plan has been launched to inform and in-volve employees in matters related to sustainability using an e-learning platform and themed virtual classes. For further details of the initiatives taken regarding Telecom Italia personnel see § Human Resources. 
Contribution to the Community 
As a large Company, Telecom Italia has a major impact on the communities of the Coun-tries in which it operates.First of all it contributes to improving general well-being by distributing part of the value produced through salaries and wages, payments to suppliers and work providers, interest to capital investors and dividends to shareholders (see § Economic value produced and distributed). Furthermore, the investments made are of general benefit to the community in terms of infrastructure and services, while also promoting virtuous effects on the supply chain.The Group’s contribution to the community also includes products and services that im-prove people’s quality of life by promoting new ways of learning, travelling, working and looking after oneself, reducing the need for travel and therefore increasing the amount of free time and improving quality of life in general.One example is the Nuvola IT Home Doctor remote home monitoring service, operating in a number of Italian healthcare facilities, which allows patients suffering from a number of chronic diseases to be monitored remotely thanks to Telecom Italia’s technologies. The service allows the quality of life of patients to be significantly improved as well as 12 | EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
allowing considerable savings to be made by the healthcare system on hospitalisation 
costs. By reducing the need to travel to the doctor, this service also allows carbon dioxide (CO²) emissions generated by the means of transport to be reduced (see § Customers/
Innovative Services).Finally, the Group’s contribution to the community includes projects and initiatives for the general development of the community by means of cultural, solidarity and environmental protection activities carried out directly by Telecom Italia through the Foundation. These include, for example, the programme of activities launched with the Italian Dyslexia Association to combat this disorder in Italian schools (see § The Community/Responses to stakeholders).
Fighting climate change
This is one of the great challenges that humanity will have to deal with in the near future, mainly by reducing emissions of CO² and other greenhouse gases in order to limit the in-
crease in the earth’s temperature to levels that are deemed acceptable.The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) industry can play a fundamental role in this respect, not only by limiting its emissions of CO² generated primarily by the high 
amount of energy required by transmission networks, but also by contributing to reducing emissions in other sectors by offering innovative services that promote different and more sustainable lifestyles in environmental terms such as video conferencing, teleworking, telemedicine and services that generally promote virtualisation of the economy, meaning replacement with lower impact alternatives in terms of CO² emissions (e-commerce, 
e-tourism, online billing and payments, etc.). ICT solutions allow intelligent buildings to be constructed in which technology combined with new materials considerably improves levels of energy consumption, comfort and safety. By using “smart grids” these solutions allow energy to be transferred from areas where there is a surplus to ones where there is a deficit, allowing considerable amounts of energy to be saved, with benefits for citizens and companies, contributing to the creation of more efficient and safer cities with lower CO² emissions. In this respect, Telecom Italia has launched the Smart Town offer, 
based on an integrated platform of services for “smart” cities which uses existing public lighting systems, integrated with telecommunication networks, to implement innovative environmental management, security and energy saving services for local authorities and the public. For further information see § Customers/Innovative Services and § The 
Environment/Climate change.
Supply Chain management
Managing the social and environmental aspects of the supply chain is strategically impor-tant for Telecom Italia considering the significant volumes and the diversity of procurement markets, particularly for purchases made in countries that require a greater degree of at-tention to be paid to specific social and environmental requirements.Monitoring these requirements allows the risks associated with the supply process to be minimised, in terms of the impact on business activities and negative effects on the Com-pany’s image. It also allows opportunities to be maximised by establishing long-lasting co-operation that brings benefits in terms of improving efficiency, productivity, product quality and cost reduction in the context of the supply chain. At the end of 2009, Telecom Italia contributed to setting up the JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation), together with other major European Tlc operators. The agreement assigns each member responsibility for managing audits of a limited number of common suppliers. These audits are carried out by third party companies with proven experience in the industry, selected  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY | 13
MAIN RESULTS  OF 2012
Results(*)Reference to the chapters in the Report
4.37% reduction in the energy used for transport The Environment/Environmental performance/
Energy
1.06% decrease in electricity consumption The Environment/Environmental performance/
Energy 
An increase of 14.52% in the eco-efficiency 
indicatorThe Environment/Climate Change
3.04% reduction in CO2 emissionsThe Environment/Environmental performance/Atmospheric emissions
7.19% reduction in paper purchased The Environment/Environmental performance/Paper
Confirmation of Telecom Italia’s and TIM Brasil’s ranking in all the leading international sustainability indexesIntroduction/Placement in the indexes
Social and environmental projects continue, including activities run by the Telecom Italia Foundation, amounting to a total investment in the Community of 36.4 million eurosThe Community/Responses to stakeholders The Community/Measuring  our contribution to the Community
The sustainability training plan aimed at all Group employees continues with the virtual classroom dedicated to climate changeThe Environment/Communicating sustainability
Confirmation of the co-leadership role of Telecom Italia in the European project for communicating non-financial performanceIntroduction/Communication of non-financial performance
Numerous awards received for design and communication activities related to sustainability Introduction/Other acknowledgements
The “I care myself” project continues, allowing employees to enrol free of charge in a number of university facultiesHuman Resources/Training
People caring activities continue in favour of employees and their familiesHuman Resources/People Caring
*
The percentage increases or decreases shown in the table are calculated in comparison to 2011 data. Unless otherwise stated all the information and data relate to Tel-
ecom Italia S.p.A.by competitive tender, based on the principles agreed between the JAC members. If non-
conformities are found, a corrective action plan is drawn up and its progress monitored. The audit results are shared among all the members, who are completely free to take decisions independently and individually. The exchange of information is governed by confidentiality agreements signed by the JAC members and suppliers involved. For further information see § Suppliers.1. REFERENCES  AND GOvERNANCE
The Telecom Italia Group operates with the conviction that business activities must be con-
ducted in a way that considers the expectations of stakeholders, in keeping with the princi-ples established by internationally recognised standards. In defining and implementing its sustainability strategy and programmes, the Group is inspired by the guidelines issued by the main global guidance and standardisation organisations in the field of Corporate Re-sponsibility.In 2002, Telecom Italia subscribed to the principles of the main point of reference at the global level, that is, the Global Compact, which was launched in 2000 by the UN to promote the protection of the environment, re-spect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corrup-tion practices. The System of Sustainability Management also takes into account the principal reference regulations and international standards:•
 European Commission directives, recommendations and com-munications;
•
 the OCSE guidelines directed at multinational enterprises;
• ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 quality and environmental management system certifications;
• the principles of the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on re
-
specting the fundamental rights of workers;
• the Social AccountAbility 8000 standard (SA 8000), aimed at promoting respect for hu -
man rights and wor
king conditions by companies and their supply chains; 
AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS 2008) drawn up by AccountAbility, an international organisation which promotes collaboration between stakeholders, and lays down standards and guidelines on matters of sustainability. The APS 2008 establishes the THE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE MAIN INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS. IN 2002, TELECOM ITALIA SIGNED UP TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT
18 | INTRODUCTION
principles that a Company must respect in order to define itself as accountable, which are 
covered in the § Reporting;•
 ISO 26000 guidelines for private and public organisations of all sizes.
The Group’s Corporate Go
vernance system is founded on the central role of the Board of 
Directors and the independent administrators, the transparency of management decisions, the effectiveness of the Internal Control System and on the strict regulations on potential conflicts of interest. The Internal Control System includes the Organisational Model pursu-ant to Legislative Decree No. 231 of June 8, 2001, aimed at preventing offences such as corruption, extortion and corporate offences. Sustainability issues are subject to the supervision of the Control and Risk Committee, which performs guidance and control of sustainability activities in general, including pro-jects conducted by the Telecom Italia Foundation, to ensure they are consistent with the Group’s ethical values.
2. CODES , ChARTERS  AND vALuES
The undertakings given by the Group to its stakeholders are expressed in a system of Char-ters and Codes available in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.In the belief that the success of the Company cannot be separated from business ethics, the Code of Ethics sets out the objectives and values of the Company’s activities in respect of the main stakeholders with whom the Group interacts. Respecting the Code is a require-ment for statutory bodies, managers and employees of all the companies of the Group, as well as for collaborators and third parties in business relationships with the Group, within the boundaries of their respective competence, functions and responsibilities.The Service Charters, which are intended to simplify the relationship with customers and 
make it more direct, set out the principles of conduct and un-dertakings given by Telecom Italia regarding the quality of the services offered. They also provide information regarding the on-going improvement of quality standards and contact channels 
available to customers. The Service Charters are also available on the Group’s commercial websites (telecomitalia.it, impresasemplice.it, tim.it).
The General Conditions of subscription and contract, which govern relations with subscrib-ers and are additional to the Service Charters, are published on the following websites telecomitalia.it, tim.it, impresasemplice.it and nuvolaitaliana.it. 
The General Conditions of subscription for fixed telephony are also published in telephone directories.Furthermore, in order to comply with the various resolutions of the Italian communications authority regarding quality, the relevant websites state the objectives set for the year for the individual services (fixed and mobile voice services, Internet access services, IP-IPTV pay-per-view television services, call centre services for customer support). A selection of the objectives and their respective levels of achievement is set out in the Appendix.
The other commitments undertaken by the Group are contained in the following documents, 
which are available in the sustainability section of the Internet site:•
 “Social responsibility in the Telecom Italia Group” on compliance with labour standards within the Group,
 with particular reference to child labour, forced labour, health and safety, 
freedom of association, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and pay.THE CODE OF ETHICS IS AT THE BASIS OF THE 
GROUP’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEMINTRODUCTION | 19
• “Relations with suppliers in Telecom Italia Group’ s procurement process”, which gov-
erns the negotiating ethic of the Group (transparency, the separation of roles, fairness 
and traceability) and the requirements that Telecom Italia demands of its suppliers in the area of working and environmental standards.
•
 “Green Procurement Policy”, which is intended to minimise the en
vironmental impact 
directly attributable to the Company and its suppliers in the context of the procurement process. 
•
 “Telecom Italia Group Guidelines on Voluntar
y Contributions to the Community”, which 
govern the ways in which the Group makes investments in favour of the communities in which it operates.
•
 “Code of conduct for the confidentiality of OLO (Other Licensed Operator) Data”, which ensures the proper 
handling and confidentiality of data by the departments that supply 
services to other operators.
• “Telecom Italia Group Guidelines for Responsible Mark
eting”, which outline the princi-
ples followed by the Group to ensure honest, transparent and fair business practices in addition to those contained in the Charters and Codes mentioned above. 
Further undertakings are contained in the “Self-regulation code for mobile services”, the “Self-regulation code for TV and Children”, the “Code of conduct for premium rate ser-vices”, the “Self-regulation code for sports information”, the “Self-regulation code on the reporting of legal disputes in radio and television programmes”, the “Self-regulation code for commercial communication” and the codes relating to the protection of children and consumers.
The System of Values adopted by Telecom Italia is the benchmark for the conduct of all 
those who work for the Group, creating a sense of belonging to a single organisation. The various corporate processes and systems for staff development, rewards, assessment and training are inspired by the Charter of Values, in order to steer individual behaviour in a consistent way throughout the Group.
Focus on the customer
To consider the customer as the main employer, and customer satisfaction as the core value. To be ready to listen to both internal and external customers, and to take steps to anticipate and respond rapidly to emerging requirements. Taking responsibilityTo participate in the achievement of tangible results and to accept delegation as an op-portunity, without referring problems to management that are within the individual’s sphere of competence. InnovationTo ensure the development of innovative solutions and promote new ways to improve the existing processes and systems in order to reinforce the positioning of the Company in the market. ProactivityBeing proactive by anticipating and influencing events. To seize and develop any opportuni-ties, even if initially unpromising, that the individual may encounter within their sphere of activity, and to advance proposals and initiatives that may be useful in achieving the goals of the Company and the Group. Time managementTo consider time as an important resource that impacts on the costs of the services provid-ed and on the loyalty of both internal and external customers. To meet needs and problems and handle multiple, sketchy inputs, working out timely and practical solutions.20 | INTRODUCTION
Integration
To work together with team spirit, minimising disputes and maximising the effectiveness of the exchange of information and professional contributions, working towards a common goal on behalf of the Company and the Group. TransparencyTo ensure ethically-correct business conduct; to maintain internal and external relations that are correct and honest, favouring the circulation of information. Professional excellenceTo continuously improve one’s own abilities, taking responsibility for one’s own professional growth in order to contribute to the success of the Company and the Group. 
3. hOT TOPICS
Sustainability concerns all the Company processes but certain matters are of particular importance and are consequently given special consideration in implementing the model of Corporate Responsibility defined by the Company. These are the sustainability “Hot Top-ics” identified by Telecom Italia Group also on the basis of:•
 requests made by the sustainability rating agencies for admission to the relevant sus
-
tainability indexes for the industry, through questionnaires assessing the Group’s per-formance; 
•
 requests from investors during the dedicated road shows or one-to-one contacts; 
• analysis of the media and reports published by the specialist agencies; 
• benchmarking of the sustainability activities carried out b
y other companies, in Italy and 
abroad;
• opinions expressed by stakeholder
s consulted directly (see § Stakeholder Involvement). 
The Hot Topics reported in the following table, together with other aspects of the Company’s activities, are taken into consideration in determining the relevance of the reporting, in accordance with the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS) – (see § Reporting). 
4. PLACEMENT  IN ThE INDEXES
Sustainability indexes are stock indexes in which securities are selected not only on the basis of economic-financial parameters but also in the light of social and environmental cri-teria. The selection process is carried out by specialised agencies that assess companies on the basis of publicly available information or questionnaires, taking account of opinions expressed by the media and stakeholders. Inclusion in these indexes is of strategic im-portance to companies because of the positive effects on their reputation and because, in addition to the pension funds and ethical funds, an ever increasing number of investors favour sustainable companies, considering them to be less risky and more promising in the medium to long term.Taking part in the process of evaluation is, moreover, a timely moment for reflection within the Company on the results achieved. The suggestions of the rating agencies at the end of the process are taken into consideration when planning improvement actions in the future.INTRODUCTION | 21
HOT TOPICS TABLE
Issues Stakeholder Telecom Italia Commitment Reference
RELATIONS WITH 
CUSTOMERSCustomers Attending to customer requirements and improving 
customer satisfaction are among Telecom Italia’s main objectives and are the subject of numerous projects and initiatives.Customers/Customer Satisfaction
DIGITAL DIVIDE CustomersThe CommunityThe dissemination of communications technologies can create social and geographical discrimination. The risk of exclusion is especially high for certain population bands, such as the elderly, the sick and the disabled. Telecom Italia has undertaken numerous initiatives to ensure the wide availability of the new technologies.Customers/Innovative ServicesThe Community/Responses to stakeholders
CLIMATE CHANGE CustomersSuppliers Institutions The EnvironmentThe CommunityThe Group is committed to reducing its own CO² 
emissions and to providing services that contribute to reducing emissions in other sectors.The Environment/Climate Change
RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEESHuman Resources Even at a difficult time for the global economy, the Group pays the maximum possible attention to the needs of employees in terms of training, development and the improvement of Company welfare.Human Resources
SUPPLY CHAIN SuppliersThe Environment The CommunityWith the globalisation of the markets and supply, the monitoring of the supply chain becomes a vital element in the sustainability of businesses. The Group is implementing a series of actions designed to protect the environment and working standards and to promote the principles of sustainable procurement.Suppliers/Sustainability Initiatives
PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITYCustomers Telecom Italia has implemented a series of measures 
to protect data security and the privacy of those who use the networks and services.Customers/Safeguarding privacy and personal data protection
CHILD PROTECTIONCustomers The spread of the Internet is a great opportunity but 
it can also be a source of danger. Telecom Italia has implemented a series of measures to protect children from content that could harm their psychological and physical development, and to prevent and detect any abuse carried out through telecommunication networks.Customers/Child protection
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS/INVESTORSShareholders The dialogue with the investors on financial and non-financial issues is of strategic importance for a major, quoted Company. In order to improve communication among the stakeholders on environmental, social and governance issues Telecom Italia promoted a European laboratory on the communication of non-financial performance.Introduction/Communication of non-financial performance
22 | INTRODUCTION
In 2012, Telecom Italia’s place was confirmed, for the ninth year running, in both the Dow 
Jones Sustainability indexes:•
 the Dow Jones 
Sustainability World Index (DJSI World), which includes 340 components; 
• the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe 
index (DJSI Europe), consisting of 166 European 
components, and the respective Eurozone sub-index. 
Since the inception of the Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good) series, Telecom Italia has been present in all the major indexes:•
 FTSE4Good Global, consisting of 723 components;
• FTSE4Good Europe, consisting of 282 components; 
• FTSE4Good Environmental Leaders Europe,
 which includes 40 components selected 
from the FTSE4Good Europe on the basis of the results achieved on matters of environ-mental protection. 
Telecom Italia is also included in the following indexes: 
•
 Vigeo:
 › World 120,
 consisting of 120 components;
 › Europe 120, consisting of 120 components.
• Advanced Sustainable Performance Index (ASPI) Eurozone,
 consisting of 120 components.
 
• Ethibel Sustainability Indexes (ESI): 
 › Excellence Europe, comprising 199 components; 
 › Excellence Euro, consisting of 114 components; 
 › Excellence Global, comprising 110 components.
• MSCI ESG Indexes: 
 › MSCI WORLD ESG INDEX, consisting of 761 components; 
 › MSCI WORLD former
ly USA ESG INDEX, consisting of 452 components; 
 › MSCI EAFE ESG INDEX, consisting of 413 components; 
 › MSCI EUROPE ESG INDEX, consisting of 204 components.
• ECPI Indexes: 
 › ECPI Ethical Global Equity, consisting of 300 components;
 › ECPI Ethical Euro Equity, consisting of 150 components;
 › ECPI Ethical EMU Equity, consisting of 150 components. T
elecom Italia is also included in the FTSE-ECPI SRI Benchmark.
Telecom Italia is classified as “prime” in the OEKOM rating.
Tim Participações, the TIM Brasil Group's listed holding, had its position confirmed in the 
ISE (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial) index managed by BM&F Bovespa (the São Paolo stock exchange), together with the Brazilian Environment Ministry and other financial and sustainability organisations. The index consists of 37 components that have achieved the highest sustainability scores, selected on the basis of a questionnaire submitted to the 183 most traded companies on the BM&F Bovespa.INTRODUCTION | 23
5. OThER ACkNOwLEDGEMENTS  
The main awards won by Telecom Italia concerning sustainability and its communication, 
include the following:•
 first place 
in the Italian and European “KWD Webranking 2012” for the best corporate 
communication on the web. The rankings drawn up by KWD, the digital division of Hall-varsson & Halvarsson, working with Lundquist, respectively considered the 102 biggest Italian companies and the 500 biggest European companies included in the FT Europe 500 index;
•
 second place in Italy among the 85 most highly capitalised companies in the FTSE Italia All Share index and second in Europe among the 100 companies in the FTSE Eurotop 100 index in the “CSR Online Awards 2012” online sustainability communication rank
-
ing drawn up by Lundquist;
• second place in Italy in the “Newsw
eek Green Ranking” drawn up by the Trucost and 
Sustainanalytics agencies, considering the top 500 companies in the world in terms of capitalisation, revenues and employees. The score is based on 3 parameters: total en-vironmental impact generated by the business, management of this impact and trans-parency of the information published;
•
 second place in Europe 
and Italy for online employer branding communication in the Em-
ployer Branding Online Awards 2012 survey conducted by Lundquist considering a wide range of web and social media content and functionalities. The European survey ana-lysed the top 100 companies included in the FTSE Eurotop 100 index, while the Italian edition examined the 100 top companies in terms of employees and turnover, including listed, private, public and foreign companies with registered offices in Italy;
•
 top position achieved by the P
eople Caring campaign in the Areté 2012 awards for re-
sponsible communication, Internal Communication category, promoted by Nuvolaverde with Confindustria and ABI, and sponsored by numerous associations, foundations and institutions.
6. COMM uNICATION  OF NON-FINANCIAL  PERFORMANCE
In the context of the Alliance between the European Commission and companies launched in March 2006 with the aim of turning Europe into a centre of excellence in CSR, a “Sus-tainability and non-financial performance evaluation” laboratory has been set up, of which Telecom Italia has been a co-leader. Following a wide-ranging consultation process involv-ing companies, investors, academics, representatives of the European Commission and stakeholders in Italy and abroad, the laboratory launched an advanced communication model for non-financial performance. On the basis of the opinions expressed, the model identified six priority areas (Human Capital, Customer Relations, The Community, Innova-tion, The Environment, and Corporate Governance) in which companies and investors are both interested, and in respect of which, therefore, the high quality reporting of financial information by companies is valued by the financial markets and taken into consideration for the purpose of valuations. For further information, see the website launched by the laboratory investorvalue.org .
During 2012, the laboratory’s work continued in the context of a project launched by CSR Europe and ABIS (Academy for Business in Society), in which Telecom Italia plays a leading role together with other big companies and international organisations. 24 | INTRODUCTION
The work is structured into 2 project categories with the following objectives:
• sharing the best practice used by companies to measure and manage non-financial per-for
mance;
• identifying a small number of concise sustainability performance indicators (superfac
-
tors), shared with the financial community (analysts, asset managers, banks, pension funds, etc.).
The preliminary results of the first set of projects were presented in Brussels on Novem-ber 29 last year. For further information, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website and 
the Enterprise 2020/Priority topics 2011 – 2013 section of the csreurope.org website.
7. REPORTING
Scope and criteria
In accordance with the principle of materiality, unless otherwise stated (see § Human Resources), only subsidiaries included in the consolidated accounts that have revenue greater than 300,000 Euro and more than 40 employees, excluding discontinued compa-nies and non-current assets held for sale, are taken into consideration in the sustainability reporting.
In accordance with the triple bottom line
(1) approach, the Company’s economic and finan-
cial data has to be analysed and represented together with the environmental and social 
results. Only an overall analysis of Company performance including all three dimensions can provide stakeholders with comprehensive information and allow interests to be bal-anced in a way that guarantees the success and survival of the Company in the medium and long term. For this reason, the Group has included sustainability data in the Consoli-dated Financial Statements since 2003, pre-empting the implementation of European Di-rective 51/2003, which was transposed in Italy by Legislative Decree no. 32 of February 2, 2007. 
The Sustainability Report is based on a multi-stakeholder approach involving the joint analysis of actions taken in respect of the main stakeholders with whom the Company interacts. It is drawn up on the basis of a system of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) relating 
to all the areas in which the Company has a major impact and measuring its capacity to respond as well as the degree to which it has achieved the established objectives. The KPIs are defined on the basis of:•
 the analysis of 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international organisation which 
has developed universally applicable guidelines for drawing up the sustainability report, in order to facilitate comparisons between companies;
•
 the demands of stakeholders; 
• the questionnaires sent out by the leading rating agencies for the purpose of admission to the stock mar
ket sustainability indexes;
• the experience gained over the 16 years during which the Compan
y has performed this 
activity. 
The KPIs are managed on the CPM system, a dedicated application which also manages the financial data included in the Annual Report.1
This approach was defined for the 
first time by John Elkington in 1994 in the article “Towards the sustainable corporation: Win win-win business strategies for sustainable develop-ment”. California Management Review 36, no. 2: 90-100.
THE REPORTING IS CONSISTENT WITH THE 
TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE APPROACHINTRODUCTION | 25
AccountAbility 1000 and Global Compact/GRI Cross Reference Table
The Sustainability Report is based on the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS 
2008), adopted as of the 2009 Financial Statements, and set out below:•
 inclusivity: identification of the stakeholder
s and their expectations, and development 
of involvement strategies aimed at improving the Company’s sustainability performance;
• materiality: identification of the important issues for the organisation and its stak
ehold-
ers;
• responsiveness: a description of the initiatives carried out b
y the Company to meet the 
expectations of stakeholders. 
The Telecom Italia Report’s compliance with the AA1000 standard is verified by the audit-ing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (see § Independent Auditors’ Report).
In accordance with the principle of materiality, the important themes have been identified ac-
cording to the above criteria (see § Hot Topics), positioning them in the “materiality matrix” shown below based on their impact on the expectations of stakeholders and the Group’s activities.
relations with 
competitors 
relations 
with mediarelations with NGOs child protection
privacy and security
freedom 
of expressionreducing waste 
and raw material usethe impacts 
on supply chain
relations with
local communities relations 
with employeesdigital divideclimate
change
relations
with institutionsrelations with 
shareholders/investors
economic 
developmentrelations 
with customers
Stakeholder interest/expectation levelThe impact (economic, environmental or social) on Telecom Italia
high medium low
high medium lowproduct 
responsibility26 | INTRODUCTION
The following table gives indications of the chapters/paragraphs and pages which make direct 
or indirect reference to the principles of the Global Compact and the respective GRI indicators. 
Global Compact (GC) 
PrinciplesGRI relevant indicatorsRelevant chapter/paragraphs Page number
1. Businesses should support 
and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the areas of the respective spheres of influence. HR1-7, LA4, LA7-9, LA13, PR1, PR8References and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Reporting, Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Community, Human Resources17, 18, 24, 28, 49, 79, 97
2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit, even indirectly, in human rights abuses.HR1-7 References and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Suppliers, Human Resources17, 18,49, 97
3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of workers and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.HR1-3, HR5, LA4-5 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Reporting, Stakeholder Involvement, Human Resources18, 24,28, 97
4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.HR1-3, HR7 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Suppliers, Human Resources18, 49, 97
5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.HR1-3, HR6 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Suppliers, Human Resources18, 49, 97
6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.HR1-4, LA2, LA13 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, Human Resources18, 28, 49, 97
7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.EC2, EN18, EN26 Hot Topics, Reporting, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Environment, 2011 and 2012 Results, and 2013 Objectives in the Appendix20, 24, 28, 49, 55, 147, 150
8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.EN3, EN5-6, EN8, EN16-19, EN22-23, EN26-29, PR3Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Environment, 2011 and 2012 Results, and 2013 Objectives in the Appendix28, 49, 55, 147, 150
9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.EN5-7, EN18, EN26Hot Topics, Reporting, The Environment, The Community20, 24, 55, 79
10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.SO2-4 References and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Suppliers, Shareholders 17, 18,49, 121
The Content Index, which is one of the documents according to which the Group is exam-
ined for the purpose of obtaining the level , is available in the sustainability section of the 
telecomitalia.com website, as well as the Application Level Table which reports GRI require-ments for the different Application Levels.INTRODUCTION | 27
Since 2008, Telecom Italia has had an A+ GRI rating for its sustainability reporting.
8. 2012 R ESuLTS AND 2013 O BjECTIvES
These are shown in the Appendix to this Report.
The targets of a qualitative nature for suppliers are included in the respective chapter.
9. Su STAINABILIT y MANAGEMENT
Mission and structure
Sustainability management in Telecom Italia is ensured by the Group Sustainability depar-tement, which performs the following activities:•
 promoting projects and initiatives at Group level with environmental and social impact,
 col-
laborating with the Company departments which have operational responsibility for them;
• contributing to the dissemination of a correct approach to sustainability within the Company
, 
under the perspective of continuous improvement; 
• ensuring the reporting to the outside of the activities of sustainability carried out;
• managing relations with specialised rating agencies for the purpose of admission to stock mar
ket sustainability indexes;
• representing the Group in the relevant national and international for
ums.
The guidelines on which the sustainability management model is based are the following: •
 inclusion of a summary of the sustainability data within the Financial Statement,
 confirm-
ing the Group’s determination to present its financial performance jointly with non-financial information;
•
 collaboration with the stakeholders through projects and initiatives at various le
vels (see § 
Stakeholder Involvement);
• definition of quantitative objectives in line with the major sustainability issues (see Appen-dix
);
• integration between sustainability and innovation: a specific section is dedicated to issues
 
of business responsibility within the technological plan, the document in which the Company defines its strategy in terms of the evolution of the transmission network;
•
 confirmation of the international commitments on matter
s of sustainability, including adher-
ence to the Global Compact and the respective Italian network;
• contribution to projects and initiatives on a national and international basis, including those
 
implemented by industry organisations (see § Communication of non-financial performance  
and § The Environment/Environmental performance);
• adherence to the main international standards on matters of sustainability (
see § Refer-
ences and Governance and § Reporting);
• continuous improvement of its own performance,
 including through benchmarking with 
peers;
• contribution to the spread of a correct approach to sustainability issues by means of com
-
munication initiatives organised within the Company and externally (see § The Environment/Communicating sustainability).28 | INTRODUCTION
10. S TAkEhOLDER  INvOLvEMENT
Stakeholder involvement, which includes listening to their requests, is one of the pillars of 
Telecom Italia’s sustainability model. In order to make the Group Sustainability managers easier to contact and therefore facili-tate dialogue with stakeholders on matters of greatest interest, all the necessary details have been added to the contacts area in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website. During 2012, the groupsustainability@telecomitalia.it mailbox received around 350 emails, all of which were considered for the purpose of any response required.
In order to survey the opinions and expectations of the voluntary sector regarding Tele-
com Italia’s sustainability initiatives and, more generally, its perception of the Company’s brands, 4 focus group meetings were held involving 29 representatives of non-profit organi-sations out of the 40 invited to attend. The strengths identified by the focus groups were reliability, capacity to deliver and technological innovation. As areas for improvement, the focus groups identified the need to improve communication regarding social and environ-mental value and to ensure the greater involvement of non-profit associations in determin-ing the sustainability strategy and the respective initiatives. These results were discussed with the people involved in the focus groups during a feedback event held in Rome in De-cember.
The following table shows the main initiatives in which stakeholders were involved in Com-
pany processes, classified according to the guidelines recommended by AccountAbility (see § Reporting), except for the initiatives relating to Competitors and Institutions, details of which can be found in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.INTRODUCTION | 29STAkEhOLDERINITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
CUSTOMERS Information on the 
Service Charters and General Conditions of Subscription via the Group’s websites (Introduction/Codes, Charters and Values)Customer satisfaction is surveyed systematically (Customers/Customer Satisfaction)Collaboration with the consumer associations(Customers/Conciliation procedures)Participation in national and international working groups, in partnership with UN agencies, non-governmental organisations, and organisations in the sector, on the issue of protecting children from potential abuses carried out via the Internet(Customers/Child protection at telecomitalia.com)
Use of web-based tools on social networks by customer care operators to talk to customers and share their knowledge.(Customers/Quality of service and at telecomitalia.com)Partnership projects with institutions and other companies to test and create innovative services(Customers/Innovative services)
SUPPLIERS Exchange of information and documentation with suppliers via the “Vendors hub” portal (Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)Sixth survey of satisfaction with the Purchasing department, and more generally with Telecom Italia, conducted among the Group’s main suppliers(Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)e-community of the main suppliers through the “TelecHome” website accessible through the suppliers’ portal (Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)JAC project which provides for CSR audit activities conducted in the production plants of suppliers and sub-suppliers based on an agreement signed with other European Tlc operators (Suppliers/
Sustainability checks)
Self-assessment questionnaire sent to the most risky suppliers in terms of sustainability(Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)
30 | INTRODUCTION
STAkEhOLDERINITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
THE 
ENVIRON-MENT“Carbon Meter” available on AVoiComunicare(The Environment/ Communicating sustainability) Collaboration with other European Tlc operators on issues of environmental relevance within the framework of industry associations, including GeSI and ETNO(The Environment/Relevant stakeholders and Climate change)Working with the scientific association “Ornis italica”, Telecom Italia has launched the “Falchi in città” (Hawks in the city) project to help preserve biodiversity in the urban environment(The Environment/ Communicating sustainability)
External and internal sustainability communication initiatives carried out (The Environment/ Communicating sustainability)Contributions to the working groups promoted by the EU and ETNO in defining the Code of Conduct on broadband equipment and data centres (The Environment/Energy) 
The Avoicomunicare 
integrated communication project encourages discussion about environmental and social topics (telecomitalia.com and avoicomunicare.it)
T
HE 
COMMUNITYStakeholder consultation during the process of analysing and devising the social projects of T
elecom Argentina (The 
Community/Responses to stakeholders)The “Navigare Insieme” and “Navigare Sicuri” projects have involved young people, adults and elderly people in digital education and safe use of the Internet(The Community/Responses to stakeholders) Many projects carried out in partnership with companies, universities, research centres and non-governmental and civil society organisations. (The Community/Responses to stakeholders, and Research and Development)INTRODUCTION | 31
STAkEhOLDERINITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
HUMAN 
RESOURCESInternal communication activities (Human Resources/Internal communication)“Archimede” project (Human Resources/Listening projects and activities)Mailboxes, Intranet, blogs, virtual communities, multimedia conventions to communicate with employees(Human Resources/Listening projects and activities)Selection and training programmes carried out with research centres, universities, associations and foundations (Human Resources/Selection)
Courses on health and safety matters(Human Resources/Health and Safety)Initiatives carried out by the People Caring Centre to fulfil the requirements of employees (Human Resources/People Caring)Information and discussion sessions with trade unions on matters of interest (Human Resources/Industrial Relations)The activities of the Industrial Relations School, a network of professionals from the world of business, institutions and trade unions continued (Human Resources/Internal communication)
Initiatives to improve the management of diversity in the Company (Human Resources/People Caring)Counselling service for dealing with personal difficulties or problems at work experienced by employees (Human Resources/People Caring)Volunteering initiatives with the involvement of employees and external partners (Human Resources/People Caring) 
Involvement of employees in the stress at work assessment programme (Human Resources/ Health and Safety) The “I care myself” project continued with the main trade unions, which allows employees to enroll free of charge with a number of different university faculties(Human Resources/Training)
SHAREHOLD-ERSThe “TI Alw@ys ON” shareholders’ club (telecomitaliaclub.it)provides important information to individual investors and the general public (Shareholders/Financial reporting)Three monthly conference calls, meetings at institutional offices of the Group (reverse road shows), participation in sector conferences, making a total of around 300 investors meetings (Shareholders/Financial reporting)Phase 2 of the sustainability performance assessment project moderated by CSR Europe and ABIS continues. Telecom Italia acts as co-leader with other multinational companies (Introduction/Communicating non-financial performance) 
Online financial reporting(Shareholders/Financial reporting)32 | INTRODUCTION
11. E CONOMIC  vALuE GENERATED  AND DISTRIB uTED
The economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders is shown below(2). Since 
2008, the method of presentation recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
has been adopted, with appropriate adaptation. 2
The value distributed to the 
Community stakeholder is not shown in the table. Please see the respective chapter.
2012 2011
(million euros)
DIRECT  ECONOMIC  vALuE GENERATED
A) TOTAL REVENUE  AND OPERATING  INCOME 29,801 30,256
B) INTEREST  PA
YABLE  AND DIVIDENDS  PAID 215 196
C) NET GAINS  (LOSSES ) ON DISPOSALS  
OF NON-CURRENT  ASSETS 53 3
D) DIRECT  ECONOMIC  vALuE GENERATED  (A+B+C) 30,069 30,455
ECONOMIC  vALuE DISTRIB uTED 
E) OPERATING  COSTS  13,845 13,744
F) EMPLOYEE  COSTS 3,919 3,992
G) SHAREHOLDERS  AND PRO
VIDERS  OF CAPITAL 3,053 3,306
H) TAXES  AND DUTIES 1,521 1,785
I) ECONOMIC  vALuE DISTRIB uTED (E+F+G+h) 22,338 22,827
ECONOMIC  vALuE RETAINED  (D-I) 7,731 7,628
2012 2011
(million euros)
WAGES  AND SALARIES 2,793 2,788
SOCIAL  SECURITY  COSTS 971 993
OTHER  EXPENSES 155 211
EMPLO yEE COSTS 3,919 3,992
INTRODUCTION | 33
2012 2011
(million euros)
ACQUISITION  OF EXTERNAL  GOODS  AND SERVICES 12,948 12,859
OTHER  OPERATING  COSTS(*)1,490 1,510
CHANGE  IN INVENTORIES (12) (56)
INTERNALLY  GENERATED  ASSETS (581) (569)
OPERATING  COSTS 13,845 13,744
2012 2011
(million euros)
DIVIDENDS  DISTRIBUTED 991 1,257
INTEREST  PA
YABLE 2,062 2,049
ShAREhOLDERS  AND PROvIDERS  OF CAPITAL 3,053 3,306
2012 2011
(million euros)
INCOME  TAXES 1,130 1,436
INDIRECT  TAXES  AND DUTIES 391 349
TAXES  AND DuTIES 1,521 1,785
REGARDING  ITALIAN  ACTIVITIES 791 1,148
REGARDING  ACTIVITIES  ABROAD 730 637
*
Mainly includes write-downs and charges connected to the management of non-financial credits of 548 million euros (533 million euros in 2011), accruals for risks of 
214 million euros (128 million euros in 2011), and contributions and fees for the performance of Tlc activities of 621 million euros (675 million euros in 2011) net of “Other taxes and duties” of 391 million euros (349 million euros in 2011) included in the item “Taxes and duties”.Offering
improving people’s quality of life
1. Cu STOMERS
1.1 S TRATEGY
Telecom Italia Group companies base the excellence of their products and services on 
customer care. Their aim is to ensure an immediate and effective response to customer requirements, modelling their conduct on business propriety, transparency in contractual relations and undertakings, courtesy and collaboration, ensuring customer focus and in full compliance with the principles established by Company procedures. Cooperation with consumer asso-ciations, which includes entering into specific agreements with them, is also highly valued.
1.2 R ELEVANT  STAkEHOLDERS
The relevant stakeholders are:•
 consumer customers (residential), par
ticularly customers with special needs (the disa-
bled, the elderly, children, etc.);
• business customers, top clients (major clients) and Public Administration;
• consumer associations.
38 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
1.3 Q UALITY  OF THE SERVICE  
The listening system has been further improved by applying Customer Experience Manage-
ment, a system that allows interaction with customers to be monitored more effectively, analysing their perception compared to expectations and identifying any room for improve-ment to the standard of service, with a view to ensuring ongoing improvement.
For information about the main activities carried out in 2012 to improve the customer ex-
perience see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
Top management manages the quality aspects of customer listening activities via the 
Steering Committee Quality Governance, which meets monthly and is chaired by the COO, with the aim of: •
 directing and supervising initiatives and activities aimed at improving end-to-end pro
-
cess quality; 
• monitoring the quality results 
achieved and analysing them, particularly in relation to 
the quality requirements set by the supervisory authorities, the most important/recur-ring complaints by customers and, more generally, the feedback from all stakeholders; 
•
 supervising the quality certification process during the launch of ne
w products/services 
offered to customers, particularly those that have the greatest impact in terms of image and competitive positioning on the market.
Since 2012, Telecom Italia has been monitoring “conversations” on the Web regarding quality in the telecommunication sector, relating to both fixed and mobile communication 
In 2010, Telecom Italia was the first Company in Italy to launch social caring, which provides direct customer support via social networks (Facebook and Twitter) allowing direct interaction with customers and a high speed of response. The number of reports increased significantly in 2012, confirming the degree of satisfaction among customers, who can also use this channel to access additional services, including the “top-up” service, which allows them to top up a TIM mobile at their choice directly via the Facebook page. The tool has been particularly useful for customer care operators as well, allowing them to share knowledge and disseminate it more quickly. With a view to improving this process, a daily report has been set up that highlights the types of report received and the actions needed to resolve them. Furthermore, in order to ensure the greater availability of the 119 service at weekends and on public holidays, a Facebook tool is used (on Twitter the support process is already automated) that forwards reports directly to the caring support section, which takes charge of these reports and handles them in real time. Finally, a series of meetings has also begun to allow the same result to be achieved for the toll free 187 service. As of the end of 2012, the corporate properties (Telecom Italia, TIM, Impresa Semplice, Cubovision, Cubomusica, Working Capital, Serie A TIM) had 2,380,000 likers on Facebook and 422 thousand followers on Twitter. In Brazil too, customers can contact the Company using not only the traditional channels but also social networks such as Twitter and Facebook. As of the end of 2012 there were 241 thousand followers and 400 thousand likers respectively.For information about the social networking tools available to call centre operators (Campus and TUO), see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
Use of social networking  
in customer care| CUSTOMERS EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 39
and the consumer and business segments. This monitoring takes place using a tool that 
performs a semantic search and analysis of the subjects most frequently discussed on the Internet and analyses the “tone” (web sentiment) of conversations about Telecom Ita-lia and its competitors. The aim is to make a prompt assessment of how customers per-ceive offers and services and to gain a greater insight into specific issues to support the business.Over 1.6 million documents from 19,500 sources were read and analysed during 2012. 
1.4 C USTOMER  SATISFACTION  
Customer listening at Telecom Italia
The customer listening system aimed at monitoring customer satisfaction covers the fol-lowing areas:•
 operational processes and events assessed on a “reactive” basis, i.e. immediately af
-
ter a specific event (e.g. delivery, assurance, sale, sales support); 
• customer contact channels (e.g. points of sale, customer care,
 web, billing);
• key products and ser
vices (e.g. fixed and mobile broadband, smartphones);
• life cycle monitored during the stages that characterise the customer’s relationship with his/her operator;
•
 issues that have a cross-cutting impact on customer satisfaction (e.g. inno
vation);
• customer satisfaction assessed on a “reflective” basis, i.e. not in connection with a specific e
vent, determined by the Customer Satisfaction Index - CSI - which adopts the 
international statistical survey standards (ACSI - American Customer Satisfaction Index model) to determine perceived quality in relation to the main satisfaction drivers for the various customer segments (fixed consumer, mobile consumer, fixed business, mobile business, top clients and public sector), particularly in comparison to similar services offered by the leading competitors. The CSI is certified in accordance with the UNI 11098:2003 standard (guidelines for determining customer satisfaction and for meas-uring the respective process indicators). 
The CSI values of Telecom Italia by segment are shown below.
CUSTOMER  SEGMENT(*)
2012 2011
CONSUMER 74.93 74.24
BUSINESS 64.59 62.97(**)
TOP CLIENTS AND PUBLIC SECTOR 70.88 69.14(**)
TOTALS 71.98 70.84(**)
*
Average satisfaction is measured on a scale of 0-100, where 0 means “not at all satisfied” and 100 means “completely satisfied”. The 2011 result has been recalculated 
based on the new top clients and public sector and business “go to market” model.
**
The 2011 result has been recalculated based on the new top clients and public sector and business “go to market” model. CUSTOMERS | 40 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
The information in the following table refers to the average annual progressive value of total cus-
tomer satisfaction with Telecom Italia’s customer care service measured on a “reactive” basis.
TYPE OF CUSTOMER  CARE  CUSTOMER
Overall satisfaction(*)
2012 2011
187 CONSUMER  FIXED  TELEPHONY 8.46 8.32
119 CONSUMER  MOBILE  TELEPHONY 8.69 8.56
191 BUSINESS  FIXED  TELEPHONY 8.10 7.06
191 BUSINESS  MOBILE  TELEPHONY 8.22 7.13
Customer satisfaction within incentives schemes
Telecom Italia’s formal managerial incentive systems include many targets associated with customer satisfaction, in keeping with the business plan for the current period. These targets are measured using customer satisfaction indexes monitored by means of peri-odic surveys: the overall CSI for the Company and the specific customer satisfaction indi-cators per customer segment. Additional specific targets associated with quality parameters and consistent with the cri-teria established for corporate and segment customer satisfaction indexes have been es-tablished for particularly critical processes and activities (commercial and technical front-end). Specific targets associated with customer satisfaction have also been established within the collective incentives scheme related to the employees of the Customer Opera-tion and Open Access departments (canvass). For customer satisfaction data relating to Brazil and Argentina, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.5 C ERTIFICATIONS  
For areas of the Company which have a significant impact on the community, because of the products and services they offer, the Group has obtained certifications to ensure that procedures and conduct are adopted that meet the expectations of the relevant stake-holders. 
Specifically:
•
 care for the customer and the quality of the products and services offered is covered
 
by the UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 standard; 
• concern for environmental protection b
y the UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 standard;
• health and safety at work by the BS OHSAS 18001:2007 standard;
• protection of human capital by companies and their suppliers b
y the SA 8000 standard;
• data security by the ISO 27001:2005 standard;
• Information Technolog
y services by the ISO/IEC 20000-1:2005 standard;
• the quality of call centre services in the EN 15838:2010 standard;
• software and IT solution production processes by the CMMI-DEV (Capability Maturity
 
Model Integration - Development) certifications;*
Average satisfaction measured on a scale of 1-10, where 1 means “not at all satisfied” and 10 means “completely satisfied”.| CUSTOMERS EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 41
• service management and delivery processes through the CMMI-SVC (Capability Matu-
rity Model Integration for Services) cer
tification.
Detailed information about the certifications achieved by the various departments/compa-nies of the Group is available in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.6 D IGITAL  DIVIDE  
The spread of information and communication technology creates opportunities for pro-gress. Telecom Italia is aware of the need to manage this development in the best possi-ble way, helping to coordinate the actions of all the players in the broadband ecosystem, particularly in order to avoid exposing the community to technological and geographical divides. 
Geographical Digital Divide
In order to deal with the digital divide that has arisen in the so-called marginal areas of Italy, which would otherwise remain excluded from the mainstream plans of telecommuni-cation operators, owing to the low profitability of investments, between 2005 and 2012, Telecom Italia implemented a programme of extraordinary investments allowing ADSL cov-erage to be provided for approximately 3,800 new municipalities that account for over 11% of the population (over 6 million people).
At the end of 2012, Telecom Italia activated around 9,100 exchanges, over twice the 
4,500 broadband enabled exchanges existing at the end of 2005. Alongside its plan to extend coverage, Telecom Italia has launched an additional plan to expand the active network where necessary to guarantee full usability of the service by customers and pre-vent the re-emergence of a digital divide. Launched at the end of 2010, the plan includes around 1,300 actions every year. 
Telecom Italia’s commitment has allowed ADSL broadband coverage to be provided to 98% 
of the population as of the end of 2012, which is close to achieving the objectives of the European Digital Agenda and promoted by the National Broadband Plan.
Telecom Italia cannot fail to get involved in joint “public-private” initiatives to achieve this 
objective and consequently cover the remaining geographical market failure areas.
Two types of action have been taken so far, both fully in line with European competition 
rules:•
 the first is a “central” approach that involves Infratel Italia S.p.A. (Infrastr
utture e Tel-
ecomunicazioni per l’Italia)(3) as the public entity building broadband, organic and inte-
grated infrastructure throughout the Country, with the aim of bridging the digital divide in the underdeveloped areas of the Country;
•
 the second is a “local” approach whereby regions promote projects aimed at bridging the digital divide,
 e.g. through forms of financing centred on public tenders using the 
so-called claw-back model, which provides for contributions to be paid to offset the lack of return on investments. 
For further information, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website. 3
The Company was set up on the 
initiative of the Communication De-partment of the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) and Invitalia, the national inward investment and busi-ness development agency, and is the entity implementing the Broadband Programme. CUSTOMERS | 42 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
Socio-cultural Digital Divide
In a world in which technology facilitates contact between people, Telecom Italia is making 
a contribution to breaking down the socio-cultural barriers that restrict the opportunity to take part in the information society, allowing people to enjoy its benefits. The innovative services aimed at promoting the digitisation of important areas of activity (e.g. healthcare) include those listed in the following paragraph.For information regarding the initiatives implemented by Telecom Italia for the social inclu-sion of customers with specific needs (hearing impaired, elderly, children, etc,) see § The 
Community in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website. 
1.7 INNOVATIVE  SERVICES  
Smart Services
In the context of services aimed at the public sector, in 2012 Telecom Italia continued to consolidate and develop its Smart Services, a family of services intended to provide a global response to local and urban requirements for the purpose of improving quality of life. They are intended to promote the “smart cities” model through the development of innovative digital services that can improve key areas for municipalities, such as energy ef-ficiency, environmental monitoring, security, public communication and tourism promotion.
For further information regarding Smart Services, see the sustainability section of the 
telecomitalia.com website.
Innovative e-health services
Telecom Italia is actively involved, either alone or in partnership with external partners, in devising and developing healthcare services at national, regional and local level. Designed Smart Town Smart Building Smart Hospital
Integrated management of local infra-
structure networks. Enabled services:•
 planning of electricity consumption and maintenance; 
•
 video surveillance; 
• digital communication with citizens and users in general (e.g. tourists);
•
 Wi-Fi hot spots (broadband access);
• smart management of local area throu-gh Wireless Patrol ser
vice, a suite of 
advanced ICT applications supporting police forces in monitoring security, preventing situations of degradation and ensuring respect for the highway code was presented. This allows the operations of personnel on the ground and in the back office to be optimised.Smart management and automation of buildings. Enabled services: •
 monitoring and reduction of con-sumption (electricity,
 water, etc.), mainly 
for Central Government Bodies;
• video surveillance;
• digital communication;
• extension of the IT network (LAN) of bu-ildings by using the electricity networ
k 
via a device that connects to the power socket.Management of services and con-sumption in hospital buildings and care given to hospitalised patients.Enabled services:•
 monitoring of consumption, lighting systems, security and heating systems;
•
 remote video calling services and Inter-net access for hospitalised patients;
•
 healthcare services for nurses (video calling
, video surveillance of patients 
and computerised management of clinical records).
| CUSTOMERS EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 43
to improve the Italian health service and the quality and effectiveness of healthcare, the 
services allow doctors, nurses and patients to carry out many activities remotely. 
The main electronic healthcare service applications available or being developed include:
• value products and services for general practice, aimed at enabling ne
w primary care 
models and proactive medical services (e.g. screening campaigns managed by general practitioners);
•
 legal archiving of digital diagnostic images on the network, ensuring the authenticity and integrity of documents;
•
 management of healthcare, administrative, logistical processes and 
a patient’s health-
care information throughout the period of hospitalisation;
• the management and 
coordination of operational facilities dedicated to emergencies 
(118) and continuity of assistance;
• healthcare monitoring (Nuvola IT Home Doctor and Fisio@Home).
All the 
solutions comply with the data privacy and transaction security requirements of 
healthcare processes.
This allows patients suffering from chronic illnesses, or in post-hospital care, to monitor their physiological parameters (body weight, blood pressure, heart rate, blood oxygen levels, glycaemia, lung capacity, electrocardiogram, etc.) directly from their own homes or in properly equipped facilities (medical centres, medical practices etc.). The system consists of a technological platform and software configured on the patient’s mobile phone (or alternatively a PC or tablet) and on the healthcare personnel’s PC. Based on the plans established by the doctor, patients receive reminders on their mobile phones regarding the measurements to be taken, they take these measurements using portable electro-medical devices equipped with a Bluetooth interface and, using their mobile phone they send the measurement automatically to the online platform. The service, the benefits of which include improving patient quality of life and optimising costs for the healthcare facility, is currently operational in several Italian healthcare facilities, including the Molinette and Regina Margherita hospitals in Piedmont and the Palermo and Rieti local health authorities. In order to enhance the functionality of the service and increase Telecom Italia’s presence in the social care solutions sector, experimental activities are under way in various areas:•
 the introduction of new devices intended to increase
 
the number of diseases that can be monitored (e.g. monitoring bed sores through superficial photographs of the skin);
•
 the use of new Internet-connected TVs to impro
ve 
the usability of healthcare services using various ways of displaying measures and accessing services;
•
 prevention and wellness ser
vices aimed at 
providing solutions for healthy people to help them maintain, if not improve, their health, particularly in unconventional environments such as schools or workplaces;
•
 services to support mobility in patients with se
vere 
limitations who lose their way very easily and might find themselves in dangerous places, using tracking solutions and mechanisms for family members or Service Centres to provide assistance.Nuvola IT Home Doctor
For further examples of the e-health services (e.g. preventing food-related disorders in school and geolocating people affected by certain medical conditions) see the sustainabil-ity section of the telecomitalia.com website. CUSTOMERS | 44 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
1.8 C HILD PROTECTION
The Group’s companies have undertaken numerous initiatives in order to protect children 
from content that may harm their psychological and physical development (for example, content that is violent, racist, offensive to religious sentiment, pornography etc.). 
The Telecom Italia Group adopts precise guidelines for classifying and checking distrib-
uted content. These cover both the content offered directly by Group companies and content owned by third parties offering their own services on space purchased within Telecom Italia’s portals. These guidelines are regularly updated to take account of new codes, standards and platforms. In Italy, in accordance with current regulations and self-regulatory codes signed by the Group, selective publication and filtering systems and procedures are implemented to prevent children from accessing adult content on all the Group’s service platforms (IPTV , WEB TV , WAP services, broadcast TV , cubovision decoders).•
 IPTV: access is only permitted to subscribers and the subscription can only be tak
en out 
by adults. The default setting does not allow adult content to be viewed and can only be changed using the PIN supplied to the adult subscriber. On demand adult content can only be accessed between 11.00 p.m. and 7.30 a.m.;
•
 WEB TV: no adult content is broadcast;
• WAP services: content from T
elecom Italia and third party services is always moder-
ated in advance by Telecom Italia, in order to verify compliance with the classification guidelines, and delivered by a centralised platform. The PIN for accessing adult content is supplied by text message, at the customer’s request, after the person to whom the number is allocated is confirmed as being an adult;
•
 broadcast TVs: implementation of the self-regulatory code for the media and children (Codice di Autoregolamentazione Media e Minori) has been entrusted to a Committee consisting of fifteen regular member
s representing, in equal numbers, the television 
broadcasters who have signed up to the Code, Institutions and users. Watersheds are strictly complied with in the broadcasting of television content and advertising allowed by the Code as well as promotional messages (including cinema trailers or information programmes). Where necessary, warning labels are broadcast and a live announcement is made about any particular images, not only during transmission of the content itself but also during their promotion on the network;
•
 cubovision decoder: pa
y-per-view adult content, i.e. not included in the subscription, can 
only be viewed between 11.00 p.m. and 7.00 a.m. A parental control PIN, configured on registration, and a purchasing PIN are provided.
For services delivered by IP connection, the “Alice Total Security” software is available, which includes antivirus and anti-spyware services; parental control, firewall, advanced download protec-tion, anti-phishing, SPAM protection, wireless PC protection. 
For the purpose of combating online child pornography and computer crime, from an or-ganisational point of view, Telecom Italia has identified, within its Security department (Risk Prevention & IT Security Governance), the role of “Key contact for the Postal Po-lice”. This person manages relations, and the flow of information, with the Postal Police (CNCPO - National Centre for the Fight against Online Child Pornography, CNAIPIC – Na-tional Centre against Digital Crime for the Protection of Critical Infrastructure etc.) and the competent authorities, and has the task of coordinating, within the Telecom Italia Group, the process of abuse management, in accordance with the relevant legislative MAXIMIZING THE POSITIVE ASPECTS  
OF THE WEB AND MINIMIZING RISKS ARE 
ONE OF THE GROUP’S PRIORITIES| CUSTOMERS EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 45
framework. Furthermore, the Telecom Italia Group has adopted an organisational model 
in accordance with Legislative Decree 231/2001, which defines the tools required to oversee and anticipate offences, particularly the dissemination of child pornography, as well as to ensure the organisational/disciplinary management of computer crimes. For this purpose, Telecom Italia has fielded resources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and combat “abuse”, meaning any activity committed in violation of the rules of conduct and legislation that governs the use of network services, digital systems or means of communication in general. In this respect, information initiatives have been implemented, aimed at children, parents and teachers, on the risks connected with the new technologies and navigation on the Internet (chat lines, instant messaging, forums, communities etc.). These initiatives have involved a number of important public and pri-vate stakeholders selected above all on the basis of their activities and commitment to safeguarding the rights of children (including, for example, the Postal and Communica-tion Police, Save the Children, Adiconsum, GSMA, ITU etc.). 
The Group has also implemented appropriate filtering and abuse prevention systems for 
services delivered in Brazil and Argentina. In particular, WAP services with adult content require user authentication while the delivery of adult videos on IP platforms, which is only available in on demand mode, requires a PIN to be entered. 
Telecom Italia’s commitment to disseminating the right cultural approach to the sub-
ject and preventing offences being committed translates into many initiatives, details of which can be found in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.9 C ONCILIATION  PROCEDURES  
The conciliation procedure between Telecom Italia and the Consumer Associations who signed the framework agreement for the out-of-court settlement of telephone disputes, was the first example of joint conciliation in Italy. Introduced on a trial basis in 1991 by SIP , it was implemented throughout the Country in 1993. In 1995 it was recognised by the European Union as a “pilot project for consumer access to justice”. The model is still used today but has been adapted over the years to fulfil new re-quirements, computerised and made easier to use, while main-taining the basic values that made it such an excellent tool, con-tributing to improving the transparency of the system, customer relations and a number of the Company’s operational processes. Twenty Consumer Associations have signed up to the conciliation agreement to date.
In 2009, in compliance with the voluntary undertakings given and approved by the Ital-
ian Communications Authority in December 2008, Telecom Italia also started managing conciliation requests submitted by customers at the offices of Co.Re.Com and the Cham-bers of Commerce, thus providing a “single point of contact” and replicating the organi-sational model successfully applied for joint conciliations. This system allows customers who do not wish to approach a Consumer Association to use an alternative method for resolving their dispute through a streamlined and out-of-court procedure.The handling of conciliations takes customer requirements into account and, regardless of the selected procedure, allows their relationship with the Company to be improved. 
THE ONE STOP SHOP AIMED TO SOLVE 
DISPUTES HAS PROVED TO BE AN EFFECTIVE TOOL, WELL APPRECIATED BY CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS | 46 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
The “single point of contact” model has so far allowed the undertakings given the AG-
COM to be fulfilled and the expected qualitative and numerical results to be reached. The Co.Re.Com channel is in fact becoming increasingly popular compared to other chan-nels. As regards the number of joint conciliation requests discussed in 2012, the falling trend recorded in the previous year was confirmed: requests fell from 5,862 to 5,664 (3.4% in percentage terms) and the number of requests that proceeded to conciliation was over 95% (the same percentage as in 2011). The number of requests discussed at Co.Re.Com and Chamber of Commerce offices increased by 10.2% compared to the pre-vious year (up from 16,316 in 2011 to 17,977 in 2012) and the conciliation percentage was over 85% (87.5% in 2011). 
Telecom Italia supported the conciliation activity by means of:
•
 seminars and joint training initiatives involving dedicated per
sonnel from Telecom Italia, 
AGCOM, Co.Re.Com and consumer Associations;
• debates, conferences, inter
views and other promotional activities involving senior man-
agement in order to disseminate the correct cultural approach to the subject. 
For information on the conciliation procedures used in Brazil and Argentina, see the sus-tainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.10 S AFEGUARDING  PRIVACY  AND PERSONAL  DATA  PROTECTION
In order to ensure personal data protection (Legislative Decree 193/03, known as the “Pri -
vacy Code”) in the performance of its business activities, Telecom Italia has equipped itself with an organisation model that assigns central departments the responsibility for super-vising correct application of the regulations in this sector at Group level. In this context, when it establishes or acquires new companies, the Parent Company provides the support required to identify and carry out the formalities required to comply with the relevant laws and regulations.The adoption of legal measures and the instructions of the Privacy Guarantor for personal data protection is assured by constantly updating the Group regulations and policies. The “System of rules for the application of privacy regulations in the Telecom Italia Group” is particularly significant in this respect. It establishes the provisions and operating instruc -
tions needed to carry out the relevant formalities.During 2012, Telecom Italia implemented the major changes introduced by national legisla -
tors in the Privacy Code since the end of 2011, with the aim of simplifying privacy legisla -
tion and transposing new European rules for the electronic communications sector aimed at strengthening personal data safeguards.With a view to reducing the administrative costs for companies, Decree Law 201/2011 (known as the Saving Italy Decree), which became law at the end of 2011, removed the requirement to apply privacy rules to “legal persons, organisations and associations”, with the exception of rules which the Privacy Code reserves for the electronic communications sector (e.g. relating to traffic and tracking data, automated promotional communications, lists of subscribers and the use of telemarketing) which continue to apply to these entities. This change required the wording of the privacy policy and privacy consent for Telecom Italia customers to be amended and a number of internal processes to be simplified, including those relating to promotional calls and preliminary checks made for contract activation and management purposes. Furthermore, Decree Law 5/2012 (known as the “Simplifications Decree”), converted into Law 35/2012, amended the provisions of the Privacy Code regarding the minimum person -| CUSTOMERS EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 47
al data protection measures, removing the duty to keep an up-to-date safety and security 
document or Documento Programmatico sulla Sicurezza (DPS). With a view to ensuring high standards of personal data protection, Telecom Italia has established that it will maintain a process for monitoring the minimum safety and security measures, as a tool for fulfilling the Data Controller’s duty of supervision and complying with legal requirements, particularly by assessing risks and managing any action plans.With regard to the transposition of European legislation, Legislative Decree 69/2012 amended the Privacy Code by implementing Directive 2009/136/EC which, in turn, had amended Directive 2002/58/EC (known as the e-Privacy Directive).In particular, for electronic communication service providers only, a duty was introduced to inform the Italian data protection authority (Garante Privacy) and, where appropriate, the contracting party and other stakeholders, of any violation of personal data security in rela -
tion to electronic communication services. Telecom Italia has carried out the activities re -
quired to analyse its Company processes to identify events that might potentially be consid -
ered “personal data violations” associated with the provision of electronic communications services to its customers (e.g. telephone or Internet access service), and to establish in -
ternal procedures suited to managing any violations in accordance with the new provisions.
For information regarding privacy safeguards and personal data protection in Brazil and Ar -
gentina, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com  website. CUSTOMERS | 2. Su PPLIERS
2.1 S TRATEGY
Within the Telecom Italia Group, the procurement process is aimed at the acquisition of 
products and services under the best market conditions, at the same time guaranteeing the prerequisites of quality, safety and social and environmental respect. The procurement process is based on a competitive comparison of the technical/economic offerings of sup-pliers who are selected on the basis of well-founded Company procedures at Group level and bearing the hallmark of ethical dealings. The Group is committed to guaranteeing the quality of the procurement process and its continual improvement, in the light, too, of sus-tainable procurement, by obtaining the respective certification of quality.
2.2 R ELEVANT  STAkEHOLDERS
The relevant stakeholders are the suppliers and sub-suppliers from which the Group ac-quires goods and/or services.
2.3 G ENERAL  MATTERS
The selection, assessment and control of the Telecom Italia Group’s suppliers, for high risk procurement markets, involves a pre-contractual qualification stage in which the eco-Ensuring that products and services 
are purchased according to the best economic conditions while complying with quality, safety and
50 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
nomic/financial and technical/organisational characteristics are assessed. Verification of 
these characteristics leads to inclusion in the register of suppliers.The Group requires every supplier to make a commitment, on behalf of the Company in question and any authorised sub-contractors, collaborators and employees, to observe the principles of ethics and conduct contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics.Registered companies which have received purchase orders normally undergo checks dur-ing the supply period, including incoming quality control (a requirement for the acceptance and use of the purchased goods) and monitoring of the vendor rating (systematic assess-ment of the supply).The purchasing departments that operate reporting directly to the Business Support Offic-er focus on specific sectors, so as to provide accurate responses to the requirements of in-ternal customers and stakeholders. These expectations are constantly monitored through surveys of both internal customers and suppliers in order to verify the quality of the ser-vices delivered (see § Involvement initiatives).
2.4 S USTAINABILITY  INITIATIVES
The main initiatives implemented in 2012 are listed below.•
 The implementation of the new process that defines the activities aimed at improving
 
the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of the supply chain continued with a more comprehensive system of elements used to assess the sustainability of suppliers dur-ing the qualification stages, incoming quality and vendor rating.The most significant aspects of the process include:
 ›the preparation of a self-assessment questionnaire to be given to new suppliers in
 
the qualification phase and others annually. The questionnaire was developed ac-cording to the main requirements contained in the relevant standards for responsible corporate management relating to respect for ethical values and to safeguarding the environment (including SA 8000, Global Compact and ISO 14000) and to the best industry practices. The experimental self-assessment questionnaire on sustainabil-ity sent out in 2011 to around 70 significant suppliers identified by the method de-scribed above, will be extended to all the major suppliers of those that had orders in 2012;
 ›the classification of suppliers based on the potential risks associated with their sus -
tainability perfor
mance, using a specific method that considers the social-environ-
mental and business continuity aspects of the procurement markets they operate in. These markets are in fact classified based on parameters such as the geographical areas of reference, the potential impact of the suppliers’ activities and of the prod-ucts/services supplied throughout their entire life cycle on the environment and on the society, and the impact on the reputation of Telecom Italia as a customer. Further-more, a matrix has been constructed that relates spending in the specific purchase market to the risk index calculated on the basis of the parameters described. This allowed the division of the procurement markets into four categories, identifying the most critical ones in terms of sustainability;
 ›suppliers belonging to the most at risk categories will undergo CSR audits carried
 
out by staff from the Company or specialised third party companies. These audits will be repeated periodically to monitor the implementation of corrective actions and, if the results are positive, in order to verify that the standard of performance found is being maintained.
•
 In December 2012,
 the ISO 9001:2008 certificate of conformity of the “Quality Manage-
ment System” was confirmed for all the Procurement departments under the responsi-| SUPP lIERS EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 51
bility of the Business Support Officer, with specific recognition for the initiatives taken 
in the field of sustainability. This initiative has led to the mapping of 28 department processes with the identification of 149 performance indicators that permit the monitor-ing and improvement of the administration of services supplied to internal clients and suppliers.
•
 Furthermore,
 the ISO 14001 certification was confirmed for the service unit facility and 
real estate and infrastructure acquisitions activities.
• Application continued of the green procurement policy established in 2009, which con-tains guidelines for establishing the en
vironmental requirements of products/services 
purchased. The policy covers all stages of the product life: design, production, use and end of life. Published on the “Vendors Hub” supplier portal of Telecom Italia and in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, the document helps to ori-ent purchasing policies towards low environmental impact products and services. The policy is currently being updated to include the social aspects of the supply chain and therefore to progress from green procurement to the broader concept of sustainable procurement.
•
 With a view to ensuring the ongoing improvement and greater in
volvement of suppli-
ers, questions regarding the green procurement policy, and supplier adherence to the principles set out within it, have been included in the annual satisfaction survey (see § Involvement initiatives).
2.5 S USTAINABILITY  CHEC kS
CSR verification activities continued in respect of common suppliers and sub-suppliers, as required by the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by Telecom Italia S.p.A., France Telecom S.A. and Deutsche Telekom AG at the end of 2009. In 2011 Belgacom SA, KPN B.V ., Swisscom Ltd. and Vodafone Group Services Limited, and in 2012 Telenor ASA and Teliasonera AB, signed up to the memorandum.The objectives of the initiative known as Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) are:•
 to verify the sustainability of the most important suppliers/sub-supplier
s that are com-
mon to the members of the JAC, with production plants located in geographical areas with the greatest socio-environmental risk. The verification is carried out by means of specific audits conducted by third parties using a specific meth-od developed by the JAC members themselves, who share the results of the verifications;
•
 to contribute to the increased sustainability of suppliers/sub-suppliers in
volved by identifying and implementing corrective ac-
tions and ongoing improvement programmes, establishing a long-lasting cooperation with reciprocal benefits in terms of efficiency, productivity and risk reduction in the con-text of the supply chain.
Thanks to the increase in the number of members, JAC’s area of influence now extends to 86 production sites (suppliers and sub-contractors) located in Asia, Central and South America, and Eastern Europe. During 2010/2012, 74 audits were carried out by special-ised international companies, selected by competitive tender, covering approximately 360 thousand workers in total. The suppliers included in the audit campaign conducted in 2012 belonged to the user devices and appliances, network appliances and IT equipment production sectors.Specific corrective action plans were drawn up for all the non-conformities encountered, establishing the resolution procedures and timetables. The implementation of these plans is monitored on a constant basis by the JAC members.JOINT AUDIT COOPERATION (JAC) IS 
AN AGREEMENT AIMED AT PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY WITHIN THE SUPPLY CHAINSUPPlIERS | 52 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
In total, the work allowed 59% of orders to be verified in the main procurement markets 
considered to be those with the greatest socio-environmental risk (see § Sustainability initiatives).
On January 11, 2012 the first “JAC CSR Forum” of suppliers was held in the city of Shenz-
hen (China) which was attended by around 150 guests representing Tlc operators, suppli-ers, organizations active in CSR and NGOs.The theme was “Cooperation beyond competition - let’s CSR together” and the goal was to expand and promote the JAC initiative and improve and enhance collaboration with the suppliers on CSR issues in the supply chain in order to jointly address the industrial chal-lenges that it poses.The level of satisfaction with the event, measured by a satisfaction survey sent to the par-ticipants after the meeting, was 91%.A similar initiative was held on January 10, 2013 in Shanghai with the involvement of around 150 guests representing the different stakeholder categories.The topic of the forum was: “Progress, perspectives and next steps” with the aim of high-lighting the results obtained and the challenges to be faced.
2.6 INVOLVEMENT  INITIATIVES
• During the year the suppliers’ portal (V endors Hub), launched at the end of 2011 and cre-
ated to improve communication and optimise operational processes, was consolidated by applying social networking systems to the business context.Suppliers are able to access a private area to view important data and events connect-ed to their relationship with Telecom Italia and manage all their own details, thus improv-ing the smooth operation and transparency of the relationship. The portal also includes a public area containing information for potential suppliers.Documentation is exchanged electronically (e.g. offers, purchase orders, contracts, qualification documentation, surveys), thus reducing the environmental impact resulting from the use of paper and transporting of documents. 
•
 For the sixth consecutive year,
 the Group’s main suppliers have been involved in the sur-
vey on satisfaction with the Purchasing department and, more generally, with Telecom Italia. The online questionnaire, consisting of 27 questions, remained active for 2 weeks. The survey involved 1,249 suppliers with access to the Vendors Hub with a 42.5% re-sponse rate. The overall assessment of the supply relationship with the Telecom Italia Group achieved a score of 75/100, 2 percentage points higher than that achieved in 2011, therefore consolidating the improved satisfaction trend already recorded in the pre-vious surveys. 
•
 The two e-communities set up in previous years for supplier
s in the civil infrastructure and 
network operations sectors, aimed at improving dialogue mainly regarding social and en-vironmental sustainability, remain active.The activities of the e-communities mainly take place through a platform known as “Tel-ecHome”. Developed in Web 2.0 logic, it contributes to the exchange of information and experiences in order to:
 › integrate the best operational practices adopted in specific subject areas;
 ›publish the results obtained, in terms of the en
vironmental/social certifications and 
achievements attained;
 › support voting campaigns on various initiatives, for their assessment.| SUPP lIERS EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 53
2.7 2012 R ESULTS  AND 2013 C OMMITMENTS
Subject 2012 Commitments Status 2013 Commitments
ISO 9001
ISO 14001and ISO 50001 certificationsMaintaining the Purchasing department’s ISO 9001 certifications and the ISO 14001 certification for infrastructural purchasing and the service unit facility, extended to the same department’s real estate activities.Achieved Maintaining the Purchasing department’s ISO 9001 certifications and the ISO 14001 certification for Infrastructure Purchasing and Facility Management, obtaining the extensions provided for.
Obtaining the ISO 50001 certification for the Energy Purchasing & Management department.Nearing completion.All the preliminary work to obtain the certification has been carried out. Certification audit scheduled for the first quarter of 2013.Maintaining the ISO 50001 certification for the Energy Purchasing & Management department.
e-community project Maintenance of active 
e-communities. Achieved Maintenance of active e-communities. 
Green Procurement Continue implementing the 
supply chain sustainability verification and improvement process, in order to progress from green procurement to the wider concept of sustainable procurement. Achieved Continued implementation of the supply chain sustainability verification and improvement process.
Controls on suppliers Application of the self-
assessment questionnaire for new suppliers (see § Sustainability initiatives). In progress Filling in of the self-assessment questionnaire by new suppliers.
Continuation of audit activities in the production plants of suppliers located abroad in the context of the JAC (see § Sustainability checks).Achieved Continuation of audit activities in the production plants of suppliers located abroad in the context of the JAC.
SUPPlIERS | 3. Th E ENvIRONMENT  
Environmental protection, energy efficiency improvements and the provision of services 
that reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants are the main interven-tion policies adopted by the Telecom Italia Group to promote sustainable development in its areas of influence. The specific actions consist of reducing environmental impacts and offering technological solutions aimed at individuals, businesses and public administra-tion for the creation of a more inclusive and viable digital society (see § Climate change). The main indicators used to measure the Telecom Italia Group’s environmental perfor-mance are the following:
 
INDICATOR TREND
TOTAL ELECTRICITY  PROCURED  AND PRODUCED  DOWN
TOTAL ATMOSPHERIC  EMISSIONS  OF CO2 DOWN
TOTAL WA
TER CONSUMPTION  UP SLIGHTLY
ECO-EFFICIENCY  UP
Contributing to the creation of a
through Information and Communication
Technology solutions
56 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
3.1 S TRATEGY
The environmental strategy of the Group’s companies is founded on the following principles:
• optimising the use of energy sources and other natural resources;
• constantly seeking to improve en
vironmental performance by reducing negative impacts 
and increasing positive ones; 
• adopting procurement policies that take environmental issues into account;
 
• disseminating a culture that promotes a correct approach to environmental issues.
In order to ensure the effective and sustainable management of operational processes which 
have particular environmental impacts, Telecom Italia has equipped itself with an 
Environmental Management System (ESG) which is ISO14001 certified. In two call centres, the Environmental Management System has been integrated with the Safety Management System based on the OHSAS 18001 standard, both having achieved the respective certification. Please go to our web site, telecomitalia.com, to find out more on this subject.
3.2 R ELEVANT  STAkEHOLDERS  
Future generations, who are entitled to live in a world not compromised by the negative ef-fects of the development of previous ones, represent the Environment stakeholder. The in-terests of this collective person are identified in the demands made by:•
 national and international environmental organisations;
• national and supranational institutions;
• the community in general, particular
ly in the areas where Telecom Italia operates; 
• industry associations and non-profit organisations dealing with issues relating to the environment. These include the following in par
ticular: CSR Europe, Academy of Busi-
ness in Society (ABIS), European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Global e-Sustainabili-ty Initiative (GeSI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), European Round Table of Industrial-ists (ERT), International Telecommunication Union (ITU).
Telecom Italia is attentive to the requirements expressed by stakeholders interested in pro-tecting the environment and has developed various channels of communication with them, including AVoiComunicare, the Festival of Science, the Venice Future Centre and the dedi-cated pages of the Group Internet/Intranet site, in addition to formal and informal meetings with these stakeholders. Telecom Italia also promotes and in some cases coordinates na-tional and international projects on this issue. | ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 57
HEATING  SYSTEMS
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
 vs 20112012
 vs 2010
ENERGY  CONSUMPTION  OF DIESEL  FUEL MJ 103,416,900 (13.95)% (11.26)%
ENERGY  CONSUMPTION  OF NATURAL  GAS MJ 451,776,000 3.31% 3.57%
TOTAL  ENERG y FOR hEATING MJ 555,192,900 (0.41)% 0.45%
HEATING  SYSTEMS
TI Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
TI Group 2012 Domestic Brazil Argentina Media Olivetti
TOTAL  ENERG y FOR 
hEATINGMJ 662,762,399 88.83% 0% 2.67% 0.29% 8.21%
The data in the table relating to Telecom Italia S.p.A. show that consumption for heating 
purposes remained substantially unchanged compared to 2011 and 2010. We should point out that major cogeneration plants came into operation in a number of Data Process-ing Centres in 2009; these plants produce electricity and heat at the same time, result-ing in a reduction in the purchase of fossil fuels used exclusively to heat working environ-ments.In Brazil, the climate makes it unnecessary to heat indoor premises and in Argentina heat-ing is only switched on for short periods of time and primarily in the coldest areas of the Country.3.3 E NVIRONMENTAL  PERFORMANCE
The information regarding environmental performance has been drawn from management data, some of which is estimated. The environmental performance data given below covers energy, GHG emissions to air, wa-ter consumption, paper, waste and electromagnetic emissions.
Energy
Energy consumption by Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Group is presented according to the guidelines proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI – G3 Guidelines) regarding di-rect consumption for heating and transport (Scope1 according to the GreenHouse Gas Pro-tocol
(4)) and indirect consumption for the purchase and use of electricity (Scope2).4
The G hG Protocol (Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol Initiative), established in 
1998 b
y the World Resources Insti-
tute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, devel-ops calculation methods and studies aimed at promoting innovation and assuming responsibility for climate change.ThE ENVIRONMENT  | 58 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
VEHICLES
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 20122012
vs 20112012
vs 2010
UNLEADED  PETROL  
CONSUMPTIONl 815,038 MJ 26,228,749 (60.84)% (78.86)%
DIESEL  CONSUMPTION l 17,817,062 MJ 635,374,233 1.66% (0.76)%
LPG CONSUMPTION l 212,989 MJ 6,383,286 (10.74)%(*)
CNG CONSUMPTION kg 12,981 MJ 631,562(**) (**)
TOTAL  ENERG y FOR 
TRANSPORT(***)MJ 668,617,830 (4.37)% (12.52)%
*
The amount of lPG used in 2010 was negligible and was not recorded.
**
The amount of CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) for transport used in 2010 and 2011 was negligible and was not recorded.
***
Represents conversion into MegaJoules of the consumption of unleaded petrol, diesel and lPG (expressed in litres) and CNG (expressed in kg).ENERGY CONSUMPTION 
FOR HEATING – CHANGE %TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.ENERGY CONSUMPTION 
FOR HEATING BREAKDOWN BY BU (%) - TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
0.29%
Media
8.21%
Olivetti
88.83%
Domestic0%
Brazil
2.67%
Argentina
81.37%
Energy consumption 
of natural gas for heating18.63%
Energy consumption of diesel fuel for heating| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 59
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR VEHICLES BREAKDOWN BY FUEL TYPE (%) - 
TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.
0.95%
Energy consumption of LPG
3.92%
Energy consumption of 
unleaded petrol
95.03%
Energy consumptionof diesel fuel0.09%
Energy consumption of CNG
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR VEHICLES – CHANGE % TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.
-15.00%0.00%
-5.00%
-10.00%2012 vs 2011
2012 vs 2010
NUMBER  OF VEHICLES  AND DISTANCE  TRAVELLED(*) 
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
vs 20112012
vs 2010
TOTAL NUMBER  OF 
COMPANY  VEHICLEno. 18,859 (2.00)% (5.25)%
NUMBER  OF LOW-
EMISSION  VEHICLES(**)no. 18,584 (2.02)% (5.30)%
TOTAL  DISTANCE  
TRAvELLEDkm 296,048,469 (3.48)% (7.49)%*
The data shown in the tables and 
graphs relating to transport refer to all the Group’s vehicles (industrial, commercial, used by executives/ma-nagers/sales people), both owned and hired. The vehicles, consumption and distance travelled of vehicles owned or used by the sales force of TIM Brasil and Telecom Argentina have been included only where usage is significant and continuous.
**
Euro4 or higher standard vehicles fuelled by unleaded petrol, diesel and lPG, electric vehicles or vehicles running on other fuels with comparable or lower emissions.ThE ENVIRONMENT  | 60 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
At Telecom Italia S.p.A., the significant containment of energy consumption for transport 
is due partly to the reduction in the distance travelled and partly to the greater efficiency achieved in managing the fleet of vehicles. 
NUMBER  OF VEHICLES  AND DISTANCE  TRAVELLED
TI Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
TI Group 2012 Domestic Brazil Argentina Media Olivetti
TOTAL NUMBER  
OF VEHICLESno. 23,538 80.97% 3.59% 14.15% 0.43% 0.86%
TOTAL ENERGY  
CONSUMEDMJ 930,792,058 72.81% 5.08% 19.82% 0.90% 1.39%
TOTAL  DISTANCE  
TRAvELLED 
km376,255,742 79.61% 3.83% 14.47% 0.94% 1.15%
TOTAL DISTANCE TRAVELLED - CHANGE % TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.
-1.00%0.00%
-5.00%
-8.00%-7.00%-6.00%-4.00%-3.00%-2.00%2012 vs 2011
2012 vs 2010| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 61
Consumption figures for electricity used to operate the telecommunication network and 
civil/industrial systems are shown below.  
ELECTRICITY PROCURED 
AND PRODUCED – (CHANGE %)TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.ELECTRICITY PROCURED AND PRODUCED BREAKDOWN BY BU (%) TELECOM ITALIA GROUPELECTRICITY  PROCURED  AND PRODUCED
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
vs 20112012
vs 2010
ELECTRICITY  FROM  
MIXED  SOURCES(*)kWh 1,876,520,483 (1.06)% (7.27)%
ELECTRICITY  FROM  
RENEWABLE  SOURCESkWh 36,712,758 (0.86)% (8.70)%
TOTAL  ELECTRICIT y kWh 1,913,233,241 (1.06)% (7.30)%
ELECTRICITY  PROCURED  AND PRODUCED
TI Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
TI Group 2012 Domestic Brazil Argentina Media Olivetti
TOTAL  ELECTRICIT y kWh 2,753,536,413 71.04% 13.25% 14.15% 0.94% 0.62%
-1.00%0.00%
-5.00%
-8.00%-7.00%-6.00%-4.00%-3.00%-2.00%2012 vs 2011
2012 vs 20100.94%
Media
13.25%
Brazil
14.15%
Argentina
71.04%
Domestic0.62%
Olivetti*
Electricity purchased from mixed sources is equal to 1,793 GWh approximately. Self-produced electricity from mixed sources is equal to 83 GWh approximately and re-
fers to the co-generation plants, with an associated consumption equal to 21 million m3 of methane. The production of electricity from continuous diesel generators (not shown in the table) is estimated to be around 3 GWh.ThE ENVIRONMENT  | 62 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
There is a continuing downward trend in the amount of electricity procured and produced, 
despite the increase in traffic handled by the Group’s transmission networks. The following section details the actions that continued or were undertaken to improve en-ergy efficiency, primarily aimed at reducing/optimising the power consumption of transmis-
sion devices and air conditioning systems:•
 technological modernisation and streamlining of exchange and 
Radio Base Station (RBS) equipment,
 involving 877 power stations, 
662 dedicated air conditioning systems and 2,450 batteries;
• optimisation of existing system usage and replacement of obsolete equipment in tel-ephone exchanges;
•
 compacting of switching modules(5) and modernisation of mobile access network nodes, 
paying particular attention to energy efficiency and technological versatility when choos-ing the equipment to be introduced, which will affect future choices in terms of multi-op-erability. With regard to monitoring consumption in telephone exchanges and Company offices, new suppliers and detection systems to be included in the “Energreen” platform are currently being evaluated. For this purpose, a system for monitoring the power con-sumption of Radio Base Stations has been installed in the Torino Reiss Romoli and To-rino Borgaro premises;
 
• replacement of fluorescent lamps with low energy consumption LED(6) lamps in offic-
es and industrial sites, which has so far involved around 300,000 lamps (including 200,000 replaced in 2012) resulting in significant energy savings for lighting purposes. Additional benefits of the project include the longer life of LED lamps and the resulting reduction in scheduled maintenance activities, as well as the lower environmental im-pact due to the disposal of spent fluorescent tubes;
•
 timed lighting installations in 6 significantly sized office buildings;
• work in existing cogeneration plants to optimise operation and achieve optimum produc
-
tion potential;
• start of 
work to transform 5 micro-cogeneration plants into trigeneration plants(7), which 
is expected to be completed in 2013;
• installation of photo
voltaic panels on 100 fixed network exchanges owned by the Com-
pany;
• remote powering of public telephone boxes from the telephone exchange: launched in October 2011,
 the project was completed in 2012, allowing around 24,000 power sup-
ply connections to be cut off. Remotely powered telephone boxes are lit by low energy consumption LED lamps controlled by motion detectors to vary the intensity of the light-ing inside the box as a supplement to the courtesy light; 
•
 energy audits in various types of buildings occupied by T
elecom Italia, identified as being 
among the most energy-intensive, which allowed guidelines to be drawn up to be applied in future energy audits involving a significant number of the Company’s sites (around 25) with the highest levels of electricity consumption;
•
 Company car park lighting management: around 160 lamp posts monitored via a “TI
 
Green” platform were set up, allowing efficient remote management of operations, in-cluding all maintenance activities.
Activities were also carried out to develop renewable energy sources:•
 performance monitoring activities were completed on the three geo-cooling(8) plants set 
up in the Pinerolo, Salò and Osio Sotto power plants for the air conditioning of equipment rooms. The trial that was performed with a view to making wider use of the technology across the Country showed that, in assessing the profitability of the necessary invest-ments, close attention must be paid to soil conditions, to the potential presence and characteristics of ground water and to the condition of existing air conditioning systems;MANY INITIATIVES FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
CONTINUED OR HAVE BEEN IMPLEMENTED
5
These are modules installed in tel-
ephone exchanges that perform all the operations required to connect multiple points in a telecommunica-tion system two by two.
6
lED stands for light Emitting Diode, a 
solid state device that replaces con-ventional light sources,
 like standard 
incandescent filament or neon lamps, ensuring high luminous efficiency and reliability as well as low energy consumption.
7
System which simultaneously pro-vides heating, cooling and electricity
8
This system uses the temperature difference between the surface and a point situated a few metres below ground in order to directly achieve natural cooling of the air in the venti-lation system or of a fluid that is sub-sequently used via a heat exchanger.| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 63
• a solar cooling system was installed in a medium-sized fixed network site for the produc -
tion of chilled water for air conditioning by absorption of solar thermal energy;
• an experimental 5 kWp photovoltaic plant was activated to pro
vide a DC power supply 
to the radio equipment installed in a RBS;
• qualification tests were completed positively for a 
new zero environmental impact lithi-
um polymer battery (with zero emissions and 100% recyclable materials); a second test-
ing phase was planned to verify the operation and performance of a system consisting of multiple batteries arranged in a series. 
During 2012, Telecom Italia was awarded Energy Efficiency Credits (EEC) for 4 projects. These are the so-called “white certificates”, introduced by the Ministerial Decree of July 20, 2004, issued by the Autorità per l’Energia Elettrica e il Gas (AEEG) (Italian energy regu-
lator) to reward organisations that implement projects with quantifiable and measurable energy saving benefits.In 2012, Telecom Italia launched internal mobile network energy efficiency assessment and optimisation activities aimed at achieving the energy saving targets of 10% over 5 years for infrastructure (energy and air-conditioning systems) and 20% for transmission equipment (radio access network). The documentation certifying achievement of these targets will allow the Company to benefit from a 3% discount on the cost of the Italian LTE licences, as provided for in the respective tender documents.
See the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website for further information 
about initiatives taken to reduce energy consumption, develop new mobile and fixed ac-cess technologies, save energy on mobile communication systems, ensure the efficiency of cabled network infrastructure and equipment and manage power consumption in do-mestic networks (Home networking).
The Smart Center, a facility set up in compliance with the strictest eco-sustainability requirements, is the heart of Telecom Italia’s energy consumption monitoring system. During 2012, a total network of around 28,000 nodes/sensors was installed in over 400 fixed network exchanges, 2,500 Radio Base Stations, 11 data processing centres, 10 shops and 25 offices. This allows around 50% of the TI Group’s electricity use (over 1.3 TWh) to be monitored in real time, with samples taken every 3 minutes. Analysis of this consumption through clustering techniques
(9), identifying points of excellence in 
uniform clusters and focusing analyses on the most energy-intensive sites, allowed actions to be taken to improve efficiency and take early action in abnormal consumption situations, while at the same time making continuous adjustments to the equipment operation. Analysis of the data collected by sensors also allows energy use by customers who sign up to the Energy Management service to be monitored, taking advantage of the experience and skills gained. The Smart Center also allows overall supervision of the preventive and corrective maintenance process, monitoring and testing of the infrastructure work management process, supervision of costs and all the activities and measures required to obtain tax benefits and incentives for renewable sources.The Smart Center
9
Clustering is an analysis method whereby a set of data/objects is divided into groups with similar characteristics, known as clusters.ThE ENVIRONMENT  | 64 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
Eco-efficiency indicator
Telecom Italia S.p.A. measures its own energy efficiency by using an indicator that establish-
es a relationship between the service offered to the customer in terms of bits transmitted and the Company’s impact on the environment represented by Joules of energy consumed. The factors taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice traffic of the fixed/mobile networks and energy consumption for industrial purposes (transmission equipment and climate control in exchanges), domestic purposes (electricity for office use, air condition-ing and heating in the offices) and vehicles. The following table and bar graph show the value of the eco-efficiency indicator over the past three years.
ECO-EFFICIENCY
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
vs 20112012
vs 2010
ECO-EFFICIENCY  INDICATOR bit/Joule 2,524 14.52% 48.56%
In 2012, the indicator value exceeded expectations and work continues with an objective of 2,800 bit/Joule being set for 2013, an increase of +10.9% compared to the figure for 2012 (see § 2013 Objectives in the Appendix).
Atmospheric emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions by Telecom Italia and the Group consist almost exclusively of carbon dioxide and are due to the use of fossil fuels for heating, transport, electricity genera-tion, purchase of electricity produced by third parties and staff travel (for business trips and commuting between home and work). In addition to these, dispersals of hydrochlorofluoro-
ECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR - TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.
Yearsbit/joule
2,5003,000
1,500
05001,0002,000
20101,6992,204
20112,524
2012
| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 65
carbons and hydrofluorocarbons (HCFC and HFC) from air conditioning systems are also con-
sidered and converted into kg of CO² equivalent. 
As with the classification of energy consumption for atmospheric emissions use is made of the Global Reporting Initiative - GRI Version 3 - guidelines, which refer to the definitions of the GHG Protocol, distinguishing between direct emissions (Scope1: use of fossil fuels for vehicles, heating, power generation), indirect emissions (Scope2: purchase of electricity for industrial and civil use) and other indirect emissions (Scope3).Unless otherwise stated, the atmospheric emission figures given in this Report have been calculated based on the updated coefficients made available by the GHG Protocol
(10).10
Emissions relating to the consumption 
of electricity purchased in the Italian market have been calculated by using the latest coefficient (2009) calcu-lated by the G
hG Protocol - which 
considers the national energ
y mix - 
equal to 386 grams of CO2/kWh. For 
Argentina, the latest coefficient has been used (2011), as calculated and published by the Secretaría de En-ergía de la Nación Argentina (Ministry of Energy), of 539 grams of CO
2/kWh 
approximately. For Brazil, the average coefficient for 2012 has been used, as calculated and published by the Ministério da Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação (Ministry of Science, Tech-nology and Innovation), of 69 grams of CO
2/kWh approximately. ATMOSPHERIC  EMISSIONS
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
vs 20112012
vs 2010
CO² EMISSIONS  FROM  TRANSPORT kg 49,912,911 (4.05)% (12.14)%
CO² EMISSIONS  FROM  HEATING kg 32,266,307 (1.44)% (0.43)%
EMISSIONS  OF CO² EQUIVALENTS  FOR 
HCFC/HFC(*) DISPERSALSkg 9,407,820 (56.26)% (64.92)%
CO² EMISSIONS  FROM  ELECTRICITY  
GENERATION  BY COGENERATIONkg 39,951,727 (2.50)% 32.80%
CO² EMISSIONS  FROM  ELECTRICITY  
GENERATION  USING  DIESELkg 2,248,253 (0.57)% (15.72)%
TOTAL  DIRECT  EMISSIONS  OF CO² – 
uNDER  SCOPE 1 GRIkg 133,787,018 (10.51)%
(10.08)%
CO² EMISSIONS  FROM  PURCHASES  OF ELEC-
TRICITY  GENERATED  BY MIXED  SOURCESkg 693,036,043 (1.07)% (8.49)%
TOTAL  INDIRECT  EMISSIONS  OF CO² – 
uNDER  SCOPE 2 GRIkg 693,036,043 (1.07)%
(8.49)%
CO² EMISSIONS  FROM  WORK -HOME  
COMMUTING(**)kg 52,110,745 (6.68)% (13.04)%
CO² EMISSIONS  FROM  AIR TRAVEL(***) kg 9,064,204 (8.83)% (9.39)%
TOTAL  OThER INDIRECT  EMISSIONS  OF 
CO² – uNDER  SCOPE 3 GRI kg 61,174,949 (7.01)%
(12.52)%
TOTAL  CO² EMISSIONS kg 887,998,010 (3.04)% (9.02)%
*
hydrochlorofluorocarbons ( hCFC) and hydrofluorocarbons ( hFC), in terms of equivalent CO2 emissions are determined by reference to specific Global Warming Potential 
(GWP) parameters for the two gases: the index is based on a relative scale that compares the gas considered with an equal mass of carbon dioxide with a GWP of 1. The GWP of 
hCFC used was 1,780 and that of hFC was 1,300.
**
In determining the impact of home-work commuting, reference is made to statistical data produced on the Company’s personnel.
***
Emissions due to air travel were calculated using the coefficients proposed by the G hG Protocol based on the number of journeys actually made, subdivided by the dura-
tion of each individual journey (shor
t or long).ThE ENVIRONMENT  | 66 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
Atmospheric emissions by Telecom Italia S.p.A. are falling in overall terms.The following 
are a number of considerations on how individual items contributed to the achievement of the overall result:•
 reduction of emissions due to lower consumption by vehicles;
• reduction of equivalent CO² emissions, relating to the dispersal of HCFC and HFC used 
in air conditioning systems,
 due to the adoption of more meticulous methods for pre-
venting leaks and the replacement of these gases with lower environmental impact so-lutions;
•
 increase in emissions attributable to cogeneration, resulting from the Company’
s deci-
sion to invest more in this technology, with positive financial and environmental bene-fits. The increase is in any case offset by the lower amount of power purchased from the grid, which overall has led to a positive balance being achieved in terms of emissions; 
•
 reduction of emissions from 
diesel electricity generators in situations where the electric-
ity distribution network is unavailable; 
• reduction of emissions resulting from reduced consumption of purchased electricity; 
• reduction of emissions from business air travel by emplo
yees due to a reduction in the 
number of trips, resulting in particular from the greater use of video conferencing.
For Telecom Italia S.p.A., an estimate was made of emissions under Scope3 associat-ed with the supply chain according to the specifications of the Corporate Value Chain (Scope3) Accounting and Reporting Standard published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative in 2011.For information on the calculation method and estimated values for 2012 see the sustain-ability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
The following table shows the total CO² emissions of the Telecom Italia Group.
ATMOSPHERIC  EMISSIONS
TI Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
TI Group 
2012Domestic Brazil Argentina Media Olivetti
TOTAL CO² EMISSIONS  – 
UNDER  SCOPE 1 GRIkg 160,489,454 84.97% 2.36% 9.70% 0.52% 2.45%
TOTAL CO² EMISSIONS  – 
UNDER  SCOPE 2 GRIkg 955,054,662
74.30% 2.62% 21.83% 1.04% 0.21%
TOTAL OTHER  CO²EMISSIONS  – UNDER  
SCOPE 3 GRIkg 97,065,805
71.93% 8.84% 17.44% 0.84% 0.95%
TOTAL  CO² EMISSIONS kg1,212,609,921 75.52% 3.08% 19.87% 0.96% 0.57%| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 67
WATER CONSUMPTION
TI Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
TI Group 2012 Domestic Brazil Argentina Media Olivetti
CONSUMPTION  OF 
WATER  DRAWN  FROM  
ARTESIAN  WELLSm3973,384 5.14% 0% 0% 0.01% 94.85%
CONSUMPTION  OF 
WATER  DRAWN  FROM
SUPPL
Y COMPANIESm36,580,577 68.17% 3.15% 28.12% 0.34% 0.22%
TOTAL  wATER  
CONS uMPTION(*)m37,553,961 60.04% 2.74% 24.50% 0.30% 12.42%WATER CONSUMPTION
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
vs 20112012
vs 2010
CONSUMPTION  OF 
WATER  DRAWN  FROM  
ARTESIAN  WELLSm350,000 (7.16)% (26.20)%
CONSUMPTION  OF 
WATER  PRO
VIDED  BY WA-
TER SUPPLY  COMPANIESm34,399,590 2.32% 1.33%
TOTAL  wATER  
CONS uMPTIONm34,449,590 2.20% 0.90%
WATER CONSUMPTION - BREAKDOWN BY BU (%) TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
0.30%
Media
2.74%
Brazil
12.42%
Olivetti
24.50%
Argentina60.04%
Domestic*
The significant impact of the Olivetti BU is due to drawings from artesian wells for industrial processes.waterThE ENVIRONMENT  | 68 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
Paper
Purchases of paper for office and commercial use (telephone bills) continue to be directed 
at product types that meet the highest environmental standards based on the responsible management of forests according to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC, see fsc.org) re-
quirements. With regard to the working environment, consumption has been rationalised by building awareness about the use of resources and by the “printing on demand” project, which pro-vides for the use of shared high performance printers.As regards paper purchased for commercial use, activities continued for the purpose of achieving an overall reduction in consumption, particularly by promoting the use of elec-tronic invoices and statements among customers. This allowed around 85 tonnes of paper to be saved compared to 2011, as well as reducing the production of CO² associated with 
delivery of the packages.The collection of sorted waste in offices, organised in all the Company’s office premises, allowed more than 20 thousand tons of paper to be sent for recycling during 2012.Telecom Argentina is also promoting digital billing, which currently covers around 5% of cus-tomers and allows the Company to avoid printing and sending out around 150,000 docu-ments for each billing cycle.  
PAPER  FOR OFFICE  USE
TI Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
TI Group 
2012Domestic Brazil Argentina Media Olivetti
NON-RECYCLED  PAPER  
PURCHASEDkg 148,025 0.95% 2.51% 96.54% 0% 0%
RECYCLED  PAPER  
PURCHASEDkg 53,043 0% 100% 0% 0% 0%
FSC CERTIFIED  PAPER  
PURCHASEDkg 484,966 78.19% 1.30% 15.70% 2.75% 2.06%
TOTAL  PAPER  
PuRChASEDkg 686,034 55.48% 9.19% 31.93% 1.94% 1.46%PAPER  PURCHASED
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
vs 20112012
vs 2010
PAPER  PURCHASED  
FOR OFFICE  USEkg 357,211 (13.63)% (32.57)%
PAPER  PURCHASED  
FOR COMMERCIAL  
USEkg 1,466,234 (5.47)% (10.78)%
TOTAL  PAPER  
PuRChASEDkg 1,823,445 (7.19)% (16.09)%
| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 69
PAPER PURCHASED – CHANGE %
TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.PAPER PURCHASED FOR OFFICE USEBREAKDOWN BY BU (%) - TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
2012 vs 2011 2012 vs 2010
0.00%
-5.00%
-10.00%
-15.00%
-20.00%
-25.00%
-30.00%
-35.00%PAPER PURCHASED FOR OFFICE USE
PAPER PURCHASED FOR COMMERCIAL USE2012 vs 2011 2012 vs 2010
0.00%
-5.00%
-10.00%-15.00%
-20.00%
-25.00%
-30.00%
-35.00%PAPER PURCHASED FOR OFFICE USE
PAPER PURCHASED FOR COMMERCIAL USE1.46%
Olivetti
1.94%
Media
9.19%
Brazil
31.93%
Argentina
55.48%
Domestic
waste
The data shown in the table refer to the quantity of waste consigned(11) and recorded by 
law(12). 11
“Waste consigned” refers to the waste 
delivered to carriers for recycling or reclamation or disposal. 
12
Slight variations compared to the situation on December 31 may occur until the end of March, because the source of the data is the records of waste loaded and unloaded, which are consolidated once the actual weight at destination has been verified. The in-formation is supplied to the producer of the waste within 3 months of con-signment, which is the reason for the potential variations in the data.
WASTE CONSIGNED(*)
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
20122012
 vs 20112012
 vs 2010
HAzARDOUS  WASTE  kg 5,286,859 (8.02)% (2.27)%
NON-HAzARDOUS  WASTE  kg 12,609,327 1.64%
14.12%
TOTAL  wASTE  CONSIGNED kg 17,896,186 (1.42)% 8.73%
WASTE SENT  FOR RECYCLING  OR 
RECOVERYkg 17,175,768 (0.98)% 14.03%
RATIO BETWEEN  THE AMOUNT  OF 
WASTE  RECYCLED /RECOVERED  
AND THE TOTAL  WASTE  % 95.97% 0.45%
4.87%
*
The data does not include telephone poles because these are not disposed of as ordinary waste but under the framework agreement signed in 2003 with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Production Activities and the production and recovery companies, subject to the favourable opinion of the conference of State-Regions-Autonomous Provinces. In 2012, Telecom Italia decommissioned 173,329 poles weighing a total of 13,866,234 kg.ThE ENVIRONMENT  | 70 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
161820
14
10
6
024812
Total hazardous
waste consignedTotal amount 
of waste producedTotal other waste 
(non hazardous) 
consignedTotal amount 
of recycled and 
recovered wastemillion kilosWASTE CONSIGNED FOR RECYCLE/RECOVERY TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.
WASTE CONSIGNED
TI Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
TI Group 
2012Domestic Brazil Argentina Media Olivetti
TOTAL  wASTE  
CONSIGNED(*)kg 20,469,422 88.18% 3.20% 5.59% 0.62% 2.41%
*
In order to allow a more accurate comparison to be made between the various BUs, the data for the Argentina BU does not include decommissioned telephone poles although these were consigned and are not 
managed separately from other waste. 
TOTAL WASTE CONSIGNED – BREAKDOWN BY BU (%) TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
0.62%
Media2.41%
Olivetti
3.20%
Brazil
5.59%
Argentina
88.18%
Domestic| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 71
Waste data varies over time according to the quantities and types delivered to the compa-
nies contracted to treat it. The most important item of data for Telecom Italia’s purposes is the ratio between waste produced and sent for recycling/recovery, which has grown to a significant amount and has improved further compared to 2011.Ministerial Decree No. 65 of March 8th, 2010 (published in the Gazzetta Ufficiale on May 10th, 2010) implemented the collection of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) by all Telecom Italia sales channels as of June 18th, 2010, resulting in the Com-pany’s registration as a “distributor” in the national Register of environmental managers. 
In 2012, Telecom Italia regenerated a large amount of its technical equipment (8,058 data 
transmission devices, 20,485 voice products, 28,674 ISDN devices and 58,101 public te-lephony devices) and commercial equipment (including 84,124 modems and 12,570 other products). The purpose of this activity is twofold: contributing to a reduction in WEEE pro-duced while at the same time generating a financial benefit resulting from the difference between the cost that would be incurred for the purchase of new equipment and the cost of regeneration. Considering the increase in the prices of raw materials and the improvement of recovery technologies, as of April 2012, Telecom Italia signed contracts aimed at recovering end-of-life products and materials, aimed at allowing the recovery of components and raw materi-als. This allowed the landfill disposal of 1,142,473 products to be avoided and financial benefits to be gained from their recovery.
An awareness-building campaign is taking place at Telecom Argentina urging customers to 
deliver their used mobile phone batteries to retail outlets. An agreement with a specialised Company allows the lithium, cobalt and nickel contained in the appliances to be recovered and re-introduced as materials in the production cycle under conditions that are completely safe for the environment.
Electromagnetic emissions
The actions of the Telecom Italia Group on the subject of electromagnetic emissions are essentially:•
 careful management of its equipment 
during its entire life cycle and in compliance with 
current regulations and internal standards of efficiency and safety;
• deployment of, and constant 
research into, the latest technological instruments for 
checks and controls. 
Systematic monitoring of the levels of electromagnetic emissions in the installations of La7, MTV and TI Media Broadcasting aims to ensure that legal limits are respected and high safety standards are maintained for workers and the general population. According to the checks carried out in Italy, the electromagnetic emissions generated by La7 and MTV are well within legal limits. As part of the certification of mobile phones sold on the market under the TIM brand, TILab performs tests on all technologically innovative products to check the SAR (Specific Ab-sorption Rate) declared by suppliers. This parameter estimates the quantity of electromag-netic energy per unit of body mass absorbed by the human body in the event of exposure to the electromagnetic field generated by mobile handsets. Telecom Italia certifies and sells through its sales network only mobile handsets with a SAR value lower than the limit set by European legislation. In determining the SAR compliance of mobile terminals Telecom Italia complies with the instructions given in the ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines and subsequent declarations of conformity
(13). 
This qualification, which is carried out during the pre-marketing stage, when Telecom Italia 13
Guidelines for limiting Exposure 
to Time-V
arying Electric, Magnetic, 
and Electromagnetic Fields (up to 
300 G hz). health Physics 74 (4): 
494-522; 1998; Statement on the “Guidelines for limiting exposure to time-v
arying electric, magnetic and 
electromagnetic fields (up to 300 G
hz)”. health Physics 97(3):257-
259; 2009.
 ThE ENVIRONMENT  | 72 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
does not often have the SAR value declared by the supplier, makes the test more valu-
able than a simple quality control check. Joint activities are also taking place with a num-ber of ARPAs (regional environmental protection agencies) to assess the electromagnetic fields generated by RBSs, considering the actual power transmitted based on traffic and power control mechanisms, in accordance with changes to the Prime Ministerial Decree of 8/7/2003 contained in the Decree Law on Growth 179/2012. Similar attention is paid to the emissions from mobile handsets using the frequency bands operated by Telecom Ita-lia: GSM 900 MHz, DCS 1800MHz and UMTS. Some of the GSM network traffic takes place in half rate mode, which allows a single radio resource to be used for two simultaneous conversations, thus reducing the overall power emitted as compared to the traditional voice coding system.Telecom Argentina has signed an agreement with the Argentine Federation of Municipali-ties to respond to the growing need for information on ionising radiations. A continuous data monitoring and dissemination system has been inaugurated in 500 municipalities.
3.4 C LIMATE  CHANGE
2012 was the year of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, nick-named Rio+20 as it was organised twenty years after the Conference on Environment and Development, also known as the Earth Summit. Although the demands made by civil soci-ety were not entirely accepted, the Conference marked a commitment by governments to work together to strengthen the process of implementing sustainable development, and redefining current policies by identifying a set of key universal Sustainable Development Goals.In particular, the fundamental value of the Green Economy was recognised as the driving 
force behind sustainable development and poverty eradication. In this context, the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) industry can make a major contribution to economic development, to improving energy efficiency and to combating climate change.The SMARTer 2020 Report 
(14), published in December 2012 by the 
Global e-Sustainability Initiative, identifies a significant potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the application of digital technologies of 9.1 Gt CO² eq., 16.5% of what 
the global emissions would be in 2020 if this potential were not used. Even though the ICT industry’s carbon footprint in 2020 is expected to increase to 1.27 Gt CO² eq., the poten-
tial abatement is 7 times greater. 
Telecom Italia is convinced that it can make a major contribution in this context. The 
Group’s approach to the fight against climate change is based on three synergistic levels of action:•
 reducing its own direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases;
• limiting the emissions of other sectors and customers in general b
y supporting virtuali-
sation and the provisions of services that promote new ways of working, learning, trav-elling and living;
•
 contributing to disseminating a culture based on a correct approach to environmental issues inside and outside the Compan
y.
Telecom Italia and the Ministry of the Environment have signed an agreement this year to promote projects that measure, contain and neutralise the Group’s carbon footprint, i.e. its impact in terms of carbon dioxide emissions. Once it has identified the reference models for calculating emissions, the study project will develop 2 distinct strands of activity: as-THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE  
IS A CHALLENGE FOR HUMANITY
14
Il rapporto “GeSI SMARTer 2020: The 
Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future” rappresenta l’aggiornamento del rapporto SMART2020 pubblicato nel 2008.| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 73
sessing the carbon footprint and how it changes as a result of customers using advanced 
ICT/Telecommunication services and measuring the benefits of adopting targeted energy efficiency action in the telecommunication sector. The first strand of the study will assess a mix of ICT/Telecommunication services/prod-ucts to enable effective teleworking. The benefits of this will be seen in the optimisation of energy consumption, as a result of the better use of physical and telecommunication infrastructure, and the environment, thanks to the reduction in travel required.In order to assess the Company’s carbon footprint, a decision was made to carry out an ac-curate analysis of a building in Bologna that includes both fixed and mobile equipment, of-fices and a work centre. The idea is to replicate the model in similar sites, with the results obtained being used to adopt measures aimed at reducing consumption and emissions by taking action to modify existing infrastructure and behaviour.
Reduction of emissions
The environmental impact of Telecom Italia in terms of CO² emissions is determined, as 
shown in the preceding paragraphs, by direct emissions from the use of fossil fuels, indi-rect emissions through the procurement of electricity and other indirect emissions due for example to home-work commuting and air travel by staff. For details of current activities aimed at reducing emissions see § The Environmental per-formance/Energy and Environmental performance/Emissions.
Telecom Italia as part of the solution
The ICT sector is required to play an important part in the fight against climate change by promoting the replacement of physical products and traditional services with digital prod-ucts and processes (see § Customers/Innovative services) that can promote the virtuali-sation of the Companysociety by reducing the need for people and goods to travel
(15). In 
general:•
 audio/video conferencing services and telewor
king reduce the need for people to travel; 
• on line invoicing and payments,
 in addition to saving paper and therefore the energy re-
quired to produce and transport it, eliminate the need for transport to make payments;
• telemedicine services reduce the need for doctors to meet patients in per
son;
• infomobility systems, using information obtained from mobile handsets,
 allow the opti-
misation of traffic flows, reducing travel times and the emission of greenhouse gases;
• systems for the monitoring and analysis of consumption allow the optimisation of the energy efficiency of offices and households.
ICT technologies can influence the price, efficiency and relative con
venience of products 
and services, eventually affecting the demand for services and in-creasing the overall demand for energy. They can also accelerate the obsolescence of products and require the resulting technological waste to be managed. It is the respon-sibility of the ICT sector, and therefore also of Telecom Italia, to consider these effects, focusing on research and development to create products with a low environmental impact throughout their entire life cycle (see § Product Responsibility). 15
It has been estimated that 100 mil-
lion audio-conferences in place of physical travel would save over 2 million tonnes of CO
2  emissions, 
that 10 million teleworkers working from home for just two days a week would lead to a saving of almost 11 million tonnes of CO
2  and that if 10 
million users received their telephone bills online instead of the traditional paper bills there would be a saving of around 11 thousand tonnes of CO
2 . 
The examples are indicative and are intended to give a concrete indication of the potential of telecommunication services. They are based on projects, verified by independent third parties, tested on a small scale by members of ETNO as part of the “Saving the climate @ the speed of light” initia-tive developed together with the WWF (see etno.be). 
ICT CAN CONTRIBUTE TO DRAMATIC 
REDUCTION OF CO² EMISSIONSThE ENVIRONMENT  | 74 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
In 2012, Telecom Italia handled centrally around 1,300 audio conferences and over 4,600 
video conferences between its offices in Rome and Milan. As a result of the introduction of a specific automatic booking portal for audio and video conferencing services, employ-ees independently held over 18,687 video conferences (+168% compared to 2011) and 57,333 audio conferences (+55% compared to 2011). The use of these communication solutions has allowed a significant amount of carbon dioxide and other polluting emissions associated with the use of means of transport
(16) to be avoided.16
On average, around 10 people take 
part in each video conference and half of these would have travelled to take part in the meeting. It can be es-timated, solely for video conferences carried out between the management offices in Rome and Milan, that there has been an overall reduction in emissions of 1,200 tons of carbon dioxide. 
Cloud computing allows processing and data 
management/archiving capacity to be transferred from individual computers to shared network structures in data centres, in which energy efficiency becomes a priority given the high amounts of energy they normally consume
(17). 
The preliminary results of a study(18) presented in 
2012 in Shenzhen (People’s Republic of China) at a forum organised by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative and Huawei, demonstrate the environmental benefits of cloud computing. This technology allows data to be stored on a server accessible from anywhere in the world simply by using a keyboard and monitor or tablet-type device, without having to use local terminals, thus improving the overall energy efficiency of the system and reducing the use of materials that are potentially harmful to the environment and require frequent maintenance and replacement. For information regarding Nuvola Italiana, Telecom Italia’s cloud computing solution, please visit telecomitalia.com.
17
In data centres, efficiency is normally measured by applying the Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) concept, which determines what percentage of the total energy con-
sumed is used to power the Information Technology equipment rather than the general support services (air conditioning, lighting, etc.). The Green Grid and EPA calculate the current average level of efficiency in the world to be 1.8 PUE, meaning that energy usage for non-processing purposes stands at around 80% of IT consumption. In a modern data centre, in which energy efficiency is considered to be a competitive factor and a strategic lever, the PUE is estimated to be around 1.2 and the virtualisation of infrastructure, e.g. loading multiple servers onto a single machine and sharing it effectively to maximise usage, is a necessary transition.
18
The Enabling Technologies of a low-Carbon Economy - a Focus on Cloud Computing – see http://gesi.org/portfolio/project/2.Cloud computing 
3.5 C OMMUNICATING  SUSTAINABILITY
Promoting the debate on sustainability, and communicating the relevant action taken in 
this respect, have an important role to play because they can generate a virtuous cycle, encouraging reflection and consequently facilitating a change of individual and collective behaviour. In this respect, Telecom Italia carried out several communication initiatives in 2012:•
 externally,
 for the purpose of disseminating the right approach to sustainability, in the 
certainty that contributing to dialogue and culture on the subject is one of the responsi-bilities of a big Company in every respect;
•
 internally,
 with the aim of increasing awareness of the importance of the subject for the 
Company, by sharing information about the sustainability model adopted and the many initiatives implemented.| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 75
AVoiComunicare (avoicomunicare.it) is an integrated communication project of Telecom 
Italia that aims to maintain an ongoing open debate on matters of great importance, including sustainability and environmental issues. AVoiComunicare includes the Carbon Meter, a simple tool developed by Telecom Italia together with PricewaterhouseCoopers, which allows people to find out how much carbon dioxide is produced by their everyday activities and discover how and by how much they can contribute to mitigating climate change by making small changes to their behaviour. By answering a few questions on their lifestyle, people can calculate the CO² emissions produced by their activities in the follow-
ing four areas: home, work, shopping and administrative formalities. The Carbon Meter al-lows people to understand how to make their daily behaviour more sustainable. The simu-lation of a virtuous path shows how much one can save in terms of emissions by making a few simple changes and using ICT solutions, such as video conferencing or broadband connections, to make purchases and perform other online operations. 
On the internal communication front, at the end of 2011 Telecom Italia launched a sus-
tainability training plan. Based on an e-learning platform accessible via the Internet and on virtual classrooms providing a more in-depth analysis of spe-cific topics, the training plan was initially made available to Italian employees and was subsequently extended to Brazil and Argenti-na.Based on the preferences expressed by participants and consider-ing the commitment made by the Company to reduce energy con-sumption and the resulting CO² emissions, the first virtual classroom was held in 2012 
on the subject of climate change by Prof. Mario Tozzi, a prominent geologist, journalist and science writer. The speech, which can also be found at telecomitalia.com, dealt with the subject in a simple and effective way, emphasising corporate initiatives and the positive role the ICT industry as a whole can play (see § Climate change), not forgetting the impor-tant contribution that each one of us can make in or everyday actions.For details about the internal communication activities carried out see § Human Resourc-es/Internal communication.At Telecom Argentina too, the employee sustainability awareness-building campaign is considered essential to forming a common and responsible attitude towards issues of ma-jor interest and is implemented by making targeted information available on the intranet and in the Company’s magazines.  
Working with the scientific association “Ornis italica”, Telecom Italia has launched the 
“Falchi in città” (Hawks in the city) project to help preserve biodiversity in the urban envi-ronment. Based on specific reports and direct observations, surveys were carried out in several Company premises to install nesting boxes on radio antennas and towers contain-ing transmission equipment, with the aim of encouraging peregrine falcons to breed and allow researchers to collect data on the reproductive biology of this species. A webcam will be placed in some of the nests to allow non-experts also to follow the most interesting stages in the life of these birds on the web, without disturbing their reproductive activity. A similar initiative has already been implemented at the Via Oriolo Romano site in Rome and has resulted in the release of 10 young falcons over the past few years (for details go to birdcam.it).
SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION IS 
IMPORTANT FOR THE PROMOTION OF VIRTUOUS BEHAVIOURS INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THE COMPANYThE ENVIRONMENT  | 76 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
3.6 P RODUCT  RESPONSIBILITY
To improve the product stewardship profile at the Company level, products/services mar-
keted by Telecom Italia S.p.A. are also examined under the following criteria:•
 health and safety of consumers; 
• labelling of products and services;
• marketing communications;
 
• respect for privacy;
• compliance with applicable regulations;
• environmental impact of the product.
Mark
eted products are subject to a technical test aimed at ensuring their conformity with 
European directives and national laws, in particular:•
 the EU regulations on the protection and safety of customers in using the equipment; 
• the RoHS regulation which prohibits the use of certain substances in electrical and electronic equipment;
 
• the WEEE regulation on the disposal of electrical and electronic products at the end of their life cycle;
•
 European regulations nos. 1275/2008 and 278/2009 which implement the EuP (Ener -
gy-using Products) directive for ter
minals and their respective external power supplies.
Telecom Italia Green
At the end of the 1990s, Telecom Italia launched a series of internal research and de-velopment activities to build terminals with a reduced environmental impact. In order to improve the environmental efficiency of products offered to private and business custom-ers alike, attention has to be paid to their energy aspects, optimising consumption while meeting the needs of the services delivered and applying “Design For Environment” rules that reduce their environmental impact, particularly during the production phase and the end-of-life management of equipment. Pursuing and expanding this logic, the Telecom Italia Green logo has been created to identify both Telecom Italia’s “green” initiatives and projects and eco-friendly products. 
For products and initiatives that bear this logo, information is provided about the fea-
tures and specific solutions adopted, as a result of which their eco-friendliness and/or environmental benefit can be demonstrated. In the case of products, this information appears in the environmental statement contained in the packaging, drawn up in accord-ance with the UNI EN ISO 14021 standard, as well as in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, where information can also be found about the “eco-friendly” features of initiatives and projects. 
The Green range includes a number of products developed with the assistance of suppli-
ers and dedicated to business and consumer customers alike. These include two types of ADSL Wi-Fi modems which, compared to similar previous-generation products, allow con-siderable energy savings to be made (up to 46% of average annual use), are fitted with a high energy efficiency power supply (efficiency in the order of 78%) and are built in accord-ance with eco-design rules, as a result of which the weight of the plastic material used for the homogeneous, recyclable and halogen compound free case has been reduced by up to 70%. The case consists of a limited number of components and the time required for end-of-life disassembly has been reduced by 70% compared to previous models.Energy use has been minimised according to the targets set by the European code of con-
| ThE ENVIRONMENT EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 77
duct for broadband equipment, voluntarily signed by Telecom Italia; the resulting emission 
reduction, based on 500 thousand items, is the equivalent of keeping 6,200 cars station-ary for a year or planting a forest of 16,100 trees.The Green range also includes the latest model of Cubovision Light, the equipment used to broadcast Telecom Italia’s personal and interactive television service, the features of which, in environmental terms, are similar to those of the modems mentioned above. In this case, energy use has been optimised according to the operational mode objectives defined by the European Code of Conduct for Digital TV Services and is a step ahead of European Regulation No. 1275/2008 on OFF and STANDBY modes, due to come into force in 2013. The energy efficiency of the power supply supplied exceeds 84%. The Green range also includes two fixed telephone models, one traditional (Sirio Punto) and one cordless (FACILE Gigaset E310) and tests are being carried out with a view to in-troducing additional products.In order to assess the actual environmental benefits of the eco-design choices made for the various products, which is based on a Life Cycle Assessment approach, Telecom Italia worked with the Department of Applied Science and Technology of the Politecnico of Turin. 
Furthermore, last July Telecom Italia added 10 electric vehicles (Citroën C-zero models) to 
its office car pools, making the Company one of the first in Italy to have a fleet of electric cars. These vehicles, which have a 64 bhp power rating, a 150 km range and a top speed of 130 km/h, are equipped with lithium ion batteries rechargeable within 6 hours using a 220 V power supply or in just 30 minutes if specific higher power sockets are used. The estimated life of a battery is around 200 thousand km with 1,500 recharging cycles.   
As part of the “Centro di lavoro verde” (Green Work Centre) project, during 2013 a further 
20 Citroën CØ cars are expected to be added to the Company’s fleet in Italy’s main cities, plus 25 Piaggio Porter electric vans and 15 Piaggio MP3 hybrid (petrol/electric) scooters in the smaller islands of southern Italy, where particular road and weather conditions make them particularly suitable for safe and environmentally efficient travel.ThE ENVIRONMENT  | The role 
of a major Company in the
in which it operates
4. Th E COMM uNITy 
4.1 S TRATEGY
The Group companies intend to contribute to the prosperity and growth of Communities by 
delivering efficient and technologically advanced services. Consistent with these objectives, and their responsibilities towards the various stakehold-ers, the Group companies view research and innovation as priorities for growth and suc-cess. As private entities requiring cost-effective management, Group companies take the social impact of telecommunication services into account in their decision-making activities, re-sponding to the needs of the Community, including the weakest members of society. The Group looks favourably on and, where appropriate, supports social, cultural and edu-cational initiatives aimed at the advancement of the individual and the improvement of liv-ing conditions. 
80 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
Macro areas of intervention Project identification Project implementation
The two main areas of intervention as 
regards investment in the Community are the following:•
 voluntary activities consistent with the Group’s core business,
 associated with 
the provision of ICT services(*);
• activities aimed at the general development of the Community,
 mainly 
including the activities of the Telecom Italia Foundation.Telecom Italia identifies the projects to be implemented by the following means:•
 consultation with the stakeholders and direct contact with civil society organisations;
•
 partnership projects with stak eholders 
and associations;
• benchmarking against the other European Tlc operators;
•
 involvement in industry associations;
• sharing knowledge of industry-related issues with the other Group departments;
•
 external lobbying in response to social emergencies (e.g
. earthquakes).Each project is implemented in 4 stages: •
 planning: which identifies the objectives to be achieved,
 the beneficiaries of the 
project, the timescales of the individual activities, the overall duration of the initiative, the methods used to monitor the project and the budget. 
•
 selection:
 - through public tenders, as in the 
case of man
y projects pursued by the 
Telecom Italia Foundation;
 - by direct decision of the Company
, 
following the stakeholder consultation process, consistent with the guidelines for voluntary contributions to the Community
(**);
• management: normally administered through partner
ships or framework 
agreements. Sometimes cash disbursements are made, leaving the management of the activity to the beneficiary organisation/association.
•
 control: takes place in different wa
ys 
according to the specific features of the individual projects. 
4.2 R ELEVANT  STAkEHOLDERS
In the projects they implement with Communities, the Group companies interact with: 
• civil society: all citizens and people with special needs (young people, elderly people,
 
disabled people, etc.), their representative associations and non-profit organisations in general;
•
 institutions: local authorities and central, national and supranational institutions;
• university and research institutions;
• traditional media and social media.
4.3 T HE MEASUREMENT  OF OUR CONTRIBUTION  TO THE COMMUNITY
The contribution made to the Community by the Telecom Italia Group, calculated according to the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) guidelines, amounted to 36.4 million euros in 2012 (30.7 million euros in 2011). The contribution has been calculated using manage-ment data partly based on estimates. *
In this chapter, only those products/services provided at no charge are reported, while those which, although they have a significant impact on the Community, are provided for payment, are included in the § Customers.
**
The guidelines for voluntary contributions to the Community are available on the telecomitalia.com website, sustainability section, under codes and policies, environmental and social policies.The following table summarises the Group’s Community investment strategy, which is also planned according to the inclusion and materiality principles of the AccountAbility 1000 standard (see § Introduction/Reporting):| ThE COMMUNITY EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 81
Initiatives in the CommunityInvestments 
in the CommunityCharity
12.721.22.5LBG diagram
36.4 million euros
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION
OF THE TELECOM ITALIA GROUP CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITYMore than 100 major international companies subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 
1994 and is the global gold standard for the classification of voluntary contributions made by companies in favour of the Community. In accordance with the LBG model, in order to measure and represent the Group’s commit-ment to the Community, the contributions disbursed have been subdivided into three cat-egories (Charity, Investments in the Community, Initiatives in the Community), adopting the customary pyramid-shaped representation, which places initiatives of a charitable nature at the top and initiatives which in addition to being of benefit to the Community are in the commercial interest of the Company at the bottom. For further information regarding the LBG model and its investment classification criteria on the 3 levels, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website and the lbg-online.it website. 
4.4 R ESPONSES  TO STAkEHOLDERS  
Initiatives consistent with the core business 
By way of example, here are some of the projects carried out in 2012 in response to the needs of the Community using the technologies that underlie the provision of services by Telecom Italia. 
Fund raising
Fund raising is of particular importance, especially in dealing with emergencies. For over ten years, Telecom Italia has been a key player in the solidarity chain associated with hu-manitarian, scientific or environmental projects, which it supports by allowing people to make a donation of 1 or 2 euros by sending a text message and of 2, 5 or 10 euros by calling a dedicated free number from a land line.The money raised is passed on in its entirety, without any deductions, either by the tax authorities, who, thanks to an awareness campaign mounted by Tlc companies and non-profit organisations, have zero-rated such operations for the purposes of VAT , nor by the Company for costs incurred. In 2012, 127 campaigns were run and over 27 million euros raised
(19), an increase of around 22% on the previous year.
Telethoninweb 
In 1990, Telethon, in partnership with the Company then known as SIP , launched a great 19
The amount collected is not directly 
attributable to the initiatives men-tioned due to the time lag between invoicing and payment.7.03%
34.82%
58.15%Charity
Initiatives
in the Community
Investments
in the Community ThE COMMUNITY  | 82 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
innovation in the Italian charitable sector: a television programme hosted by RAI that illus-
trated its mission while raising public awareness and funds through the telephone service partners. Alongside the traditional television marathon, as of 2012 Telethon and Telecom Italia have offered an innovative Internet format to engage the online world in the challenge posed by genetic diseases, raising awareness of the mission of Telethon and raising funds through innovative tools (Internet and mobile).For this purpose, an ad hoc website (telethoninweb.telecomitalia.com) was created and operated between 13 November 2012 and 31 January 2013, using filmed interviews to tell the lives, stories, values and motivations of researchers, patients and supporters, also providing the option to make donations online. Between 14 and 16 December 2012, the site also hosted the “Web Marathon”, in which all the web channels related to Telecom Italia, websites and social media, were involved. 
Surfing Together 
2012 having been designated by the European Union as the “year for active ageing”, Tel-ecom Italia launched Navigare Insieme, a nation-wide digital inclusion project aimed at any-one over the age of 60 who is interested in discovering the world of the Web.Through this initiative, Telecom Italia built on previous digital education projects for the elderly, including Internet Saloon and Telemouse, leveraging the format and tools and expanding involvement to the Web itself through a dedicated website (navigareinsieme.telecomitalia.it).The first phase involved 12 Italian cities and the plan is to extend the project to a further 4, while also running a number of activities in other centres that are smaller in scale but equally relevant for the purposes of social inclusion.The project takes place in schools (buildings equipped with digital laboratories, interactive multimedia boards and expert teachers) and in areas known as “digital exercise gyms” (schools, equipped centres for the elderly and premises made available by associations). Training is provided by selected and appropriately trained students. In addition to the two forms of training already provided (school lessons and exercise gyms activities), there is a third form of learning: an e-learning path using standalone modules resulting from a col-laboration with web stars/bloggers and well-known personalities associated with the Inter-net. The project also allows the municipal authorities of the relevant cities to become for-mally involved by granting a Sponsorship and/or signing Memorandums of Understanding.Since February 2012, 50,000 people over 60 have attended the courses, 1,500 people under 18 have been involved and 200,000 people have visited the dedicated website, with 26,000 Facebook fans, 10,000 twitter followers and 60,000 views on YouTube.
Safe surfing
The project aims to make children, young people and adults (parents and teachers) aware of how to use the Internet and digital technologies sensibly and responsibly. The initiative has its own dedicated site (navigaresicuri.org) and addresses the various target audiences using appropriate language and tools, including an illustrated handbook and publications featuring the Geronimo Stilton cartoon character for younger users, educational material and interactive activities for teenagers, information and a specialised support service for adults.The project benefits from the collaboration and expertise, authoritativeness and reliability of the Fondazione Movimento Bambino, Save the Children and Atlantyca, copyright holder of the Geronimo Stilton character. During the first phase of Navigare Sicuri, the project addressed the issues most frequently dealt with by experts from Save the Children: grooming, cyber-bullying and identity theft.During the second phase, the awareness-building process was extended to 3 new areas that | ThE COMMUNITY EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 83
are particularly relevant for teenagers: sexting (electronic sending of sexually explicit photos 
by picture messaging, email and social networks), Internet addiction disorder, piracy.The plan is to expand the target audience by involving teenagers through a dedicated com-petition for secondary schools in which girls and boys will be asked to produce videos, viewable on the Internet, to tell a true story they or others have experienced that refers to one of the six areas covered by the programme.Between 2010 and 2012, Navigare Sicuri toured 20 Italian regions in a specially equipped bus, visiting 80 schools and town squares in 40 cities, covering a distance of 15,000 km in Italy and involving over 100,000 young people. A further tour has been organised for the 2012-2013 academic year with 10 stops in as many Italian cities and involving meetings on school premises with young people, parents and teachers to illustrate the issues tack-led by the Navigare Sicuri programme.
Smart Inclusion
Implemented with the support of the Ministry for Public Administration and Innovation, the technological and financial support of Telecom Italia, the scientific and design supervision of the institute for organic synthesis and photoreactivity of the CNR-ISOF (national research council) of Bologna, this project aims to reduce the discomfort of children hospitalised in cancer and haematology departments, allowing them to stay in contact with their school and family. A single technological platform integrates remote teaching, entertainment and clinical data management services, allowing hospitalised children to participate actively in school lessons, play recordings of the lessons they have missed, do exercises and use in-dividual self-tuition courses. Children can also communicate with their loved ones by video calling and access various entertainment programmes (cartoons, films, documentaries and sport). The medical staff can in turn use the system to display all the clinical files of patients with the option of updating them. Smart Inclusion is currently being used in a number of hospitals in 6 Italian cities. 
Initiatives for general Community development
The Telecom Italia Group companies are particularly attentive to the needs of the Commu-nity in which they operate and implement wide-ranging initiatives and projects dedicated to their social and economic development.ThE COMMUNITY  | 84 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
TOOLS • Partner ships with organisations, institutions and public and private entities.
GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 
OF ACTION• The whole Country.
STRA
TEGIC OBJECTIVES • In the social field, developing educational and suppor
t projects dedicated to 
vulnerable and disadvantaged categories of the population;
• Developing projects dedicated to education, training and scientific research;
• Protecting artistic and historical heritage, through inno vative ways and means of 
enjoying and disseminating knowledge. 
PROJECT SELECTION AND MONITORING •
 Projects are selected:
 › either by means of public competitive tenders published on the 
fondazionetelecomitalia.it
 website;
 › or directly, according to pre-established r
ules that are consistent with the 
aims of the Foundation, using the website to communicate with applicants.
• The monitoring system is established according to the specific characteristics 
and objectives of each project. Monitoring is a requirement for all projects, whether selected by tender or directly
. As well as being an eligibility 
requirement, it also provides an assessment parameter.It was created in 2008 as an expression of Telecom 
Italia’s corporate social responsibility, from which it has inherited its founding ethical principles of attention to local needs and a strong sense of responsibility towards the Community. Its specific aim is to develop ideas and projects within the society, focusing action on emerging needs that can be fulfilled preventively and promptly. The main guiding purpose is to promote the right to education, knowledge and culture, which is seen as key to enabling people and ensuring social inclusion. This approach is the result of a specific thought process aimed at determining how knowledge can help redesign social needs and spaces, as well as a tool for creating and developing new capabilities and opportunities, both by defining new educational processes and through the use of a sustainable technology model.It is a corporate foundation dedicated primarily to disbursing funds, with a management fund tied to the profitability of the Telecom Italia Group, consisting of 0.5 per thousand of the consolidated EBITDA for the previous year. In 2012, it disbursed funds equalling 6.507 million euros. 
The foundation’s activities take place according to the 
following criteria.
The Telecom Italia Foundation| ThE COMMUNITY EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 85
Dyslexia Project 
Among its main projects, the Telecom Italia Foundation has been running an intensive pro-
gramme of activities since 2009 with the Italian Dyslexia Association to combat this disorder in Italian schools. The project lasts three academic years and provides for an investment of 1.5 million euros. The programme, part of which was the subject of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Telecom Italia Foundation, the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research and the Italian Dyslexia Association, is split into four operational projects aimed at:•
 recognising dyslexia early; 
• training teachers;
• disseminating technologies in schools;
• disseminating technologies among families.
For further infor
mation about the dyslexia project, work and social inclusion projects and other 
initiatives taken by the Foundation, visit the fondazionetelecomitalia.it website and the sustain-ability section of the telecomitalia.com website. 
The social investment strategy implemented by Tim 
Participações aims to promote the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups in Brazilian society, particularly children and teenagers, by running education programmes that support the corporate “without borders” concept even in the social sphere.Starting from 2011, priority was given to investments in activities consistent with the core business, with a particular focus on digital inclusion. Nevertheless the companies also continue to promote and support other important initiatives not strictly connected to their activities. 
Tim Participações
TOOLS • Partner ships with organisations, institutions and public and private entities.
GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 
OF ACTION• The whole Country.
STRA
TEGIC OBJECTIVES • Implementation of educational projects for the social inclusion of young people 
and teenagers.
• Implementation of training projects to encourage daily use of the Internet and mobile phones as tools for social development and inclusion.
PR
OJECT SELECTION 
AND MONITORING • Projects are selected according to their relevance to the Company’
s strategies 
and requirements. 
• Initiatives are monitored and a final evaluation is carried out on completion. A repor
t is drawn up for each project that provides a detailed description of the 
initiative and the results achieved, also in quantitative terms.ThE COMMUNITY  | 86 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
TOOLS • Projects run independently or in partner ship (working with NGOs, government 
bodies, universities and other companies as strategic partners).
• Technological partner
ships: participating in projects run by others, providing 
support in the form of know-how and human resources from Telecom Argentina.
• Support for publications, research,
 seminars connected with the Company’s 
strategy and objectives, in order to disseminate knowledge.
• Institutional collaborations: donations, sponsorships,
 events, dinners in support 
of the institutions with which relations are to be established. 
GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 
OF ACTION• The whole Country,
 prioritising the regions in which the business is involved and 
there is greater network coverage (centre and north).
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES • Education and training (increasing the use of technology in education and com-
puter literacy).
• Promoting the social inclusion of vulnerable groups/people at risk of social exclusion (disabled people, isolated communities, the young unemplo
yed, the 
elderly, etc.), increasing the use of technology.
PROJECT SELECTION 
AND MONITORING • Selection is done by the CSR team based on the strategic objectives. Projects 
are implemented, monitored and assessed with other par
tners.
• The final assessment is entrusted to an external body (univer
sities or market 
research organisations).Telecom Argentina bases its Community relations 
strategy on social investment, this being an economic, technical and human contribution made by the Company to help improve the well-being of the Community, with a specific focus on digital inclusion and education. The strategy was built by listening to local needs, formalised in a series of meetings. During 2011, 12 representatives of businesses, associations, public sector organisations and specialists were involved, while in 2012 a meeting was held with the representatives of a number of non-profit organizations. Also in 2012, a survey was carried out to determine the main requirements/expectations of the Community and stakeholders in general. As of 2011, a number of recommendations made by Community stakeholders have been incorporated, based on which Telecom Argentina has developed a social investment matrix, the objectives and procedures of which are shown below. 
Telecom Argentina| ThE COMMUNITY EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 87
TIM All Connected 
This digital inclusion project is currently at an experimental stage. It aims to provide training 
courses and web applications for social well-being and mobility by creating opportunities for people on low incomes to work and earn money.The project operates on two fronts: providing web-based services while also offering training activities in the poorest areas of the Country. The web services currently delivered make it easier to match the supply of employment to de-mand by allowing people to post their CVs online (facilitating the recruitment of carpenters, labourers, decorators, etc.) and, by means of a specific application, seeking to ensure the best possible management of personal financial resources and budget allocation.Training activities include the provision of courses in shanty towns and the poorest communi-ties on the web applications mentioned above, as well as in the correct, safe and knowledge-able use of the Internet and mobile phones, showing how these tools can be used at school, work and home to improve people’s quality of life.  
TIM ArtEducation 
Resulting from a partnership between Tim Participações and the Humanizarte NGO, this is a project aimed at young people and intended to stimulate learning at school, the development of self-esteem and the social inclusion of young people through dance, theatre, capoeira, sto-rytelling and other forms of artistic expression. In 2012, around 4,360 young people from 12 cities in the state of Minas Gerais attended these lessons. 
For further information about the Community support projects run by Tim Participações visit the 
tim.com.br website, Sustainability section, under Community.
Mobile Classroom 
This is a training and social inclusion project that consists of installing IT workstations in a mobile classroom, allowing people in the most remote areas of the north of the Country to be reached and taught basic computer skills.
Mobile Awareness 
This education initiative teaches people how to use their mobile phone correctly and re-sponsibly. The awareness campaign covers three main aspects: •
 correct use on the street and in public places, showing respect for other
s;
• safe driving, to increase a
wareness of the danger of using a mobile phone while driving;
• respect for the environment, b
y installing containers to collect used mobile phone bat-
teries in various areas of Buenos Aires and the surrounding province. 
For further information on the initiatives carried out by Telecom Argentina to the Commu-nity, see the Social Responsibility section of the telecom.com.ar website.ThE COMMUNITY  | 88 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
4.5 R ESEARCH  AND DEVELOPMENT  
Research and development activities at Telecom Italia are carried out by the Information 
Technology, TILab and Innovation & Industry Relations departments, which oversee the anal-ysis of new technologies and the development of the engineering activities supporting our offers to customers. Activities to enhance and generate competitive advantage for the Group are of particular importance and are pursued through strategic management of the relationship between re-search, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and business, aimed at developing the Company’s patent portfolio. 14 new applications for patents were filed during 2012.
The laboratory model has evolved over time, assuming an increasingly “integrated” role 
through national and international initiatives. Alongside the customary use of HW and SW design and testing environments, technological demonstration areas known as Innovation Labs and Wireless Innovation Labs have been created for the latest network and service so-lutions. Many of the laboratory services are furthermore recognised by the Italian accredita-tion body ACCREDIA and provide commercial services to other companies. 
With a view to promoting an innovative system of relations between companies and universi-
ties, Telecom Italia has adopted the Joint Open Lab (JOL) model, con-
sisting of joint laboratories where academic research and knowledge combine with industrial know-how and experience. During the first stage of the project, the universities involved were the Polytechnic of Turin, the Polytechnic of Milan, the Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna in Pisa, the University of Catania and the Polytechnic of Bari. Details on 
activities can be found on the telecomitalia.com website.In order to support entrepreneurial and research projects in the Web 2.0 sector, Telecom Italia launched “Working Capital” in 2009, which has become a blueprint for initiatives to support innovation. The project intends to promote the development of a new generation of Italian entrepreneurs, providing them with financial support, skills, technologies and dedi-cated services. The plan for 2013 is to create 3 “accelerators” (one each in Milan, Rome and Catania), centres of excellence for innovation, providing places to study, test and imple-ment projects. 
At the end of 2012, the “Changemakers” project was launched to identify and support the 
development of 10 new entrepreneurial ideas presented by talented young people to improve the lives of at least 10 million citizens. The young people selected will be given the oppor-tunity to join a management support process that will begin in March 2013 with an 8-week residential experience on a campus where participants will be shadowed by teachers and mentors with recognised expertise.
Relevant stakeholders 
The relevant stakeholders for research and development are:•
 the areas of the Company involved (e.g
. Marketing and Purchasing);
• the suppliers, for the joint de
velopment of solutions in accordance with the technical re-
quirements of Telecom Italia;
• research centres and universities, for cooperation and joint projects. 24 ne
w cooperation 
agreements with Italian universities were launched in 2012 (joining the 13 that already existed at the beginning of 2011) on research topics relating to new technologies, cod-ing algorithms, new communication services and paradigms; the standardisation bodies WORKING CAPITAL IS THE COMPANY’S 
INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT INNOVATIVE 
PROJECTS IN THE FIELD OF WEB 2.0 | ThE COMMUNITY EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 89
and forums (including NGMN, OpenIPTV Forum, OMA, 3GPP , ETSI, TM Forum, W3C, ITU-T) 
in which Telecom Italia is actively involved; 
• the Ministries (Ministry for Economic Development and Ministr
y of Education, Universities 
and Research), the European Union and public authorities (e.g. CNR and local authorities) for projects funded through participation in competitive tenders, and partnership initia-tives;
•
 non-governmental organisations,
 associations, alliances and industry forums (e.g. GSMA, 
m-health, etc.) which bring together all the entities involved in the value chain of the spe-cific market; 
•
 international research and development organisations (e.g
. EURESCOM and Joint Tech-
nology Initiative).
Relevant themes
The themes on which projects are developed are identified on the basis of the three-year technological plan, the reference document for the Group, which provides guidelines for the evolution of the network, platform and services. Published annually, following a wide-ranging process involving all the areas of the Company involved, the Plan identifies the main external factors (regulations, standards, vendors, other market operators) that may influence the Company’s strategies and highlights the emerging and cross-cutting technologies in other sectors that may be of interest to the Group.Projects and initiatives in this field can be divided into 4 macro-areas:•
 New generation network
• Future Internet applications
• Positive environmental impacts
• Positive social impacts 
New generation network projects
• Electromagnetic compatibility analyses continued on the new generation wireless LTE 
(Long Term Evolution) networks currently being designed. The tests focused in particular on the interference issues associated with the proximity in the 800 MHz band spectrum between LTE channels and digital TV (DVB-T) channels and the issues arising from com-pliance with legal restrictions regarding emissions from the electromagnetic fields of an-tenna sites.
•
 A technical specification was drawn up for the creation of T
elecom Italia Sparkle’s new Pan 
European Backbone. This is a long distance transport network (transmission backbone) created using the latest optical interface technologies that provide high transmission speeds (up to 100 Gbit/s) and flexibility of operation with transmission flow reconfigura-tion carried out inside the new network equipment (Reconfigurable Optical Add-Drop Mul-tiplexer and OTN Cross Connect). 
•
 Live TV broadcast of the Turin Marathon for RAI achieved with an inno
vative architecture 
that uses the LTE network to receive live video signals from motorbikes and remote con-trolled drones. The initiative allowed production costs to be reduced and avoided the use of helicopters for radio bridging and filming, with positive environmental impacts in terms of a reduction in fuel consumption and therefore atmospheric emissions.
•
 Continuation of the EARTH (Energy Aw
are Radio and NeTwork TecHnologies) project, which 
began in January 2010 and is scheduled to last two and a half years. Funded by the Eu-ropean Union, the project addresses broad themes including:
 ›the development of a new generation of de
vices and components, focusing in particular 
on mobile systems such as LTE and its evolutions (LTE-Advanced), while not excluding 3G technologies (UMTS, HSPA);ThE COMMUNITY  | 90 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
 ›the adoption of new network management system de velopment strategies;
 ›the use of innovative algorithms for the efficient use of radio resources.
The project 
aims to reduce system energy use by a factor of more than 50%, with conse-
quent benefits in terms of savings and lower emissions. A demonstrator was built at the 
Turin laboratories.•
 During the last quarter of 2012, the METIS (Mobile and wireless communications Ena
-
blers for Twenty-twenty (2020) Information Society) project was launched, which will run for 30 months in total. European FP7 financing programme approved in the context of “Call 8”. The project involves 29 partners, including the main equipment manufacturers, univer-sities, research centres and operators, including Telecom Italia, with a significant amount of resources. The aim of the project is to set up the new radio system beyond LTE, work-ing in a number of innovative design directions that focus in particular on communication between objects and equipment, with a view to achieving greater overall energy efficiency. As part of the Metis project, Telecom Italia is actively involved in establishing guidelines for designing the new system, as well as pursuing the specific subject of multi-node com-munication.
•
 The last quarter of 2012 also saw the launch of the iJOIN (Interwor
king and JOINt Design 
of an Open Access and Backhaul Network Architecture for Small Cells based on Cloud Networks) project funded by the European Union and lasting 30 months. The project in-troduces the concept of RAN-as-a-Service (RANaaS), i.e. a mobile network in which radio functions are managed flexibly and in a centralised way through an open IT platform based on a cloud infrastructure, allowing greater energy efficiency to be achieved.The project, in which Telecom is participating as the sole operator and with a leadership role in the coor-dination activities, will present solutions developed internally regarding the deployment of microcells with fibre backhauling and potential centralised control.
Future Internet application projects
• Telecom Italia has confirmed itself as a protagonist in the development of NFC (Near Field Communications), the technolog
y that allows electronic transactions to be performed with 
a mobile phone. When it was previewed in Milan, during the Mobile Money Summit event organised by GSMA, a group of over 1,000 people tested the new NFC services around the city while going about their usual everyday activities. In particular, the system allowed them to pay for bus, tram, underground and train tickets, make purchases from around a thousand different stores using the credit card on the smartphone SIM card, use coupons and discount vouchers, all in full compliance with the requirements for the security and privacy of transactions. NFC technology is also used by employees working at Telecom 
Italia’s 3 sites to access the Company’s offices, pay for meals in the canteen, cafés, and make purchases from vending machines. It is also the basis for the “Share IT” service prototype for sustainable mobility, whereby an NFC smartphone can be used both to book a car and to access and use the car itself.•
 Over the past few years,
 the way in which we interact with the 
world around us and the objects within it has changed. The “Aug-mented Reality” project allows the outside world to be combined 
with digital information and content that is invisible to the human eye but visible to the watchful eye of the mobile phone. The technology used allows interactive objects to be superimposed on the screen, making reality “clickable and connected”. There are dozens of potential applications: from searching for places of interest for tourism (in-cluding restaurants and museums) to social activities, “enhanced” reading of books/magazines, “seeing inside” objects and interacting with them, enhanced homes, 3D in-teraction and many more. NFC (NEAR FIELD COMMUNICATION) 
TECHNOLOGY ENABLES INTERESTING 
APPLICATIONS TO CONDUCT TRANSACTIONS 
FROM MOBILE PHONES | ThE COMMUNITY EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 91
• A number of young researchers working at the CNR institute for computing and high 
perfor
mance networks, who set up the Eco4Cloud Company in 2010, have devised 
an Internet algorithm that allows an energy saving of up to around 35%, by observing the behaviour of ants. On average, only 30% of a computer’s capacity is used. Rather than distributing the workload equally among all the computers connected to a network (1000 computers used at 50% capacity use more energy than 500 used at 100% capac-ity) half of them could be switched off or put into low energy hibernation. In November 2012, the project won the Working Capital special award, with which Telecom Italia has enhanced and supported new business ideas, and last July the algorithm was tested on 32 computers at the Company’s data processing centre in Bari, confirming the specified energy saving. 
Projects with positive environmental impacts
• In July 2012, Telecom Italia,  Enel Distribuzione, Indesit Company and Electrolux Appli-
ances set up the non-profit-making and legally recognised Energy@home association with the aim of using new computer and electronic technologies to redesign homes as ecosystems of intercommunicating devices: meter and electricity system, domestic ap-pliances and broadband telecommunication network. Communication allows these sys-tems to integrate smartly, becoming nodes in the Internet of Things in order to reduce waste, increase the reliability and security of the domestic energy system, but above all give consumers more information and choice, educating them in the virtuous use of products and encouraging sustainable lifestyles. The Association is the result of a col-laborative project launched in 2009, which has already helped to create a prototype cur-rently being tested by 10 Italian households. The Energy@home system allows power consumption to be monitored and displayed in real time remotely, producing cost infor-mation and detailed analysis reports for each individual domestic appliance.
•
 In the field of sustainable mobility, T
elecom Italia is working with the Fiat Research Cen-
tre in the context of the “Connected Car” project to develop solutions that allow mobile terminals to integrate with units installed in vehicles, exchange data and share audio and video resources, thus enabling new services for passengers and drivers. The col-laboration has led to the creation of an initial prototype in the laboratory which, once connected to a vehicle, allows fuel consumption and the condition of the vehicle to be monitored using the mobile phone in the car. Again in the context of ICT solutions applied to the world of transport, Telecom Italia is a long-standing member of the main industry associations (ERTICO, TTS Italia, GSMA CCF) and has been active at European level in the development of ITS (Intelligent Transport Systems) architectures and solutions and standardisation activities (ETSI TC ITS) supporting European legislation for the sector, in line with the ITS Action Plan published by the European Commission and currently being transposed by EU Member States. Information about the priorities identified by the ITS Action Plan and other sustainable mobility projects implemented by Telecom Italia can be found on the telecomitalia.com website.
•
 As part of the activities devoted to de
veloping new mobile access technologies, tests 
are being carried out on “Active Antenna Systems” technology, based on a type of an-tenna that includes active elements and is normally linked by optical fibre to the connected part at the foot of the radio sta-tion. This solution, which involves the use of innovative algo-rithms for efficient use of radio resources, also allows the energy efficiency of the Radio Base Stations (RBS) to be improved by replacing coaxial cables with optical fibres in the aerial cable. Additional benefits are also expected, again in terms of consumption, as a result of the introduction of appro-priate beamforming technologies (generating specific radiation patterns).
ACTIVE ANTENNA SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY 
IMPROVES ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RADIO RESOURCESThE COMMUNITY  | 92 | EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS
• Work continued on the ECONET (low Energy COnsumption NETworks) project lasting 
three years and officially launched in October 2010. Funded b
y the European Union, the 
project focuses on the energy used by systems constituting the fixed telecommunication network, for both operators and customers. ECONET , which brings together a consor-tium of 15 partners including industries, universities, research centres and SMEs from several European and non-European countries, aims to develop and test new integrated control technologies and mechanisms to enable energy saving by the dynamic adapta-tion of network capacity and resources according to the actual traffic load and require-ments of users, while ensuring quality of service at the same time. The aim is to allow the energy requirement of equipment to be reduced by 50% in the short to medium term and 80% in the long term, based on an unchanged business scenario.
•
 Telecom Italia coordinated the specific activity relating to Common Pow
er Supplies for 
fixed terminals in the context of the Home Gateway Initiative (HGI), the final document of which (published in April 2010) provided guidance for the transposition of this specifica-tion in the ETSI ATTM context. A number of single power supply prototypes were tested by TILab, which also carried out a comparative LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) of the HGI/ETSI solution compared to the power supplies previously used for the access gateways installed until 2009. With regard to common power supplies for mobile terminals, Tel-ecom Italia worked with the ITU-T to review the L.1000 Recommendation regarding the Universal Mobile Charger, with the aim of reducing the cable and connector options as much as possible and thus converging towards a single power supply solution. For this purpose, the ITU-T issued a specific press release in which Telecom Italia is mentioned first in the list of companies involved in dealing with this issue.
Projects with positive social impacts
• Telecom Italia has contributed with technological support to supplying networks, ser-vices and tutors in the context of the W
orking Capital programme for a project imple-
mented by Compagnia di San Paolo in the field of Social Housing. The project concerned a building used temporarily in the area of Porta Palazzo in Turin, which has offered tem-porary users (university students, workers under mobility procedure, employees with no job security, young couples, people leaving sheltered communities) and city users (tour-ists) 28 apartments since 2012 for a total of 50/60 users. The objective has been to allow temporary and city users to share accommodation, telecommunication and ICT services, as well as “social” services including entertainment, tourism, training, etc. The project is of great social importance and significance in the urban environment as it promotes interaction among the temporary users and their integration in the social context of the city.
•
 A social reading tool called SOCIETY (SOCIal Ebook communiTY) was launched which provides a ne
w way of teaching, promoting technological evolution in schools and inte-
grating “traditional” teaching methods with the potential offered by new communication technologies. Social reading is an emerging technique for sharing the reading experi-ence: the reader is no longer passive but becomes a contributor and to a certain ex-tent the author of the book itself. In this new teaching context, new forms of learning can also develop: teachers can guide students in reading a passage, comment on it together with them, add notes, analyse them in class and set a reading/study task to be completed by students on their own at home.
•
 In the context of reading and social and collaborative teaching, T
elecom Italia is also 
dealing with the subject of dyslexia, which is a growing phenomenon in schools (10-20% of the school age population have learning difficulties and in 2-5% of cases these are attributable to dyslexia-related disorders). The first stage of the project, carried out with the Turin-based Egò association, is intended to map the actual needs of the individual by | ThE COMMUNITY EXTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 93
means of interviews with the people involved (psychologists, speech therapists, teach-
ers, parents and young people affected by dyslexia). A number of joint initiatives are being launched at both European (EIT projects) and national level (e.g. projects with the ASPHI association and with the Universities of Modena and Reggio Emilia and Eastern Piedmont) to identify effective functions to support dyslexic people, both at school and at home, through an app installed on a tablet computer.
 ›Testing of the HELP telemedicine project has been launched at the Polytechnic of P
alermo for patients suffering from Parkinson’s disease, with the aim of improving 
their quality of life. Through a capsule inserted in a dental prosthesis for the gradual release of drugs and using mobile phones connected to the TIM network, doctors can interact with the equipment and monitor the clinical parame-ters of patients remotely. HELP was named winner of the AAL (Ambient Assisted Living Joint Programme ) Award for 2012. 
 ›With regard to telemedicine services (see also Clients/Innova
-
tive Services and the relevant section of the telecomitalia.com website), the most recent developments relate to the creation of:
 ›a Home Doctor prototype for TV that facilitates use of the service and allows alerts to be managed;
 ›a wound care service prototype, which allows the images of wounds to be gathered and managed,
 presented at two major events: the PA Forum (Rome, 16-19 May) and 
the 7th Health Risk Management Forum in (Arezzo, 20-23 November 2012); 
 ›an evolutionary prototype of Home Doctor which simplifies use with de
vices and ter-
minals compliant with the standard set by Continua Health Alliance, an organisation of which Telecom Italia is a member together with over 220 international companies in the technology and healthcare sectors, which aims to developed interoperable solu-tions for networked personal medical care. The prototype includes interfaces between personal devices and equipment that manage data aggregation. This data is sent to healthcare centres via telecommunication networks, while also enabling the interface with the health records;
 › a prototype for continuous health status monitoring (healthcare dashboard);
 ›a prototype for prevention within the Company which uses the health kiosk: a station that can be installed in public areas or within companies to allow the main health pa
-
rameters to be measured using sensors, providing access to information and services available online; 
 ›testing was completed of the georeferencing service for patients suffering from Alzhei
-
mer’s disease in a Misericordia nursing home. THE TELEMEDICINE ALLOWS TO IMPROVE 
THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF PATIENTS WITH PARKINSON’S DISEASEThE COMMUNITY  | 1. huMAN RESOuRCES
1.1 S TRATEGY
The Group companies recognise the centrality of Human Resources, knowing that the prin-
cipal factor in the success of any business is the professional contribution of the people who work in it, within a framework of openness and mutual trust.The Group companies ensure health and safety in the workplace and believe that respect for workers’ rights in the conduct of economic activity is a fundamental principle.The management of the workforce aims to guarantee equal opportunities and to promote the professional growth of each individual, while respecting diversity.
1.2 R ELEVANT  STAkEHOLDERS
The relevant stakeholders are the employees and trade unions. 
1.3 H EADCOUNT  AND CHANGES
Unless otherwise stated, the data shown in the tables contained in the Human Resources chapter relate to all the Telecom Italia Group companies (see § Reporting).People as the Company’s
98 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
Headcount as of December 31, 2012 is as follows:
Telecom Italia Group
(units) 12.31.2012 12.31.2011 Changes
ITALY 54,380 56,838 (2,458)
ABROAD 28,761 27,274 1,487
TOTAL  PERSONNEL  ON PAyROLL 83,141 84,112 (971)
AGENCY  CONTRACT  WORKERS 43 42 1
TOTAL  PERSONNEL 83,184 84,154 (970)
NON-CURRENT  ASSETS  HELD  FOR 
SALE- - -
TOTAL 83,184 84,154 (970)
Excluding agency contract workers, the Group’s headcount has decreased by 971 units 
compared to December 31, 2011.The changes can be itemised as follows:•
 exit of the Company Matrix S.p.A. from the consolidation scope (253 people);
• net turnover down b
y 718 people, as detailed below by individual Business Unit:
(units) Recruited Departed Net change
DOMESTIC 958 3,030 (2,072)
BRAzIL 5,793 4,710 1,083
ARGENTINA 1,340 889 451
OLIVETTI , MEDIA AND OTHERS 130 310 (180)
TuRNOvER 8,221 8,939 (718)
Telecom Italia S.p.A.(*)
(units) 12.31.2012 12.31.2011 Changes
TOTAL  PERSONNEL  
ON PAyROLL44,606 47,801 (3,195)
*
In 2012, as in 2011, there were no agency contract workers.| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 99
As of December 31, 2012, Telecom Italia S.p.A. had 44,606 employees on its payroll.
Compared to December 31, 2011, an overall reduction of 3,195 units was recorded, due to:•
 departure of 1,177 employees due to the transfer of the Infor
mation Technology busi-
ness unit to the Company SSC, renamed TI Information Technology; 
• entry into the consolidation scope of 118 employees due to the merger with TI Audit;
• balance of 29 departures due to inter-Group transfers; 
• net turnover down b
y 2,107, as detailed below:
(units) Recruited Departed Net change
TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A. 
TuRNOvER297 2,404 (2,107)
Tim Brasil Group
(units) 12.31.2012 12.31.2011 Changes
TOTAL  PERSONNEL  
ON PAyROLL11,622 10,539 1,083
The headcount of TIM Brasil Group as of December 31st, 2012, was equal to 11,622 units. 
Compared to December 31, 2011, an increase of 1,083 units was recorded, due to:•
 17 incoming people from other Group companies;
• net turnover up b
y 1,066 people, as detailed below:
(units) Recruited Departed Net change
TIM BRASIL  GROuP 
TuRNOvER5,776 4,710 1,066
Telecom Argentina Group
(units) 12.31.2012  12.31.2011 Changes
TOTAL  PERSONNEL  
ON PAyROLL16,800 16,349 451
Excluding agency contract workers, the headcount of the Telecom Argentina Group as of December 31, 2012 was 16,800 employees.  hUMAN  RESOURCES  |100 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
0.1%
Workers
1.4%
Senior managers
7.8%
Middle managers/
professionals
90.7%
Of/f_ice Staff20.4%
Up to 32
40.7%
Over 45
38.9%
33 to 45TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY JOB CATEGORYTELECOM ITALIA GROUP: EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY AGE BAND
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY ACADEMIC QUALIFICATIONCompared to December 31, 2011, an increase of 451 units was recorded, due to:
• net turnover up of 451 people as detailed below:
(units) Recruited Departed Net change
TELECOM  ARGENTINA  
GROuP TuRNOvER1,340 889 451
Characteristics of Telecom Italia Group personnel
Staff operating in the Telecom Italia Group, net of agency workers, have the following char-acteristics:
8.7%
Other
24.9%
Graduates
66.4%
Diploma holders| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 101
34.6%
Abroad
65.4%
ItalyTELECOM ITALIA GROUP:
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:RECRUITMENT BREAKDOWN BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREAThe geographical distribution and intake of personnel by the Group, excluding agency con-
tract workers, are the following:
For further details about the characteristics of Telecom Italia Group personnel in the Busi -
ness Units, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com  website.
1.4 G ENDER  BALANCE
In 2012, the distribution of men and women in the Group was the following:
DISTRIBUTION  MEN-WOMEN
(units) 12.31.2012 12.31.2011 Changes
MEN 52,493 53,741 (1,248)
WOMEN 30,648 30,371 277
TOTAL 83,141 84,112 (971)11.1%
Italy
88.9%
Abroad
 hUMAN  RESOURCES  |102 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
In 2012, the percentage of women holding senior management positions in the Telecom Italia 
Group was approximately 16% and, in middle management, the proportion of the total was 27%. For further information regarding the distribution of men and woman in the Business Units, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.5 P EOPLE  CARING
Over the years, the Telecom Italia Group has developed several programmes and initiatives to support its employees, to improve the quality of their working lives and also to support those outside the Company.People Caring is the structure created by Telecom Italia to respond to the expectations of em-ployees regarding certain important issues, identified through active listening carried out both on line (Intranet, community, email) and through meetings and focus groups.The main themes identified are:•
 balance between working life and free time and suppor
t for the requirements of employees;
• support for volunteering initiatives by emplo
yees;
• promoting the forms 
of diversity that exist in the workplace through specific activities and 
projects.
The People Caring project was awarded the Best Internal Communication prize as part of the Culture Week promoted by Confindustria (see § Internal communication).
Balance between employees’ working life and free time and support for the needs of 
employees’ families
In Telecom Italia
• Parking for expectant mothers: female employees are provided with a reserved parking 
space until the beginning of their maternity lea
ve at all Company offices with car parks.
• Nurseries: in addition to the ten nurseries cur
rently available at the Company’s offices in 
Rome (3), Turin, Milan, Ancona, Florence, Naples, Catanzaro and Palermo, seven agree-ments have been signed with an equal number of external nurseries in Turin, Rome (5), and Padua. 396 children were registered in 2012-2013. 
•
 Loans for mums and dads: 210 loans were granted to new parents with children under the
 
age of three.
MenWomen
75%
0%25%50%100%
2011 201236.9%
63.9%36.1% 
63.1%DISTRIBUTION OF MEN AND WOMEN IN 
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP (2011-2012)| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 103
• Time saving:
 ›handling of official formalities: 38 offices are available for this pur
pose at Company 
offices in Turin, Milan, Venice, Padua, Bologna, Florence, Rome, Naples, Bari, Cagliari 
and Genoa;
 ›Wellness Area: available in a number of Compan
y offices in Padua and Rome and an 
agreement has been signed with a gym in Palermo; a Wellness Area has been opened in Naples;
 › laundry/shoe repairs: operational in five offices in Milan and Rome (4);
 › newsagents: available in three offices in Rome;
 ›discount agreements: 47 online offers of products and services ha
ve been launched 
as a result of Telecom Italia’s partnership agreements, mostly within Italy (cars and motorbikes, culture and shows, electronic goods, sports, financial institutions, health and wellbeing, trips and holidays, miscellaneous).
•
 Company loans: 68 loans granted for house purchase/building purposes,
 102 for home 
renovation work, 393 for various other purposes. 
• Mobility manager: in order to assist colleagues commuting be-tw
een home and work, an “Intranet Mobility” area has been cre-
ated in some of the major cities (Rome, Milan, Turin) to answer questions from colleagues and provide an opportunity to share cars (car pooling). 15 Company offices have been provided with a shuttle service, making 315 journeys a day, and 32 offices have been equipped with bicy-cle racks. 
•
 Breaks:
 ›traditional 15-day summer camps for children between the ages of 6 and 12 with 4,482 par
ticipants in 12 centres;
 ›14-day themed stays for older children betw
een the ages of 11 and 17, dedicated to 
learning English and sports (football, tennis, sailing, horse-riding, volleyball, basket ball, canoeing etc.) as well as archaeology and music and theatre, with 2,211 partici-pants in 16 centres;
 ›14-day study holidays abroad for teenager
s between the ages of 15 and 17 at five col-
leges in England (3), Ireland and Spain with 521 participants.
• Scholarships abroad: 
scholarships were provided for teenagers between the ages of 15 
and 17 for 100 4/6-week stays abroad to learn other languages and cultures (Ireland, Finland, Spain, Latvia, China and Japan) and 20 stays lasting one academic year (Europe, United States, Canada, Honduras, Costarica, Argentina, Japan, Brazil, China, Hong Kong and India).
•
 Refund of university fees: 288 refunds were paid of fir
st year university fees. 
• Christmas Day: children up to the age of 10 visited their parents’ offices on December 19
• In 60 offices, small gifts were distributed in addition to a snack.
• 180 children of employees were given the oppor
tunity to accompany TIM Serie A football 
players onto the field, wearing team strips.
In Brazil
• Favourable terms for opening bank accounts, discount agreements and health insurance.
• “Happy day”: emplo
yees are entitled to take a day off on their birthday and, if on maternity 
leave, to full pay for the relevant day of maternity leave. 
• “TIM open day”: this is an annual initiative aimed at introducing the children of employees
 
to the environments where their parents work. 
• “A future 
without boundaries”: this programme helps the children of employees to choose 
their career through seminars and meetings with a number of employees in order to un-derstand how the work is done.NUMEROUS INITIATIVES FOR 
EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT hUMAN  RESOURCES  |104 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
• “Food kit for children”: all employees with children between the ages of 6 months and 2 
years 
can request a kit provided free of charge by the Company that includes a number of 
specific foods. If prescribed by a doctor, the kit can also be requested for children under 6 months of age.
In Argentina
Development continued of the “Equilibrio en Acción” programme, which promotes a better work/life balance. The initiatives to be included in the programme were agreed with a team of 95 “ambassadors” from various business and geographical areas of the Country.The initiatives included in the programme for which Telecom Argentina received the “Towards a family-friendly Company” (Hacia una empresa familiarmente responsable) award from the “Parents Project” (Proyecto Padres) are split into the following categories, which were supple-mented by new initiatives in 2012:
Categories Initiatives
Working hours and 
working patterns• Telewor king, with reserved quotas in case of maternity and paternity
• 15-day paternity lea
ve for births/adoptions
• Equalisation of holiday and leave ar
rangements between workers covered by 
the collective labour agreement for the industry and those excluded from it 
• One day’s lea
ve for mother’s day with flexibility about when it can be taken
• Half a day’s lea
ve for employees on their birthday
• Flexible Friday
• Flexitime (Horario flexible)
Internal communication and information policies•
 Blog for “ambassadors”
• Inclusion of articles about work/life balance in the inter
nal bi-monthly 
magazine
• Creation of the “Equilibrio en Accion” portal
Per
sonal 
development• Boosting of the volunteering programme
• Launch of a free telephone service to support emplo
yees
• Maternity coaching
Economic benefits •  Sup
port for employees with disabled children
• Dis
count agreements with travel agencies and universities for 
undergraduate and postgraduate courses
Family services •  Refund of nursery fees
• Holiday stays
• Provision of scholarships for the children of emplo
yees
Measurement and control systems•
 Monitoring of the effectiveness of action taken in the context of corporate climate sur
veys
Other initiatives •  Promotion of the artistic activities and hobbies of employees
• No meetings on Fridays after 2.00 pm
• Careers advice
• Counselling
• Good practices in the management of personal finances| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 105
Support for volunteering initiatives by employees
In Telecom Italia
• Volunteering at Dynamo Camp: this is the first facility created to allow children and young 
pe
ople suffering from serious or chronic diseases to spend time playing and having fun 
in contact with nature and in complete safety. During 2012, 30 employees spent two sessions volunteering at the facility, using 6/7 days of paid leave to cover the activities provided at the Camp.
•
 “Su
rfing Together” ( Navigare Insieme ): Internet browsing assistance activities for the over 
60s run in computer training centres in 14 Italian cities ( see § The Community ). Employ -
ees who took part in the internal tender and worked with volunteers from the project’s partner associations had 40 hours of paid leave over a period of four months, including travel.
•
 Tel
ecom Italia’s donors group: during the year, the Group organised 62 days at the of -
fices in Bari, Milan, Naples, Palermo, Rome, Turin.
• Cha
rity initiatives: 88 banquets were organised at various Company offices for charity 
initiatives.
In Brazil
With the “Citizen Without Borders” (Cidadão Sem Fronteiras) project, which attracted 55% more volunteers in 2012 compared to 2011 (a total of 358 volunteers), TIM Brasil offers one free day a year for employees to carry out volunteering work for organisations of their choice or to take part in social actions promoted within the Company. 
In Argentina
• The programme involving employees in voluntar y activities (Red de Voluntarios) continued. 
Since 2009, the year it was launched, 1,319 volunteers have taken part in 135 projects in 10 cities (Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Salta, Rio Cuarto, Neuquén, Rosario, Resistencia, Cor-rientes, San Miguel de Tucumán and San Salvador de Jujuy) in 4 main areas:
 › one-off activities lasting 1 or 2 days;
 ›fund raising activities within the Company: during 2012, 2 donation campaigns w
ere 
carried out in support of good causes by withholding money from pay packets;
 ›initiatives in which volunteers join in with programmes run b
y non-profit organisations;
 ›initiatives run by non-profit organisations and presented b
y employees, which the 
Company decides to support with financial contributions and the involvement of vol-unteers, monitoring their progress.
•
 “Solidarity Initiatives Contest” (Convocatoria 
de Iniciativas Solidarias): the 3rd of these 
calls for solidarity initiatives took place in 2012 and involved the presentation of 39 pro-jects by employees, 5 of which received a cash reward allowing them to be implemented. An Evaluation Committee was set up consisting of internal representatives working along-side an external consultant and a well-known expert from the social sector.
Boosting diversity at work through specific activities and projects
In Telecom Italia
Numerous information and awareness-building activities were carried out in this respect:
• the activities of the Diversity Committee, which consists of 35 colleagues representing diver
sities of gender, religious, age, sexual orientation, disability and ethnicity, contin-
ued in 2012;
• a round table was organised under the heading “Diversity as an asset and oppor
tunity”,  hUMAN  RESOURCES  |106 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
involving the representatives of several organisations (Sodalitas, ASPHI, Parks, ValoreD) 
and the Jewish Community of Rome;
• a collaboration w
as launched with the ASPHI Foundation regarding the integration of 
people with disabilities in the Company;
• activities associated with the following projects continued in 2012:
 › “Back on track” (Nuov
amente in pista): a model was devised to manage the return of 
employees after long absences for whatever reason (maternity, study, illness) in order to help improve the organisational climate. The pilot phase, run by the Elis Consorti-
um, which relates to monitoring women’s return to work from ma-ternity leave, lasted until September 2012, involving 17 female col-leagues, 15 of their managers and 11 key account managers, who completed online questionnaires. The final report is expected to be published in spring 2013;
 ›“Women in Management” (Dir
ezione Donna): is an initiative aimed at promoting fe-
male leadership, to increase the representation of female talent within Telecom Italia and support their involvement in the dynamics of the business through concrete ac-tion. 9 meeting were organised in as many Italian cities;
 ›“Working Age”: is the wor
king group promoted by Sodalitas, involving Telecom Italia 
and other companies, to address the issue of how to manage and motivate employ-ees of different ages, particularly in light of recent legal provisions regarding pen-sions;
 ›the activities of a working group set up last year,
 within Telecom Italia’s Human Re-
sources & Organization department, to draw up proposals aimed at recognising the contribution of senior colleagues.
In Brazil
Tim ran a diversity promotion campaign using internal communication tools and other initi-atives, including the Company’s own version of the olympic games (Olimpìadas TIM 2012). Now in its third year, this is an internal championship involving 7 disciplines aimed at pro-moting integration as well as the Company’s identity and values. 2,700 employees took part in the 2012 event.
In Argentina
•
 The activities of the Diversity Committee continued as part of the “Diver
sity and Inclu-
sion Programme”. Consisting of over 25 representatives of the various operational ar-eas of the Company, with different levels of responsibility, its aim is to promote inclusion in the workplace and to establish the concept of diversity as a corporate value. During DIVERSITY AT WORK IS A VALUE TO THE 
COMPANY AND AN OPPORTUNITY FOR 
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENTIn order to help colleagues deal with psychological difficulties and problems at work and in their personal lives, a counselling service run by professional psychologists has been operating since 2010 in the People Caring Centre. Following a trial period conducted in 4 Italian regions, as of 2013 the service has been extended to the whole Country. The Centre was contacted by 142 employees: 102 counselling processes were started and 40 Company-related cases were handled to the full satisfaction of the employees involved. 
Counselling service| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 107
2012, the Committee held 7 meetings, 4 of which were dedicated to gender differences, 
during which lines of action were presented for the current year and assessments were made of the progress achieved in implementing the three-year development programme adopted the previous year. 
•
 A university course on the subject of “Diver
sity and Inclusion” was launched for the 
employees of Telecom Argentina. This was split into 4 modules: “Towards a concept of diversity and its organisational management”, “Generational Diversity”, “Gender Diver-sity” and “Diversity and special abilities”. Also in a university context, working with the Ana Frank centre, a workshop took place, divided into a series of meetings, to reflect on coexistence in diversity, identify personal and managerial experiences and create a space for cultural interchange, to rethink the way in which people work together and in-terrelate, in order to create a better working environment. 
For information regarding the other activities for employees and their families of a cultural or recreational nature or relating to healthcare services and the refunds of medical expens-es (CRALT , ASSILT , ASSIDA) see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.6 D EVELOPMENT  
In Telecom Italia
Human Capital Development is the new development system designed for the purpose of:•
 making the most of the energy and talent of people, regardless of their age and posi
-
tion in the organisation; 
• providing ever
yone with constant feedback on the value of their performance;
• allowing direct involvement in the development of one’
s career within the Company.
The new system consists of two new tools:•
 “Individual Performance F
eedback” is the new performance assessment tool aimed at 
promoting dialogue between manager and employee, more focused on feedback and qualitative assessment, with the aim of developing the person to improve his/her per-formance. The focus is on the employee’s conduct, rather than the activities performed. Launched in mid-October, the process has involved over 49 thousand people in the Tel-ecom Italia Group.
•
 “Participated De
velopment”, split into 4 sections:
 ›“Talent Surve
y”: each individual can name the colleagues and managers (including 
those working in other departments) they consider to be “talents”, specifying char-acteristics by selecting distinctive forms of conduct observed in the field. The people identified as talents are then “certified” and involved in various kinds of activities to recognise their contribution;
 ›“Succession Survey”: all manager
s will be able to identify which non-managers, in 
their opinion, can be assigned to managerial roles and which managers of the same grade can undertake more complex roles. Managerial characteristics can be specified by selecting distinctive forms of conduct observed in the field. The individuals identi-fied will then be “certified” and put forward for development programmes;
 ›“Professional Identity”: by completing their professional/personal profile on their per
-
sonal Intranet page (as of January 2013) individuals can each present their skills, di-rectly and without intermediaries, and make them available to the Company; 
 ›“Willingness to Change”: individuals can 
each state their professional expectations 
and willingness to change job/workplace if actual opportunities should arise.  hUMAN  RESOURCES  |108 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
The “Talent Survey”, “Succession Survey” and “Willingness to Change” stages of “Partici-
pated Development” were launched experimentally in December and involved around 10 thousand people.
Assessment activities at Group level continued in order to evaluate the potential of man-
agers and employees. 45 sessions involving 256 people were carried out. The assess-ments, governed by specific guidelines, are entrusted to the HR Services S.r.l. Group, which achieved an ISO 9001 certification. The assessment process also continued for managers, in order to evaluate their readiness to take on positions involving a broader managerial role. 31 people were involved in 2012, covering 30% of managers in total. 
In Brazil 
Several online assessment systems have been developed in order to map the potential of all the Company’s employees, identifying strengths and areas of improvement, and to pro-vide guidance on development activities. For details of the assessment and development tools used, go to the telecomitalia.com website.The “Talent without borders” programme launched last year to attract and retain the best talents continued. It is aimed at young, dynamic and creative professionals, who are given the opportunity to access accelerated and diverse professional career paths.
In Argentina
During the first half of 2012, a new more flexible and user-friendly platform was implement-ed for the “Performance Management” (Gestión del Desempeño) application. The work plan for 2012 was based on the following actions:•
 classroom training for level 2 executives;
• classroom training for key customer
s;
• e-learning for other assessors;
• communication activities (articles in internal magazines,
 information emails).
The “Talent Pool” (Bacino di Talenti) programme continued with the aim of identifying em-ployees who can make a high quality contribution to the Company’s business in the long term. In 2012, over 175 people were involved in individual assessment activities or in those run by the assessment centre.
1.7 S ELECTION
In Telecom Italia
During 2012, Telecom Italia confirmed its presence at the main Italian Career Days, tak-ing part in many meetings between companies and universities throughout the Country, as well as specific events held in the faculties of Italy’s leading universities, in order to pre-sent its new labour market initiatives to recruit young people into the Company.The following projects are taking place:•
 “The Day Before” was launched in 2011,
 in agreement with the trade unions and under 
agreements signed with the relevant universities, with the aim of combining the achieve-ment of a qualification with the start of a career for university students. The project pro-vides for 200 undergraduates in technical and economic subjects to be recruited by the subsidiary Telecontac Center (TCC) and 200 undergraduates in technical subjects to be recruited by the Technology and Open Access department of Telecom Italia. Hired under | hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 109
an 18-month apprenticeship contract, the young people take part in a training programme 
run by the Company to develop the skills needed to hold managerial posts in the future. At the end of the apprenticeship, Telecom Italia has undertaken to confirm the recruitment of 100 young people, who will be assigned to various different parts of the Group.
•
 By funding 95 research doctorate scholarships in the most prestigious educational estab-lishments in the Countr
y, Telecom Italia intends to contribute to maintaining a constructive 
and practical dialogue between the Company and universities. 27 industrial research pro-grammes have so far been launched with university partners and the contribution of 66 young doctorate students. During the second half of the year, the assignment of a further 20 research projects to new university partners was completed and the remaining 29 scholarships were granted. At the end of the three-year course, in addition to having achieved a prestigious PhD, the young research students will have an opportunity to gain employment with the Company.
•
 The three Corporate Master courses for Engineer
s and Econo-
mists have entered the internship stage. They relate to:
 ›Innovation and 
ICT , with a specific focus on designing and 
managing new generation services and cloud computing, working with the Federico II University of Naples;
 › Business Innovation & ICT Management at MIP ,
 Polytechnic of Milan;
 ›Innovation in ICT networks and ser
vices, working with the Polytechnic of Turin, now in 
its 6th edition. 
• Numerous partnerships continued with prestigious univer
sities through scholarships 
and internships related to innovation, ICT systems, the world of telecommunication and the media, antitrust, security, general management and labour law issues. During 2012, around 187 young people from leading Italian universities began an internship within the Group.
•
 The “Future Leader” (Leader del Futuro) project continued,
 working with The European 
House - Ambrosetti and the Federazione Nazionale Cavalieri del Lavoro, which provides for Telecom Italia to disburse 5 development and merit scholarships. In addition to attending training meetings and coaching sessions provided by Ambrosetti, two of the five scholar-ship holders gained experience through an internship with the Group.
•
 Internationally,
 working with the University of Trento, Telecom Italia assigned 6 doctorate 
scholarships for the study of human behaviour understanding from mobile phones data and web usage patterns.
In Brazil
The main selection programmes implemented in 2012 were: •
 “Young Apprentice” (J
ovem Aprendiz): this programme promotes the training of young 
people between the ages of 16 and 24 for potential employment throughout all areas of the Company. An administrative training course is provided for young people to prepare them to enter the world of work. The programme enrolled 268 participants in 2012.
•
 “Talents without frontiers” (
Talentos sem Fronteiras): intended to scout the market for 
young graduates in order to create a talented team of people who can be trained and developed to build the Company management team of the future. At the end of 2012, 18 young talented people were recruited in strategic areas of the business.
•
 “Internships without frontiers” (
Estágio sem Fronteiras): intended to select talented in-
terns with the aim of offering young university students an opportunity to develop in di-verse ways and prepare for the labour market, as well as to increase their potential for finding permanent employment in the Company and possibly access the “Internships without frontiers” programme. TIM selected 256 young people in 2012. IMPORTANT INITIATIVES HAVE BEEN CARRIED 
OUT FOR THE ENTRY OF QUALIFIED YOUNG PEOPLE IN THE COMPANY hUMAN  RESOURCES  |110 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
In Argentina
At both Telecom Argentina and Telecom Personal, research tools for identifying external pro-
files were diversified and improved with the help of head hunters (30%) and dedicated staff within the Company (70%). During 2012, social networks and collaborations with universi-ties continued to be used to contact the required profiles. The search and selection of candi-dates is made easier by the use of integrated software, the implementation of which began in the second half of 2011.
1.8 TRAINING  
In 2012, around 2.2 million hours of training were carried out in the Company costing over 27 million euros in total. 75.5% of personnel participated in at least one training session. Summary data of the training provided by the Telecom Italia Group is shown below.
 
TRAINING  BREAKDOWN  BY JOB CATEGORY
HOURS
Participations
(*) (no.)Participants 
(no.)Coverage 
(%) (**)Total 
hours  
(no.)Hours per 
head
 (no.)
TOTAL 2,276,006 27.4 356,858 62,760 75.5%
SENIOR  MANAGERS 45,563 37.9 4,618 1,029 85.5%
MIDDLE  MANAGERS 151,305 23.3 16,266 4,482 69.0%
OFFICE  STAFF /
WORKERS2,079,138 27.6 335,974 57,249 75.9%
*
Shows the total number of participations in the various forms of training (classroom, online, on-the-job training).
**
Coverage refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total, i.e. the % of human resources who took part in at least one training session compared to the total 
number of human resources in each individual category (senior managers, middle managers, office staff/workers).| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 111
Launched at the end of 2010, the project gives 
employees the opportunity to register free of charge for one of the degree courses offered by the faculties of law, economics, engineering, communication science, psychology and arts of the Uninettuno International Telematic University, with the aim of promoting non-work related knowledge and skills. Anyone obtaining at least 50% of the credits required by their curriculum is entitled to a refund of tuition fees for subsequent years as well. Agreed with the industry’s main trade unions - SLC-CGIL, FISTel-CISL and UILCOM-UIL - the initiative was remarkably successful, with 2,050 active participants in 2012, who can also interact via a blog dedicated to the project on the Company intranet. In Telecom Italia
In 2012, training at Telecom Italia S.p.A. again supported:•
 business culture transformation by means of suppor
t plans for the management of or-
ganisational changes;
• the development of individual skills by means of per
sonalised plans; 
• professional retraining for the purpose of acquiring and reinforcing the strategic skills required by organisational de
velopments;
• respect for the ethical and compliance principles declared by the Company (such as en
-
vironmental protection, sustainability, ethics, compliance with Legislative Decree 231, and respect for privacy). 
For information on the main training activities implemented in Brazil and Argentina, go to the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.9 L ISTENING  ACTIVITIES  AND PROJECTS  
The instruments available to employees within the Company to have their voice heard, both in a formal and informal way, are numerous.In Telecom Italia, TIM Brasil and Telecom Argentina, employees can make a series of ap-proaches of an informal nature to various dedicated email addresses, obtaining prompt responses on the services required and the issues raised.In an organisation as complex as Telecom Italia, unilateral communication is no longer suf-ficient to encourage involvement and develop thought. For this reason, there is a gradual “conversion” of the traditional communication channels to more innovative ways of favour-ing two-way communication inspired by web 2.0 logic, promoting the exchange of ideas, dialogue and discussion between members of the corporate community. In this respect, the Intranet and portal are fundamental tools as they allow everyone to get involved, provide information and implement formal and informal forms of “listening”, such as climate surveys, blogs and open virtual communities. In this way, discussion and debate are encouraged on internal issues linked to the business and more general current topics, including environmental and social issues, making structured channels available for the purpose of collecting contributions and proposals. These include the Archimede project which, from 2008, rewards the most innovative and feasible ideas every year in or-I care myself hUMAN  RESOURCES  |112 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
der to optimise the processes and services supplied, gathering proposals from the people 
directly involved in operational processes. As of 2012, the project has been extended from Open Access to the Company stores, fixed and mobile customer care, Network Operations and Technical Infrastructure departments, and a number of local road shows have taken place to improve knowledge of the project within the Company.
Reports to the manager responsible for internal control in Telecom Italia
Pursuant to article 7 of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the “Whistleblowing Procedure”, published on the intranet and updated during 2010, is applicable to all Telecom Italia Group companies. Administered by the manager responsible for internal control in Telecom Italia, this procedure ensures the receipt, analysis and handling of reports on matters con-cerning the internal control system, Company information, fraud and other matters (viola-tions of the Code of Ethics, mobbing practices, theft, security etc.). Reports may be sub-mitted in any form (in hard copy, electronically, by fax, etc.) by employees (including Senior Executives), associates, consultants, freelance workers, as well as third parties who have business relations with the Group. Each report is analysed and the outcomes of the pro-ceedings are conveyed to the Senior Executives of the Company, to the statutory control bodies and to the Company departments concerned, ensuring complete confidentiality for the individuals making the reports (for further information on activities carried out by the manager responsible for internal control see § Shareholders/Corporate Governance).
1.10 I NTERNAL  COMMUNICATION
In Telecom Italia
During the first half of the year, the climate survey in Italy was completed using an online questionnaire delivered to all the Group’s human resources. A number of focus groups met 
involving a sample of employees, aimed at discussing the main re-sults of the survey. 67% of employees participated in the Italian climate survey, an increase of 60.5% on the 2010 survey, from all the Group’s departments and companies. General satisfaction on a scale of 1 to 10 stood at 7.25, substantially confirming the figure 
of 7.23 recorded for 2010 (again on a scale of 1 to 10). In addition to the existing ones, 8 new themed blogs were set up for individual functions, relating to projects open to all employees on subjects connected with the Company, testing, quality, research, photo-graphic passion, social networks, diversity, long distance adoptions, giving blood and other subjects. These blogs were accessed 29,368 times by 2,920 single users.
In November, Telecom Italia received the best internal communication award for its People 
Caring activities, as part of the ninth Aretê Awards promoted by Nuvolaverde with Confin-dustria and ABI, and sponsored by numerous associations, foundations and institutions. The event is open to companies, organisations and institutions, and rewards responsible communication activities and projects inspired by the values of transparency, fairness, sen-sitivity and attention to customers and users. The award was presented in Rome as part of Confindustria’s Corporate Communication Week. Telecom Italia also won the Employer Branding Award 2012 for having achieved second place in the ranking drawn up by Lun-dquist, the Company that assesses online employer branding communication in Italy and Europe, analysing over 100 of the biggest listed and unlisted companies. Multimedia conventions are now the established method for conducting internal meetings. THE SATISFACTION LEVEL MEASURED 
IN THE PREVIOUS CLIMATE SURVEY 
REMAINED UNCHANGED| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 113
They involve a small number of people gathering in a physical space (auditorium or large 
meeting room) and interacting with a vast virtual audience of colleagues connected from their workstations by video-streaming. People taking part in these multimedia conventions submit their questions to speakers before and during the meeting, interact on the subjects and provide constructive feedback through blogs, forums and virtual networks. 
This way of holding meetings is in keeping with the interaction and 
involvement experiences with which the Company is experimenting through an increasingly widespread social media presence. The on-line mode also allows the content to be used at a later date and contributes to minimising greenhouse gas emissions by avoiding the need for people to travel. In particular, July saw the third Parli@mone e-convention, during which Senior Executives and Top Management held discussions with people from Telecom Italia. During the event, the results of the climate survey were presented in live video-streaming mode, for the first time, to everyone in the Company, by SDA Bocconi, which supported the survey process.Two Twitter Time sessions were carried out with the COO, one on the new labour market initiatives and another on the agreement signed with the Ministry of the Environment to reduce the carbon footprint of Telecom Italia, which primarily consists of the greenhouse gas emissions generated by the use of electricity. Both sessions were broadcast live to everyone in the Company in video-streaming mode.The Industrial Relations School continued its programme of activities, which includes train-ing activities and an annual convention, the theme of which in 2012 was “Changing soci-ety. Transformations and how to manage them. The role of intermediate bodies” and three editions of the “Conversazioni” publication.
In Brazil
Internal communication activities dedicated to health and safety, the environment, vol-unteering activities and promoting internal integration were also promoted, including the Company’s third internal olympic games (see § People Caring).
In Argentina
NEO TV , a channel of multimedia content, broadcasts in streaming mode in all the Com-pany’s offices on subjects including health, presentation of work teams and developments in the Company’s business. 3 new programmes were produced during 2012: •
 “Leaders in Action” (Líder
es en Acción), a programme about leadership, culture and 
communication;
• “Channel”, the news magazine programme about human resources,
 containing a month-
ly round-up of activities in the sector;
• “Our people” (
Nuestra gente) a docu-reality show starring the Company’s employees with 
information about their hobbies and leisure activities.
Tecotwitt, a tool similar to Twitter, has continued to be developed to allow all employees to take part in discussions on issues of interest. WikiTeco, a 2.0 application similar to Wiki-pedia was developed, with original digital content of interest to the Group, as part of which a “Telecom Encyclopaedia” was developed that contains all the terminology used in the various business units. The content was created in a collective and collaborative way. Once this stage is over, a communication campaign will be launched for all the Group’s employ-ees, inviting them to use it and update it. USE OF MULTIMEDIA CONVENTIONS TO 
FAVOUR DIALOGUE IN THE COMPANY, REDUCING TRAVELS AND RESPECTIVE CO²EMISSIONS hUMAN  RESOURCES  |114 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
1.11 H EALTH  AND SAFETY  
In Telecom Italia
The following activities continued or were launched in 2012:
• assessment of work-related stress: the method used was updated and the in
volvement 
of the parties concerned was extended. Subsequently, the second preliminary assess-ment was carried out of uniform groups of workers. This showed that, in the majority of organisational contexts, risk levels are low, with the exception of Consumer and Busi-ness Customer Care staff and Technology technical staff, where medium risk situations were encountered. A new assessment was carried out in these specific areas, based on the latest INAIL procedure and with an even more extensive involvement of the parties concerned, including the coordinating doctor and all the workers’ safety representatives working in the relevant organisational contexts. 
•
 “Safety, now” (
Sicuri, adesso): aimed at all Telecom Italia S.p.A. employees, was 
launched to disseminate knowledge and increase awareness of the subject. The cam-paign will run until the first quarter of 2013 and will include a number of different initia-tives, some of them involving the family members of employees, given the importance of this matter in private life. 
The main activities implemented included: 
 ›a survey in
volving 25,000 colleagues to determine the level of initial awareness and 
possibly adjust future initiatives;
 ›a day dedicated to emergency evacuation drills,
 conducted in 9 Company offices 
across the Country, with the involvement of managers based in these offices;
 ›various sessions of the safe driving course, in
volving the employees who use Com-
pany cars most for work-related purposes (engineers and sales staff); 
 › child care courses, which are also open to emplo
yees’ families;
 ›a new 
version of “Safety in your pocket” (La sicurezza in tasca), a safety handbook 
for employees which has been simplified since the 2008 edition and enhanced with a section on work-related stress.
In Brazil
At TIM Brasil, all newly hired employees receive training on health and safety in the Com-pany. 10 Internal Commissions for the Prevention of Occupational Accidents (Cipas) were set up in the Group companies with over 50 dedicated employees. TIM has also assigned 26 people across Brazil to work on prevention activities.| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 115
In Argentina
With regard to safety at work, the new occupational risks plan for 2012/2013 was present-
ed for operating units. The plan provides for checks in the field, conformity checks, incident investigations and internal safety committees for employees and contract staff. Call centre and road safety manuals were handed out. The programme of home visits to check the liv-ing conditions of teleworkers continued. A process began to measure physical parameters (noise, lighting, etc.) in the Company’s main buildings, particularly in order to identify and map risks.
1.12 A CCIDENTS
The Group continues to pay constant attention to the issue of safety in the workplace, mainly by verifying implementation of risk control measures and providing training aimed at disseminating a logic of respect and protection for oneself and others. Similar attention is paid to providing training for the operation and maintenance of Tlc systems that involve overhead work (poles, ladders and pylons) in order to ensure that people acquire sufficient knowledge on how to behave correctly during work-related activities. Additional education/training was provided in safe driving techniques. In 2012, this involved around 650 emplo-yees, thus raising the total number of employees trained in this field to over 3,000.
The accidents at work data for Telecom Italia S.p.A. are shown below
12.31.2012 12.31.2011
NUMBER  OF ACCIDENTS  (EXCLUDING  COMMUTING ) 577 657
SEVERITY  INDEX(*)0.15 0.29
FREQUENCY  RATE(*)8.10 8.99
AVERAGE  DURATION  IN HOURS 97.46 114.14
UNPRODUCTIVITY  INDEX(*)0.94 1.25
ACCIDENTS  PER 100 WORKERS  1.23 1.35
*
The severity, frequency and unproductivity indexes are respectively:
 -the number of conventional w
orking days lost due to accident per thousand hours worked
 -the number of accidents per million hours worked
 -the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked 
 hUMAN  RESOURCES  |116 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
The Group’s focus on this subject resulted in a general improvement in the rate of acci-
dents compared to the previous year.See the telecomitalia.com website for the main indicators of accidents recorded across the Group in 2012.
1.13 I NDUSTRIAL  RELATIONS
In Telecom Italia
On February 1th, 2013, ASSTEL and the contracting trade unions signed a draft agreement 
for the renewal, applicable to the three-year period 2012-2014, of the National Collective Labour Agreement for the employees of telecommunication service companies. The agreement will come into force after it has been approved by the workers’ meetings, that is after the signatory unions have put aside their reservations. 
On December 31
st, 2011, the National Collective Labour Agreement for employees of tel-
ecommunication service operating companies expired. During the first half of 2012, nego-
tiations were launched for the renewal of this contract, coordinated by the trade association ASSTEL. During January, the minutes of the joint examination of changes to shifts in the Fixed Cus-tomer Operations Consumer - 187 Commercial Service were signed with the most repre-sentative trade unions. The agreed working hours, which include a number of improvements to benefit operators, are consistent with the caring model of the 187 business service aimed at improving customer satisfaction. During the same meeting, the parties signed an important agreement regarding well-being in call centres, aimed at people working in the Fixed Consumer Customer Operations department - 187 Commercial Service. The parties planned a series of significant actions regarding the best use of resources, training staff and refreshing their knowledge, the work-life balance, the working environment 
and the organisation and pace of work. Specific attention was also paid to the needs of pregnant women, who will be granted more flex-ible working hours.The Company also gave these employees the chance to benefit from parental leave (made up at a later date), raising the age limit 
of children to 11 (from the current 8).Both agreements were reached following wide-ranging and detailed discussions, some of them held by specific joint committees, in which the Company and unions performed a broad assessment of the relevant proposals and initiatives which were subsequently agreed upon.During the first half of 2012, numerous agreements were reached and signed with trade unions for training programmes. Training plays a constant and crucial role in the process of teaching new skills and preventing professional obsolescence and is a constant feature in the application of the guidelines established by the agreement of August 4
th, 2010.
As part of “The Day Before” initiative launched last year, aimed at fostering a closer relation-ship between the world of work and that of academia, an agreement with the Trade Unions was signed on February 15
th to extend the project to Florence and Pisa Universities. 
In March, an agreement was reached for the creation and operation of new trade union representations and the appointment of workers’ safety representatives at Telecom Italia S.p.A.. By agreement, the parties identified 25 production units, using the organisational WELL-BEING IN CALL CENTRES 
WAS THE SUBJECT OF AN AGREEMENT 
REACHED WITH THE UNIONS| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 117
structure of Telecom Italia S.p.A. as a reference, consisting of local operational structures 
and multi-regional staff structures. 
On December 31st, 2011, the performance bonus agreement expired. Since no negotiations 
could be held for the new premium while negotiations were under way for the first level col-
lective labour agreement, Telecom Italia decided to recognise the contribution made by em-ployees to the economic and productive performance of the Company by disbursing a fixed amount for each contract level for the period January, 1
st - June, 30th 2012.
In this respect, a specific agreement was reached with trade union representatives in June.  Also in June, during a specific meeting organised for this purpose, the Senior Executives presented the trade unions with the guidelines for Telecom Italia Domestic’s 2012-14 busi-ness plan.The content of the presentation was then discussed in detail. Telecom Italia will continue implementing its cost control policy in 2013 and 2014, focusing on improving efficiency, set-ting up discussion meetings with the trade unions. It will also be working with the Unions to verify that the Government creates the conditions for completion of the social safety net plan required by the agreement signed with the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Labour on August 4
th, 2010.
In accordance with current legislation regarding Company transfers, Telecom Italia S.p.A. carried out the required procedure with the trade union representatives (RSUs) regarding the transfer of its business unit exclusively to Shared Service Center S.r.l. with regard to “In-formation Technology” and the Human Resources and Organization Information Technology department, effective as of November 1st, 2012. Employment contracts were transferred directly from Telecom Italia S.p.A. to Telecom Italia Information Technology S.r.l. (following the change of name of SSC).
Telecom Italia made a specific commitment to protect workers who left the Company before 
December 31
st, 2012 under mobility procedure (on a voluntary basis and according to the 
non-opposition criterion under existing agreements) if, following legislative changes, they found themselves unable to qualify for a pension; the guarantees offered by the Company provide that, at the end of the redeployment period, these workers will be hired on fixed-term contracts, under the same financial conditions and job categories they had at the time of their termination, for the period needed to qualify for a pension according to current legal provisions. In this respect, important agreements were signed in October with the most rep-resentative trade unions of Telecom Italia S.p.A., Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A. and Shared Services Center S.r.l..
For information on industrial relations relating to Telecontact Center, TI Sparkle, TI Media, Ol-
ivetti, Brazil and Argentina, go to the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.  hUMAN  RESOURCES  |118 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
1.14 R EMUNERATION  POLICY
The Group’s remuneration policy is based on an individual pay packet structure that aims 
to ensure a proper balance between the fixed and variable components, based on the Com-pany’s strategic objectives and risk management policy. The structure is intended to safe-guard the identity and integration of the Group (unity) as well as to respect the diversity of the relevant markets (differentiation), so as to sustain the Company’s competitiveness and performance, and ensure staff involvement, honesty and internal fairness.The fixed remuneration component reflects the breadth and strategic nature of the role performed (measured using a job assessment system that uses internationally recognised and certified methods), as well as the individual characteristics and skills of the employee.The short term variable remuneration aims to support the achievement of annual corpo-rate objectives. The targets are fixed according to qualitative and quantitative indicators that represent and are consistent with the strategic priorities and business plan, meas-ured according to pre-established and objective criteria.The guidelines for application of the 2012 meritocratic policy provided for:•
 the freezing of fixed remuneration, except for employees with k
ey skills and cases in 
which the remuneration is significantly lower than standard market rates; 
• focus on one-off instruments, according to increasingly selective systems;
• a significant review of shor
t-term variable incentive policies (MBO), which covered both 
the operational mechanisms and the identification of recipients. As of 2012, a new in-centive scheme was introduced alongside the MBO for professional staff, with the aim of pursuing greater alignment with the overall performance of the Company.
In 2012, in line with the long term rolling incentive structure launched in 2011, Telecom Italia launched a new Long Term Incentive (LTI) cycle, extended to Top Management and so-called selected executives, excluding Senior Executives, which was approved by the Share-holders’ Meeting on May 15
th, 2012.
The main targets assigned to Company managers, to ensure that aspects related to sus-tainability are taken into account in the decision-making process, are shown below and subdivided by stakeholder.| hUMAN  RESOURCES INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 119
Stakeholder of 
referenceTargets linked to incentives % of managers (to whom the target applies)
Customers • Customer satisfaction
• Quality of the service delivered
• Quality of the service perceived by consumer
 
and business customers
• Quality of the service perceived by other
 
national fixed and mobile telephony operators97%
7%
97%
1%
Human Resources •  Health and safety of employees
• Programmes of training and professional 
growth
• Welfare activities (People Caring) and the w
ellbeing of employees 1%
The Environment •  Consumption of materials, energy 4%
Shareholder
s and 
Institutions• Quality and speed of Company information deliver
y1%
The Community •  Organisation of corporate events
• Quality of corporate initiatives/projects 2%
 hUMAN  RESOURCES  |The importance
2. Sh AREhOLDERS
2.1 S TRATEGY
The Group companies are fully aware of the importance of supplying accurate information 
about their activities to the market, investors and the Community in general. Subject to the need for confidentiality in the running of the business, communication with the market and investors is carried out in a way that ensures transparency, fairness, clarity and equality of access to information, ensuring equality in the treatment of all categories of shareholders, as per the restrictions set out in the Bylaws. The external communica-tion of information is governed by specific internal procedures, in line with the applicable regulations. The Company has set up dedicated channels of communication with shareholders, bond-holders and stakeholders interested in receiving information about the financial and non-financial aspects of the Company (see § Financial communication). 
2.2 S TAkEHOLDERS  AND THEIR  EXPECTATIONS
The Investor Relations department manages relations with the main stakeholders: institu-tional and retail investors, bondholders, socially responsible investors, financial analysts and credit analysts. Their shared expectations relate to:•
 confirming the objectives reported to the mar
ket through the strategic plan;
• strengthening the Group’s position in the mark
ets in which it operates;to everyone
122 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
Stakeholders Need
Institutional and retail 
investors• Good financial and operational performance by the Compan y
• Positive total shareholder return (stock mar
ket performance of the 
shares and dividends distributed)
• Good reputation of the Group’s brand
• Involvement in the Group’s activities and initiatives
Socially responsible in
vestors• Attention paid to the social and environmental impacts of the Com-pany’
s business and to the Group’s governance
• Positive total shareholder return
• Good reputation of the Group’s brand
Bondholders and credit analysts •
 Stability of the yield from the investment
• Certainty of repayment of the debt at maturity
• Maintaining of creditworthiness
Financial analysts • Direct contact, even with the Group’
s management, on matters 
relevant to the business
14.99%
Other Shareholders Italy
6.01%
Legal Entities
abroad
0.77%
Legal EntitiesItaly
49.28%
Institutional Shareholders abroad0.06%
Other Shareholders abroad
1.21%
Telecom Italia Group22.39%
Telco
5.29%
Institutional Shareholders ItalyThe shareholding structure as of December 31, 2012 is shown below(20).
20
Source: Register of shareholders as of 
December 31, 2012, supplemented by communications received and by otheravailable information.• the certainty of receiving a quick and effective response from the Company to requests 
for information.
The expectations of individual stak
eholders are also given special consideration:| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 123
2.3 F INANCIAL  COMMUNICATION
In 2012, the Company organised quarterly conference calls, road shows abroad and meet -
ings in the Group’s corporate centres (reverse road shows) as well as attending industry 
conferences. During these events, the Company met over 300 investors. In addition to these there are the direct contacts and telephone conversations that the Investor Relations team has on a daily basis. The responses given by the Group to the financial market are based on criteria of relevance, information sensitivity, consistency and topicality in respect of the Group’s structure and the actions undertaken to achieve the targets of the strategic plan. Financial communication also takes into consideration the needs of investors linked to So -
cially Responsible Investing (SRI), which favours companies that pay attention to ethical, social and environmental factors as well as financial aspects.Communication with this particular category of investors, which is jointly administered with the Group Sustainability department, is developed through individual contacts and partici -
pation in dedicated events. As regards relations with individual (retail) shareholders there are currently 450,000 holders of ordinary shares - Telecom Italia’s strategy aims to increase communication channels in order to respond quickly and effectively to queries regarding the performance of shares and the Group as a whole. The messages and ideas that emerge from dialogue with retail investors are collected and reported to top management. The “TI Alw@ys ON” ( telecomitaliaclub.it ) Shareholders’ Club was launched in 2006 as a 
virtual meeting place between the Company and its individual investors. However, the Club is also open to people who do not own shares in the Group and registration provides access to the same free services that are reserved for shareholders, that is:•
 SMS alert, which pro
vides a daily report of the closing price 
and percentage variations of Telecom Italia’s ordinary and sav-ings shares compared to the previous day, as well as the daily percentage variations in the FTSE/Mib index.
•
 Weekly stock exchange report,
 sent on Monday morning, summarise performance during 
the week ending the previous Friday.
• Quarterly Ne
wsletter, which contains the main announcements taken from the press re-
leases published at the time the Group’s results for the period were released.
In addition to these services, Telecom Italia offers shareholders the “Guide to the individ -
ual shareholder”, an in-depth document about the Group, available on request and on the website, as well as constant updates through the press releases (institutional, concerning products, financial).With regard to on line financial communication, the telecomitalia.com  website is constantly 
updated and innovated. In 2012, Telecom Italia achieved first place overall in the Italian and European “KWD Webranking 2012” rankings produced by KWD, the digital division of Hall -
varsson & Halvarsson, a Swedish Company that assesses and rewards listed companies that are most attentive to on line corporate and financial communication.
2.4 R ISk MANAGEMENT
In order to ensure a global approach to risk management, the Telecom Italia Group has adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, inspired by ISO 31000. This is a corporate risk governance tool used to identify, assess and manage risks. At the heart of the system is the Group Risk Management Committee which is chaired and coordinated by the “Administration, Finance and Control” Function Manager and is made up of:“TI ALW@YS ON” IS THE VIRTUAL MEETING 
PLACE BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ITS INDIVIDUAL INVESTORSShAREhOlDERS  |124 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
• the Managing Director Domestic or Diretor Presidente of TIM Brasil or Chief Executive Of -
ficer of Telecom Argentina or Chair
man of Telecom Italia Media, depending on the matters 
being dealt with;
• the managers of the Legal Affairs,
 Human Resources and Organization and Security func-
tions, as well as the Business Support Officer;
• the Group Compliance Officer;
• the manager of the Administration, Finance and Control Risk Management function,
 which 
supports the coordination of the Committee; 
• the managers of other departments,
 involved depending on the specific matters being 
dealt with.
The Committee meets every three months (or when specifically required) and is intended 
to govern the Group risk management process, which is designed to guarantee the opera-tional continuity of the Company’s business. The adopted process provides for:•
 the definition and 
updating of the policies on the efficient operation of the risks manage-
ment process;
• the prior analysis of the context within and outside the Group;
• the assessment of the risk profile by the management, under
stood as a variation to the 
strategic objectives set out in the three-year plan;
• risk mapping with a specific focus on the ones deemed to be most significant;
• the assessment, for the most significant risks (top risks), of the le
vel of maturity in 
their management and the establishment of inter-functional working groups defined by the Risk Management Committee for the implementation of dedicated mitigation action plans and control key risk indicators;
•
 the assessment of the level of maturity of the risk management process at individual Compan
y level.
From 2013 onwards, the risk profile may be updated quarterly instead of annually at the discretion of the Group Risk Management Committee.
2.5 C ORPORATE  GOVERNANCE
Introduction
Telecom Italia’s system of corporate governance, structured according to the traditional model, is in line with the principles contained in the Corporate Governance Code drawn up by the Corporate Governance Committee of Borsa Italiana (available at the website borsaitaliana.it). At the end of 2012, the Company abrogated its own internal code, con-sidered obsolete, and adopted some corporate governance Principles that derogate and/or supplement the framework of applicable rules regarding the duties and operation of the corporate bodies, referring to the principles and criteria of the Borsa Italia Code (December 2011 edition) for the remainder. 
In relation to the internal Code previously in force, the new corporate governance Principles:
•
 reaffirm the 
responsibilities of the Board of Directors (BoD), with a greater focus on the 
internal control and risk management system;
• simplify the listing of strategic operations subject to prior board resolutions, making clear that the listing is given b
y way of example;
• confirm the principles by which the Board operates,
 introducing the principle of advance 
scheduling of Board agenda items;| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 125
• confirm the presence of a Lead Independent Director and three Board committees: the 
Executive Committee, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee,
 and the Control 
and Risk Committee (which replaces and incorporates the responsibilities of the Com-mittee for Internal Control and Corporate Governance);
•
 transfer the issue of the annual appraisal of the BoD from the Committee for Internal Control and Corporate Go
vernance to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
• introduce specific references to the procedures designed to assure that the undertak-ings given to the Brazilian and Argentine authorities to ensure the “separateness” of T
el-
efónica in the management of the Group’s South American subsidiaries are respected;
• renew the internal control and risk management system r
ules in their entirety.
• The articles regarding the management of corporate infor
mation, transactions with re-
lated parties, shareholders’ meetings and relations with investors and shareholders have been abolished.
The corporate governance Principles can be consulted on the Company website telecomi-talia.com, Governance section - Governance System/Codes channel. 
In June 2012 the BoD reviewed the Procedure for the management of transactions with 
related parties (approved in November 2011). The revisions – made as a result of the first year of application of the rules – involved a series of clarifying amendments, with no chang-es to the authorisation system or investigatory powers in force. The new Procedure for the management of transactions with related parties can also be consulted on the Company website telecomitalia.com, Governance section - Governance System/Procedures channel.
The Board then started a process of reviewing the governance documents of the Company in the month of December, focussing in particular on the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Organisational Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001. Regarding the Code of Ethics, a step-wise process was defined which led to a first supplement of the text in force, with a small number of targeted interventions, in December 2012, with the intention of proceeding to a general rewriting of the document by the end of 2013. The interventions on the Organisational Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001, adopted in Janu-ary 2013, involved the incorporation of the new predicate offences of corruption between private subjects and unlawful inducement to promote or give profit to a public official/pub-lic service employee, with a consequent rewriting of the control schemes. In the meantime a specific policy on anti-corruption matters had already been adopted, as a systematic ref-erence framework for the prohibition of corrupt practices (December 2012). 
The text that follows is an extract of the Report on corporate governance and share owner-
ship of Telecom Italia S.p.A. (hereinafter the “Report”. The full text is available in the Gov-ernance section of the web site telecomitalia.com.
Information on share ownership
Information regarding the following topics is included in the full text of the Report:a) Share capital structureb) Restrictions on transfer of securitiesc) Significant shareholdingsd) Securities that confer special rights of controle) Employee shareholdings: mechanism for exercising voting rightsf) Restrictions on voting rightsg) Shareholders’ AgreementsShAREhOlDERS  |126 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
h) Change of control clauses and statutory provisions on Tender Offer
i) Authorisation to increase share capital and share buy-backj) Management and coordination
Compliance
Telecom Italia is a limited company with registered office in Italy, subject to Italian and European Community law. Moreover,•
 in relation to the listing of its shares on Borsa Italiana and of some of its bonds on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, it is required to comply with cor
responding regulations;
• in its capacity 
as a foreign issuer, registered at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Com-
mission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange, it is subject to U.S. law.
As indicated in the introduction, Telecom Italia adheres to the Corporate Governance Code of Borsa Italiana and adapts its own system of corporate governance to Italian and international best practices in the matter.
Telecom Italia’s strategic subsidiaries include:
•
 the TIM Brasil Group companies, the holding company of which Tim P
articipações S.A. 
is a company registered and listed in Brazil, as well as registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange;
•
 the Telecom Argentina Group companies, controlled through Sofora T
elecomunicaciones 
S.A. and Nortel Inversora S.A., both companies registered in Argentina. Nortel Inversora S.A. and Telecom Argentina S.A. are listed locally, registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The corporate governance structure of Telecom Italia is not affected by the legal provi-sions governing Tim Participações S.A. and Telecom Argentina S.A. In compliance, therefore with the provisions of the Brazilian telecommunications author-ity Anatel (October 31, 2007, July 31, 2009, and November 8, 2011) and the agreement made on April 28, 2010 between Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica (CADE) and Telco shareholders (in which the company TIM Brasil Serviços e Participaçoes S.A. intervened, assuming a series of obligations in its own name and that of companies in the Group), Telecom Italia took appropriate proceedings to formalise the separation be-tween the activities of the Telecom Italia Group and the Telefónica Group in the Brazilian telecommunications market. A similar procedure was adopted to ensure compliance with the undertakings assumed by the Group with regard to CNDC Argentina, aimed at main-taining separation and independence between the Telefónica and Telecom Italia groups in activities in Argentina.The aforementioned procedures can be found at the website telecomitalia.com, Govern-
ance section - Governance System/Procedures channel.
Board of Directors
Appointment and replacementIn accordance with Article 9 of the Bylaws, the BoD (composed of a minimum of 7 to a maximum of 19 Directors, at least one third of whom of the less represented gender, with fractions rounded to the nearest whole number) is appointed on the basis of slates submitted by persons entitled to vote holding a total of at least 0.5% of the ordinary share capital or different proportion as required by Consob. By Resolution no. 18452 | ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 127
of January 30, 2013, Consob fixed this percentage at 1%. Slates that contain a number 
of candidates greater than or equal to 3 must ensure that both genders are present, in such a way that candidates of the less represented gender are at least one third of the total, rounding any fractions up to the whole number.Four-fifths of the Directors to be elected are chosen from the slate that obtains more votes (so-called Majority Slate) in the order they are listed on the slate; in the event of a fractional number, it shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number. The remaining directors are chosen from the other slates. To that end, the votes obtained are divided by progressive whole numbers starting from one up to the num-ber of Directors to be elected and the quotients assigned to the respective candidates, in the order listed. The quotients assigned in this way are arranged in a single decreasing ranking and the candidates who have obtained the highest quotients are elected, without prejudice to the legal provisions requiring the presence of at least one Director chosen from a slate not connected with the shareholders who have submitted or voted for the Majority Slate and at least two Directors meeting the requirements of independence legally established for the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors. For the appointment of Directors, for any reason not appointed pursuant to the procedure described above, the Shareholders’ meeting shall vote on the basis of the majorities required by law.If the composition of the Board resulting from the slate voting system does not reflect gender balance, the necessary number of the last candidates of the more represented gender elected from the Majority Slate shall forfeit their post to ensure compliance with this requirement, and shall be replaced by the first candidates not elected from the same slate who are of the less represented gender. In the absence of candidates of the less represented gender on the Majority Slate in sufficient number to proceed with the replacement, the Shareholders’ Meeting shall supplement the board with the majorities required by law, thus ensuring that the requirement is met.At the first renewal of the BoD after the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 15, 2012, the quota to be assigned to the less represented gender is limited to one fifth of the total; in the event of a fractional number, it shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.The BoD has adopted a procedure for planning the succession of Executive Directors, in order to ensure the availability over time of a shortlist of possible replacements, with reference to cases of retirement earlier than the ordinary expiry of the term of office. The BoD is responsible for the existence and efficacy of the Succession Plan, the establish-ment, updating and monitoring of which it assigns to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, working closely with the competent human resource management structures of the company. The Executive Directors also participate in the implementation of this process. In the meeting of the BoD on February 7, 2013, the Nomination and Remunera-tion Committee presented a report on the actions taken on succession issues in the preceding year.The plan provides that, if the need to replace an Executive Director earlier than planned should arise, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee must formulate a recommen-dation without delay, and transmit it to the Chairman or, in his absence, to the Vice Chair-man of the BoD, in view of the decisions to be taken by the full board. In making its se-lection, the BoD is obliged to consider the suggestions and proposals of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, but is not bound by them. In particular, the candidates indicated by the Committee are examined in a special hearing, with the participation of at least three Directors, at least one of whom independent. If unexpected events should occur that create a vacancy among those occupying the role of Executive Director, the rules in the Bylaws, in accordance with the current organisational model, provide that if the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer should cease to hold office, the Vice-Chairman shall 
BOARD MEMBERS’ APPOINTMENT IS BASED 
ON THE “SLATE SYSTEM”ShAREhOlDERS  |128 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
assume the role of Chairman of the Board, while his management powers will automati-
cally be assumed by the Managing Director-Chief Operating Officer. If the Managing Di-rector-Chief Operating Officer should cease to hold office, his powers shall automatically be assumed by the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer. As the natural end of the term of office of the Board approaches, in the knowledge of the intrinsic limits of the role and responsibilities of the serving BoD regarding its renewal, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall formulate a recommendation on the profile of the candidates for the renewal of the executive officers, which shall be present-ed and discussed by the Board.
Composition
The Shareholders’ Meeting of April 12, 2011 set the number of members of the BoD at 15 and their term of office at 3 financial years (until the shareholders’meeting called to approve the Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2013). The Directors have also been authorized to continue their activities as indicated in their curricula vitae, releasing them from the non-competition clause contained in Article 2390 of the Italian Civil Code. Further information on slates and BoD composition can be found in the full text of the Report that also includes conditions of incompatibility with such diuties es-tablished by the Telecom Italia’s Self Regulatory principles.The curricula vitae of the members of the administrative body are available on the web-site telecomitalia.com, Governance Section - BoD channel.
Role of the Board of DirectorsDuring 2012, twelve meetings of the BoD were held; documentation was sent to the Di-rectors, as promptly as compatible with the circumstances of the case (as a rule, the Friday preceding the day on which the meeting is to be held), to enable informed partici-pation in the meetings. When required by the subjects discussed, representatives of the Company management or external consultants were invited to take part, who ensured the necessary technical and professional support.The average duration of meetings was approximately 3 hours. The percentage of attend-ance was 90.33% (98.50% for independent Directors). There are 13 meetings scheduled for 2013, 4 of which have already been held.
The Corporate Governance Principles of Telecom Italia reserve to the BoD the role of 
providing strategic supervision and direction, pursuing the primary objective of creating value for the shareholders, with a medium-long term perspective, also taking the legiti-mate interests of the remaining stakeholders into account. The BoD shall, in particular, have overall responsibility for the internal control and risk management system, including the definition of the nature and level of risk consistent with the specific strategic objec-tives of the business.Without prejudice to the application of the Borsa Italiana Code, pursuant to the Corpo-rate Governance Principles, the following matters have a notable effect on the business of the Company and the Group, and as such are subject to resolutions of the board:•
 agreements with competitors which, considering the subject,
 commitments, condi-
tions, or limits that they may produce, have long-term effects on the freedom of stra-tegic business decisions;
•
 investments and disinvestments exceeding 250 million euros,
 and in any event pur-
chases or sales of shareholdings, or businesses or business units that are of stra-tegic significance in the overall framework of the business; transactions that, in their execution or upon their completion, can create commitments and/or purchases and/or sales of this nature and scale; | ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 129
• the acceptance of loans for amounts exceeding 500 million euros and the granting of 
loans and guarantees in favour of non-subsidiar
y companies for amounts exceeding 
250 million euros; transactions that, in their execution or upon their completion, can create commitments and/or deeds of this nature and scale;
•
 the above transactions, to be perfor
med by unlisted subsidiaries of the Group, exclud-
ing those controlled by listed subsidiaries;
• the listing and delisting of financial instruments issued by the Compan
y or Group com-
panies in regulated markets inside or outside Europe;
• instructions to be given to listed subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries), when the P
arent 
Company exercises its management and coordination activity for the performance of transactions with the characteristics indicated above.
The completeness of the information available to the non-executive directors and the Board of Statutory Auditors represents an essential condition for the correct exercise of the competencies and responsibilities of directing, managing and controlling the ac-tivities of the Company and the Group. The evaluation of the operations is based on a continuous flow of information to non-executive Directors and Statutory Auditors, coordi-nated by the Chairman of the BoD, which utilises the Secretary of the BoD and the Gen-eral Counsel of the Company. This happens from time to time during the meetings and specifically, with a detailed comparison between the results obtained and the objectives of the budget, when examining financial reports and monthly progress data.
The BoD has assessed the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and account-
ing structure of the Company on the basis of information from management and, with specific reference to the internal control system, based on the preparatory work conduct-ed by the Committee for control and risk.The BoD has determined the remuneration of the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and the Managing Director-Chief Operating Officer and the allocation of the total remunera-tion of the members of the Board resolved by the Shareholders’ Meeting: see the Remu-neration Report approved on March 7, 2013.
The self-assessment of the size, composition and operation of the Board and its Commit-
tees was carried out for 2012, as for every year since 2005. The board review was carried out internally by completion of an on-line questionnaire, developed by the offices under the supervision of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, containing a series of ques-tions on the three self-assessment components specified in the Borsa Italiana Corporate Governance Code: size, composition, operation.The results of the questionnaires were first discussed in the Nomi-nations and Remuneration Committee and then by the full BoD, fo-cussing on the operational aspect, commenting on its strongpoints (quality of the debate and the contribution of preparatory work by the Board committees) and areas of improvement (essentially: the need for proceedings to be organised differently, to permit adequate discussion of all the topics on the agenda, which at present are rarely discussed in sufficient depth despite the frequency and duration of meetings). As is now the rule, the BoD concluded the financial year by defining a series of concrete actions intended to overcome the weaknesses found. These decisions, however, were not unanimous, since different views emerged according to the background and expertise of the individual Directors.In accordance with the new corporate governance principles, long term scheduling has been introduced for analysis of organisational structure and risk management, as well as for the strategic planning process, confirming recourse to instances of more in-depth prep-
ALSO IN 2012 THE SELF-EVALUATION OF 
SIZE, COMPOSITION AND OPERATION OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEESHAS BEEN CARRIED OUTShAREhOlDERS  |130 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
aration and investigation work outside the Board, particularly in relation to scenario issues, 
to facilitate more effective Board discussions. At the same time, the training and informa-tion opportunities offered to Directors and Statutory Auditors on the evolution of an indus-try characterised by rapid technological change will be enhanced (in this sense, a series of workshops with management input and external contributions already took place in 2012).During 2012, Directors attended specific meetings with the management and/or ex-ternal consultants to provide them with adequate knowledge of the business sector in which the Company operates, the corporate dynamics and their evolution. Working lunch-es with the management and workshops on new technologies were organised, as were training-information sessions to prepare for strategic meetings; two off-site meetings were held, on technologies and services respectively.
Delegated bodies
The assignment (and revocation) of powers to Directors is reserved to the Board, which defines the purpose, limits and methods of exercising the assigned powers.
On April 13, 2011, following the renewal approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 
12, 2011, the BoD appointed Franco Bernabè Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Aldo Minucci Vice Chairman and Marco Patuano Managing Director and Chief Operating Of-ficer.In addition to the power to legally represent the Company, as laid down in the Bylaws and all the powers necessary for performing actions pertinent to the activity of the company in its various manifestations, to be exercised with a single signature, the following pow-ers were conferred on the Chairman,•
 overall gover
nance of the Group, including coordinating the activities of the Manag-
ing Director-Chief Operating Officer, and defining the Company’s strategic guidelines;
• responsibility for extraordinary transactions and extraordinary finance operations to
 
be proposed to the BoD.
In addition to the power to legally represent the Company and to exercise, with a single signature, all powers required to perform actions pertinent to the activity of the company in its various manifestations, the Managing Director-Chief Operating Officer was made responsible for the overall governance of operations in Italy.Moreover, the Executive Directors (each for their own delegated area) are charged with establishing and maintaining the internal control system (see paragraph headed “Direc-tor in charge of the internal control and risk management system” contained in the chap-ter entitled “Internal control and risk management system”).
The powers conferred on the Vice Chairman were as follows: representing the Company, 
as laid down in the Bylaws, in the event that the Chairman is absent or unable to act, and – initially - a proxy relating to the functioning of the internal control system, this to be taken to mean representing the BoD as a whole, by means of this proxy, in relation to the internal control functions. In the Board meeting on August 1, 2012, the Vice Chairman renounced this proxy; the Board therefore resolved to maintain unchanged the organisa-tional and governance choices regarding internal audit and the structures in charge of “high” and transverse compliance, confirming, in relation to the Internal Audit Manager, and laying down, in relation to the Group Compliance Officer and the IT & Security Com-pliance department Manager, that they report directly to the full Board and therefore, to ensure that this reporting be effective, to attribute the role of link between the BoD and said control structures to a non-executive Director. This role was assigned to Director Gabriele Galeteri di Genola in the meeting of the BoD on November 8, 2012.| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 131
Since 2008 there has been an Executive Committee, composed of the executive Direc-
tors (who ensure coordination with the Group’s management) and some non-executive Directors; the Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the BoD. Its current com-position can be found in the full text of the Report.As provided for by the Corporate Governance Principles of the Company, the Committee has the task of monitoring the performance of the Company and the Group, approving, upon the proposal of the executive Directors, the organizational macro-structures, formu-lating opinions to the BoD on the budget and the strategic, industrial and financial plans of the Company and the Group as well as on operations that, according to their nature, strategic importance, size or commitments, may have a significant impact on the activ-ity of the Company and the Group and carrying out any other duties assigned by the BoD relating to matters that can be delegated. The Committee reports to the Board on the activities carried out in the most appropriate ways, and, in any case, each time at the first useful meeting. Insofar as they are applicable, the operational rules specified for the BoD shall apply to the Committee.During 2012, the Committee held two meetings, with an average duration of approxi-mately 2.3 hours. The percentage of attendance was 92.85% (100% for independent Di-rectors). In 2013, two meetings are planned, of which one has already been held.
Other executive Directors
The Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and the Managing Director-Chief Operating Officer are deemed to be executive Directors. 
Independent directors
Telecom Italia has adopted the criteria established by the Corporate Governance Code of Borsa Italiana for the qualification of the independence of Directors. On the basis of the information provided by the Directors, the following are independent Directors: Lucia Calvosa, Elio Cosimo Catania, Massimo Egidi, Jean Paul Fitoussi, Mauro Sentinelli and Luigi 
zingales. The BoD,
 at its meeting of March 7, 2013, verified the independence re-
quirements of its members, noting that the requirements of the composition of the ad-ministrative body (the presence of at least two independent Directors according to the criteria established by law for Statutory Auditors) had been complied with. The Board of Statutory Auditors monitored the verification of the requirements and the correct applica-tion of the criteria of independence.
Lead Independent Director 
The Lead Independent Director is the Director Luigi 
zingales.
He is the point of reference and coordination for the issues and contributions of the in-dependent Director
s and the non-executive Directors in general. He is granted the right 
to use corporate structures to perform the tasks entrusted to him and to convene spe-cial meetings of only the Independent Directors (Independent Directors’ Executive Ses-sions) to discuss issues affecting the functioning of the BoD or the management of the business, and may invite representatives of the management of the Group to these meetings. During 2012 there were eight of these meetings, usually held the day before the Board meeting.Pursuant to the Corporate Governance Principles, the Chairman of the BoD is assisted by the Lead Independent Director in improv-ing the functioning of the administrative body (including the identification of topics to be examined by the entire Board).
THE LEAD INDIPENDENT DIRECTOR IS THE 
POINT OF REFERENCE AND COORDINATION FOR THE ISSUES AND CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE INDEPENDENT DIRECTORSShAREhOlDERS  |132 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
Handling of corporate information
Telecom Italia has suitable procedures for classifying and managing information in terms 
of confidentiality. Moreover, a procedure has been adopted for the internal handling and external communi-cation of documents and information concerning the Company, with specific reference to sensitive information (available at telecomitalia.com, Governance Section, Governance System Channel). The procedure regulates the management of sensitive information relating to Telecom Italia, its unlisted subsidiaries and listed financial instruments of the Group; this proce-dure is addressed to all members of corporate bodies as well as employees and outside collaborators who have access to information that is likely to evolve into sensitive infor-mation (known as market sensitive information). It also applies as an instruction to all subsidiaries in order to obtain from them, without delay, the information necessary for the timely and proper fulfilment of the public disclosure obligations. The procedure in question, finally, regulates the register of persons having access to sen-sitive information (article152-bis et seq. of the Issuers Regulations). In its meeting on January 17, 2013, the BoD resolved to avail itself of the right to waive the obligations to publish information documents in case of significant merger or de-merger, purchase or sale operations, or operations to increase the share capital by investment in kind.
Board committees
In addition to the aforementioned Executive Committee, the Board also has a Nomina-tion and Remuneration Committee and a Committee for Control and risk (previously called the Committee for Internal Control and Corporate Governance), whose functions are described in the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises non-executive Directors, the majority of whom are independent directors, with at least one Director from a minority slate submitted pursuant to the Bylaws. At least one member of this Committee shall possess adequate expertise in financial matters or remuneration policies. Its current composition can be found in the full text of the Report. The Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors (or, if he or she cannot attend, another Statutory Auditor appointed by the latter), shall attend the meetings of the Committee, which makes use of the Company structures or of external consultants of its choice to perform its functions.The Committee, which combines duties and responsibilities attributed to the nomination Committee and the remuneration Committee by the Borsa Italiana Code, also, pursuant to the corporate governance principles of the Company:•
 oversees the succession plan for Executive Director
s, and monitors the updating of 
the company management replacement lists, prepared by the Executive directors.
• establishes the procedure and period for the annual evaluation of the BoD;
• proposes the criteria for allocating the total annual compensation established by the Shareholder
s’ Meeting for the whole BoD;
• performs other duties assigned to it by the BoD
.
During 2012 the Committee monitored the deployment of the remuneration policy for the year and investigated the 2013 cycle incentive measures; it started the investigation in view of the reproposal of a share ownership plan extended to all employees (investiga-tion concluded in 2013, with the formulation of the proposal for the Shareholders’ Meet-| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 133
ing in April); it defined the ways in which the 2012 board evaluation will be carried out 
and overseen the succession plan for Executive Directors, extending its checks to the func-tioning of the strategic management replacement tables. For further information on the work of the Committee on the 2013 corporate remuneration policy, see the Remuneration report for 2012, which may be consulted on the company website at telecomitalia.com, Governance section Remuneration channel.The BoD was kept informed of these various activities at each first available meeting.The Committee had access to the necessary information and corporate functions for performing its tasks. The Committee was not assigned financial resources of a predetermined amount, but was able autonomously to bring in external consultants (Sandro Catani from Ambrosetti), who do not have relationships with the Company which could prejudice their independ-ence of judgement. In the course of 2012 there were ten such meetings. At the meetings (average length: approximately 2 hours), from time to time, the managers responsible for the issues un-der discussion were invited to offer support. The percentage of attendance was 91% (92% for independent Directors).Three meetings have already taken place in 2013.
Remuneration of Directors, General Managers and key managers with strategic 
responsibilities
The information in this section and that regarding the agreements between the Company 
and the Directors which provide for compensation in the case of resignation or dismissal without just cause or in the event that their employment ceases following a tender offer, are made available in the Remuneration Report for 2012, which may be consulted on the company website at telecomitalia.com, Governance section Remuneration channel.
Control and Risk Committee
In its meeting on December 6, 2012, the BoD, in adopting the new Corporate Govern-ance Principles, identified the pre-existing Committee for Internal Control and Corporate Governance (part of the governance structure of the Company since 2000) as the Control and Risk Committee referred to in the Borsa Italiana Code.The Control and Risk Committee comprises non-executive Directors, the majority of whom are independent directors, with at least one Director from a minority slate submit-ted pursuant to the Bylaws. At least one member of this Committee shall possess adequate expertise in accounting and finance or risk management. The composition of the Committee is shown in the full text of the Report.Without prejudice to the duties attributed to it by the Borsa Italiana Code and the internal corporate rules (which, in particular, assign to the Committee the oversight of transac-tions with related parties), the Committee:•
 provides high-level super
vision related to corporate social responsibility, monitoring 
the consistency of the actions performed with the principles laid down by the Code of Ethics of the Group and the values of Telecom Italia;
•
 monitors observance of the Compan
y’s corporate governance rules, the evolution of 
rules and best practice in the field of controls, corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, also with a view to proposing updates to the internal practices and rules of the Company and the Group;
•
 performs other duties assigned to it by the BoD
.ShAREhOlDERS  |134 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
• expresses a prior opinion (i) on the transactions with related parties entrusted to  
the board pursuant to the law, Bylaws or Corporate Governance Code; (ii) on ordinary 
standard or market transactions, according to terms not predetermined or defined af-ter a tender worth over 10 million euros; (iii) on non ordinary transactions worth more than 2 million euros.
Information about the Committee’s activities carried out during 2012 is available in the full text of the Report.
Internal control and risk management system 
The internal control and risk management system is organised and operates according to the principles and criteria set out in the Borsa Italiana Code. It is an integral part of the general organisational structure of the Company and the Group, and involves several components that act in a coordinated way according to their respective responsibilities – the responsibility of the BoD to direct and provide strate-gic supervision, the responsibility of the Executive Directors and management to moni-tor and manage, the responsibility of the Control and risk Committee and the Head of the Audit Department to overview and provide support to the BoD, and the supervisory responsibilities of the Board of Statutory Auditors. In particular, the internal control and risk management system consists of set of rules, procedures and organizational struc-tures that, through a process of identifying, measuring, managing and monitoring the principal risks, allows the sound, fair and consistent operation of the company in line with the pre-established objectives. 
As such this process is aimed at pursuing the values of both pro-cedural and substantial fairness, transparency and accountability, which are considered key factors for managing Telecom Italia’s business, in compliance with the Code of Ethics and Conduct of the Group and the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles 
(both of which can be found on the website telecomitalia.com, Governance section, Gov-ernance System channel). This process, constantly monitored with a view to progressive improvement, is intended to ensure, in particular, the efficiency of company operations and entrepreneurial con-duct, its transparency and verifiability, the reliability of information and management and accounting data, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as the safeguarding of company integrity and its assets, in order to prevent fraud against the Company and the financial markets. The BoD, insofar as it is responsible for the internal control and risk management sys-tem, defines the guidelines of the system, verifying its adequacy, effectiveness and prop-er functioning, so that the main corporate risks (including, among others, operational, compliance-related, economic and financial risks) are properly identified and managed over time. In order to ensure a global approach to the management of risks, the Telecom Italia Group has implemented and is perfecting an integrated process inspired by Enter-prise Risk Management (ERM), For a description of this process and the respective re-sponsibilities see § Risk Management and the full text of the Report, in which informa-
tion is also available on the system for managing financial risks to which the Telecom Italia Group is exposed in its operations and the system of risk management and internal control over financial reporting.
Director in charge of the Internal control and risk management system
The institution and maintenance of the internal control system are assigned to the Ex-ecutive Directors (currently, the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabè and the 
CONTROL AND RISK COMMITTEE 
OVERSEES CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITIES ACTIVITIES| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 135
Domestic Managing Director-Chief Operating Officer Marco Patuano, each with respect to 
the area delegated to him), and to the Manager in charge of drawing up the Company’s accounting documents for this field of competence, so as to ensure the overall adequacy of the system and its practical functionality, in a risk-based perspective, which is also taken into account in determining the agenda for the Board’s proceedings. The BoD at its meeting on April 13, 2011 conferred the proxy in respect of functionality of the internal control system on the Vice Chairman, who exercised it in terms of repre-senting the BoD in its entirety by means of this proxy. In the Board meeting on August 1, 2012, the Vice Chairman renounced this proxy and on the same date the Board resolved (i) to maintain unchanged the organisational and governance choices regarding internal audit and the appropriate structures for “high” and transverse compliance, confirming, in relation to the Internal Audit Manager, and laying down, in relation to the Group Com-pliance Officer and the IT & Security Compliance Department Manager, that they report directly to the full Board; (ii) to attribute the role of link between the BoD and said control structures to a non-executive Director. This role was assigned to Director Gabriele Gale-teri di Genola in the meeting on November 8, 2012.The Executive Directors have overseen the identification of the major company risks (strategic, operational, financial and compliance) in the operational areas covered by their mandates, taking account of the activities undertaken by the Company and its sub-sidiaries. They implement the guidelines defined by the Board, overseeing the design, creation and management of the internal control and risk management system and constantly check-ing the system’s adequacy and efficacy. They may also ask the Internal Audit function to carry out audits of specific operational areas and of respect for the internal rules and procedures in the execution of the com-pany operations, giving simultaneous notice to the Chairmen of the BoD, the Control and risk Committee and the Board of Statutory Auditors.
Head of audit department
Pursuant to the Corporate Governance Principles that the Company has adopted, in exer-cising the responsibility of the BoD for the internal control and risk management system, the Board, in addition to the Control and risk Committee, also utilises the Head of the Audit Department, a manager with an adequate level of independence and means suit-able to perform this duty. The Head of the Audit Department is responsible for supporting the management and control boards in assessing the adequacy, full functioning and effectiveness of the con-trol and risk management system and consequently to propose corrective measures in case of anomalies and malfunctions.In particular, in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code of Borsa Italiana, the Head of the Audit Department:a) verifies, both on a continuous basis and in relation to special needs, in conformity with 
international standards, the adequacy and effective functioning of the internal control and risk management system, through an audit plan approved by the BoD, based on a structured analysis and ranking of the main risks;
b) is not responsible for any operational area and reports directly to the BoD; c) has direct access to all information useful for the performance of his or her duties; d) drafts periodic reports containing information on his or her own activity, and on the risk 
management process, as well as about compliance with the plans defined to mitigate these risks. Such periodic reports contain an evaluation of the adequacy of the inter-nal control and risk management system; 
e) prepares timely reports on particularly significant events; ShAREhOlDERS  |136 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
f) submits the reports referred to in points d) and e) to the Chairs of the Board of Statu-
tory Auditors, Control and Risk Committee and BoD;
g) tests the reliability of the information systems, including the accounting system, as 
part of the audit plan;
h) reports on his work to the Director delegated for this purpose, the Control and risk 
Committee and, through the latter, to the BoD, as well as the Board of Statutory Audi-
tors. In particular, he reports on how risk is managed, as well as on compliance with established plans for risk containment, and expresses his assessment on the suit-ability of the internal control system for achieving an acceptable overall risk profile.
The Head of the Audit Department also has a role in ensuring respect for the principles and values expressed in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, by handling reports from employees, collaborators, consultants, employers and third parties in business relationships with the Group on violations of laws or regulations, of the Code itself, and of internal procedures, as well as irregularities or negligence (including accounting), and promoting the most ap-propriate resulting initiatives, including the proposal to impose sanctions.The oversight role of the head of the Audit Department is directed, in particular, towards expressing an assessment in terms of reasonable certainty about the capacity of the inter-nal control and risk management system to impact on the actual achievement of the objec-tives assigned to individual company structures (effectiveness profile), taking account of the rational use of resources for their realization (efficiency profile) in the light of the (quali-tative/quantitative) risk factors present and the probability of their affecting the achieve-ment of those objectives. This oversight is assured through:•
 the direct execution of assurance services (audits and complementary activities – so-called 3rd le
vel controls – aimed at assessing the governance, control and risk manage-
ment processes) and consultancy services;
• checking the implementation of improvement plans by continuous monitoring and spe
-
cific follow-up work in cases that are complex and significant to the topics originally analysed.
Organisational model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001The internal control system is complemented by the so-called “Organizational Model 231”, i.e. a model of organization and management adopted pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 aimed at preventing offences that can result in liability for the Company.
The Organisational Model has also been adopted by domestic subsidiaries of the Group as well as by Telecom Italia, and con-sists of: •
 the Code of Ethics and Conduct of the Telecom Italia Group,
 
where the general principles (transparency, fairness, loyalty) that guide the Company in the organization and conduct of business are 
indicated; 
•
 the “general principles of internal control”, tools to pro
vide a guarantee with regard 
to the objectives of efficiency and operational effectiveness, reliability of financial and management information, compliance with laws and regulations, safeguarding of assets against possible fraud; 
•
 the “principles of conduct”, which consist of specific rules for relations with third par
ties 
and for all fulfilments and activities of a corporate nature, and 
• the “internal control schemes” that describe business processes at risk of crime, an
y 
predicate offences relating to them, the preventive control activities and the behavioural indications aimed at avoiding the related risks.THE ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL 231 IS AIMED 
AT PREVENTING OFFENCES THAT CAN RESULT 
IN LIABILITY FOR THE COMPANY| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 137
The internal control schemes have been prepared in accordance with the following ba-
sic principles: (i) the separation of roles in undertaking the principal activities involved in business processes; (ii) the traceability of decisions, to allow for identification of specific points of responsibility and the motivations for the decisions themselves; and (iii) the ob-jectification of the decision-making processes, so that decisions are not made on the basis of purely subjective considerations, but based on pre-established criteria. The Organizational Model is a dynamic instrument, which affects the corporate operation, which in turn must be constantly checked and updated in the light of feedback, as well as the evolution of the regulatory framework. The amendments were drafted by a managerial committee called Steering Committee 231, briefed by the Supervisory Board and approved by the BoD when of a significant nature. The Organisational Model incorporates, in terms of application, the predicate offences provided for in Legislative Decree 231/2001, excluding those deemed to not be directly pertinent for the Telecom Italia Group. In January 2013, a new version of the Model was adopted that incorporated the new predicate offences of corruption between private sub-jects and unlawful inducement to promise or give profit to a public official/public service employee, introduced by Law 190 of 6/11/12. As well as adapting and updating the in-ternal control schemes based on the new offences, the new version of the Organisational Model 231 contains an explicit reference to the fight against all forms of corruption and to the Anti-corruption Policy adopted by the Group (see below).The new version also constitutes an integral component of the reference compliance pro-gram for the application of anti-corruption legislation such as FCPA and the UK Bribery Act.
With Reference to the Supervisory Board, its functions, extending to Group level, have 
been attributed to the Board of Statutory Auditors.The Supervisory Board (supported in its activities by appropriate offices) oversees the operation and observance of the Organizational Model and reports to the Board the checks it has undertaken and their outcome.
There is a section on website telecomitalia.com, Governance section - Governance System/  
Organisational Model 231 dedicated to the Organisational Model 231 adopted by the  
Company.The adoption of a specific anti-corruption Policy is also part of the process of revising 
the governance documents mentioned in the Introduction. This policy is a systematic reference framework on the prohibition of corrupt practices in the Telecom Italia Group, containing the principles to deploy in the various internal procedures, in accordance with international standards.The sphere of application of the document is both active and passive corruption with public and private subjects, and essentially regards the following areas: gifts, enter-tainment expenses, events, sponsorships, gratuities, shares on companies/charities/joint ventures, acquisitions and sales, consultancy, intermediation, relations with sup-pliers and business partners. The anti-corruption Policy will become operation during 2013, by the adoption/adapta-tion of internal procedures.
Independent Auditor
The Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 29, 2010, on the basis of the proposal put forward by the Board of Statutory Auditors, conferred the office of External Auditor (separate financial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A., annual consolidated Financial Statements, abbreviated half-yearly consolidated Financial Statements, Annual Report ShAREhOlDERS  |138 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
for the purposes of the US Security Laws) on PricewaterhouseCoopers S.p.A. for the 
nine year period 2010–2018. Telecom Italia has adopted special guidelines for the appointment of the independent auditors. In compliance with said guidelines PricewaterhouseCoopers was selected af-ter a comparative analysis carried out under the supervision of the Board of Statutory Auditors. When assessing the candidacies, their skills and specific auditing experience in the telecommunications sector, the adequacy of their technical structure in terms of requirements due to the size and complexity of the Company and the Group, the expe-rience in SEC registrant Italian companies, the independent and unbiased judgement with respect to the Company and the Group, and the consistency of the compensation requested with the time and level of professionalism shown were particularly consid-ered. The independent auditor appointed by the Parent company Shareholders’Meeting is the main independent auditor for the entire Telecom Italia Group. To protect the inde-pendence of the appointed auditor, the guidelines establish the principle under which the appointment of further assignments (when allowed by the reference regulation) is limited to the services and activities closely related to the audit of the financial state-ments. This is subject to the preventive favourable opinion of the Parent company’s Board of Statutory Auditors, which expresses its opinion from time to time or before-hand on different types of assignments (so-called pre-approved assignments). In any event, the Board of Statutory Auditors has the right to establish guidelines and qualita-tive and quantitative criteria regarding the appointment of independent auditors, valid for the entire Group, which it did by requiring the introduction, from January 1, 2012, of an operative procedure which provides for prior examination by the Board of Statutory Auditors (even for pre-approved appointments) when certain qualitative conditions oc-cur or when specific quantitative thresholds are exceeded. The Board of Statutory Audi-tors has also stated that it will endorse the corresponding determinations adopted by the audit committees of the SEC-registered subsidiary companies, provided that they are made on the basis of rules compliant with the applicable regulations - including United States regulations - and in conformity with the Group guidelines in the matter.
Manager responsible for preparing the corporate accounting documents and other cor-
porate roles and functionsThe position of manager responsible for preparing the corporate accounting docu-ments is held by the Head of Administration, Finance and Control, Piergiorgio Peluso, who took over the role held by Andrea Mangoni in the board meeting on September 13, 2012.As per the Bylaws (Art. 13), it is the BoD that nominates the responsible manager, after hearing the opinion of the Board of Statutory Auditors and – for corporate governance prin-ciples – of the Control and Risk Committee. When the manager responsible for preparing the corporate accounting documents is appointed, his rights and powers are defined, disci-plined in the specific Regulations, available on the website telecomitalia.com, Governance Section, Governance System channel. As the person legally responsible for the preparation of suitable administrative and accounting procedures to draw up the annual accounts and consolidated Financial Statements as well as any other financial communications, the appointed manager is one of the main subjects involved in the operation of the internal control system of the Company. The Regulations acknowledge his functional responsibility (organizational and for top-ics) with regard to the internal controls for financial reporting, clarifying that, in this context, he or she is supported by the Executive Directors, as well as by the Manage-| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 139
ment of the Company. 
The manager reports to the BoD, the Control and Risk Committee and – for those mat-ters within its competence – the Board of Statutory Auditors.On the question of internal control and risk management, players other than the “typi-cal” ones are added in Telecom Italia, without entailing any contrast with the principles of the Borsa Italiana Code, including: (i) the head of the Compliance department (other-wise known as the Group Compliance Officer) and the head of IT & Security Compliance department, who reports directly to the BoD, and who are responsible for overseeing eminent/transverse/Group compliance (Compliance Department) and IT compliance (IT & Security Compliance department), respectively; (ii) the head of Operational Com-pliance department, who report directly to the Domestic Managing Director-Chief Op-erating Officer and is responsible for specific (regulatory and commercial) domestic compliance.
Coordination of subjects involved in the internal control and risk management system
The main subjects involved in the operation of the internal control system are:1. the BoD, which provides direction and periodic (annual) assessment of the system;2. the Executive Directors (currently the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and Domes-tic Managing Director-Chief Operating Officer, each with reference to the operating con-texts covered by their respective mandates), as directors charged with the establish-ment and maintenance of the system, in accordance with the guidelines defined by the full BoD; 3. the Control and Risk Committee, with the role of providing investigative support to the Board in relation to its internal control and risk management duties;4. the head of the Audit department (the person with sole responsibility for third level controls), who reports directly to the BoD and whose mission, briefly, is to test the func-tioning and adequacy of the system;5. the manager responsible for preparing the accounting documents of the Company, appointed by the Board, with the competences provided for by law and rights defined in the specific internal regulations;6. the Board of Statutory Auditors which, borrowing the expression used in the Borsa Italiana Code, represents the top of the supervisory system. In addition to the lcompe-tences provided for by law of the Board of Statutory Auditors, it also has the following functions, by internal corporate governance choice: (i) the audit committee functions pursuant to the United States’ laws applicable to Telecom Italia as a private foreign issuer registered with the SEC and listed on the NYSE, and (ii) the functions of super-visory board pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 231/2001.
These “typical” players
(20) are joined in Telecom Italia (without this implying any con-
trast with the principles of the Borsa Italiana Code), others, including:
a. the head of Compliance (otherwise known as the Group Compliance Officer) and 
the head of IT & Security Compliance, who report directly to the BoD, and who are responsible for overseeing eminent/transverse Group compliance (Compliance De-partment) and IT compliance (IT & Security Compliance department), respectively;
b. the head of the Operational Compliance department, who reports directly to the 
Domestic Managing Director-Chief Operating Officer and is responsible for specific (regulatory and commercial) domestic compliance;
c. the non-executive Director who represents the link between the BoD and the control 
structures that report directly to the Board (currently: Gabriele Galateri);
d. the Director charged with the ordinary management of the employment relationship 
between the Company and the heads of the control structures that report directly to 20
In relation to these essential figures, 
the internal corporate governance Principles do not waive any of the pro-visions contained in the Borsa Itali-ana Code in terms of responsibilities, competences and operational rules.ShAREhOlDERS  |140 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
the Board (role attributed to the Chairman of the BoD);
e. the Chairman of the Control and Risk Committee who continuously represents it in 
the execution of the tasks of (i) evaluating and discussing the work plan for the con-
trol structures that report directly to the Board, (ii) examining the progress reports on activities (periodic and/or extraordinary reports), (ii) directing activities through specific requests for audit/investigation, all to assist and support the execution of the duties and the exercise of the responsibilities of the full Board on control and risk management system matters.
The competences of the figures specified in numbers 1-6 correspond to those recom-mended by the Borsa Italiana Code, to which, on this matter, Telecom Italia adheres without exceptions. The establishment of the managerial figures specified in letters a and b, with so-called second level control tasks, meets the specific internal control needs of the Group, and as such is expressly referenced in the Borsa Italiana Code, which refers to the organisational assessments of the issuer (also with reference to the corresponding hierarchical relations). The “facilitator” Director (letter c) performs the essential guarantee function, in the presence of a Chairman of the BoD with executive functions, and hence first controlled figure. He does not concern himself with either the operational aspects of the controls nor with the flow of information between the control functions and the BoD (which are instead the responsibility of the Committee), but is called on to facilitate board over-sight of the adequacy of the resources assigned to the control functions that report directly to the BoD. The option to not assign this role to the Chairman of the Committee meets the redun-dancy and multiplication logic of the checks and balances that inform the whole control governance of the company.The Chairman of the BoD is instead responsible for the bureaucratic aspects of the employment relationship of the managers responsible for the control structures who report directly to the Board (letter d). Said managers do not have a single reference point, and it is normal that the administrative aspects mentioned are assigned to a legal representative (who by the will of the board is its representative to the outside world: its Chairman), avoiding the need to issue an ad hoc delegation of powers. As for the Chairman of the Control and Risk Committee (letter e), he has no independ-ent role, but exercises one that derives from the specific role of the Committee: the board is too broad a body to govern the controls, and the fact that many control and risk management system responsibilities cannot be delegated (and/or the choice of the Board not to delegate them) emphasises the prominent role of the Committee, giv-en its focussed and specialised internal articulation (which also meets specific com-position requirements). In this context, the Chairman of the Committee is assigned the task of the continuous operational management of the relations of the Committee with managerial level exponents of the control governance system (while the bureaucratic aspects are assigned to Chairman-Chief Executive Officer).
Interests of Directors and transactions with related parties
The company procedure for undertaking transactions with related parties, drawn up in compliance with Consob Regulation no. 17221 of March 12, 2010 and adopted in November 2010, was updated in June 2012, introducing some clarifying amendments based on the experience accrued in the first year of its application, without changing the authorisation system and investigative responsibilities in force. The document classifies the transactions into different categories and, according to this classification grid, different validation and approval paths are applied, when these | ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 141
transactions are to be carried out with related parties. For further information please 
refer to the full text of the Report.
Appointment of Statutory Auditors
Pursuant to article 17 of the Bylaws, the Board of Statutory Auditors consists of 5 standing Auditors, including at least 2 from the less represented gender. The Share-holders’ Meeting also appoints 4 alternate Auditors, 2 of each gender. The Board of Statutory Auditors is appointed in accordance with the law and applicable regulations, on the basis of slates presented by persons entitled to vote who jointly or separately hold shares representing at least 0.5% of the share capital with voting rights, or the different measure required by Consob for presentation of the slates of candidates for the appointment of the BoD (Resolution No. 18452 of January 30, 2013 set the said percentage for Telecom Italia at 1%).The slates are divided into two sections: one for candidates for the office of standing Auditor and the other for candidates for the office of alternate Auditor. Slates which in one or both sections contain 3 or more candidates must ensure the presence of both genders in said section, so that candidates of the less represented gender are at least one third of the total, rounding any fractions up to the next whole number. The first candidate in each section shall be selected from among the external audi-tors entered in the appropriate register who have worked on external audits for a pe-riod of not less than 3 years. 3 standing and 2 alternate Auditors are chosen from the slate that obtains the majority of the votes (so-called Majority Slate), while the remain-ing standing and alternate auditors are chosen from other slates (so-called Minority Slates), in compliance with the applicable regulations concerning the limits of connec-tion with the Majority Slate. For this purpose, the votes obtained from the Minority Slates are divided first by one and then by two and the quotients are assigned to the candidates of one section and of the other, according to the order listed. On the basis of the quotients assigned, the candidates on the various slates are ar-ranged in a single decreasing ranking for the appointment of the standing auditor po-sition and in a single decreasing ranking for the appointment of the alternate auditor position and those who have obtained the two highest quotients are elected. If more than one candidate obtains the same quotient, the candidate from the slate that has not yet elected a statutory auditor is elected or, subordinately, there is a tie-breaker vote by the entire Shareholders’ Meeting and the candidate who obtains the majority of the votes is elected.If the composition of the resulting board or category of alternate auditors does not re-flect the gender balance, taking into account their ranking order in the respective sec-tions, the necessary number of the last candidates of the more represented gender elected from the Majority Slate shall forfeit their position to ensure compliance with this requirement, and shall be replaced by the first unelected candidates of the less represented gender on the same slate and the same section. In the absence of can-didates of the less represented gender in the relevant section of the Majority Slate in sufficient number to proceed with the replacement, the Shareholders’ Meeting shall appoint the standing or alternate Auditors that are missing with the majorities required by law, ensuring that the requirement is met.In the event that a statutory Auditor chosen from the Majority Slate or one of the Minor-ity Slates should cease to serve, the alternate Auditors from the Majority Slate or the Minority Slates shall take his/her place. Appointments to fill vacancies on the Board of ShAREhOlDERS  |142 | INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  
Statutory Auditors pursuant to Article 2401 of the Italian Civil Code shall be approved 
by the Shareholders’ Meeting with the affirmative vote of the absolute majority of those voting and in compliance with the principle of the necessary representation of the mi-nority shareholders, and of the requirements of the Bylaws regarding gender balance. In the event that a standing Auditor chosen from the Minority Slates should cease to serve, the principle of necessary representation of the minorities shall be deemed to have been respected if one of the alternate Auditors chosen from the Minority Slates takes his/her place. At the first renewal of the Board of Statutory Auditors after the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 15, 2012, the quota to be assigned to the less represented gender is limited to one fifth of the total; in the event of a fractional number, it shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.Information about the composition and operations of the Board of Statutory Auditors is available in the full text of the Report.
The curricula vitae of the members of the control body are available on the website 
telecomitalia.com, Governance Section - Board of Statutory Auditors channel.
Shareholders’ Meetings
Pursuant to law, the shareholders entitled to attend the Meeting and to vote are those for whom the reference intermediary sent the Company specific communication certify-ing such right at the record date (seventh working day prior to the meeting first call). Those who are holders of shares only after such date will not be entitled to attend the Meeting and vote. Ordinary shareholders may also exercise their right to vote by mail, as well as be rep-resented, by giving a proxy to a physical or legal person, including the representative designated by the Company, if appointed (the decision is to be taken by the BoD, at the time of calling the meeting). The BoD also has the option of allowing electronic voting, specifying the procedure in the notice convening the meeting.In order to facilitate the collection of proxies among employee ordinary shareholders of the Company and its subsidiaries who belong to shareholder associations satisfying the requirements established by law, special areas and instruments are made avail-able for communication and performance of the activity. The BoD shall use its best endeavours to ensure that Shareholders have adequate in-formation about the elements necessary for taking decisions within the competence of the Shareholders’ meeting, with full knowledge of the facts.The ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting resolves on matters of law and authorises trans-actions with parties related to the Company, in the circumstances and according to the methods provided for in the specific procedure adopted by the BoD, in accordance with the applicable regulations.The Bylaws also provide (article 12.1) decisions on the merger into Telecom Italia or demerger in favour of Telecom Italia of companies of which Telecom Italia owns at least 90% of the share capital, the reduction of the share capital in the event of the with-drawal of shareholders, the revision of the Bylaws to conform with statutory provisions, the relocation of the Company’s registered office within Italy, and the opening and clos-ing of secondary offices are matters that are remitted to the competence of the BoD.To ensure the regular conduct of Shareholders’ Meetings, since 2000 the Company has adopted the Regulations for the Shareholders’ Meetings, available at the website telecomitalia.com, Governance section, Governance System channel.| ShAREhOlDERS INTERNA l STAkEhOlDERS  | 143
9 Directors attended the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2012 and 7 the meeting 
held on October 18, 2012.During the course of the year no significant variations occurred in the market capitali-sation of Telecom Italia shares and in the composition of the Shareholders’ body.ShAREhOlDERS  |1. 2011 AND 2012 RESuLTS 
The results achieved are shown below, compared to the objectives published in the previ-
ous sustainability Report for the year 2012 and, for the Customers stakeholder only, for the year 2011
(21).
1.1 TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A. – CUSTOMERS(22)21
The actual figures of the above men-
tioned objectives for 2012 will be available in July 2013 on the websites stated in note 22.
22
The full list of mobile service quality in-dicators, and the respective objectives for 2011, are available at tim.it. The full list of quality indicators for fixed net-work and IPTV Internet access services, and the respective objectives for 2012, are available at telecomitalia.it.
*
Status target:  
 achieved 
 not achieved
** 
With regard to “Internet customer 
support services - average operator response time to incoming calls”, the target has not be restated for 2012 because it refers only to support pro-vided to business customers (via the specific 800.102.120 toll free num-ber). Consumer customers have no specific number on which to request Internet support and their needs are handled via the 187 number..
***
Indicator not restated because there have been no new activations since 2012.1. 2011 AND 2012 R ESuLTS 
The results achieved are shown below, compared to the objectives published in the previ-
ous sustainability Report for the year 2012 and, for the Customers stakeholder only, for the year 2011
(21).
1.1 T ELECOM  ITALIA  S.p.A. – C USTOMERS(22)21
The actual figures of the above men-
tioned objectives for 2012 will be available in July 2013 on the websites stated in note 22.
22
The full list of mobile service quality in-dicators, and the respective objectives for 2011, are available at tim.it. The full list of quality indicators for fixed net-work and IPTV Internet access services, and the respective objectives for 2012, are available at telecomitalia.it.
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2011Target2011Final ResultTarget status 2011
(*)2012Target
Customers – 
MobileActivation time for voice service (pre-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97 100
97
Customers – MobileActivation time for voice service (post-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97 100
97
Customers – MobileResidential customer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming callsSeconds 35 22
35
Customers – MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period (post-paid service)% 1.4 0.1
1.3
Customers – MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.2 0.1
1.2
Customers – InternetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)% 94 99.1
94
Customers – InternetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Average time of supply (active telephone lines)Days 9 6
9
Customers – InternetBroadband Internet access service faults – Average repair timeHours 30 15
27
Customers – InternetCustomer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming callsSeconds 70 76
(**)
Customers – InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period% 1.2 0.4
1.2
Customers – IPTVActivation time of the IPTV service – percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer% 78 80.7
78(***)
Customers – IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time of operator response to incoming callsSeconds 70 51
70
Customers – IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.2 0.7
1.2
Customers – IPTVAvailability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of the serviceHours/Year36 10
36
148 | APPENDIX
1.2 T ELECOM  ITALIA  S.p.A. – O THER  STAkEHOLDERS
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2012Target2012Final resultTarget status 2012
Human 
Resources – TrainingTraining in health, safety and environment issues
(1)Training hours80,000 50,204
Human Resources – TrainingTraining – Training hours per head
(2)Training hours per head24 28.9
Human Resources – TrainingTraining - Coverage (percentage of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one training session)% 82.50 76.20
Human Resources – AccidentsAccidents per 100 workers
(3)Number <1.41 1.23
The Environment – EnergyEco-efficiency indicator
(4)Bit/Joule 2,450 2,524
The Environment – EnergySelf-generation of energy from mixed sources (cogeneration)GWh 84 83
The Environment – EnergyFuel cell plants in replacement of lead batteriesNumber 45 248
The Environment – EnergyFluorescent lighting units replaced with LED unitsNumber 150,000 160,000
The Environment – Atmospheric EmissionsReduction of the quantity of ozone-depleting gas (R22) used in air-conditioning and cooling systemsKg 5,000 7,154
The Environment – Electromagnetic EmissionsSAR qualification
(5)% 100 100
The Environment – Electromagnetic EmissionsSAR qualification of other technologically innovative devices (USB memory sticks, tablets and routers) marketed under the TIM brandNumber 10 10
The Environment – PaperUsed paper sent for recyclingTons 21,050 20,072
Digital Inclusion ADSL coverage(6)% 98.00 98.00
Digital Inclusion UMTS and HSDPA coverage(7)% 86.00 85.60
Digital Inclusion LTE coverage(7)% 9.00 14.901
Training delivered directly by the 
SPPA (Prevention, Protection and Environment Services) function of the 
human Resources and Organization 
depar
tment.
2
The data includes classroom, online and on-the-job training.
3
The severity index shows the working days lost during the year for every thousand hours worked.
4
For further information on the eco-efficiency indicator see § The Environ-ment/Energy. 
5
This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically in-novative models of mobile phone handsets. 
6
The percentage refers to fixed tel-ephone lines. 
7
The percentage refers to the resident population. Coverage values are sub-ject to change based on ISTAT and urbanisation updates.
 APPENDIX | 149
1.3 T IM BRASIL
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2012Target2012Final resultTarget status 2012
Human 
ResourcesTraining (total hours: in class, online and on the job) provided to its own employees, outsourced employees and internsTraining hours600,000 679,675
Human ResourcesSustainability training (percentage of employees, outsourced employees and interns out of the total workforce who have taken part in at least one training session on sustainability issues)% 30 35
The Environment Collection of mobile 
phones, batteries and other accessories to be sent for recyclingTons 13 13.88
The Environment Ratio between recycled waste 
and the total waste generated in the offices% 58 74
The Environment Energy - Increase in the 
consumption of energy to operate the transmission network resulting from the expected increase in the volume of traffic% 3.5 7.25
Suppliers Suppliers assessed under 
sustainability criteriaNumber 180 188
1.4 T ELECOM  ARGENTINA
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2012Target2012Final resultTarget status 2012
Human 
ResourcesSustainability training: managers involved in at least one training eventNumber 500 517
Human ResourcesEmployees taking part in the Company’s volunteering programmeNumber 650 566
Human ResourcesEmployees with teleworking contractsNumber 810 1,008
The Environment Mobile phone batteries sent 
for recyclingKg 2,000 11,395(1)
Suppliers Suppliers assessed under 
sustainability criteriaNumber 200 200
1
In addition to batteries, the data also includes handsets and accessories sent for recycling.
150 | APPENDIX
2. 2013 O BjECTIvES 
The objectives for 2013 are shown below. 
2.1 T ELECOM  ITALIA  S.p.A. – C USTOMERS
Area of 
referenceIndicator(1)Unit of mea-surement2013 Target
Customers – 
MobileActivation time for voice service (pre-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers – MobileActivation time for voice service (post-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers – MobileResidential customer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming callsSeconds 35
Customers – MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period (post-paid service)% 1.2
Customers –MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.2
Customers – InternetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)% 95
Customers – InternetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Average time of supply (active telephone lines)Days 9
Customers – InternetBroadband Internet access service faults – Average repair timeHours 26
Customers – InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period% 1.0
Customers – IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time of operator response to incoming callsSeconds 70
Customers – IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.0
Customers – IPTVAvailability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of the serviceHours/Year 361
The full list of mobile service quality in-
dicators, and the respective objectives for 2013, are available at tim.it. The full list of quality indicators for fixed net-work and IPTV Internet access services, and the respective objectives for 2013, are available at telecomitalia.it.
 APPENDIX | 151
2.2 T ELECOM  ITALIA  – OTHER  STAkEHOLDERS  
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2012Final resultTarget2013
Human 
Resources – TrainingTraining in health, safety and environment issues
(1)Training hours50,204 300,000
Human Resources – TrainingTraining – Training hours per head
(1)Training hours per capita28.9 30
Human Resources – TrainingTraining – Coverage (percentage of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one training session)% 76.20 82.50
Human Resources – AccidentsAccidents per 100 workers Number 1.23 1.30
The Environment – EnergyEco-efficiency indicator
(2)Bit/Joule 2,524 2,800
The Environment – EnergySelf-generation of energy from mixed sources (cogeneration)GWh 83 113
The Environment – EnergyFluorescent lighting units replaced with LED units
(3)Number 160,000 100,000
The Environment – Atmospheric EmissionsReduction of the quantity of ozone-depleting gas (R22) used in air-conditioning and cooling systemsKg 7,154 22,000
The Envi-ronment – Electromagnetic EmissionsSAR qualification
(4) % 100 100
The Envi-ronment – Electromagnetic EmissionsSAR qualification of other technologically innovative devices (USB memory sticks, tablets and routers) marketed under the TIM brandNumber 10 10
The Environment – PaperUsed paper sent for recycling Tons 20,072 19,000
1
The data includes classroom, online 
and on-the-job training.
2
For further information on the eco-efficiency indicator see § The Environ-ment/Energy .
3
Modern lED lighting systems provide 
significant benefits in terms of low
er 
electricity consumption and reduction in the disposal of materials/use of resources.
4
This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically in-novative models of mobile phone handsets.152 | APPENDIX
2.3 T ELECOM  ITALIA  S.p.A. – M ULTIANNUAL  TARGETS  – THE ENVIRONMENT
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2012Target2012Final resultTargetStatus2013Target2014Target2015Target
The Environment 
– EnergyTotal electricity procured or produced
(*)GWh 1,875 1,913 1,898 1,865 1,814
The Environment – EnergySelf-generation of energy from mixed sources (cogeneration)GWh 84 83
113 173 203
The Environment – Atmospheric EmissionsReduction of CO² emis-
sions from the purchase and generation of electri-city compared to 2012Tons 20,000 7,500
5,500 17,000 35,000
2.4 TIM B RASIL
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2012Final result2013Target
Human 
ResourcesTraining (total number of hours: in class, online and on the job) provided to its own employees, outsourced employees and internsTraining hours679,675 600,000
Human ResourcesSustainability training (percentage of employees, outsourced employees and interns out of the total workforce who have taken part in at least one training session on sustainability issues)% 35 30
The Environment Collection of mobile phones, batteries and other accessories to be sent for recyclingTons 13.88 13
The Environment Ratio between recycled waste and the total waste generated in the offices% 74 65
The Environment Energy - Reduction of the average quantity of electricity required by the mobile network compared to the number of linesKWh/Mobile lines 4.24 4.17
The Environment Low environmental impact paper purchased for office useTons 60.3 57.3
Suppliers Suppliers assessed under sustainability criteriaOverall number188 228
1
Overall energy requirements for Telecom Italia S.p.A..
The failure to achieve the 2012 target in the context of the above mentioned multiannual 
objectives is due to the fact that at the time the estimate was made consumption was ex-pected to grow by 1.5%. The effective growth rate, at the end of 2012, was 4% mainly due to the acceleration in the development of LTE and NGAN transmission networks. The 48 GWh increase in consumption was only partly offset by the efficiency measures taken (10 GWh), thus resulting in a final net figure that exceeded the target by 38 GWh, with effects on related CO² emissions. The objectives for subsequent years have consequently been 
set new parameters. APPENDIX | 153
2.5 T ELECOM  ARGENTINA
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-ment2012Final result2013Target
Customers Customers who signed up to online billing Number 370,266 385,000
The Community Beneficiaries for social inclusion projects 
based on ICT technologiesNumber 1,519 2,000
Human 
ResourcesSustainability training: number of employees involved in at least one training sessionNumber - 400
Human ResourcesTraining hours per head Hours 19.4 19.4
Human ResourcesEmployees with teleworking contracts Number 1,008 1,008
The EnvironmentEnergy consumption GWh 387 387
The EnvironmentLow environmental impact paper consumptionTons 256 280
Suppliers Suppliers benefiting from sustainability 
training activitiesNumber 110 50
Suppliers Suppliers assessed under sustainability 
criteriaNumber 200 200
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Sede legale: Milano 20149 Via Monte Rosa 91 Tel. 02667201 Fax 0266720501 Cap. Soc.
Imp.Milano N. 03230150967 – Altri Uffici:
40069 Via Tevere 18 Tel. 0516186211
Tel. 08136181 - Padova 35138 Via Vicenza 4
0917829221 - Roma 00154 Largo Fochetti 28
0115773299- Treviso 31100 Viale Felissent 90
Verona 37135 Via Francia 21/C Tel.
www.pwc.com/it
INDEPENDENT REPORT ON THE LIMITED
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
To the Shareholders of
Telecom Italia SpA
1. We have carried out
the “Group”) S ustainability
theverification procedures summarized in paragraph 3 to this Report.
Telecom Italia SpA are
Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness principles included in
Principles Standard
and Ethical Accountability), as described in the
ofTelecom Italia SpA
the sustainability performance and
responsible for the identif
well as for the implementation and maintenance of appropriate management and internal
control p rocesses concerning data and information included in the Report
for the preparation of this Report on the basis of
2. Our work has been conducted in accordance with the principles
limited assurance engagement
-Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information
(ISAE 3000), issued by the
principles require the compliance with applicable ethical
Professional Accountants
professional independence
AccountAbility Assurance Standard
that could have generated an independence conflict have not been performed for the Group.
ISAE 3000 requires that our work
assurance, rather than a reasonable assurance
Furthermore, our work has been conducted taking into account, consistently with the
AA1000AS - 2008, those aspects relevant for the
information on sustainability performance
A limited assurance engagement of
with company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information
sustainability report, in the analysis of the
procedures.
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
20149 Via Monte Rosa 91 Tel. 02667201 Fax 0266720501 Cap. Soc. Euro 3.200.000,00 i.v.
Altri Uffici: Bari 70124 Via Don Luigi Guanella 17 Tel. 0805640311 Fax 0805640349
Tel. 0516186211 -Firenze 50121 Viale Gramsci 15 Tel. 0552482811 Fax 0552482899
35138 Via Vicenza 4 Tel. 049873431 Fax 0498734399 - Palermo 90141 Via Marchese Ugo 60
00154 Largo Fochetti 28 Tel. 06570831 Fax 06570832536 - Torino 10122 Corso
31100 Viale Felissent 90 Tel. 0422315711 – Trieste 34125 Via Cesare Battisti 18
0458263001INDEPENDENT REPORT ON THE LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT
OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012
We have carried out the limited assurance engagement of the Telecom Italia Group (hereafter
ustainability Report as of 31 December 2012 (hereafter the “Report”),
verification procedures summarized in paragraph 3 to this Report.
areresponsible for the preparation of the Report in
Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness principles included in AA1000 AccountAbility
Principles Standard (2008) (AA1000APS - 2008), issued by AccountAbility
and Ethical Accountability), as described in the paragraph “Reporting
Telecom Italia SpA are responsible for the definition of the Group objectives with regard to
the sustainability performance and reporting results achieved. The Board
identif ication of the stakeholders and of the significant aspects to report, as
well as for the implementation and maintenance of appropriate management and internal
rocesses concerning data and information included in the Report
for the preparation of this Report on the basis of the work performed
Our work has been conducted in accordance with the principles and guidelines established,
assurance engagement , by the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000
Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standar
require the compliance with applicable ethical principles ( Code of Ethics for
Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants
professional independence , which was respected also in accordance with
AccountAbility Assurance Standard (2008) (AA1000AS – 2008), since services or activities
that could have generated an independence conflict have not been performed for the Group.
requires that our work is planned and performed wit h the aim of obtaining
rather than a reasonable assurance , that the Report is free of material
Furthermore, our work has been conducted taking into account, consistently with the
those aspects relevant for the valuation of the reliability of
information on sustainability performance detailed in Appendix 1.
assurance engagement of the sustainability report consists in
company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information
sustainability report, in the analysis of the sustainability report and in other
3.200.000,00 i.v. - C.F. e P.IVA e Iscrizione al Reg.
Tel. 0805640311 Fax 0805640349 -Bologna Zola Predosa
Gramsci 15 Tel. 0552482811 Fax 0552482899 -Napoli 80121 Piazza dei Martiri 58
90141 Via Marchese Ugo 60 Tel. 0916256313 Fax
Corso Palestro 10 Tel. 0115773211 Fax
34125 Via Cesare Battisti 18 Tel. 0403480781 Fax 040364737 –ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT
Telecom Italia Group (hereafter
(hereafter the “Report”), following
verification procedures summarized in paragraph 3 to this Report. The Board of Directors of
Report in accordance with the
AA1000 AccountAbility
2008), issued by AccountAbility (Institute of Social
“Reporting ”. The Board of Directors
Group objectives with regard to
Board of Directors are also
the significant aspects to report, as
well as for the implementation and maintenance of appropriate management and internal
rocesses concerning data and information included in the Report . We are responsible
work performed .
and guidelines established, for a
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000
Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information
International Auditing and Assurance Standar ds Board. These
Code of Ethics for
International Federation of Accountants ), including
with the AA1000
since services or activities
that could have generated an independence conflict have not been performed for the Group.
h the aim of obtaining a limited
is free of material errors.
Furthermore, our work has been conducted taking into account, consistently with the
valuation of the reliability of data and
the sustainability report consists in interviews, primarily
company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information included in the
report and in other verification3 The verification procedures performe
 comparison between the
Report with those
December 201 2
 analysis of design and implementation of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
issues to them;
 analysis of the processes underlying the
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
with Telecom Italia SpA,
HR Services Srl
qualitative risk analysis,
accounting and reporting system
control process
transmission of data and information to the department responsible for
 meetings and discussions with
Telecom Argentina SA
evaluate the processes utilized to comply with the
Responsiveness
 analysis, on a sample basis, of the
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information
in the above- mentioned
performance , as
 verification of the
 participation, as observers, to some of the stakeholders’ engagement events;
 analysis of the most relevant aspects
comparison
 meetings and interviews with
sustainability reporting
 obtaining a representation letter, s
relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the information and data
included in it, as well as to the compliance with the
A limited assurance engagement is
carried out in accordance with
assurance that we bec
reasonable assurance engprocedures performe d on the Report are summa rized
between the economic and financial information and data included in the
those included in the Group consolidated financial statements
2;
design and implementation of governanc e and management system of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of Telecom Italia SpA
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
nalysis of the processes underlying the generation, recording and management
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
Telecom Italia SpA, Olivetti SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA, Telecom Argentina SA
HR Services Srl management representatives selected on the basis of a
risk analysis, in order to achieve a general understanding of
accounting and reporting system in use to prepare the Report , as well as
process esand procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing and
transmission of data and information to the department responsible for
eetings and discussions with Telecom Italia SpA, Olivetti SpA,
Telecom Argentina SA and HR Services Srl management, in order to unde
evaluate the processes utilized to comply with the Inclusivity, Materiality
Responsiveness principles included in the AA1000APS – 2008 standard
nalysis, on a sample basis, of the documentation supporting the Report
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information
mentioned meetings and discussions and regarding
, asincluded in Appendix 1;
erification of the engagement of stakeholders, through:
participation, as observers, to some of the stakeholders’ engagement events;
nalysis of the most relevant aspects arisen and documented in int
comparison with data and information included in the Report
eetings and interviews with some employees to understand their awareness
sustainability reporting process;
btaining a representation letter, s igned by the legal representative
relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the information and data
included in it, as well as to the compliance with the principles referred to in paragraph 1
assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
in accordance with ISAE 3000 and, as a consequence, it provides a lower level of
became aware of all the significant events and circumstances
reasonable assurance eng agement could have identified.
2d i3rized as follows:
and data included in the
in the Group consolidated financial statements as of 31
e and management system of
Telecom Italia SpA , as well as of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
generation, recording and management of
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
Telecom Argentina SA and
selected on the basis of a quantitative and
in order to achieve a general understanding of the information,
, as well as of the internal
and procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing and
transmission of data and information to the department responsible for drawing it up;
Olivetti SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA,
management, in order to unde rstand and
Inclusivity, Materiality and
standard ;
supporting the Report in order to obtain
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information obtained
and regarding the sustainability
participation, as observers, to some of the stakeholders’ engagement events;
documented in int ernal minutes and
included in the Report ;
to understand their awareness on the
representative of Telecom Italia SpA,
relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the information and data
principles referred to in paragraph 1 .
less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
provides a lower level of
events and circumstances that a3 The verification procedures performe
 comparison between the
Report with those
December 201 2
 analysis of design and implementation of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
issues to them;
 analysis of the processes underlying the
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
with Telecom Italia SpA,
HR Services Srl
qualitative risk analysis,
accounting and reporting system
control process
transmission of data and information to the department responsible for
 meetings and discussions with
Telecom Argentina SA
evaluate the processes utilized to comply with the
Responsiveness
 analysis, on a sample basis, of the
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information
in the above- mentioned
performance , as
 verification of the
 participation, as observers, to some of the stakeholders’ engagement events;
 analysis of the most relevant aspects
comparison
 meetings and interviews with
sustainability reporting
 obtaining a representation letter, s
relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the information and data
included in it, as well as to the compliance with the
A limited assurance engagement is
carried out in accordance with
assurance that we bec
reasonable assurance engprocedures performe d on the Report are summa rized
between the economic and financial information and data included in the
those included in the Group consolidated financial statements
2;
design and implementation of governanc e and management system of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of Telecom Italia SpA
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
nalysis of the processes underlying the generation, recording and management
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
Telecom Italia SpA, Olivetti SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA, Telecom Argentina SA
HR Services Srl management representatives selected on the basis of a
risk analysis, in order to achieve a general understanding of
accounting and reporting system in use to prepare the Report , as well as
process esand procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing and
transmission of data and information to the department responsible for
eetings and discussions with Telecom Italia SpA, Olivetti SpA,
Telecom Argentina SA and HR Services Srl management, in order to unde
evaluate the processes utilized to comply with the Inclusivity, Materiality
Responsiveness principles included in the AA1000APS – 2008 standard
nalysis, on a sample basis, of the documentation supporting the Report
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information
mentioned meetings and discussions and regarding
, asincluded in Appendix 1;
erification of the engagement of stakeholders, through:
participation, as observers, to some of the stakeholders’ engagement events;
nalysis of the most relevant aspects arisen and documented in int
comparison with data and information included in the Report
eetings and interviews with some employees to understand their awareness
sustainability reporting process;
btaining a representation letter, s igned by the legal representative
relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the information and data
included in it, as well as to the compliance with the principles referred to in paragraph 1
assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
in accordance with ISAE 3000 and, as a consequence, it provides a lower level of
became aware of all the significant events and circumstances
reasonable assurance eng agement could have identified.
2d i3rized as follows:
and data included in the
in the Group consolidated financial statements as of 31
e and management system of
Telecom Italia SpA , as well as of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
generation, recording and management of
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
Telecom Argentina SA and
selected on the basis of a quantitative and
in order to achieve a general understanding of the information,
, as well as of the internal
and procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing and
transmission of data and information to the department responsible for drawing it up;
Olivetti SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA,
management, in order to unde rstand and
Inclusivity, Materiality and
standard ;
supporting the Report in order to obtain
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information obtained
and regarding the sustainability
participation, as observers, to some of the stakeholders’ engagement events;
documented in int ernal minutes and
included in the Report ;
to understand their awareness on the
representative of Telecom Italia SpA,
relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the information and data
principles referred to in paragraph 1 .
less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
provides a lower level of
events and circumstances that aAs far as data and information concerning the sustainability report
for comparative purposes, are concerned, refer to the
4 Based on the procedures
the sustainability r eport of Telecom Italia Group
all material respects, with
paragraph “Reporting”
Appendix 1 is not reliable
Turin, 8 April 2013
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
Paolo Bersani
(Partner)
This report has been translated from the
We have not performed any controlAs far as data and information concerning the sustainability report of
for comparative purposes, are concerned, refer to the assurance report issued on
Based on the procedures carried out, nothing came to our attention that causes us to believe
eport of Telecom Italia Group as of 31 December 201
all material respects, with AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard
“Reporting” of the Re port, and that the sustainability performance included in
not reliable .
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
This report has been translated from the original, which was issued in Italian.
We have not performed any control s on the Sustainability Report 2012 translation.
3 di 3ofthe prior year, presented
report issued on 16 April 2012 .
that causes us to believe that
31 December 201 2 is not in compliance, in
AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008), as stated in the
port, and that the sustainability performance included in
original, which was issued in Italian.
translation.Appendix 1 D ata and information
Area Information/KPI
Economic value Economic value generated and distributed
Human Resources Training Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Human Resources Training TIM Brasil
Human Resources Accidents Telecom Italia S.p.A
Human Resources People caring
Human Resources Turnover Telecom Italia SpA
Human Resources Turnover Argentina
Environment Heating
Environment Vehicles
Environment Number of vehicles and distance travelled
Environment Electricity procured and produced
Environment Atmospheric emissions
Environment Waste
StakeholderInvolvementStakeholder Involvement
Community The measurement of our contribution to the Community
Community Initiatives consistent with the core business
Community Initiatives for general C
Customers Customer Satisfaction Index
Customers C ustomer
Customers Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage
Customers The conciliation procedures
Customers Certifications
Suppliers Sustainability checks
Shareholders Financial communication
Shareholders Risk Management
Shareholders Corporate Governanceata and information on sustainability performance
Information/KPI
Economic value generated and distributed
Training Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Training TIM Brasil
Accidents Telecom Italia S.p.A
People caring
Turnover Telecom Italia SpA
Turnover Argentina and Brazil
Heating systems
Vehicles
Number of vehicles and distance travelled
Electricity procured and produced
Atmospheric emissions
Waste
Stakeholder Involvement
The measurement of our contribution to the Community
Initiatives consistent with the core business
Initiatives for general C ommunity development
Customer Satisfaction Index
ustomer satisfaction concerning customer care
Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage
The conciliation procedures
Certifications
Sustainability checks
Financial communication
Risk Management
Corporate GovernancePage
32
111
149
115
102
98
99
57
58
59
61
64
69
28
The measurement of our contribution to the Community 80
81
83
39
40
Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage 41
45
40
51
123123
124Appendix 1 D ata and information
Area Information/KPI
Economic value Economic value generated and distributed
Human Resources Training Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Human Resources Training TIM Brasil
Human Resources Accidents Telecom Italia S.p.A
Human Resources People caring
Human Resources Turnover Telecom Italia SpA
Human Resources Turnover Argentina
Environment Heating
Environment Vehicles
Environment Number of vehicles and distance travelled
Environment Electricity procured and produced
Environment Atmospheric emissions
Environment Waste
Stakeholder
InvolvementStakeholder Involvement
Community The measurement of our contribution to the Community
Community Initiatives consistent with the core business
Community Initiatives for general C
Customers Customer Satisfaction Index
Customers C ustomer
Customers Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage
Customers The conciliation procedures
Customers Certifications
Suppliers Sustainability checks
Shareholders Financial communication
Shareholders Risk Management
Shareholders Corporate Governanceata and information on sustainability performance
Information/KPI
Economic value generated and distributed
Training Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Training TIM Brasil
Accidents Telecom Italia S.p.A
People caring
Turnover Telecom Italia SpA
Turnover Argentina and Brazil
Heating systems
Vehicles
Number of vehicles and distance travelled
Electricity procured and produced
Atmospheric emissions
Waste
Stakeholder Involvement
The measurement of our contribution to the Community
Initiatives consistent with the core business
Initiatives for general C ommunity development
Customer Satisfaction Index
ustomer satisfaction concerning customer care
Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage
The conciliation procedures
Certifications
Sustainability checks
Financial communication
Risk Management
Corporate GovernancePage
32
111
149
115
102
98
99
57
58
59
61
64
69
28
The measurement of our contribution to the Community 80
81
83
39
40
Geographical Digital Divide ADSL/broad band coverage 41
45
40
51
123
123
124DESIGN
CBA
Printed in may 2013CONTACTS
Group Sustainability
Telecom Italia S.p.A.Corso d’Italia, 4100198 RomaFax: +39 06 3688 2803www.telecomitalia.com
SEND US YOUR SUGGESTIONS T O
groupsustainability@telecomitalia.it
Cert no. SQS-COC-100548
SuStainability report 2012SuStainability
re
port  2012
