Sustainability
Report
2018
Consolidated  
Non-Financial Statement 2018Sustainability
Report
2018
Consolidated  
Non-Financial Statement 2018   TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
 
2 
   
[GRI 102 -53] 
Contacts  
Sustainability Reporting Monitoring and Relationship  
TIM S.p.A.  
Corso Bramante 20  
10134 Turin  
Italy  
 Tel.: +39 02 8595 6979  
www.telecomitalia.com  
Send your comments to:  
groupsustainability@telecomitalia.it     TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
 
3 
  
Letter from the Chief Executive Officer  
 
Every company with a long -term vision sees the pursuit of its own growth and the growth of the communities where it 
operates as integral parts of this vision. Growth always means “ growing together ”. 
In TIM we call this sustainability, a simple principle th at underlies value creation.  
 
Our business strategy is aligned with the collective need for innovation. In keeping with our Ethical Principles, we strive 
to minimise the environmental impact of our work. With the great skill and professionalism that have d riven the 
country ’s communication evolution, we have always been at the forefront of digitalisation development, because the 
heart of our mission is to produce value that supports the well -being of current and future generations while being 
committed to following the principles of the UN Global Compact.  
 
With this strategic role in mind, those who work in TIM are constantly engaged in the innovation of infrastructure and 
technology, at the service of individuals and the country. As part of this work, our in vestment programme for 
ultrabroadband coverage has set significant targets to support our continuous progress towards a digital economy.  
 This focus on innovation and investment in new infrastructure and technology is also the foundation of TIM ’s activitie s 
in Brazil, a country where the Group has been operating for over 20 years and one which represents our second reference 
market.  
 
We put our infrastructure and technology at the service of all the countries in which we operate, promoting a true digital 
culture with access for everybody to services that improve the quality of life. Our commitment makes us a key player in 
the gigabit society  with its increasingly innovative and complex services that represent a growth opportunity for the 
entire ICT sector.  
 
TIM has always paid close attention to the environmental impact of all its activities. In our work to protect the 
environment we are constantly looking at ways to improve our efficiency by lowering the consumption of natural resources and our use of energy . We achieve this through investment in modernising our plants and in the ongoing 
search for the most appropriate management solutions. Every year we set ourselves targets for reducing our emissions and our energy consumption, despite the continuous develo pment of new generation networks. Our Group also 
contributes to the reduction of our customers ’ energy consumption and emissions, by developing and offering digital 
products and solutions.  
 
It is TIM ’s people that transform our ambitions into reality and because of this we have begun to use a model of 
continuous learning to support the digital transformation and ensure we have the skills required to achieve it. These 
measures are essential for the grow th and strategic development of the entire sector.  
In this way,  TIM has become a knowledge company : being market and technology leaders depends on the skills of those 
who work for TIM and through sharing our knowledge and valuing our diversity. This is als o our added value that allows 
us to meet our business objectives.  
 
With courage, dedication and skill we will continue to work to secure TIM’ s role as the cornerstone of the country ’s 
development and digitalisation, because we are highly aware of our respo nsibility to those who look to us for a smarter, 
more inclusive and sustainable future.  
 
 
Luigi Gubitosi 
Chief Executive Officer  
 
[GRI 102- 14] 
    TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
4 CONTENTS  
Note on methodology  6 
THE TIM GROUP  9 
Organisational model  10 
Main shareholders  11 
Economic value produced and distributed  12 
Corporate Governance  14 
Sustainability governance and management  17 
Fight against corruption  19 
Stakeholder engagement  22 
Materiality matrix  24 
Risk management 27 
ENVIRONMENT  37 
Environmental protection approach  38 
Fight against climate change: risks and opportunities for TIM  40 
Electromagnetism and compliance with environmental legislation in force  41 
TIM initiatives for the environment 43 
Energy efficiency improvement work  43 
Reducing staff travel  45 
IoT and environmenta l research  45 
Consumer Products: TIM eco- friendly  46 
TIM’s environmental performance  47 
Energy and natural resources consumption  47 
Atmospheric emissions  50 
Waste  53 
TIM PEOPLE  55 
Commitment to our people  56 
Concise figures  58 
Gender balance  60 
New skills and development  62 
The skills model  62 
Training  63 
Group training figures  66 
Remuneration policy  67 
Industrial relations  69 
Health and safety  72 
Injuries and occupational illnesses  73 
People Caring  75 
Work -life balance  75 
Working hours management  76 
Inclusion Management  76 
Other initiatives for employees  78 •  
G  
o    TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
5 Chapter appendix  80 
THE VALUE CHAIN  93 
The Community  94 
Relations with local communities  95 
Research and development  102 
Digital inclusion 107 
Customers  113 
Customer satisfaction  113 
Conciliation procedures  117 
Child protection  120 
Product responsibility  123 
Safeguarding privacy and personal data  127 
Smart services  130 
The supply chain 133 
Sustainability initiatives  134 
Sustainability checks  135 
Supplier involvement initiatives  137 
Supply chain commitments  138 
HUMAN RIGHTS  139 
TIM’s Commitments  140 
(In)Formation and training on human rights  142 
Complaints and incidents  143 
APPENDIX  147 
Economic -financial highlights  148 
Initiatives with stakeholders – summary tables  151 
2017 and 2018 Results  162 
2019 and multi -annual targets  164 
GRI Content Index  168 
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS  176 • 
•    TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
 
6 
 NOTE ON METHODOLOGY  
[GRI 102- 56] 
Scope and criteria  
The Consolidated Non- Financial Statement (hereinafter “ Statement ” or “Sustainability Report ”) complies with the 
obligations laid down in Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016 on the disclosure of non- financial information. For TIM, this 
Statement, which coincides with the Sustainability Report, represents the result of the commitment to notify its 
stakeholders of the performances and results achieved in the sustainability area, already undertaken in previous years.  
[GRI 102- 45] The Statement contains data and information referring to the Company TIM S.p.A. and its fully consolidated 
subsidiar ies as at 31 December 2018 (hereinafter “ the TIM Group ” or “the Group ”), as presented in the Annual Financial 
Report. The environmental performance data is detailed with some limitations with respect to the Group scope. These 
limitations are not important to understand the Company ’s activities, performance, results or the impact produced by 
the Group.  
[GRI 102- 50] [GRI 102- 51] [GRI 102- 52] The 2018 Sustainability Report, prepared annually over the calendar year, 
respects the same deadlines as the Group Annu al Financial Report and meets the obligations envisaged by Legislative 
Decree 254/2016. The Report is based on a multi- stakeholder approach involving the joint analysis of actions taken in 
respect of the main stakeholders with whom the Company interacts.  
[GRI 102- 10] [GRI 102- 48] No significant changes were recorded in the consolidation area in 2018.  
Data relating to previous years is provided for comparative purposes only, in order to allow an assessment of the dynamic 
trend of the Group ’s activities over the medium term. Note that information relating to “ Fondazione TIM ” and “TIM 
Institute ”, entities not included within the Group ’s consolidation scope, represents a qualitative element which is useful 
in order to understand the attention p aid to the social context, even though this information is not part of the 
consolidation scope of the quantitative information contained in the document.  
[GRI 102- 54] The Sustainability Report abides by the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GR I) Standards 
(comprehensive option) and the process suggested by the principles of the AA1000APS (inclusiveness, materiality, 
responsiveness). References to the GRI indicators are given to provide a greater understanding and highlighted in the text 
with th e symbol [GRI N. ]. 
The Sustainability Report is drawn up according to a system of indicators (KPI -  Key Performance Indicators) which 
measure the company ’s performance and the degree of achievement of objectives previously established for areas in 
which the Company has major impact.  
The KPIs are defined on the basis of:  
• the analysis of the GRI, an international organisation which develops universally applicable guidelines for the drafting 
of sustainability reports;  
• the demands received from stakeholders;  
• the questionnaires sent out by the leading rating  agencies for the purpose of admission to the stock market 
sustainability indexes;  
• the experience the Company has gained in the sustainability field over more than 20 years.  
The KPIs are managed on a dedicat ed application system (BPC) that uses the same platform used for financial reporting 
and control.  
 
This document was approved by the Board of Directors of TIM S.p.A. on 21 February 2019.  
PricewaterhouseCoopers S.p.A., the independent auditor of the Group, was tasked with performing a limited examination 
(“limited assurance engagement ”) of the Sustainability Report/Consolidated Non- Financial Statement; its Report is 
available on page 176 of this Report.  
    TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
7 Sustainability in TIM: the main stages from 1997 to t oday.  
1997
19991998
2000
20022001
2004 2003
2008
20162005
2012 2014
2015
20172018First Report on the Group’s Social and 
environmental performance        
ﬁnancial year 1997Adoption of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Guidelines
Voluntary revision  of the
Sustainability ReportCharter of Values
Adhesion to Global CompactEthics Code
Adoption of the Global Compact 
principles
Admission, conﬁrmed in subsequentyears, to the indexes:Dow Jones Sustainability Index WorldDow Jones Sustainability Index EuropeAdmission to the FTSE4Good 
and Vigeo Eiris indexes, conﬁrmed
in subsequent years
Participation in the CDP survey  
“Best italian company in the presentation of data regarding climate change”CDP
Entry into the  Sustainability index Admission to the STOXX index
conﬁrmed in the subsequent years
Sustainability Report prepared
according to the  GRI G4 
comprehensive option
First Policy on Respect
forHuman Rights
TIM Shared Value Model to measure generated value
Validation  of the TIM Shared Value Model
online course on Human Rights
Sustainability Report/Non-Financial Statement(Legislative Decree 254/2016) preparedaccording to the GRI comprehensive option
TIM Group Environmental PolicyThe TIM GroupTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
10 
  
Organisational model  
[GRI 102 -1] [GRI 102 -2] The TIM Group offers fixed and mobile communication services and ICT solutions, as well as digital 
content. In Italy, the Group operates the biggest fixed voice and data infrastructure, covering the whole country, and 
provides one of the country ’s most extensive and advanced mobile network platforms.  
[GRI 102 -5] The Parent Company is TIM (Telecom Italia), joint -stock company organised under the laws of the Republic of 
Italy1, [GRI 102 -3] where the parent company has its registered office. [GRI 102 -10] [GRI 102 -48] No significant changes 
were recorded in the consolidation area in 2018. During the last three year period, the main changes include the creation of INWIT S.p.A. (2015), listed on the Milan stock exchange, operating in the electronic communication infrastr uctures 
sector.  
[GRI 102 -4] [GRI 102 -6] [GRI 102 -7] The Group ’s activities are encompassed in the following Business Units2: 
• the “Domestic ” Business Unit operates primarily in the field of domestic fixed and mobile voice and data services for 
end customers  (retail) and other operators (wholesale), as well as in the information technology products and services 
sector through Olivetti. In addition to the management of the digital multiplexes through Persidera S.p.A., the 
Business Unit also includes the activities of INWIT S.p.A. and on an international note, the activities related to the 
development of fibre optic networks (Sparkle) in Europe, the Mediterranean and South America;  
• the “Brazil ” Business Unit (TIM Brasil Group) provides mobile and fixed telecommu nications and transmission services 
in Brazil;  
• the “Other Activities ” include the financial companies and other minor companies not strictly connected with the 
Group ’s “core business ”. 
[GRI 102 -2] The Group ’s main brands are:  
• TIM is the brand which operates in the domestic market offering fixed and mobile telephony, internet, digital content 
and cloud services. The TIM brand is also present in Brazil, where it markets mobile phone, mobile Internet and fixed 
line services.  
• Kena Mob ile is the second brand for the domestic retail segment. Established in 2017, it is intended for private 
customers only, and offers no frills mobile services3. 
• Sparkle  offers international voice, data and Internet solutions to fixed and mobile telecommunic ations operators, 
ISPs/ASPs, content and media players and multinational companies.  
• INWIT  is the Group ’s tower company operating in Italy in the electronic communications infrastructure sector, 
specifically that dedicated to the housing of radio transmissi on equipment, telecommunications and broadcasting of 
television and radio signals.  
• Olivetti  markets information technology products and services for residential and business customers.  
• Persidera  offers terrestrial digital transmission capacity and high qua lity technological solutions to leading TV 
networks operating in the domestic market.  
The Group is particularly attentive to the needs of the community in which it operates and implements wide- ranging 
initiatives and projects aimed at the social and econom ic development of the areas in which the Group has a presence. 
This was the intention behind the establishment of Fondazione TIM in 2008, which was followed by Instituto TIM in Brazil 
in 2013.  
The telecommunications industry is undergoing a profound transf ormation due to the evolution of UBB networks (FTTx, 
5G), associated with the development of other technological enablers such as Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security and 
Advanced Analytics, which sets the scene for a new paradigm shift, or the transition from data services to digital solutions, 
in the widest range of areas:  
• in the home: security and entertainment  
• on the move: the connected car  
• at work: Industry 4.0 
• smart city: citizens services and sustainability  
                                                                 
1[GRI 102 -5] Also see the TIM Group Consolidated Financial Statements.  
2 [GRI 102 -45] For more information on the structure of the Group and details of the countries where TIM operates, see the “The companies of  the 
TIM Group” note in the Group’s Consolidated Financi al Statements, which also lists the Group companies and subdivides them by consolidation 
method.  
3 Offers only basic services.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
11 
 • health: predictive and personalised medicine  
We are entering the “ Gigabit Society ”, characterised by increasingly numerous and complex services that represent an 
opportunity for growth for the TLC industry, which already contributes over 90 billion euros to Italian GDP, including 
through direct and indirect effects and productivity.  
TIM is the main protagonist in the evolutionary process of the country towards a digital economy. Huge investment over the last few years (which have led to an FTTC fixed ultrabroadband coverage of about 80% wh ile the mobile LTE coverage 
is higher than 98%) and that planned for the coming years, in their infrastructure management and innovation (both 
fixed and mobile) are a clear indicator of this.  
At the same time, the Group is committed to promoting the widest  possible distribution of digital technologies and skills 
with full integration across the country and in its social and economic -productive fabric. Digital solutions for public 
administration services, cloud services for business, digital platforms for sc hools and hospitals, applications for people 
with disabilities are just a few examples.  
Although the primary purpose of TIM ’s business model is to create long -term value, for the Company and stakeholders, 
the Group has for some time set itself the essential objective of pursuing this aim while ensuring the balance between 
economic, social and environmental sustainability.  
 
 
Main Shareholders of TELECOM ITALIA S.P.A.  
[GRI 102 -5] As at 31 December 2018, the reference shareholder is the French Vivendi S.A., with 23.9% of the ordinary share 
capital. [GRI 102 -10] In 2018, the shareholding recorded the entry of Paul Elliot Singer (General Partner of Elliott Capital 
Advisors LP) who acq uired an indirect stake in TIM, held through the subsidiary companies Elliott International LP, Elliott 
Associates LP and the Liverpool Limited Partnership, equal to 8.9%.  
In April 2018 Cassa Depositi e Prestiti entered the shareholding structure of TIM and, at the shareholders ’ meeting of 4 
May 2018, it participated with shares equal to 4.9% of the ordinary share capital.  
The structure of the Net Equity and the number of shares in circulation are shown in the Group ’s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. For further information relating to reports made to Consob regarding significant shareholdings, see the Report on Operations of the TIM Group.  
During the three- year period 2016 -2018, Vivendi S.A. increased its share (+2.6 pp), foreign institutional shareholder s, 
including the amounts referable to Paul Elliott Singer, decreased ( -1.1 pp), as well as Italian institutional shareholders ( -
1.7 pp) and other shareholders ( -4.5 pp). Shares held by the Group remained unchanged (the 0.1 pp decrease is 
attributable to th e increase in the ordinary share capital).
 
  
Economic  
Sustainability  
Digitalisation, 
Connectivity, Social 
Innovation  
Environmental 
Protection  
Digital Culture  
Human Rights Protection  
Economic 
Sustainability  
Social 
Sustainability  
Environmental 
Sustainability  
Value  
creation  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
12 
  
Composition, as a percentage, of the share ownership as at 31 December 2018  
 
 
 
Economic  value produced and distributed  
The Group aims to achieve a balance between the three dimensions:  
• environmental sustainability: maintaining the function of ecological systems, ensuring a balance between the use of 
natural resources and the company ’s activities;  
• social sustainability: promoting the principle of fairness between generations and within the same generation;  
• economic sustainability: maintaining and increasing capital.  
[GRI 102 -7] TIM reports on what it does to achieve this objective in the Sustainability Report, which focuses primarily on 
environmental and social sustainability, as well as aspects that are both of a social and economic nature (e.g. customer care and innovation m anagement) and the Annual Financial Report, which discusses the Group ’s economic performance 
in detail. In order to give a comprehensive view of the Group ’s sustainability, we have provided some summary data of 
economic performance in the Appendixes, which  are drawn from the Annual Report. The distribution of revenue by 
product and service and the trend in the Group ’s capitalisation and debt is shown in the “ Revenues ” note of the TIM 
Group ’s consolidated financial statements and the Report on Operations of the TIM Group.  
[GRI 201 -1] The economic value produced and distributed to the stakeholders is shown below. Since 2008, the 
presentation method recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative has been adopted, with appropriate adaptations.  
  
Institutional 
shareholders 
abroad  
55.5 
Institutional 
shareholders 
Italy  
3.0 Other shareholders  
11.6 
Vivendi  
23.6 
Cassa 
Depositi e 
Prestiti  
4.9 Telecom 
Italia Group  
1.1 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
13 
 [GRI 201 -1] TIM Group -  Economic value produced and distributed (millions of euros)  
 
 
 
 
[GRI 102 -7] The following table shows one of the main classes of management data of the Group, the trend of access 
lines to fixed and mobile telephony services.  
 
TIM Group – Number of  lines at year end   
(thousands)  31/12/2018  31/12/2017  31/12/2016  
DOMESTIC FIXED     
Physical connections  18,212  18,995  18,963  
Broadband connections  11,184  10,154  9,206  
DOMESTIC MOBILE      
Number of lines  31,818  30,755  29,617  
BRAZIL      
Number of lines  55,923  58,634  63,418  
 
  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
14 
 Corporate Governance  
[GRI 102 -18] [GRI 102 -19] [GRI 102 -24] TIM S.p.A. ’s governance system is structured in the conventional way and provides 
for a management body (Board of Directors) and a control body (Board of Statutory Auditors). The Board of Directors is 
appointed by the Shareholders ’ Meeting on the basis of lists presented to those entitled to vote that overall own at least 
0.5% of the ordinary share capital1. [GRI 102 -22] [GRI 102- 24] The only stakeholders r epresented in the Board of Directors 
are the shareholders. Directors ’ powers are granted (and revoked) by the Board of Directors, which determines the 
purpose, limits and methods by which they are exercised.  
TIM’s Bylaws require the least represented gender to account for at least one third of the total number of directors, 
rounded up to the next unit in the event of a fraction.  
TIM’s Bylaws also provide that at least half of the candidates drawn from the majority list and at least half of those drawn 
from the minority lists must meet the independence requirements set by law, with the result that the number of TIM ’s 
independent directors is higher than that required by law. The qualification requirements for Directors ’ independence are 
established by the CLF2 and the Corporate Governance Code of Borsa Italiana, to which TIM adheres.  
 
[GRI 102 -22] The Board of Directors in office as of May 4, 2018 consists of 15 members, including 12 independents. 6 of 
the Board members are women and the female gender is the only social subgroup represented. On the company ’s 
website (telecomitalia.com) under the heading Corporate Bodies/Board of Directors/Composition each director ’s role, 
nationality, appointment date, list of presentation, independence status and membership on the Board of Directors are 
shown; their relative curricula vitae are also available. The Directors ’ skills range from specific TLC sector experience to 
media and content, from mergers and acquisitions to risk management and top management in large companies. More 
details are available via the telecomitalia.com website. [GRI 102 -31] 21 meetings  of the Board of Directors were held in 
2018.  
[GRI 102 -27] The Directors take part in specific meetings with the management or external consultants, aimed at 
providing adequate knowledge of the industry in which TIM operates, business dynamics and their ev olution. Workshops 
on new technologies and educational -informative meetings are held prior to strategic meetings. Updates regarding the 
relevant legislative framework are provided in specific briefing notes. Training sessions on sustainability are also pla nned 
for 2019.  
[GRI 102 -18] [GRI 102 -24] The committees currently set up within the Board of Directors are the Control and Risk 
Committee, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Related Parties Committee and the Strategy Committee. 
The process of s electing and appointing members of each Committee, and the independence and competence 
requirements, are available on the telecomitalia.com website.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
                                                                 
1 or any other amount that may be required by the regulations issued by Consob.. 
2 Consolidated Law on Finance . 
SHAREHOLDERS ’ 
MEETING  
Board of Statutory 
Auditors  
COMMITTEES  
• Control and Risk  
• Nomination and 
Remuneration 
• Related Parties  
• Strategy  
   BoD 
• Chairman  
• CEO/GM  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
15 
 [GRI 102 -28] For the 2018 financial year, the self -assessment of the size, composition and operation of the Board and its 
Committees was carried out with the support of the consultant Egon Zehnder. The board review is carried out every year 
(since 2005). The assessment methods and results are illustrated in the Report on Corporate Governance. Sustainability 
issues were not addressed in the 2018 self -assessment.  
[GRI 102 -19] [GRI 102 -20] [GRI 102 -23] [GRI 102 -26] In the meeting on 7 May 2018, the Board of Directors appointed the 
Director Fulvio Conti and confirmed Amos Genish in the respective offices of Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer/General Manager of TIM S.p.A.. On 13 November 20 18, the Board of Directors revoked the powers assigned to the 
CEO/GM Genish, assigning all powers temporarily to the Chairman Conti.  
Subsequently, the Board of Directors of 18 November 2018 appointed Luigi Gubitosi1 as Chief Executive Officer and 
General Manager of the Company.  
In addition to the powers granted by law, [GRI 102 -32] the Chairman is granted the governance of Fondazione TIM.  
[GRI 102 -19] [GRI 102 -20] [GRI 102 -26] The proxies and powers granted to the Ch ief Executive Officer include overall 
responsibility for the company and administration activities, responsibility for the development and implementation of 
strategic, industrial and financial plans and all the organisational responsibilities to ensure the management and 
development of the business in Italy and South America in addition [GRI 102 -32] to the responsibility for sustainability 
activities, including the preparation of the Sustainability Report/Consolidated Non- Financial Statement.  
[GRI 102 -19] [ GRI 102 -20] The system by which the executive director (currently only the CEO) delegates powers to the 
departments that report to him is the subject of a specific company procedure that establishes the methods by which 
this system must be implemented (Gra nting and Revocation of Powers). The delegated powers, in particular on matters 
of an economic -financial nature, are normally granted to those directly reporting to the CEO who deal with these matters, 
while sustainability matters are delegated to the head of the Administration & Financial Statements and Sustainability 
Reporting Department to which the Sustainability Reporting, Monitoring and Relationship department reports. Those reporting directly can in turn assign specific powers to specific departments ; [GRI 102 -21] in particular, powers are granted 
in this way to manage relations with stakeholders (customers, suppliers, public administration, employees, etc. described 
in the Stakeholder Engagement section of this document).  
[GRI 102 -25] The company procedure for carrying out transactions with related parties
2, drawn up in compliance with 
Consob Regulation No. 17221 of 12 March 2010, is systematically updated ( last revision 24 July 2018) and is available on 
the company ’s website( https://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/about- us/governance- system/bylaws.html ) and outlined in 
the Report on Corporate Governance (Directors ’ interests and transactions with related parties). The disclosure of any 
transactions with related parties during the relevant period is included in the “ Transactions with related parties ” chapter 
of the Annual Financial Report.  
In relation to the provisio ns issued on 16 October 2017 and 2 November 2017 by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers 
on the basis of the preliminary investigation concerning the exercise of powers deriving from the use of the Golden Power is confirmed, in continuity with that r eported last year, implemented by the Company with a procedure issued in January 
2018. Further details can be found in the Group ’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
[GRI 102 -29] [GRI 102 -30] [GRI 102 -11] The internal control and risk management system consists of a set of rules, 
procedures and organisational structures intended to ensure the healthy and proper management of the company, in a way that is consistent with the established goals, through an appropriate key risk identification, measurement, 
mana gement and monitoring process. Being responsible for the internal control and risk management system the Board 
of Directors defines the system guidelines, verifying their adequacy, effectiveness and proper operation, so as to ensure 
that the main risks facing the company (including operational, compliance, economic and financial risks) are correctly 
identified and managed over time.  
                                                                 
1 Mr Gubitosi does not hold directorships in companies in which the remaining Directors of TIM hold the position of Chief Execu tive Officers.  
2 “Related parties” of TIM refers to physical or legal entities related to TIM pursuant to the Consob regulations. The Procedure also applies to the 
parties to significant shareholders’ agreements, pursuant to Art. 122 of the CLF that governs candidacies for the position of  Director of the 
Company, if it turns out that the majority of Directors appointed has been drawn  from the slate presented by participants in shareholders’ 
agreements. Further details are available in “Transactions with related parties” in the Report on Corporate Governance.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
16 
 The establishment and maintenance of the internal control system are entrusted to the Executive Director and to the 
Executive responsible for preparing the company ’s accounting documents in his/her area of responsibility, so as to ensure 
the overall adequacy of the system and its effectiveness, from a risk -based perspective, which is also considered when 
determining the agenda of  Board meetings. The coordination of subjects involved in the internal control and risk 
management system is outlined in the Report on Corporate Governance. The internal control system is contained in the so-called “Organisational Model 231 ”, i.e. an organ isational and management model adopted pursuant to Legislative 
Decree 231/2001, aimed at preventing offences that may result in liability for the company.  
 
[GRI 102 -33] [GRI 102 -34] [GRI 102 -17] In November 2015, TIM implemented the new Whistleblowing
1 procedure, which 
provides for the centralised management, by the Audit Department, of all reports - including those that are the 
responsibility of the Board of Statutory Auditors, particularly in its role as the 231 Supervisory Body - via a compute app 
which whistleblowers can use to access the company Intranet. Since 2016, this reporting channel has also been accessible 
via the Group ’s website. Reports may be made by any employee, collaborator, consultant, freelance worker, as well as 
third parties who have bus iness relations with the Group. The system assigns each report a unique identification code 
which enables the whistleblower to check the processing status in anonymity.  
[GRI 102 -17] [GRI 103 -1] As stated in article 4 of the Group Code of Ethics and Conduct , any requests for clarification 
regarding the appropriateness of one’ s own conduct or the conduct of other people, in order to ensure full compliance 
with the Code and the values set by the Code itself, must be addressed to the Head of the Audit Department of TIM S.p.A. 
or to the Head of the Audit Department of the Group ’s overseas company directly involved, in accordance with specific 
internal procedures.  
[GRI 102 -17] Using the Whistleblowing procedure, the entities must be promptly informed of the follow ing by the 
recipients of the Code and those who have undertaken to comply with it:  
• any violations, requests or inducements to violate legal provisions or regulations, provisions of the Code and internal procedures with regard to the activities and services  of interest to the Group;  
• any irregularities or negligence in accounting procedures, keeping of relevant accounting documentation, fulfilling reporting obligations or internal management in Group companies.  
There are no negative consequences for those who  have made a report in good faith and the confidentiality of the identity 
of people making reports is in any case guaranteed by appropriate internal procedures, subject to legal requirements.  
No recipient of the Code, employee or third party having busines s relations with the Group can be subject to sanctions or 
otherwise discriminated against if he/she refuses to perform actions or adopt a conduct which are considered, in good 
faith, to infringe the Code, even if this refusal should result in a loss of bus iness or other adverse consequence for the 
company ’s business and/or the Group.  
 In Brazil TIM Participações uses an automated end- to-end management system of reports, accessible via the intranet 
and from the company ’s website, automatically recording all reports received and allowing the reporter to monitor the 
progress made on each case.  
 
[GRI 102 -34] In 2018, the Whistleblowing procedure resulted in 160 reports made in Italy and 1,009 in Brazil . The Human 
Rights section of this report illustrates the reports received concerning alleged violations of Human Rights and employment rights. The Board of Statutory Auditors ’ Report states the number of reports received by the Board of 
Statutory Auditors and provides a summary of the assessments carried out by the Board itself.  
 
[GRI 102 -35] [GRI 102 -36] The remuneration policy for the members of the Board of Directors is determined in accordance 
with legal requirements and the bylaws, according to which:  
• [GRI 102 -37] The Shareholders ’ Meeting determines the tot al gross annual remuneration of the Board of Directors 
(and of the directors holding specific offices: Chairman and CEO); expresses an opinion on the first section of the Remuneration Report (RR); passes resolutions regarding remuneration plans based on th e allocation of financial 
instruments;  
                                                                 
1 The aforementioned Procedure was being updated, also following the entry into force of Law No. 179 of 30 November 2017, “Provisions on the 
protection of parties reporting offences or irregularities they become aware of in the context of a public or private employm ent relationship” and 
was published on 28 January 2019.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
17 
 • The Board of Directors resolves, on the proposal of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, on the allocation 
of the fees determined by the Shareholders ’ Meeting (when established as a total amount for the body as a whole); 
it defines, again on the proposal of the Committee, the remuneration policy of Executive Directors and Key Managers with Strategic Responsibilities. The Board of Directors is also responsible for making proposals to the Shareholders ’ 
Meeting rega rding remuneration plans based on the allocation of financial instruments for Directors and employees 
and for drawing up the Remuneration Report (RR).  
 
To ensure that the choices made regarding remuneration are appropriately investigated, in accordance wit h the rules on 
transparency and the strict regulations on potential conflicts of interest, the Board of Directors relies on the support of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. In performing its duties, the Committee (the meetings of which are 
attended by the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors or, if he/she is unavailable, by another Auditor appointed 
by him/her) relies on the assistance provided by appropriate structures of the Company and can also rely on the support 
of external consultants whose position does not compromise their independence of judgement. Following the renewal 
of the Board of Directors, the Committee availed itself of the assistance and support offered by Egon Zehnder for 2018, 
having first ascertained that it was not in a position to compromise the independence of judgement.  
[GRI 102 -35] With the exception of the Chairman and the CEO, the Directors receive fixed remunerations only. The 
“Remuneration paid to members of the management and control body and key managers with st rategic responsibilities ” 
table in the RR states all the types and amounts of remuneration received by each director. Details of the fixed and 
variable remuneration components (including any stock option), benefits and severance pay attributed to the CEO, the 
Chairman and the key managers with strategic responsibilities are illustrated in detail in the Remuneration Report. In 
particular, the objectives assigned to the Chairman and CEO for 2019 are mainly of an economic and financial nature, with the exception of the Customer Satisfaction indicator.  
The sustainability targets used to determine the management incentive system are stated in the Remuneration Policies section of the TIM People section of this report.  
 
 
Sustainability governance and management system  
[GRI 102 -18] [GRI 102 -26] Monitoring of the Group ’s socio -environmental matters, as well as the identification of 
sustainability initiatives and projects, lie with the Sustainability Reporting, Monitoring and Relationship Department, 
hereinafter “SRMR” - for Administration & Financial Statements and Sustainability Reporting ( “AFSSR ”) - and the 
Corporate Digital Communication & CSV Projects Department, which reports to the Head of Institutional Communication.  
[GRI 102 -32] The AFSSR department, of Administration, Finance and Control reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer 
for the Sustainability Report/Consolidated Non- Financial Statement, including the materiality analysis, and periodically 
reports to the Internal Control and Risk Committee. The latter acts as a corporate sustainability and corporate social 
responsibility overseer, ensuring the consistency of actions carried out with the principles of the Group ’s Code of Ethics 
and Conduct, which expresses the values adopted by the Group and reference regulations.  
[GRI 102 -31] During 2018, the Board of Directors met the parties responsible for sustainability activities once.  
[GRI 102 -19] Socio- environmental responsibilities are delegated, in the same way as all other powers delegated by the 
company, by applying the procedure granting and revoking powers. In particular, [GRI 102 -20] responsibility for monitoring 
and communicating environmental and social issues rests with the SRMR Department, which apart from drawing up the Sustainability Report, manages relations with rating agencies and oversees the implementation of particular projects. 
Responsibility for managing individual socio -enviro nmental themes remains with the departments that directly manage 
operations relating to these themes. [ GRI 102 -26] These latter departments in particular identify specific strategies and 
targets for improving socio -environmental performance, each in its ow n area of responsibility.  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
18 
 [GRI 102 -21] Responsibility for dialogue with stakeholders is delegated to the departments that are operationally 
responsible for dealing with the Company ’s stakeholders.  
 
References  
In defining and implementing its sustainability strategy and programmes, the Group is inspired by the guidelines issued 
by the main global guidance and standardisation organisations in the field of corporate responsibility. The system of 
sustainability management also takes into account t he principal reference regulations and international standards:  
• decrees, directives, recommendations and communications of the Italian Parliament and the European Commission;  
• the OECD guidelines directed at multinational enterprises;  
• standards UNI EN ISO 9 001 and 14001 governing quality and environmental management systems;  
• principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions on respecting the fundamental rights of workers;  
• the Social AccountAbility 8000 standard (SA 8000), aimed at promoti ng respect for Human Rights and working 
conditions by companies and their supply chains;  
• GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, comprehensive option;  
• AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard;  
• standard UNI ISO26000, for private and public organisations of  all sizes.  
[GRI 102 -12] [GRI 102 -13] TIM has long been a member of many environmental and social organisations, both national 
and international, formed to disseminate universally recognised values including respect for Human Rights, employment 
rights and environmental protection. The main associations in which the Group is involved are listed below  
• Global Compact, the main global benchmark launched in 2000 by the UN, to which TIM has been signed up since 
2002. TIM is a member of the Global Compact Network Italy;  
• ITU (International Telecommunications Union) the UN ’s main agency for Telecommunications and Information, as 
well as a reference point for governments and the private sector in the development of networks and services;  
• ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute), the main European standardisation organisation for telecommunications;  
• GSM Association, and in particular the GSMA working group –  Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse;  
• Alliance to better protect children onli ne, platform launched by the European Commission as part of the Better 
Internet for Kids ( “BIK”) strategy;  
• GRI, a body set up in 1997 by CERES, Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies, with the aim of developing 
globally applicable guidelines f or drawing up sustainability reports;  
• GeSI (the Global e -Sustainability Initiative), a global partnership of ICT companies to promote the sustainable 
development of new technologies;  
• ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators ’ Association), a trad e association which aims, among other 
things, to develop a competitive and efficient European telecommunications market through coordination between 
operators and dialogue with Institutions;  
• Joint Audit Cooperation, a joint initiative between telecommunica tion operators to perform sustainability audits of 
the production plants of their respective suppliers in geographical areas that present a high social and environmental 
risk. TIM is one of the three founding members;  
• CSR Manager Network Italia, the associ ation for the sharing of trend studies and analysis on topics related to 
sustainability and business performance improvement through the integration of sustainability best practices.  
 
Codes, Policies and Charters  
[GRI 102 -16] In the belief that the success of the company cannot be separated from business ethics, the Code of Ethics 
and Conduct and the Human Rights Policy of the TIM Group set out the objectives and values of the Company ’s activities 
in respect of the main stakeh olders with whom the Group interacts.  
The Service Charters, which are intended to simplify the relationship with customers and make it more direct, set out the 
principles of conduct and undertakings given by TIM regarding the quality of the services offere d They also provide 
information regarding the ongoing improvement of quality standards and contact channels available to customers. The Service Charters are available via the Group ’s commercial websites (tim.it, impresasemplice.it.).  
The General Conditions  of Subscription and Contract, which govern relations with subscribers and are additional to the 
Service Charters, are published on the tim.it, impresasemplice.it and nuvolaitaliana.it websites. The General Conditions of subscription for fixed telephony ar e also published in telephone directories.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018 
THE GROUP 
19 
 Furthermore, in order to comply with the various resolutions of the Italian Communications Authority regarding quality, 
the objectives set for each year for the individual services (fixed and mobile voice services, Internet access services, call 
centre services for customer support) are published on the relative websites. A selection of the objectives and their 
respective levels of achievement is set out in the Appendix to this report. 
Among the other codes relevant to sustainability to which TIM has signed up, we should mention the Equal Opportunities 
Charter, the Self-regulation code for mobile services, the Code of Conduct for premium rate services and the Corporate 
Governance Code for commercial communication (available on the telecomitalia.com website). 
The other commitments of the Group are available in the Sustainability section of the website, via the following link 
http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/en/sustainability.html. 
 
Fight against corruption 
[GRI 103-1: Management Approach] [GRI 205]  The correctness of corporate conduct, and in particular the fight against 
corruption, is a material topic for any company and even more so for a Group that operates as a “system company,” 
integrated with the region and with its social, economic and productive context, with a pervasive role for the entire Italian 
and Brazilian economy and for the competitiveness of their companies, the efficiency of their local government bodies 
and, more generally, the welfare of their citizens. Corruption is widely recognised as one of the factors threatening socio-
economic growth and the well-being of the population. 
The tool for identifying, preventing and controlling corruption risks is “Organisational Model 231” (including the Code of 
Ethics) approved by the Board of Directors in 2003 and subsequently updated - last update in July 2018. The Group 
adopted the Anti-Corruption Policy1 in 2012, which was subsequently updated (September 2016).  
[GRI 205-1a]  Organisational Model 231 currently covers all Business Units of the Group. 
TIM’s Compliance Department, which reports to the Board of Directors, provides operational support to the Supervisory 
Bodies (SB), performing specific compliance interventions also based on the evidence received via the information flows 
established within the Group, achieved by examining reports for which the 231 SB is responsible, forwarded by the Audit 
Department following a preliminary analysis and/or the conclusion of the communication process stipulated by the 
whistleblowing procedure. 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 205] Organisational Model 2312 identifies the processes that are at risk of 
corruption offences, including: management of relations with public entities, negotiation with customers, identification 
and management of counterparts in commercial relations, partnerships, joint ventures, participation in associations, 
purchase of shareholdings, purchase of goods and services, consulting and professional services, selection, recruitment 
and employment of personnel. 
[GRI 205-1b]  The areas identified as being at risk of corruption are: 
 gifts and entertainment expenses 
 events and sponsorships 
 donations/membership fees/contributions to non-profit organisations 
 consulting, intermediation, relations with business partners and suppliers 
 joint ventures, acquisitions and transfers 
and furthermore: 
 sale of goods and services 
 relations with Institutions/Authorities 
 authorisations and concessions 
 subsidised financing 
 legal and arbitration proceedings 
 health and safety at work obligations 
 environmental protection obligations 
 selection, recruitment and employment of personnel 
                                                                 1 available at the link  
https://www.telecomitalia.com/content/dam/telecomitalia/documents/Governance/en/codes_principles_procedures/Policy_anticorruzione%20
_ENG_sept_2016.pdf 
2 Organisational Model 231 is available at the following link: http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/about-us/governance-system/231-organizational-
model.html  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
20 
 • operations carried out by the Executive Directors  
The above areas are the criteria by which processes or activities are judged to be at risk or not (each process/activity is at 
risk if it includes these areas).  
The project for the adoption of Standard 370011, which defines the “ Anti-Corruption Management System ” within TIM 
S.p.A., was approved by the Control and Risk Committee on November 2017. Du ring the course of 2018,  the assessment 
phase of the processes/activities relevant at company level was carried out, to identify any gaps with respect to the 
adoption of the provisions of the standard for subsequent certification.  
In Brazil , in relation to  TIM Participações, the Company adopted the foreign version of the Organisational Model in 
accordance with the local anti -corruption law (Ley 12.846/13) and the relevant provisions required at Group level. In this 
area, a new version of the Código De Ética  e De Conduta e della Política Anticorrupção was adopted in September 2018.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 205]  The Head of the Compliance Department is appointed by the Board of 
Directors of the Company to which it reports. The variable short -term  remuneration policy (MBO) assigns the Head of 
Department objectives in keeping with the prevention of crimes under Legislative Decree 231/2001, in compliance with 
the relevant regulations.  
TIM provides everyone (employees, co -workers, consultants, custome rs, third parties in general) with a single channel 
through which to submit reports, with the maximum guarantee of confidentiality.  
 
[GRI 205 -3a] [GRI 205 -3b] [GRI 205 -3d] No incident of corruption has taken place in the Group companies in the past 3 
years , nor have any legal proceedings been started on grounds of corruption against Group companies in the same period. 
It follows that none of the Group ’s companies recorded penalties or concluded plea bargains in relation to corruption in 
the last three years . [GRI 205 -3c] With regard to suppliers, in the past 3 years TIM has never terminated a contract for 
reasons related to corruption.  
The Group ’s commitment to the topic is also demonstrated by its participation in various working groups. TIM is a member 
of the “231 and Legality ” Working Group organised as part of the Confindustria initiatives and during the course of 2018 
contributed to the drafting of the new Confindustria Guidelines. In addition, TIM participates in the working groups set up 
at B20 for the  implementation of the recommendations made at G20/B20 level on anti- corruption matters.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 205]  In terms of external recognition, TIM came fourth place in the TRAC 
(Transparency in Reporting on Anti- Corruption) Telecom Report 2015, in relation to the adoption of an anti- corruption 
programme; the assessment was made at a global level by the organisation Transparency International and involved 35 telecommunications companies.  At the end of 2018, TIM participated in the sur vey conducted by Transparency 
International of major Italian companies in the private sector to map anti- corruption commitment, after which a 
transparency index (Business Index on Transparency -BIT) was developed.  
  
                                                                 
1 The ISO 37001 Anti -bribery management systems standard identifies a management standard to help organisations in the fight against 
corruption that is based on international best practice . It is c ertified by an accredited body and can be integrated with other management systems, 
as it can also become a part of the Organisational Model 231. The standard can provide important assistance in implementing e ffective measures 
to prevent and tackle corrupt ion. TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
21 
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 205 ] Moreover, since 2016, TIM has participated in the Business Integrity Forum 
promoted by Transparency Italia to develop activities in the private sector relating to cultural programmes and the 
dissemination of tools to support integrity, transparency and a nti-corruption.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 205]  In the case of Italian companies, 231 Organisational Model and the anti-  
corruption policy are communicated to all employees while commercial partners are required to confirm their adherence 
to th e principles contained therein. Note also that the on- boarding training provided to new recruits at TIM S.p.A. included 
specific anti- corruption sessions.  
Employees are trained every time the Organisational Model undergoes substantial changes. TIM has additionally made 
the e -learning training modules on Organisational Model 231 and anti- corruption aspects available to Company bodies 
of all national subsidiaries.  
In the years 2017 and 2016 courses on Market Abuse and Anti- Corruption Policy were provided for a high number of 
employees, as illustrated in the tables below. As previously explained, training campaigns do not necessarily take place on an annual basis; rather the frequency depends on new changes to the Model or as a result of other organisational 
needs.  
 
In TIM in 2018, classroom courses were provided on the new version of the Organisational 231 Model and on ISO 37001, 
addressing department focal points and managers; in particular, managerial training on the new version of the 
Organisational 231 Model invo lved 45 members of staff, training for 231 and ISO 37001 involved 33 staff members and 
training relating to only 231, 66 staff members. For 2019,  courses are scheduled with a focus on the new anti- corruption 
legislation under Law No. 3 of 9 January 2019 and on ISO 37001.  
 
[GRI 205 -2] Training campaigns  
TIM S.p.A . 2018  2017  2016  
Senior Managers  2  344  211 
Middle Managers  25  2,723   420 
Others  202  29,544   577 
Total  229 32,611  1,208   
Unit of measurement: number of people. The amounts in the table relate to the three -year period 2016 -2018; the amounts reported for the year 
2017 in the 2017 PDF were calculated on a different time period.  
 
 
[GRI 205 -2] In Brazil , communication on anti- corruption matters, with employees and partners, was launched in 2014 
and new classroom and online training activities were delivered starting in 2015.  
In particular, on 18/02/2019, the online course for the Anti- Corruption Compliance Program (Organisational Model) was 
taken by 95% of employees; the same percentage for the Code of Ethics online course.  
 
Legal framework and compliance  
The Group ’s activities are conducted in full compliance with current laws in the countries in which it operates and with 
universally accepted ethical principles, based on transparency, fairness and loyalty.  
[GRI 415 -1] In particular, the Code of Ethics explicitly bans any direct or indirect disbursements, contributions, advantages 
or benefits of any kind to political parties, political movements or trade unions or to their representatives or candidates.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
22 
 [GRI 206 -1] The Group ’s main disputes in this respect are listed and described in the “ Contingent liabilities, other 
information, commitments and guarantees ” Note of the Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly in the 
“Significant  disputes and pending legal actions section” . [GRI 419 -1] The same Note contains a description of all the 
Group ’s other disputes.  
 
Stakeholder engagement  
TIM believes it is fundamentally important to consider the opinions and expectations of its stakeholders, namely the 
parties who for various reasons have an interest in the Company ’s activities.  
[GRI 102 -40] The stakeholders with whom TIM comes into contact in the conduct of its business are many and very varied. 
For ease of management they have been grouped into eight categories, the first six of which relate to the outside world 
and the remaining two relate to the internal world of the Company:  
• customers  
• suppliers  
• competitors  
• institutions  
• environment  
• community (including associations, universiti es and research centres, the education world, media, start -ups)  
• shareholders  
• human resources  
 
[GRI 102 -42] [GRI 102 -43] The stakeholder engagement process takes place regularly during implementation of corporate 
projects and activities involving listening to customers. More specifically, for customers, general satisfaction is measured 
(Customer Satisfaction Index), as are the conciliation procedures, as better described in the Value Chain section of this 
report.  
For each project, the affected stakeholders are identified and priorities are assigned based on the importance of the 
stakeholder for the business objectives or on the basis of the Company ’s decision to focus on specific fields such as, for 
example, contributing to the economic or cultural growth of the Country with projects not strictly connected with 
business.  
Once the relevant stakeholders have been identified for  the project, the most suitable strategies for building relations are 
studied, which can include individual meetings, group meetings, information sessions, shared projects, surveys, focus 
groups, etc.  
The feedback that the various stakeholders provide to T IM is analysed to identify solutions the Company can offer to 
satisfy the specific requirements. At the end of the feasibility analysis and verification process, TIM decides which solutio ns 
to offer, which projects and which initiatives to undertake. Stakeholder involvement continues beyond this and serves to 
monitor and adjust the initiatives.  
 
TIM has drawn up general guidelines for group stakeholder engagement and a set of policies associated with different 
kinds of stakeholders, including customer service charters, a policy on relations with suppliers in purchasing processes, 
the code of conduct for protecting the data of other local operators, guidelines for relations with local authorities and 
other organisations, guidelines for voluntary contributions  to the Community.  
 
Shareholders  
The Group is aware of the importance of providing accurate information on its activities to the financial market, investors 
and the community in general.  
Subject to the need for confidentiality in the running of the busines s, communication with the financial market is carried 
out in a way that ensures transparency, fairness, clarity, promptness and equality of access to information, ensuring 
equality of treatment for all categories of shareholders, as required by the bylaws.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
23 
 The external communication of information is governed by specific internal procedures, in line with the regulations in 
force.  
The Company has set up dedicated channels of communication with shareholders, bondholders and stakeholders 
interested in receiving information about the financial and non- financial aspects of the Company.  
The Investor Relations Department manages relations with the main stakeholders: institutional and retail investors 
(including small shareholders ’ associations), bondholders, social ly responsible investors, equity and credit analysts.  
 Once again in 2018 the Company organised quarterly conference calls, road shows abroad, meetings with the institutional 
offices of the Group (reverse road show) and participation in sector conferences;  these activities were accompanied by 
direct contacts and phone conversations managed by the Investor Relations team on a daily basis.  
 For a detailed focus on the activities carried out over the year and the topics of greatest interest that emerged, refer  to 
the “Information for Investors ” section of the TIM Group ’s 2018 Annual Financial Report and the dedicated area of the 
website www.telecomitalia.com . 
 
The “TI Alw@ys ON ” Shareholders ’ Club ( telecomitalia.com/individuali) was launched in 2006 as a virtual meeting place 
for the Company and its individual investors. Free access to the Club allows you to subscribe to and receive economic -
financial informatio n services (weekly stock market report, SMS alerts, etc.).  
 
Financial communication, finally, focuses on the web as an important means of sharing information with the outside 
world: in this sense, the Investors channel on the website telecomitalia.com  is constantly updated with presentations of 
the quarterly financial results, intermediate and annual reports, notices and documentation useful for the Shareholders ’ 
Meeting and the financial calendar of the Company.  
  
 
[GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The Group ’s main stakeholder engagement initiatives taken in 2018 are summarised in the 
Appendix.  
In the diagram,  each initiative is marked by an icon that represents the type of relationship:  
• “information”  refers to one -way communications by the Company with stakeholders;  
• “consultation ” refers to the occasions when stakeholders are asked for their opinion through surveys or similar tools;  
• “dialogues ” refers to the discussions and ongoing and stable cooperat ion between the Group and stakeholders;  
• “partnership”  refers to the specific projects that are managed together.  
 
In 2018, TIM updated and examined the external perception of the importance of material topics by consulting groups of 
its stakeholders throug h various digital tools: customers on a dedicated section of the corporate website, a significant 
proportion of suppliers on the procurement portal and a selection of authoritative stakeholder representatives on the RE2N collaborative platform. Of the latter, 59 people representing institutions, suppliers, customers, competitors, the 
environment and the community responded to an interview, providing their views of the most relevant topics to TIM ’s 
strategy.  
This latter initiative is part of the new methods TIM has adopted for the materiality analysis (described in the dedicated 
paragraph in this chapter) to exploit the potential of digital, also as part of the sustainability activities.  
TIM intends to develop stakeholder engagement and collaboration initiatives on the same platform in 2019 with the 
twofold aim of making the exchange and engagement of stakeholders more fluid and continuous, and at the same time 
organising initiatives undertaken with them and fostering, in “ real time ”, the process of updating t he materiality analysis 
with the results of the exchange that occurs on the platform.  
 
Each initiative mentioned in the table provided in the Appendix includes a reference to the relevant chapter and section 
of this report in which the initiative is discus sed in detail.  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
24 
 Materiality Matrix  
[GRI 102 -46] In 2018, in compliance with Legislative Decree 254/2016 and the requirements of the Global Reporting 
Initiative Standards, TIM conducted a materiality analysis with the aim of identifying the material topic s as regards the 
socio- environmental and economic impacts of the business activities both within and outside the Company.  
Methodology  
In continuity with the methodology put in place in 2017, TIM checked the validity of the material themes identified last 
year, adopting advanced semantic analysis1 techniques to analyse a greater number of information sources relating to a 
scenario that is broader than its own sector. The process followed is in compliance with the “ Guidelines for updating the 
TIM materiality  analysis ”, updated in 2017 in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and was created and 
managed in collaboration with RE2N2, a company that develops innovative tools for sustainability and shared value, using 
computational approaches t o semantic3 and big data analysis.  
 
The taxonomy4 to adopt in the semantic engine was updated, using the same sustainability and digital references as 
those in 2017, in more recent versions and expanding the number. In particular:  
• Global Reporting Initiative Standard, ISO 26000, Sustainable Development Goals and specialist assessments5 ; 
• Italian Digital Agenda, Objectives of the European Digital Single Market and dedicated indexes,6 besides regulatory 
references which are relevant for TIM and its stakeholders . 
This activity allowed some of the issues identified in 2017 to be named and described in a more specific and precise way 
and led to the emergence of new ones.  
 
The documents linked to the Group ’s core business were subsequently identified and collected for analysis, selecting 
national and international, public and non- public sources, internal and external to TIM7. 
 
The semantic engine analysed all the sources of information with different interactions. This process led to the definition 
of a list of the mes based on the occurrences8 found in the various documents and the logical correlations between them. 
The more a theme, a concept, reoccurs in the analysed documents (and therefore the more it occurs), the more it can be considered “relevant ” for the sec tor. 
 
Identification of relevant themes  
At the end of the analysis, TIM was able to draw up a list of themes to be assessed to identify the priorities of the Company  
and those of external stakeholders:  
• correctness of corporate conduct  
• stakeholder engagement  
• integrating economic, social and environmental aspects in governance and the strategic plan 
• supporting the development of digital skills in the community (in schools, in the public administration, in businesses)  
• developing the resilience of area s to disasters and calamities  
• consolidating social and environmental aspects in the supply chain 
• managing the workforce and employment development  
• managing the health and safety of workers  
                                                                 
1The techniques involve automatic text analyses designed to extract structural data which codify the semantic component of tex tual content. 
The algorithms of the semantic engine that analysed all the sources of information were trained with “sustainab ility” and “digital” components.  
2http://re2n.com/welcome . RE2N collaborated with the University of Bologna to develop the methodology.  
3 Computational approach to semantic analysis refers to the process where different representations of sentence meaning are com posed and 
then placed in correspondence with the various linguistic elements.   
4 Each taxonomy is made up of interrelated concept s and keywords with different correlation and significance levels. Each taxonomy was 
constructed using both Italian and English terms.   
5 For example RobecoSam (Dow Jones Sustainability Index), FTSE4good and Sustainalytics questionnaires.   
6 For example,  the Digital Economy Society Index which monitors different aspects of the digitisation level of the individual European count ries. 
7 For example: The “Piano Nazionale italiano per l’Agenda 2030” (Italian National Plan for the 2030 agenda) of the Italian g overnment, the “Ernst 
& Young Megatrends report 2018”, the “Fair and Sustainable Well- Being in Italy 2017” (BES) report promoted by the National Council for Economy 
and Labour (CNEL) and the National Institute for Statistics (ISTAT).  
8 The occurrences ide ntify the number of times that a concept (or a specific term) is detected within the document by the semantic engine and 
provide an indication of the significance of the topic detected in the context of the document.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
25 
 • developing personnel competencies  
• service quality  
• online protection of minors (cyber bullying, child pornography, gambling ) 
• safeguarding privacy and personal data protection and security  
• contributing to and taking initiatives to fight climate change in company policies, strategies and processes  
• reducing the environmental impact of TIM’ s operations  
• increasing the use of energy from renewable sources in company processes  
• electromagnetism  
• digital inclusion in society  
• developing digital infrastructures with next -generation networks  
• promoting and safeguarding human rights  
• reducing inequalities and promoting equal opportunities in the Company  
 
 
 
Attribution of relevance scores to the topics  
The list was then used in the process of defining the importance of themes for TIM and for stakeholders. The internal 
viewpoint was provided by Top Management which, thanks to the involvement of a significant sample of representative 
contact people from the company ’s main departments, expressed its opinion on the importance of each theme for TIM ’s 
strategy1. 
 Collecting external points of view was done with innovative tools such as semantic and big data analysis
2, and the use of 
“digital collaboration ” tools3. 
This approach has enabled TIM to:  
• further extend listening to more stakeholders;  
• making the observation of the themes dynamic in ord er to measure their evolution over time.  
 
At the end of the analysis, TIM attributed a relevance score based on the occurrence of the topics4. 
The activity resulted in the materiality matrix shown on the following page.  
                                                                 
1 Based on the following scale: 1=barely influential; 2=limited impact; 3=direct influence; 4=significant influence; 5=decisive . 
2 In keeping with activities of the previous years, stakeholders involved in engagement activities were surveyed, in addition t o many other entities, 
for a total of approximately 500, concerning 8 categories of TIM stakeholders. Three types of sources were identified for the  analysis:  
• documents issued by stakeholders (in particular sustainability reports);  
• statements issued on com pany websites;  
• discussions on social networks concerning the themes identified thanks to TIM Data Room activities.   
3 Digital instruments were used for engagement. In particular:  
• on the collaborative platform, through a questionnaire stakeholders were asked about categories of customers, suppliers, comp etitors, 
institutions, the environment, the community and people; also collecting suggestions and feedback;  
• TIM’s vendor assessmen t platform was used to specifically focus on the category of suppliers;  
• information on TIM customers’ views on the proposed issues was obtained from the TIM.com site.  
4 Scores ranged from 1 to 5, where 1 is the minimum frequency, 5 the maximum frequency, 3  the average frequency (calculated from the average 
occurrence of the topics taken into consideration). 2 and 4 are attributed in proportion to the minimum, average and maximum scores. Finally, 
the final score was calculated, weighted by the significance attributed to each source according to the different time periods covered in the 
analysis.    TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
26 
  
 
 These themes, priorities for TIM and for their stakeholders, reflect the Sustainable Development Goals
1 to which the 
company believes it can contribute to a greater extent through its people, technologies and services, adopting business practices (policies) that promote and protect Human Rights and the environment.  
 Specifically, the relevant Objectives are:  
• No. 4: Quality education  
• No. 5: Gender equality  
• No. 7: Affordable and clean energy  
• No. 8: Decent work and economic growth  
• No. 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure 
• No. 10: Reduced  inequalities  
• No. 11: Sustainable cities and communities  
• No. 12: Responsible consumption and production 
• No. 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions  
 
Validation  
The validation of the themes and of the entire materiality analysis process was carried out b y the Sustainability Reporting, 
Monitoring and Relationship (SRMR) department of Administration & Financial Statements and Sustainability Reporting 
department, with the support of RE2N and TIM Data Room. TIM Data Room2 is the department of TIM Group that a nalyses 
digital data from the internet through listening, reporting and benchmarking. The governance of TIM ’s sustainability is 
explained in the Sustainability Governance paragraph of this document. The matrix was approved by the Control and Risk Committee  on 30 November 2018.  
 
                                                                 
1 un.org/sustainabledevelopment/  and asvis.it/agenda -2030/   
2 impresasemplice.it/cloud -it/big -data/tim -data- room  
 
PROMOTING AND 
SAFEGUARDING 
HUMAN RIGHTS  STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT   MANAGING THE WORKFORCE AND EMPLOYMENT 
DEVELOPMENT  SUPPORTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF DIGITAL SKILLS IN THE COMMUNITY (IN SCHOOLS, IN THE 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, IN BUSINESSES)  DEVELOPING 
PERSONNEL 
COMPETENCIES  QUALITY OF 
SERVICE  
CONSOLIDATING SOCIAL AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS IN 
THE SUPPLY CHAIN  
REDUCING INEQUALITIES AND PROMOTING 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES IN THE COMPANY  MANAGING THE HEALTH AND 
SAFETY OF WORKERS  
SAFEGUARDING PRIVACY AND 
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION  CORRECTNESS OF 
CORPORATE CONDUCT  
RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS  RELEVANCE FOR TIM  GOVERNANCE ISSUES  
SOCIAL ISSUES  
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES  DEVELOPING DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURES 
WITH NEXT -GENERATION NETWORKS  
ONLINE PROTECTION OF MINORS 
(CYBER BULLYING, CHILD 
PORNOGRAPHY, GAMBLING ) 
REDUCING 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT   
INTEGRATING ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS IN GOVERNANCE AND 
THE STRATEGIC PLAN  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
27 
 Review  
The review phase is expected to take place as a preparatory stage prior to the next reporting cycle, with the aim of 
submitting the results of the analyses carried out, updated the following year, to specific consultation and involvement 
activities as part  of stakeholder engagement. As already reported, the Group has revised the “ Guidelines for updating the 
TIM materiality analysis ” so that they comply with the GRI Standards and are organised in a transparent manner for the 
analysis process.  
 
Boundaries  
[GRI 102 -47] All the themes that are judged to be material have major implications both inside and outside the Company 
and are cross -cutting topics that are relevant to all the consolidated companies in the Group, wherever these may be, 
without exception, and which are relevant to all external and internal stakeholders, these being. The material themes 
identified are:  
• correctness of corporate conduct  
• stakeholder engagement  
• integrating economic, social and environmental aspects in governance and the strategic plan  
• consolidating social and environmental aspects in the supply chain 
• managing the workforce and employment development  
• managing the health and safety of workers  
• developing personnel competencies  
• service quality  
• reducing the environmental impact of TIM ’s operations  
• promoting and safeguarding human rights  
• reducing inequalities and promoting equal opportunities in the Company  
 
Other themes are mainly relevant to Group companies acting as operators in the ICT world, which represent the main 
part of the Gro up in terms of turnover, employees, even in terms of the impact on external stakeholders:  
• supporting the development of digital skills in the community (in schools, in the public administration, in businesses)  
• online protection of minors (cyber bullying, c hild pornography, gambling)  
• safeguarding privacy and personal data protection and security  
• developing digital infrastructures with next -generation networks  
The themes mentioned above are more relevant to stakeholders who live in Italy, a country where TIM is the main 
operator and the Company on which stakeholders pin their greatest expectations. In Brazil, where the Group is present 
as one of the Country ’s biggest mobile operators, the topics are definitely relevant to stakeholders but to a lesser extent 
than in Italy.  
 
[GRI 102 -49] Finally, no significant changes have been recorded in the scope of activities (and therefore boundary 
relevant) in recent years.  
 
 
Risk management  
[GRI 102 -15] [GRI 102 -29] [GRI 102 -30] [GRI 102 -11] The Group has adopted an Enterprise Risk Management Model 
(hereinafter ERM) which allows risks to be identified, assessed and managed uniformly within Group companies, 
highlighting potential synergies between the parties involved in assessing the Internal Control System. The ERM p rocess 
is designed to identify potential events that may influence the business activity, in order to manage risk within acceptable 
limits and provide a reasonable guarantee that business objectives will be achieved.  
The process adopted is cyclical and inc ludes the following stages:  
• definition of the Risk Appetite and of the Risk Tolerances;  
• Risk Assessment;  
• Risk Response;  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
28 
 • drawing up the Reporting Flows.  
The process is managed by the ERM Steering Committee, which is chaired and coordinated by the Head of th e Security 
Department. The Steering Committee ensures the governance of the Group ’s risk management, aimed at guaranteeing 
the operational continuity of the business, monitoring the effectiveness of countermeasures taken.  
For more details on the process and its phases, please refer to the link 
http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/en/sustainability.html  
A summary of the risks connected with material themes is given in the table below, whilst a brief summary of the main 
types of risk identified by the ERM system is contained in the Main Risks and Uncertainties chapter of the Annual Report.  
 
Material themes  
 
REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF TIM ’S OPERATIONS  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks associated both with the 
simplification of the network 
application and architecture and 
overcoming the architectural limits 
necessary to implement a complete 
Digital Transformation.   
 
TIM manages the Company ’s technological processes through an integrated 
digital transformation programme that includes the architectural and 
application simplification of IT systems and the network with the aim of:  
- updating the structure of IT systems and networks to adapt them to new 
technologies with the help of criteria aimed at minimising the environmental 
impact based on the Group environmental policy that provides a general 
guideline for the responsible and sustainable protection of the environment;  
- dismantling obsolete systems and platforms, progressively r educing the 
associated energy consumption;  
- developing innovative ICT solutions and services that allow increased use of 
digital channels, allowing all stakeholders to interact more efficiently, 
minimising the environmental impact.  
In Brazil  
Risks related to the theme of 
sustainable development and the 
generation of positive environmental 
and social impact.  TIM Participações engages in sustainable development by participating in 
various initiatives and carrying out “ educational ” and technological pr ojects 
through the Instituto TIM.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
29 
  
CORRECTNESS OF CORPORATE CONDUCT  
 
Risks  Management  
 
Compliance risks in relation to the 
reference legislation (Legislative 
decree 231/2001), current asymmetric 
and transparency regulation (Italian 
Communications Authority), 
legislation in force on competition and 
consumer protection (Italian 
Competition and Market Authority) 
and implementation of the provisions 
established by CONSOB regarding 
transactions with related parties.   
TIM oversees its process compliance with the regulations through specific 
Compliance departments whose autonomy is guaranteed by the hierarchical 
relationship with the BoD. The company implements the Borsa Italiana 
recommendations for listed companies in Italy and has implemented an 
internal  risk control system structured on three levels, which integrates the 
corporate governance responsibilities of the corporate bodies. TIM also 
manages relations with the relevant authorities and consumer protection 
associations in order to optimise its offer on the basis of market expectations 
and in compliance with legislation. In the area of Legislative Decree 231/2001, 
the company also implemented a specific training plan for employees.  
In Brazil  
Risks related to the breach of existing 
legislation in the field of international 
and national corruption, breach of 
regulations and/or internal policies 
relating to transactions with related 
parties, the lack of monitoring of 
regulatory obligations and conflicts of 
interest.  
 TIM Participações makes use of a structured anti -corruption process in order 
to comply with national legislation. the process involves:  
- presence of a whistleblowing channel  
- monitoring gifts and donations;  
- monitoring events, sponsorships, goods and services offered and services 
free of charge;  
- monitoring staff costs and relationships with public bodies.  
The TIM Participações Related Parties process is structured to ensure that 
transactions are recorded on specific systems and reported to internal 
commissions. The list of internal Related Parties is constantly updated and 
available on the intranet and is also updated on instructions from the Parent 
Company.  
TIM Participações has defined a regulatory obligations management process 
with the aim of monitoring all obligations, identifying  any areas where it is 
not in compliance and developing actions to comply with current regulations 
and manage the external relationship with regulatory agencies.  
TIM Participações has defined the policies and processes to identify and manage conflict of interest cases.  
An assessment is performed periodically to verify compliance with 
company policies.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
30 
  
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks related to partnership 
management (strategic, innovative 
technology, multimedia and 
entertainment), dispute management 
and dealing with related decisions 
(appeal, conciliation, etc.) and the 
protection of workers ’ rights, including 
the right to privacy.   
 
TIM oversees relationships with the various stakeholders through dedicated 
departments that work through various initiatives and projects. From a 
strategic point of view, targeted scouting activities are carried out with 
partners for the development of commercial services including related 
management and monitoring.  
The Company also oversees the proce ss management of external and 
internal disputes, safeguarding the rights of workers, including the right to 
privacy.  
 
 
 
INTEGRATING ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS IN GOVERNANCE AND THE 
STRATEGIC PLAN  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks related to the integration of 
sustainability issues within the 
strategic business vision and with 
carrying out activities not in line with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).   
TIM has internal policies and procedures that integrate sustainability issues 
into company p rocesses; the Corporate Digital Communication & CSV 
Projects department oversees the implementation of projects dedicated to 
the generation of shared value, in addition the Sustainable Reporting, 
Monitoring & Relationship departments oversees the relevant legislation and 
monitors the progress of sustainability issues, reporting to the Control and 
Risk Committee, which has a high degree of supervision on CSR issues, and to 
the Chief Executive Officer for the Sustainability Report.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
31 
  
MANAGING THE WORKFORCE AND EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT  
Risks  Management  
 
Risk related to the failure to 
implement/incorrect interpretation of 
legislation on workers ’ rights 
(safeguarding of workers ’ rights, 
including the right to privacy; job 
security) and the skills adjustment 
necessary to ensure business 
transformation.  
  
The Performance Management process, regularly implemented at both 
management and operational staff level, defines systems for measuring 
performance at all levels, professional and managerial, providing fair and 
objective recognition of the individual merit of enabling the development 
processes and plans. TIM optimises the mix of capabilities necessary to maintain a competitive adva ntage in mature markets and strengthen the 
positioning in those focused on digital and innovative services. In order to achieve said objectives, skill assessments are structured for the mapping of 
existing skills and training courses, often available on a dedicated online e -
learning platform and intended for multiple subjects according to personal 
development business needs. There are also initiatives for specific training 
and workshops held in person, according to the strategic need to develop 
staff skill sets.  
 
 
MANAGING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF WORKERS  
Risks  Management  
 
Risk related to the failure to 
implement/incorrect interpretation of 
legislation on health & safety at work 
and to implement the provisions of 
company policies in the “ Safety ” area.  
  
TIM is compliant with the obligations on workplace safety also through the 
definition and periodic updating of the Risk Assessment Document. It also 
guarantees the implementation of legislation on workers ’ rights defining 
appropriate application standards aimed at management roles as well as regulations and provisions aimed at all personnel.  
The Company has criteria and tools for identifying and managing the various 
operational safety issues.  
The overall structure of the control system adopted for the prote ction of 
health and safety in the workplace and for the protection of the environment 
provides for first level controls within the company departments, with the 
second level controls performed by the Compliance and Compliance 
departments. Specific controls  are carried out by the Health, Safety & 
Environment department in the field of Prevention and Business Protection.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
32 
  
 
 
DEVELOPING PERSONNEL COMPETENCIES  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks related to the skills adjustment 
necessary to ensure business 
transformation.   
TIM optimises the mix of capabilities necessary to maintain a competitive 
advantage in mature markets and strengthen the positioning in those 
focused on digital and innovative services. In order to achieve said objectives, 
skill assessments are structured for the mapping of existing skills and training 
courses, often available on a dedicated online e -learning platform and 
intended for multiple subjects according to personal development business needs. There are also initiatives fo r specific training and workshops held in 
person, according to the strategic need to develop staff skill sets.  
 
 
QUALITY OF SERVICE  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks related to the service quality 
delivered/perceived to customers and 
the operation of Customer Care.  
 
  
TIM monitors the perceived quality level through a complex survey system 
achieved with the support of leading research institutes and through the use 
of IT systems and analysis platforms.  
TIM promotes the dissemination of a culture geared towards customer 
experience and periodically shares the main guidelines for the caring model 
which define the reception and service model to be provided to customers. 
TIM has set up specialist groups with the aim of improving customer 
experience and commercial app roach at the same time.  
 
In Brazil  
 TIM Participações controls the quality level by means of operative 
performance indicators established by the Agência Nacional de 
Telecomunicações (ANATEL), which envisage objectives linked to quality and 
standards that must be respected by suppliers. In addition, TIM Participações 
has internal indicators with the objective of monitoring gap mapping and 
implementing mitigation plans.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
33 
  
SAFEGUARDING PRIVACY AND PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION  
 
Risks  Management  
 
IT risks and risks related to the 
application of the current legislation 
on privacy.  
 
 
 
  
TIM has an ICT Risk Management process which includes the cyber risk 
mapping and, also in keeping with the needs expressed by the control bodies, 
coordinates the identification of  intervention areas on a priority basis in order 
to ensure the control and management of the overall cyber risk for the entire 
perimeter of TIM and its subsidiaries.  
The ICT Risk Management process contributes to the security of information 
by managing the process of assessing and handling the operational risks to 
ICT resources who handle information in order to ensure: a) a level of 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information proportional to the 
respective value of the business, that is,  the direct or indirect losses that a 
security incident can result in for the services provided to its customers; b) the 
security of the services provided to its customers and the levels of operational 
continuity stipulated in the contracts; c) the securit y of the personal 
information of employees, in compliance with current legislation and for 
employees ’ protection.  
TIM has a system of procedures and controls which ensure compliance with current regulations, puts in place concomitant monitoring activities on the evolution of the regulatory scenario and performs ongoing dissemination and 
internal training activities. With particular reference to the new privacy 
regulation GDPR No. 2016/679, the Group, starting with the operating model already in place under current Privacy legislation, activated that necessary for 
compliance with GDPR, defining the Data Protection Officer organisational 
structure and processes, completing the revision of company procedures and 
training programme of the staff.  
 
 
In Brazil  TIM Participações has adopted a procedure defining the security measures 
relative to IT systems and an advanced platform against computer attacks. 
TIM Participações monitors incidents related to computer attacks and 
malfunctions in data protection and notifies the parties concerned.  
TIM Participações has structured a process that establishes guidelines for the 
security of its customers ’ data, where such is defined as confidential by 
Brazilian law. There are system control mechanisms in place, which prevent 
access by unauthorised staff and the dissemination of sensitive data.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
34 
  
DEVELOPING DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURES WITH NEXT -GENERATION NETWORKS  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks connected to overcoming the 
architectural limits necessary to 
implement a complete digital 
transformation and to the engineering 
and/or implementation of 
infrastructures for innovative 
solutions.   
TIM manages the Company ’s technological processes through an integrated 
digital transformation programme that includes the architectural and 
applicati on simplification of IT systems and the network with the aim of:  
- updating the structure of IT systems and networks to adapt them to new 
technologies with the help of criteria aimed at minimising the 
environmental impact based on the Group environmental policy that 
provides a general guideline for the responsible and sustainable protection 
of the environment;  
- dismantling obsolete systems and platforms, progressively reducing the 
associated energy consumption;  
- developing innovative ICT solutions and servic es that allow increased use 
of digital channels, allowing all stakeholders to interact more efficiently, 
minimising the environmental impact.  
TIM’s technical departments monitor the technological processes of the 
Company in the general context of the engin eering and planning of 
network/service infrastructure, the development of new generation networks (FTTx - 5G) and evolution towards the cloud network, while the commercial 
departments contribute to the development of innovative services through the structuring of ad hoc offers.  
 
 
REDUCING INEQUALITIES AND PROMOTING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES IN THE COMPANY  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks related to the management of 
compliance with legislation on 
workers ’ rights.   
The company has a skills model for staff focused on addressing the 
transformation related to the new external and business scenarios and 
structured in four areas: Execution, Proactivity, Speed, Systemic Vision. In 2018, an additional skill was introduced, across the 4 areas and for all roles: 
“Diversity and inclusion” . The aim of this is to stimulate integration and 
enhance diversity throughout the company population, placing particular 
importance on gender equality.  
The business results on inclusion management are measured by the growth 
of TIM people ’s performance in the “ Diversity and Inclusion”  area.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
35 
  
SUPPORTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF DIGITAL SKILLS IN THE COMMUNITY (IN SCHOOLS, IN 
THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, IN BUSINESSES)  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks related to the integration of 
sustainability issues within the 
strategic business vision and with 
carrying out activities not in line with 
Corporate Social Responsibility.  
  
TIM has internal policies and procedures that integrate sustainability issues into 
company processes; the Corporate Digital Communication & CSV 
Projects department oversees the implementation of projects dedicated to 
the generation of shared value, in addition the Sustainable Reporting, 
Monitoring & Relationship departments oversees the relevant legislation and 
monitors the progress of sustainability issues.  
In Brazil  
Risks related to the theme of 
sustainable development and the 
generation of positive environmental and social impact for companies and 
stakeholders.  TIM Participações engages in sustainable development by participating in 
various initiatives and carrying out “ educational ” and technological projects 
through the Instituto TIM.  
 
 
CONSOLIDATING SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks related to the selection and 
qualification of suppliers/partners and products and to the management of 
passive contracts (agreement, 
archiving and monitoring)   
TIM, in the supplier qualification phase, in accordance with the anti -corruption 
policy, provides for the adoption of due diligence questionnaires and the application of the conflict of interest procedure. In addition, in accordance 
with the Group ’s environmental policy, which provides general guidelines for 
the respons ible and sustainable protection of the environment, the company 
also selects its suppliers and partners and purchased or outsourced products 
on the basis of environmental sustainability criteria and assesses products 
and services taking into account their whole life cycle, periodically checking 
compliance with the above criteria along the entire life cycle.  The company 
identifies and assesses environmental risks generally present at the various levels of its supply chain and, in close collaboration with its  direct suppliers 
and also through partnerships at national and international level, adopts 
appropriate corrective actions and improvement plans to reduce the 
environmental impact of purchased products and services and their 
production processes. Periodic spot checks are also made on Risk linked to the 
selection and purchase orders to ascertain whether there are purchases of 
goods for resale and production that do not comply with the provisions of the 
conflict minerals regulation.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE GROUP  
36 
  
ONLINE PROTECTION OF MI NORS (CYBER BULLYING, CHILD PORNOGRAPHY, GAMBLING)  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks associated with the 
management of activities in the field 
of logic security (cyber security, 
information/security system 
protection), penalties from regulatory 
non-compliance and reputational 
risks.   
The TIM Group –  in accordance with current regulations –  provides the 
customer with a series of tools to protect minors from accessing the sensitive content provided, providing constant updating and related communication.  
TIM deploys r esources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and 
tackle “abuse ”, i.e. any activity committed in violation of the rules of conduct 
and the legislation that govern the use of network services, digital systems or 
means of communication in general with continuous supervision carried out 
by the Security Operations Centre in collaboration with the involved internal departments and with the competent external authorities.  
 
 
PROMOTING AND SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS  
Risks  Management  
 
Risks of compliance with the relevant 
legislation (Legislative decree 
231/2001).   
The Group makes grievance mechanisms availab le to be used in the event 
of Economic risks, reputational violation, as expressly required by the 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Th ese mechanisms are 
available on the Group ’s websites.  
 
 EnvironmentTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
38 
 Environmental protection approach  
[GRI 103 -1, 103- 3: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305]  The ICT sector can pursue the aim of containing its CO 2 
emissions while contributing to the reduction of emissions from other sectors and citizens thanks to the nature of  its 
characteristic solutions: video conferencing, teleworking, telemedicine and the entire range of serv ices which 
digitisation brings, resulting in sustainable behaviour and lifestyles. It1 has been calculated  that  adopting  these  
services could  lead to a 20% reduction in global emissions  of CO 2 in 2030,  holding them  at 2015 levels.  
TIM is aware of its leading role in building a low carbon emissions future and is part of, and active in, industry 
associations and non -profit organisations which have environmental protection among their objectives2; it is clear 
that environmental issues have been of importance to TIM for some time, evident from the materiality matrix of 
2018 incorporating the Sustainable Development Goals and defining the areas of intervention for TIM ’s strategy for 
the environment:  
• definition of management approaches that allow optimised use of energy sources and other natural resources;  
• development of solutions and products that contribute to the fight against climate change;  
• adopting procurement policies that take environmental issues into account;  
• disseminating a culture among  employees  and stakeholders that promotes a correct approach to environmental 
issues.  
In line with the points above, the Group reduces the need for staff to travel by using its audio and video conference services as an alternative. In addition, in order to  increase awareness of environmental protection, a training plan 
was introduced for internal staff and business partners with 9,508 total hours of training and around 3,900 people 
taking part.  It also launched the fourth “ Green Survey ” distributed via the company Intranet, to bring the issues of 
energy saving, the environment and sustainability to the attention of TIM ’s staff. The survey results are published 
on the home page of the TIM Intranet.
 
Furthermore, TIM has adopted criteria, w hich are consistent with service requirements and costs of the various 
solutions, to minimise the impact of its activities and infrastructure by defining fixed and mobile network 
architecture and technical specifications for equipment and components.  
In 2018, TIM internally formalised its commitment to the issue by drafting a specific Group Policy on the Environment 
(“TIM Group commitments to environmental sustainability ”) approved in December 2018. In some specific Group 
areas (Technology department and Op en Access department), quality and environmental policies have been in 
force for some years with the most recent versions issued in July 2017. Furthermore, TIM Sparkle has a quality, 
health and safety in the workplace and environment policy in force, which  was updated in July 2017.  
To ensure the sustainable management of operational processes, the areas of TIM which have a potentially 
significant environmental impact have an ISO 14001 -certified Environmental Management System (EMS). In some 
organisations, t he Environmental Management System has been integrated with the Quality Management System 
based on the ISO 9001 standard, for which the respective certification has been obtained. At some particularly 
representative sites, a certified Energy Management Sys tem has been developed.  In continuity with previous years, 
TIM, through the Energy & Utilities Management department, was also awarded the ISO 50001 certification for the 
sites where this system has been implemented. In 2018, certification was extended considerably: besides the 
“historic ” site in Bologna, in via Stendhal and the Data Center in Rozzano 1 and 2, certification was also obtained 
for Rozzano 3 - thus completing the entire Data Center -  and for the exchange in the center of Piacenza, as well as 
the Data Processing Centers at Padova and Bologna Roveri.  TIM therefore achieved the objective it had set the previous 
year to add a telephone exchange to the certification on top of the already certified buildings. Moreover, TIM has always 
been committed to monitoring the performance of its Data Centres: The Rozzano 2 Data Centre obtained PUE 
certification in 2014 while the PUE of the other Data Centres is currently undergoing certification.  
                                                                 
1 Global e -Sustainability Initiative, #SMARTer2030 – ICT Solutions for 21st Century Challenges.  
2 CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), European 
Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Global e -Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), International Telecommunication Union (ITU).  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
39 
 The operational activities of the technical network in Brazil in the States of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Espirito 
Santo – the areas in which the country ’s industrial and commercial activities are mostly concentrated  – have had 
ISO 14001 certification since 2010. TIM Participações activities are also carried out in ac cordance with its own 
environmental policy, revised in 2015, which underlines its commitment to reducing waste and using natural 
resources sustainably.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305] The Company undertakes to implement energy efficien cy 
programmes and a rational use of resources: the Energy & Utilities Management  department operates within the 
Procurement & Real Estate  department, focusing on energy issues with the mandate to identify and finalise 
appropriate energy efficiency measures in Italy. In addition, together and in coordination with the competent units 
of the Chief Technology Office, it ensures that the plannin g and implementation of the adopted solutions is 
consistent with the Company ’s efficiency plans. The medium -term variable remuneration policy (MBO) requires that 
department managers be assigned a Transformation Project target, consistent with the Group ’s business plan and 
including environmental protection issues. As a testimony to its commitment on the energy front, TIM received the 
2018 Energy Manager award for the tertiary sector from FIRE1 in collaboration with ENEA and Key Energy.  
In Brazil, energy is a material topic given the continued network expansion. TIM  Participações has a centralised 
management area for all electricity, which reports to the Business Support Officer. The Energy and Efficiency  area 
includes professionals responsible for controllin g and planning electricity consumption, monitoring energy efficiency 
projects and monitoring the development of regulatory and energy procurement issues. In 2018, TIM  Participações 
used 180 GWh from renewable energy sources, accounting for about 26% of TIM ’s consumption. In 2019, the 
forecast shows the energy share from renewable sources will increase to 57% of the Company ’s total consumption.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305]  The performance of the main Group indicators is shown in the 
table below. For more details,  see the appendix.  
 
 
 
Indicators   Final figures 2018  
Total consumption of electricity procured and produced    Down  
Total CO 2 emissions    Down  
Eco- efficiency indicator    Up  
% of waste recycled    Constant  
  
                                                                 
1 Italian Federation for Energy Efficiency.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
40 
 Fight against climate change: risks and opportunities for TIM  
[GRI 201 -2] The ICT sector is required to contribute to the fight against climate change by promoting digitisation and 
virtualisation to save  energy.  
TIM believes that its telecommunications services are an opportunity  for climate change mitigation: in addition to 
optimising production processes and logistics flows in various sectors, they help customers reduce emissions generated 
by physical t ravel. In  particular:  
• the services of audio/video conferencing  and flexible working  reduce the need  for people  to travel;  
• online invoicing and payments save paper and production and transport energy and reduce the need to travel to  
make  payments;  
• the services of telemedicine  reduce  travel for medical appointments;  
• the infomobility  solutions allow traffic flows and travel times to be optimised and therefore lower greenhouse gas 
emissions;  
• systems for  the monitoring and analysis of consumption  allow the optimisation of the energy efficiency  of offices  
and houses.  
 
TIM is taking up the fight against climate change by setting itself some priority objectives:  
• reducing its own direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases;  
• limiting the emission s of other sectors and customers in general by supporting dematerialisation and the 
provision of services and solutions which promote new sustainable ways of working, learning, travelling and 
living;  
• communicating its emissions and strategies for fighting climate change in the Sustainability Report and through 
responses provided to rating agencies (RobecoSAM, VigeoEiris, Oekom, FTSE4Good, etc.). TIM takes part in the 
CDP survey both in Italy and Brazil, where, for the eleventh consecutive year, it was confi rmed on the São Paulo 
Stock Exchange (B3) Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and has participated in the national EPC -Empresas pelo 
Clima programme since 2010.  
• disseminating a culture which supports the individual in contributing to the reduction of emis sions.  
TIM products and solutions are characterized by their reduced energy consumption and their contribution to reducing 
energy consumption. The efficiency improvements, savings achievable in economic terms and reduced environmental 
impact associated wit h the effective use of TIM services are also a real business opportunity for the Company: Awareness 
is growing among stakeholders and citizens in general on issues related to climate change leading to companies turning 
their attention to ways of achieving significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to ensure a sustainable future for 
society and the planet. These objectives are pursued through the initiatives described in the following paragraphs.  
The risks  associated with climate change for the TLC s ector have implications of a physical, economic and regulatory 
nature, with repercussions for the image and reputation of companies.  
The risk of flooding is one of the most serious physical risks for TIM and the one most likely to occur. The resulting damage 
impact ranges from reduced use to the loss of business infrastructure, with a consequent zeroing of the capacity to supply 
the service. In order to prevent the potential damage, TIM ’s new exchanges and buildings are built at a safe distance from 
rivers and bodies of water in general and, in order to ensure continuity of service, the TIM network is designed considering appropriate levels of resilience and redundancy. TIM ’s network infrastructure in areas characterised by a high level of 
hydro -geologic al risk is monitored through the TIM Ci.Pro. (Civil Protection) system, which uses a constantly updated 
database of information on local areas and infrastructure crucial for rapid planning of necessary intervention. Finally, 
company assets subject to physi cal risks have insurance coverage commensurate with the property and equipment value, 
and the severity of the potential damage related to the service they provide.  
In Brazil , 65.2% of domestic electricity comes from hydroelectric generation
1. For this reas on, extreme rainfall levels or 
long periods without rain can compromise the water level in reservoirs and have an impact on the national energy supply. In this event,  TIM could be affected by energy rationing measures and fluctuations in the average kWh pr ice due to 
climate change effects. In addition, increased extreme weather frequency and strength could damage transmission 
                                                                 
1 According to the National Energy Report for Br azil 2018 (BEN, 2018).  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
41 
 towers, increasing business expenses for the acquisition of new equipment and maintenance of existing equipment. This 
could also lead  to an increase in insurance costs and signal interruption or loss of quality to the detriment of 
telecommunications services. In addition, changes in air humidity and salinity have a direct effect on goods and 
equipment located underground and close to co astal areas with a consequent increase in operating costs. In the event 
of an average temperature increase, electronic devices whose performance is directly related to stable temperatures 
could require surplus energy to be cooled. It should be noted that c limate change could also increase costs for staff 
absences, as well as cause greater difficulties in reaching workplaces or locations where staff are working, having an 
indirect impact on company performance.  
 
Electromagnetism and compliance with environme ntal legislation in force  
The Group has always paid great attention to the issue of electromagnetic emissions . To this end its activities 
include:  
• careful management of its equipment during its entire life cycle and in compliance with current regulations and 
internal standards of efficiency and safety;  
• designing and optimising the radio access network, ensuring that serious attention is given to the issue of 
electromagnetic emissions at every stage of the equipment life cycle;  
• use of, and constant research  into, the latest technological instruments for checks and controls.  
Systematic monitoring of the levels of electromagnetic emissions in installations aims to ensure that legal limits are respected and high safety standards are maintained for workers and t he general population. Despite Italian 
regulations on electromagnetic emissions being among the strictest in the world, with levels set much lower than 
the European average, checks carried out in Italy have shown that electromagnetic emissions generated are within the legal limits.  
TIM invests in software development to continuously update and refine electromagnetic emission predictions. In 
particular, the GUARDIAN tool calculates the level of exposure of sites that host antennas and ensures that the levels  established by law are respected. Combined with the TIMplan design platform, its use allows the location of 
sites and orientation of the antennas in relation to a specific context (housing, roads, meeting places) to be optimised. TIM also participates act ively in the committees and working groups of the CEI (Italian Electrotechnical 
Committee) for issuing guidelines and technical standards on methods used to measure and forecast levels of 
exposure to electromagnetic fields issued by mobile radio systems.  
Accurate planning and optimisation of the mobile radio network (optimum choice of sites, optimum use of radio 
transmission parameters) improves the efficiency of the network for the same amount of coverage, maximising the 
capacity and quality of the service  and minimising interference, thus contributing to reducing the power transmitted 
by mobile terminals and radio base stations. In 2018, the following activities continued:  
• support and training for local organisations in Electromagnetic Impact Analysis (EIA ) activities;  
• evolution of software tools developed internally to predict exposure (GUARDIAN);  
• development and maintenance of the ARPIE web application for assessing the average power transmitted by 
radio base stations of 2G, 3G and 4G systems in accordanc e with the legal changes introduced by Italian 
Legislative Decree 179/2012 “ Additional urgent measures for the growth of the Country ” and its Implementation 
Guidelines.  
The APOGEO procedure has been applied to mobile radio systems allowing TIM to ensure th at its systems are built 
in full compliance with the design, which in turn is fully compliant with legal requirements for protecting the health 
of the population. APOGEO is a TIM patent for high precision topographic and satellite instruments for 3D survey ing 
of all radiating GSM, UMTS, LTE and Radio link systems and their infrastructure.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
42 
 In relation to the development of the 5G system it is important to remember that the current limits, provided by law with 
a wide margin of safety, are not related to specific technologies, but concern the total emissions; in addition the network 
architecture also provides “ small cell”  solutions which due to their intrinsic technological nature use lower radio power.  
In light of these considerations, the electromagnetic emis sions generated by 5G technology do not represent a business 
risk: they are therefore not included in the TIM Enterprise Risk Management matrix or in the materiality matrix that brings relevant issues highlighted by stakeholders together. According to curr ent scientific knowledge, emissions associated 
with base stations and wireless networks levels associated with radio base stations and wireless networks are not considered responsible for causing negative impacts on health and the population and fall well within the limits set by 
international standards. TIM and the entire telecommunications sector pays careful attention to the issue by proactively 
monitoring all possible developments and always acting in compliance with the legislation.  
In Brazil  the non- ionising radiation emitted by the radio base stations of TIM Participações are fully within the 
parameters dictated by the World Health Organization and adopted by the Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações (ANATEL). All the radio base stations of T IM Participações have a licence to operate issued by ANATEL.  
[GRI 307 -1] On the issue of Compliance, the Group provides everyone with a single channel through which to submit 
requests for clarification or reports of presumed violation of environmental legi slation, with the maximum 
guarantee of confidentiality. The system assigns each report submitted a unique identification code, which enables 
the reporter to check the processing status in complete anonymity1. 
As active and responsible members of the commun ity, the Group ’s companies are committed to observing and 
ensuring the observance of the laws in force in the countries in which they operate and adopt the organisational 
tools needed to prevent the violation of legal provisions.  
During 2018, no significant financial penalties were imposed on TIM in Italy for violations of environmental legislation 
in the areas in which they perform their activities. This consideration is also valid for the previous two years.  
In Brazil , during 2018 a fine of 500 thousand reais2 was imposed on TIM by the Municipal Environmental and 
Sustainable Development Office of the city of Esplanada (in the state of Bahia) for failing to respect regulations issued by the environmental authority. TIM is appealing to the competent bodies. For the year 2018, there are 23 
non- pecuniary administrative sanctions to report; in 2017,  there were 15 imposed and 7 in 2016. No cases of 
conciliation mechanism resolution, a method not envisaged in Brazil for environmental disputes.  
  
                                                                 
1 Full information about this is available by clicking on this link: www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/aboutus/governancesystem/whistleblowi ng.htmls 
2 Pecuniary sanctions of an amount exceeding 500,000 euros are considered significant for the Group in Italy; For its own accounting purposes, 
Brazil applies an amount of 500,000 reais, which is equal to 112,200 euros at the exchange rate on 31 De cember 2018.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
43 
 TIM initiatives for the environment  
Listed below are some of the TIM services and initiatives where the company ’s technology, know -how, structures and 
awareness are being deployed to limit the environmental impact of activities.  
 
Energy efficiency improvement work  
In the course of 2018, TIM proactively managed to avoid energy withdrawal increases linked to technological development 
through a continuous search for efficiency and optimisation in adopted solutions. In 2018 a total net reduction in 
consumption (net  withdrawals and self -produced energy) was achieved of around 28 GWh compared to 2017.  
This result was made possible through new efficiency plans involving several areas and with the implementation of 
specific efficiency projects launched in previous years , in detail:  
• Spaces Plan . Provides for the release of 40 sites in the 2018 -2020 period, of which 23 in the course of 2018. The 
benefits in terms of saving will be mainly visible from 2019. The total saving linked to the release of the sites estimated 
for 2 019 is between 40 and 50 GWh (includes offices, fixed and DPC1). 
• Analysis of high -consumption sites . During 2018 special attention was given to the high -consumption sites (offices, 
fixed networks and DPC) with a 0.5 GWh threshold for network withdrawals (345 sites in total with a total withdrawal 
of around 1 TWh). The objective is to identify possible areas of efficiency and maximise achievable savings. In 2019,  
the plan is to mainly concentrate efficiency measures at these sites.  
• Management initiatives. In 2019, savings are also expected from management type activities to improve the energy 
performance of high consuming sites: these initiatives should result in a saving of around 40 GWh.  
 
Data Centres and IT area  
Work continued in 2018 on hardware disposal (storage and server) and shutdowns (e.g. orphan servers) relating to the internal market or 2017 projects about to be completed and invisible shutdowns (only detected retrospectively) with 
estimated savings for 2018 of around 11 GWh. The following actions were completed
: 
• Adaptive cooling of Data Centre rooms . The use of a previously tested solution to manage cooling systems with 
adaptive algorithms, which control the operation of air conditioners based on the thermal mapping of server rooms, was put into practice , thus reducing consumption from air conditioning. Energy savings were around 1.2 
GWh.
 
• Eco solution for IT infrastructure in the cloud . An increase was made in the number of machines set up with 
real- time controlled and dynamic switch -off of “ farms in the cloud”  servers based on virtualisation mechanisms 
with optimisation of the use of physical resources (CPU and RAM). The solution, the efficiency of which has 
already been tested, improves the operation of IT farms in terms of performance and capaci ty planning 
information, enabling optimisation of the physical development of IT platforms even if the processing load 
required increases. The energy savings for 2018 (year fully operational) were around 0.6 GWh.  
• Cogeneration. Particular impetus was given to the production of energy from trigeneration plants in 2018, with 
efforts to limit machine stops and at the same time consistently optimise plant operation. Self -produced energy 
has grown by about 27 GWh compared to 2017. In addition, in 2019, further trigeneration activities are being 
analysed for the Rozzano, Padua and Bologna sites relating to hydraulic circuit re -engineering and absorber 
changes. Analysis has also begun to identify suitable sites for the installation of additional units between 1.5 an d 
2 MW of power. For 2019, self -production of around 150 GWh is expected (+20 GWh compared to 2018). In 2019,  
increased efficiency is planned in the main DPCs with the introduction of Building Energy Management Systems 
(BEMS).  
 
                                                                 
1 DPC – Data Processing Centre.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
44 
 In Brazil, in December 2018,  a biogas plant using solid urban waste was put into operation with 5 MW of power for 
its own remote use. The facility supplies 864 (antennas) in the São Paulo area. With this initiative, TIM will become 
the first telephone company to use biogas to generat e energy in an urban centre and supply its equipment. The 
objective is to reach 60% of the energy supply coming from renewable sources such as solar, wind, biogas and hydroelectric power plants by 2020. TIM Participações foresees a 22% saving on energy costs with a reduction plan 
for up to 2032. Currently, 18% of the company ’s energy supply comes from renewable sources
. 
Working locations/offices area  
Mestre and Padua smart building testing. The project involves the monitoring and control of power and air 
conditioning systems through the installation of probes to monitor temperatures and consumption, with the aim of 
reducing energy consumption and increasing system efficiency. The activity does not involve replacing conditioning 
machines, but only deals with their management logic. The project was carried out with “ turnkey ” logic. In 2019,  
increased efficiency is planned in the main office sites with the introduction of Building Energy Management 
Systems (BEMS).  
In one of the São Paulo offices in Brazil , a water treatment plant and a rainwater collection system was set up to 
clean the site ’s surrounding spaces and garden. The project involves implementing a retention system for rainwater 
from roofs and gutters, along with a physical -chemical system for the treatment and reuse of this water in sanitary 
facilities and with a total storage capacity of 680 m³. In another unit of São Paulo (Morumbi), part of the water used 
comes from an artesian well. In the Brazilian unit,  there is a system to collect gutter rai nwater and condensed water 
from the air conditioning with a 2.5 m³ capacity collection tank. The objective is to use this water to irrigate plants 
and wash the unit’ s courtyard . A similar project has been started in one of the operating units in Rio de Janeiro (TIM São 
Cristóvão).  
 
Fixed Network area  
• Exchanges re -engineering  project. The plan was completed to adapt both power supply and air conditioning 
infrastructure units of exchanges, with the aim of achieving energy efficiency. The actions, completed at  the end of 
2018, covered 110 of the most energy intensive exchanges (UGSs and POPs), out of a total of 10,500, indicatively 
representing 11% of the total consumption of Exchanges -  around 156 GWh per year in total. The project saving 
objective of around 2 0 GWh has been achieved. Phase 2 of the project to be carried out in 2019 is planned to be 
extended to an additional 100 plants selected from the most energy -consuming sites (and not included in other saving 
plans).  
• Plans for business systems modernisation  continued in 2018 through a simplification of the architecture; energy 
efficiency can be improved by gradually decommissioning pre- existing systems and platforms which have reached 
the end of their support and maintenance cycle (end of support), and migra ting data network services to platforms 
with better performance.  
• Integrated decommissioning and Network Simplification – compacting plans (PSTN, DSLAM ATM, DSLAM IP, 
SuperSGU) continue, as does the rationalisation and simplification of network platforms (Core Phonia Platforms, 
Transport Networks, Data Networks) with an added saving in 2018 of about 14 GWh. In 2019, a  further saving of 
around 22 GWh is expected.  
 
Mobile Network area  
• Radio Access Network Energy Saving : the project started in 2018. The aim of the project is to reduce electricity 
consumption in 2G, 3G and 4G systems housed in radio base stations through t he implementation/activation of 
specific features. The Intervention pool is about 13,000 RBS. The estimated saving when up and running (2019) is 
about 0.4 GWh (50% of which in 2018). A phase 2 of the project is being analysed, which involves the implementa tion 
of additional features.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
45 
 • Connection Power Reduction : the project started in 2018. The aim of the project is to reduce the connection power of 
the electricity supply of RBSs, with criteria for mitigating possible disconnection risk, both to optimise all  approximately 
15kW power supply connections with an increase in supply to 17kW and eliminate the limiter, with consequent 
payment for the share of power consumption and not capacity. The expected saving is mainly linked to the reduction 
of fixed costs.  
 
In Brazil the business processes redesign programme is being developed. It will examine various processes related to 
energy management. The programme aims to increase the focus on energy management by unifying end- to-end 
management activities. It includes energy efficiency measures and is part of the operational objectives of all areas directly 
involved. Free Cooling has also been implemented, a ventilation system with the installation of refrigeration equipment 
at sites which reduces the use of energy and refrigerant gases. The container removal project was also begun, for the 
removal of equipment from containers with air conditioning and installation of forced ventilation in the Radio Base 
Stations, which reduces energy consumption used for air conditioning and HFC emissions. Finally, other projects launched 
in 2017 to adapt network equipment continue: virtualisation when possible and installation of more efficient equipment.  
 
Reducing staff travel  
TIM is committed to finding solutions to reduce staff travel and movement. In addition to proposed flexible working days, 
TIM provides its employees with “ VAI On Line ” and Smart On Line (launched in 2017) audio and video conferencing 
services, for both its own employees and for those of Group companies; their use shows a recorded increase of about 
13.5% in 2018 compared to 2017. Details as follows:  
• VAI On Line: 33,205 video conferences held by TIM and other Group companies;  
• VAI On Line: 72,159 audio conferences held by TIM and other Group companies;  
• Smart On Line: 55,634 audio/video conferences held by TIM.  
 
IoT and environmental research  
As a further demonstration of its commitment to the environment, every year TIM invests in research into innovative 
solutions for limiting environmental impact by limiting the consumption of natural resources and energy. These 
activities are detailed in the following paragraphs.  
TIM has also had many patents granted in this area. TIM has begun numerous ICT research projects in the area of 
the Internet of Things  (IoT),  applied  to the world of Smart  Cities and of positive environmental impact.  
Smart grid.  IoT application for the management of electrical networks in terms of distributed generation and remote 
control. Continuing sharing telecommunication and power distribution networ k infrastructure with a view to cutting costs 
and reducing their environmental impact.  
Smart water . IoT application for managing water distribution networks through the identification of hidden water leaks. 
To search for leaks and optimise distribution costs, TIM is also experimenting with multi- utility smart metering solutions 
(applications for real time usage monitoring), which cover water, gas and, if necessary, also electricity, based on 
widespread networks like IoT Narrowband1. 
  
                                                                 
1 This solution is based on a new radio interface which can be used either on a portion of the LTE signal band (or on the band separating the 
bands), or independently in portions of the spectrum made available by the release of frequencies . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
46 
 Smart waste . Effici ent management  of the waste  cycle for increasing sorted collection and reducing illegal dumping. 
The fill levels of the various recycling centres are measured in real time and vehicles sent out to empty them only when 
necessary. Result: time and expense are minimised and roadside bins overflowing with municipal rubbish are avoided.  
Other projects.  In the field of eco -sustainability, the REPLICATE (Firenze Smart City) and MONICA (Torino Smart City) 
projects are particularly significant.  
The REPLICATE1 project focuses on smart energy, smart mobility and smart waste solutions and the development of IoT 
platforms for managing the distribution of water and waste management in collaboration and partnership with the 
municipality of Florence. It was launched in 20 16 and will last for five years.  
The MONICA2 project is focused on urban noise pollution and safety in public life. TIM contributed to the “ Torino Smart 
City” project known as SMILE3 focusing on the theme of life & health. Based on input from the SMILE project, the 
Municipality of Turin has drawn up a master plan for Torino Smart City. TIM has signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
with the Municipality which provides for the use of 5G technologies to develop sustainable smart city services. The project, 
which began in July 2017, will be completed by mid- 2020.  
 
Consumer Products: TIM eco -friendly  
[GRI 302 -5] In order to improve the environmental efficiency of products offered to customer s, attention has to be paid 
to their energy aspects to optimise consumption while meeting the needs of the services delivered and applying “design 
for environment ” rules that reduce their environmental impact, particularly during the production phase and t he end- of-
life management of equipment. It is the responsibility of the ICT sector, and therefore also of TIM, to consider these 
aspects, focusing on research and development to create products with a low environmental impact throughout the 
entire life cyc le. 
At the end of the 1990s, TIM launched a series of internal research and development activities to finalise the building of 
terminals with a reduced environmental impact. The TIM Green logo, renamed TIM eco -friendly in 2015, was created to 
identify both  TIM’s environmental protection initiatives and projects and eco -friendly products.  
For each product and initiative with this logo, information is provided about the features and specific solutions adopted to demonstrate their eco -friendliness and/or envir onmental benefit. In the case of products, this information appears in 
the environmental statement, drawn up in accordance with the UNI EN ISO 14021 standard, as well as in the sustainability 
section of the telecomitalia.com website, where information can also be found about the “ eco-friendly ” features of 
initiatives and projects.  
The TIM eco- friendly range includes dedicated products for businesses and consumers developed in cooperation with 
suppliers. The electricity savings also translate into an equival ent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The entire TIM 
eco-friendly range of products are designed using eco -design criteria. The casing and packaging are made using uniform, 
recycled and/or recyclable materials. In 2018 TIM BOX was launched, part of th e eco -friendly line with an appropriate 
environmental declaration.  
                                                                 
1  REnaissance of PLaces with Innovative Citizenship And TEchnologies is part of the European Horizon 2020 programme.  
2 Management Of Networked IoT Wearables –  Very Large Scale Demonstration of Cultural Societal Applications is part of the European Horizon 
2020 programme.  
3 SMart mobILity at the European land borders is part of the European Horizon 2020 programme. TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
47 
 TIM’s environmental performance  
Energy and natural resources consumption  
[GRI 302 -1], [GRI 302 -2], [GRI 302 -4] The Group ’s energy consumption is presented broken- down into consumption for 
heating, transport and purchased and produced electricity.  
 
Heating  
Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the previous 2 years  
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Energy generated by heating oil  MJ 19,943,628  100%  0% 
Energy generated by natural gas  MJ 310,558,190  100%  0% 
Total energy for heating  MJ 330,501,818  100%  0% 
2018 v. 2017   (12)%  (12)%  NC 
2018 v. 2016   (30)%  (30)%  NC 
 
The data in the table shows a significant reduction in 2018 compared to 2017 and 2016 mainly attributable to real estate 
rationalisation and energy efficiency. In Brazil , given the particular climate conditions throughout the year, indoor heating 
is not us ed. 
 
 
Transport  
The data shown in the following tables refers to all the Group ’s vehicles (industrial, commercial, used by senior 
managers/middle managers/sales people), both owned and hired. The vehicles, consumption and mileage of vehicles 
owned or in us e by the sales force of TIM Participações have been included only where usage is significant and continuous.  
 
  Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the previous 2 years  
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Energy from unleaded petrol   MJ 58,336,397  50%  50%  
Energy from diesel fuel   MJ 572,373,719  100%  0% 
Energy from LPG   MJ 47,203  100%  0% 
Total energy for transport*   MJ 630,757,319  95%  5% 
2018 v. 2017    (2)%  (2)%  10%  
2018 v. 2016    (5)%  (6)%  0% 
Total number of vehicles   No. 15,370  96%  4% 
2018 v. 2017   (3)%  (4)%  0% 
2018 v. 2016    (17)%  (18)%  (4)%  
Total distance travelled  km 265,632,859  97%  3% 
2018 v. 2017   3% 3% 5% 
2018 v. 2016    (4)%  (5)%  5% 
 
* Represents conversion into megajoules of the consumption of unleaded petrol, diesel  and LPG (expressed in litres) and natural gas (expressed 
in kg).  
 
In general, energy consumption for transport is decreasing.   TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
48 
 Electricity procured and produced  
 
   Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the 
previous 2 years  
  
 Group  Domestic  Brazil  
 Electricity from mixed sources  kWh  2,386,331,836  76%  24%  
 2018 v. 2017*   (6)%  (1)%  (19)%  
 2018 v. 2016   (10)%  (9)%  (12)%  
 Electricity from renewable sources  kWh  221,531,269  25%  75%  
 2018 v. 2017   268%  (2)%  NC 
 2018 v. 2016    426%  32%  NC 
 Total electricity consumption  kWh  2,607,863,105  71% 29%  
 2018 v. 2017   (0.1)%  (1)%  3% 
 2018 v. 2016   (3)%  (8)%  13%  
 
* The comparison was made with 2017 data, which was updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report, following a f urther revision 
after its publication. The updated 2017 data refers to the total electricity purchased from mixed sources in 2017,  equal to 1,716,694,496 kWh and 
to the cogeneration of electricity in 2017, equal to 102,996,893 kWh.  
 Consumption figures for electricity used to operate telecommunications and civil/industrial technological plants are 
shown in the tables. Thanks to energ y efficiency measures implemented in 2018, overall electricity consumption 
has fallen.  
The energy efficiency of TIM was also recognised through the awarding of Energy Efficiency Certificates (EEC, also 
known as White Certificates): in 2018 an additional 18,000 white certificates were allocated and sold with sales 
revenues of approximately 6 million euros in 2018.  
The share of energy from renewable sources also increased in Brazil,  due to more accurate reporting
1. 
 
[GRI 302 -3] The Group measures its energy efficiency by using an eco-efficiency indicator that establishes a 
relationship between the service offered to the customer (bits transmitted) and the company ’s impact on the 
environment (joules of energy consumed). The factors taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice 
traffic of the fixed and mobile networks, and energy consumption for industrial purposes (transmission and climate 
control in exchanges), civil purposes (electricity for office use, air conditioning and office heating) and veh icles. The  
graphs below  show  the level  of the eco-efficiency  indicator  over  the past  three  years for the Domestic and  Brazil  BUs.  
                                                                 
1 In previous years Brazil always included renewable energy within the share of energy from mixed sources.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
49 
  
In 2018, the value  of the indicator  calculated  for the Domestic  BU was 11,121 bit/joule ,  up by 25.3%  compared  to 2017  
and1 by 70.3%  compared  to 2016.  The commitment continues  with  the establishment  for 2019  of an objective of 13,300 
bit/Joule  (see 2019 objectives in  Appendix),  equal  to an increase  of +19.6%  on the figure  for 2018.  This is the result  of a 
substantial  increase  in data  traffic,  which, thanks  to the efficiency  of the network,  has not led to a  corresponding  
increase  in electricity  consumption.  
Also  the eco-efficiency  index  calculated  for Brazil shows a continuous  improvement:  in 2018it  grew significantly  by 
241%  compared  to 2017  and by over  271%  compared to  2016. The significant increase in the Brazil indicator is due to LTE 
traffic being included in the 2018 calculation, accounting for 67% of total traffic.  
The values  of the indicators  calculated  respectively  for Italy  and Brazil are not directly comparable because the two 
organisations are very different in operational and environmental terms: e.g. in Brazil the traffic is primarily mobile  
and,  as previously  mentioned,  no heating  fuels  are used  in view of  the par ticular climate conditions.  
 
 
 
Water consumption  
[GRI 303 -1] 
   Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the 
previous 2 years  
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Consumption of water drawn from 
artesian wells  m3 8,476  17% 83%  
Consumption of water provided by 
water supply companies  m3 2,067,908  95%  5% 
Consumption of water drawn from other 
sources  m3 11,327  0% 100%  
Total water consumption  m3 2,087,711  94%  6% 
2018 v. 2017   (7)%  (7)%  (15)%  
2018 v. 2016   (47)%  (48)%  (33)%  
 
In general,  water consumption tends to reduce thanks to targeted management and awareness -raising actions.  
 
 
                                                                 
1 * The  comparison was made with 2017 data updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report, following a further revision  after its 
publication. The updated 2017 figure for the Domestic BU eco -efficiency indicator is 8,877 bit/joule.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
50 
 Paper for office and commercial purposes  
  Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the 
previous 2 years  
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Non-recycled and non- certified paper 
purchased for office use  kg 27,981  100%  0% 
Recycled paper purchased for office use  kg 23 100%  0% 
FSC certified paper purchase for office use  kg 159,923  87%  13%  
Total paper purchased for office use  kg 187,927  89%  11% 
2018 v. 2017*  (4)%  (4)%  0% 
2018 v. 2016   5% 7% (10)%  
Total paper purchased for commercial use  kg 2,470,035  68%  32%  
2018 v. 2017   10%  16%  (1)%  
2018 v. 2016   (13)%  (18)%  (1)%  
 
* The comparison was made with 2017 data, which was updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report, following a f urther revision 
after its publication. The updated 2017 figure is equal to 180,070 kg of paper.  
 
Purchases of paper for office and commercial use (telephone bills) continue to be directed at product types that meet the 
highest environmental standards based on the responsible management of forests according to the Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC) requirements1. In 2018, bill frequency to customers with fixed line services was changed from the 2017 56 -
day cycle to a monthly cycle. Every month bills are sent to all customers with a consequent increase in paper consumption for commercial use.  
 
 
 
Atmospheric emissions  
[GRI 305 -1] [GRI 305-2] [GRI 305 -3] [GRI 305 -5] [GRI 305 -6] The Group ’s greenhouse gas emissions consist almost 
exclusively of carbon dioxide generated by fossil fuels for heating, transport, power generation and the purchase of 
electricity from third parties, staff travel  (service/maintenance activities, business trips and commuting from home to 
work).  
In addition to these , fugitive  emissions  of hydro chlorofluorocarbons , hydro fluorocarbons  (HCFCs and HFCs) and other 
gases from air conditioning systems are also considered and converted into kg of CO 2 equivalent.  
For atmospheric emissions as well, use is made of the GHG Protocol approach, distinguishing between direct or Scope1 emissions  (use  of fossil fuels  for transport,  heating,  power  generation  and fugitive  ozone depleting emissions),  
indirect  or Scope2  emissions  (purchase  of electricity  for industrial  and civil use)  and other indirect or Scope3 emissions.  
Unless otherwise  stated,  the atmospheric emission  figures given here  have  been  calculated  based  on the updated  
coefficients  made available by the  GHG  Protocol
2. 
 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur oxides (SOx) emissions [GRI 305 -7] are negligible in Group emissions.  
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 See fsc.org  
2 Emissions relating to the consumption of electricity purchased from mixed sources in the Italian market have been calculated b y using the 
coefficient published by the GHG Protocol (2009) which considers the national energy mix, and is equal to 386 grams of CO 2/kWh. For Brazil, the 
average coefficients for 2016, 2017 and 2018 have been used, as calculated and published by the Ministério da Ciência, Tecnologia, Inovações e 
Comunicações (Ministry of Science, Technology, Innovations and Communications), of appro ximately 81.7, 92.7, 74.0 grams respectively of 
CO 2/kWh.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
51 
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 305] The following table shows the Group ’s total CO 2 emissions.   
  Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the 
previous 2 years  
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
CO 2 emissions from transport  kg 47,076,451  95%  5% 
CO 2 emissions from heating  kg 18,341,623  100%  0% 
Emissions of CO 2 equivalents for ozone 
depleting gases*  kg 24,668,762  21%  79%  
CO 2 emissions from electricity generation 
by cogeneration  kg 66,831,106  100%  0% 
CO 2 emissions from electricity generation 
using diesel  kg 9,002,922  93%  7% 
Total direct emissions of CO 2 - under 
Scope1 GRI**  kg 165,920,864  87%  13%  
2018 v. 2017   14%  4% 168%  
2018 v. 2016   9% 1% 129%  
CO 2 emissions from purchases of 
electricity generated from mixed sources  kg 685,178,250  94%  6% 
Total indirect emissions of CO 2 - under 
Scope2 GRI  kg 685,178,250  94%  6% 
2018 v. 2017***  (6)%  (3)%  (36)%  
2018 v. 2016   (11)%  (10)%  (21)%  
CO 2 emissions from work -home 
commuting****  kg 60,780,511  92%  8% 
CO 2 emissions from air travel*****  kg 5,200,007  56%  44%  
Emissions of CO 2 from hotel stays******  kg 479,348  100%  NC 
Total other indirect emissions of CO 2- 
under Scope3 GRI  kg 66,459,866  89%  11% 
2018 v. 2017   (4)%  (5)%  9% 
2018 v. 2016   (5)%  (5)%  (4)%  
Total CO 2 emissions  kg 917,558,980  92%  8% 
2018 v. 2017   (3)%  (2)%  (11)%  
2018 v. 2016   (8)%  (8)%  2% 
 
* The equivalent CO 2 emissions of the hydro chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), hydro fluorocarbons (HFCs) and other refrigerant gases are determined 
by reference to specific Global Warming Potential (GWP) coefficients for the various gas types: the index is bas ed on a relative scale that compares 
the gas considered with an equal mass of carbon dioxide with a GWP of 1. In Italy the index is calculated as the average of t he GWP of the various 
gases used and equal to 1,780 for HCFC and 1,300 for HFC.  
** The compari son was made with methane consumption data from 2017, which was updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report 
received after its publication. The updated 2017 figure is equal to 27,860,685 m3 of methane for cogeneration, whose related 2017 e missions 
amount to 54,693,813 kg of CO 2. 
*** The comparison was made with updated 2017 data following a review. The updated 2017 figure is equal to 636,411,805 kg of CO 2. 
**** In determining the impact of home -work commuting, reference is made to statistical data produced on the company ’s personnel.  
***** Emissions due to air travel were calculated by the study and research centre of American Express (the Travel Agency use d by TIM) supported 
by DEFRA (Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affai rs of the United Kingdom) based on the number of journeys actually made, 
subdivided by the duration of each individual journey (short, medium or long).  
****** Emissions from stays in hotels were calculated only in relation to Italy and only take the Domest ic BU into account. The emission factors 
were calculated using the characterisation factors issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2007.  
 
Produced emissions have fallen compared to previous years thanks to a greater use of energy  from renewable sources 
and a rational use of energy resources.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
52 
  
[GRI 305 -4] TIM also measures the “Carbon Intensity ” of its Domestic BU1 by using an indicator that establishes a 
relationship between the company ’s direct and indirect operational CO 2 emissions (Scope1 and Scope2), measured in kg, 
with the service offered to the customers in terms of Tbits transmitted.  
The factors taken into consideration are the amount of data and voice traffic of the fixed/mobile network and direct 
emissions produced  by using fossil fuels for heating, vehicles and self -production of electrical energy together with 
indirect emissions due to purchase and consumption of electrical energy from grid.  
 
In 2018 the value of the indicator fell by more than 19% compared to 20172 and by over 42% compared to 2016. The traffic 
transmitted also increased by over 27% compared to 2017 and 58% compared to 2016.  
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 The operations of Persidera and the Olivetti Group are not included . 
2 The comparison was made with 2017 data updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report, following a further revision after its 
publication. The updated 2017 figure for the carbon intensity indicator  
is equal to 10.6 kg of CO 2/Tbit. 
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
ENVIRONMENT  
53 
 Waste  
[GRI 306 -2] The data shown in the table refer to the quantity of waste consigned1 and recorded by  law2. 
 
   Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the 
previous 2 years  
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Hazardous waste  kg 3,531,669  84%  16%  
Non-hazardous waste  kg 10,158,362  96%  4% 
Total waste consigned*  kg 13,690,031  93%  7% 
2018 v. 2017   19%  15%  144%  
2018 v. 2016   8% 5% 66%  
Waste sent for recycling or recovery  kg 13,311,036  96%  4% 
% Waste sent for recycling or recovery   97%  99%  66%  
 
* The data does not include the Domestic BU telephone poles because these are not disposed of as ordinary waste but under the framework 
agreement signed in 2003 with the Ministry of the Environment and Land Protection, the Ministry of Production Activities and the production and 
recovery companies, subject to the favourable opinion of the conference of State -Regions -Autonomous Provinces. In 2018, TIM decommissioned 
120,740 poles weighing a total of 9,659 tons.  
 
The data  relating  to waste  shows  a variable  trend over  time  in relation  to quantity and type  of waste.  The most  
significant  figure  is that  of the ratio  of waste  produced  and that sent  for recycling/recovery, which remains at a high 
level.  ICT can accelerate the obsolescence of products and require the resulting technological waste to be managed. 
TIM has entered into contracts with companies specialised in handl ing used, faulty and end -of-life products, with 
the aim of reclaiming components and raw materials and at the same time obtaining tangible economic benefits  
deriving from their recovery.  
In 2018 the various management activities allowed logistics and network products  (39,530 items ) and commercial  
logistics  products  (80,854 items)  to be regenerated and components and raw materials (400,987 kg in total, almost 
exclusively  fixed telephony parts) to  be sent for  recovery. In 2018,  TIM re -sold a total of 26, 660 used mobile telephony 
items.  
  
                                                                 
1 “Waste consigned” means waste delivered to carriers for recycling or reclamation or disposal. 
2 Slight variations compared to the situation on December 31 may occur until the following March 30, because the source of the data is the records 
of waste loaded and unloaded, which are consolidated once the actual weight at destination has been verified; The information is supplied to the 
producer of the waste within 3 months of consignment, which is the reason for the potential variations in the data. In this r egard, ascertained 
waste production for 2017 is higher (+ 2.7%) than stated in the last Report. However, this increase was not taken into account in the 2018 on 2017 
comparison of waste produced. TIM peopleTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
56 
 Commitment to our people  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 401]  The materiality analysis conducted by TIM in 2018 confirmed the following 
material topics for the Group: managing labour relations and developing employment, health and safety of workers, 
together with skills development, reducing inequality and the ability to promote equal opportunities (new themes of 
2018).  
The telec ommunications sector is a strategic and driving sector for the digital transformation process of the economy 
and society. Digitalisation is a profound and pervasive phenomenon that is revolutionising every area of family life and 
work. There is a strong integration between the development of high -tech equipment, innovative services and the rapid 
evolution of business processes and models. TLC operators play a leading role in this area, encouraging the marketing and dissemination of new digital services, driven by a strong acceleration and investment in new enabling technologies. 
Citizens, consumers, businesses and public administration can make use of these services thanks to an increasingly 
effective broadband and ultrabroadband network performance, both fixed and mobile, and the development of enabling 
platforms.  
Digital skills are fundamental for the growth and strategic development of the entire sector. So there is a need to 
continuously update training models to support digital transformation and the r elative evolution of professional skills in 
the Company. To meet the challenges of the future, TIM requires continuous learning, operational and methodological 
flexibility and an innovative problem -solving  approach to ensure results are quickly achieved.  
In this scenario, TIM is recognised as a knowledge company  with technological and market leadership thanks to the 
expertise and skills possessed by its people, where differences and sharing of knowledge represent added value to achieve 
the set business objectives. At TIM, the enhancement of human capital serves to achieve the business aims through its 
human resources activities, which are described in the following paragraphs and always implemented in full compliance 
with the reference policy
1. 
[GRI 103 -2: M anagement Approach] [GRI 401]  The Head of the Human Resources & Development Department is 
appointed by the Chief Executive Officer. The variable short -term remuneration policy (MBO) assigns the Head of 
Department objectives in keeping with the strategy aim ed towards Human Resources. [GRI 103 -3: Management 
Approach]  [GRI 401] [GRI 403]  The following table contains a summary of the main final figures for 2018 and objectives 
for 2019 in TIM S.p.A. relating to the main HR themes.  
TIM S.p.A.  
 Final figures 2018  2019 Target  
Frequency rate* 6.72 6.00  
Accidents per 100 workers  0.98  0.90  
Training** - Coverage (percentage of employees who 
participated in at least one training session from the total 
population)  100.4%  98%  
 
* number of accidents per million hours worked.  
** the figure is calculated on number of personnel as at 31/12.  
  
                                                                 
1 Code of Ethics and Charter of Values; TIM’s Corporate Governance Principles; Environmental and Social Policies; the Group’s H uman Rights Policy; 
HRO Guidelines; Social Responsibility Policy  on child labour, forced labour, health and safety, freedom of association and the right to collective 
bargaining, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and pay; Equal Opportunities Charter. In addition, the agr eements reached with 
the tra de union representatives and, in particular, the Collective Labour Agreements, are essential.  
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
57 
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 401] [GRI 402] [GRI 404]  In Brazil , TIM Participações has a lso put in place 
programmes designed to create and maintain a high -performing and diversified workforce and promote a healthy, safe 
and productive working environment for its personnel in order to maximise the potential of both individuals and the 
organisation, and position TIM among employer brands. In addition to the Group ’s Code of Ethics and Human Rights 
Policy, there are policies and processes to support these programmes such as, for example, Recruitment, Flex Office, 
Performance Management, Flexible Benefits, Career & Succession Plan, Diversity &  Inclusion and Rewarding procedures. 
The Head of HR Strategy reports directly to the CEO of TIM Participações.  
The involvement of TIM employees is essential to realise the strategic vision of the Group and training and communication 
activities were underta ken to publicise the company objectives with clarity and transparency and to support managers 
in explaining the strategy to their respective teams.  
In 2018, the organisational framework evolved to support the company strategy so it could contribute to the company objectives by promoting the digital transformation. As for the customer experience approach and cost and process 
efficiency, the project to redefine company processes confirmed a set of actions to be implemented in order to obtain 
better results.  
To achieve the objectives and keep up with ongoing evolution, TIM needs leaders that share its values, expertise and 
intentions. For this reason, the leadership profile revised in 2017 was implemented in 2018. The roll -out included 
leadership training sessions for all pipelines to develop and reinforce the necessary behaviour for current and future 
challenges.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 401] [GRI 403] The following table provides a summary of the main final figures 
for 2018 and the 2019 objectives  for the Brazil BU as regards the main HR themes.  
 
Brazil BU   
 Final figures 2018 2019 Target  
Frequency rate*  0.88 0.88 
Accidents per 100 workers  0.14 0.14 
Training - coverage** (percentage of employees who 
participated in at least one training session from the total 
population)  88%  80%  
* number of accidents per million hours worked  
** the figure is calculated on number of personnel as at 31/12  
 
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
58 
 Concise figures1 
[GRI 102 -7] A summary of the numbers relating to the Group people can be seen in the table below:  
Excluding agency contract workers, the Group ’s headcount has decreased by 1,528 people compared to 31 December 
2017.  
The changes per BU are detailed in the following tables.  
 Recruited  Departed  Changes  
Domestic  547 2,198  (1,651)  
Brazil  2,563  2,413  150 
Other activities  33 60 (27) 
Turnover  3,143  4,671  (1,528)  
 
 
Turnover: detail by BU  Recruited  Departed  Movement within  
Group +  Movement within  
Group - Changes  
Domestic  398 2,046  149 152 (1,651)  
Brazil  2,562 2,412  1 1 150 
Other activities  3 33 30 27 (27) 
Total  2,963  4,491  180 180 (1,528)  
  
Terminations: detail by BU  Early 
retirement 
incentives*  Retirements  Dismissals  Voluntary 
resignations  Other causes  
Domestic  1,559  23 54 261 149 
Brazil  58 0 1,465  740 149 
Other  activities  29 2 1 1 0 
Total  1,646  25 1,520  1,002  298 
* For more details see note 27 “ Employee benefits expenses ” of the Group ’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 
The high turnover recorded in Brazil is mainly linked to TIM store employees, who have, as for the Brazilian market in 
general, a high turnover. The company is working to improve this data by improvements to both the recruitment process 
and total compensation to increase staff retention. The Group composition can be analysed according to various types 
of segmentation, as shown elsewhere.  
                                                                 
1 Unless otherwise stated, the data shown in the tables contained in the TIM People chapter relates to all the Group companies.  
  31/12/2018  31/12/2017  CHANGES  
Italy  48,005  49,689 (1,684)  
Abroad  9,896 9,740  156 
Total personnel on payroll  57,901  59,429  (1,528)  
Agency contract workers  0 0  
Total personnel  57,901  59,429  (1,528)  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
59 
 Group: distribution by professional category and academic qualification  
TIM Group: headcount break -down  
by professional category  
 
 TIM Group: headcount break -down  
by academic qualification  
 
 
 
 
 
The geographical distribution and intake of personnel1 by the Group are the following:  
 Distribution of TIM Group employees by geographical area  
 
 Distribution of intake of TIM Group employees by geographical 
area  
 
 
For more information on the characteristics of Group personnel, please refer to the Appendix to this chapter, which, with 
respect to the requirements of the GRI Standard, gives these KPIs [GRI 102 -8], [GRI 401 -1], [GRI 401 -3], [GRI 403 -2], [GRI 
405-2], [GRI 404 -1]. 
As detailed later,  and stated in the respective KPIs, policies for hiring, training and developing employees are implemented 
in the communities in which Group companies operate; furthermore, in reading the KPIs, note that:  
• [GRI 102 -8] TIM does not use self -employed workers to carry out its business activities, although it is possible that, on 
an occasional basis, some consultancy type activities may be entrusted to self -employed professionals;  
• [GRI 102 -8] The Group ’s activities do not vary seasonally, hence changes in the wo rkforce are correctly shown by the 
annual trends;  
• [GRI 401 -3a] All employees are entitled to parental leave.  
                                                                 
1 A numerical table of hirings comparing 2017 and 2016 can be found in the Appendix.  
Universit
y 
graduate
s34,0%
High -
school 
graduate
s61,6%Other
4,4%
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
60 
 Gender balance  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 405]  There is still a long way to go before true gender balance can be achieved 
in the telecommunications sector which, like all sectors where the main activity is strictly linked to research and 
development of new technologies, still continues to have a mainly  male workforce. As women have embraced the world 
of work and, in a parallel fashion, scientific and technological culture and studies, their presence has gradually grown within companies, seeing them take on more important roles with higher salaries. The Italian “Pink Quota ” Law (Law 120 
of 12 July 2011)  introduced provisions to protect gender equality in relation to representation on the administrative and 
control bodies of listed companies; the quota criterion will apply for three consecutive mandates.  
This is why at TIM  
• the Bylaws require that the BoD,  and likewise the Board of Statutory Auditors, is made up of both genders, so that 
the members of the less represented gender make up at least one third of the total number of Directors/Statutory 
Auditors , rounding up to the next unit in the event of a fra ction;  moreover, this provision is not limited to three 
mandates but is applied on an ongoing basis;  
• the current development model pays close attention to ensuring that individual growth paths, starting from the time 
of employment, do not contain any restr ictions relating to gender or age differences, and particular attention is paid 
to the female component, where skills and performance are equal;  
• in 2018, within the skills model, the new “ Diversity and inclusion”  skill was introduced1; 
• TIM has been a signatory of the “ Manifesto for female employment ” since 2017, promoted by “Valore D ” and with a 
Company commitment to 9 types of activities related to the gender gap: recruitment policies, women and stem disciplines, monitoring female prese nce in the Company, motherhood support
, fatherhood support, agile working for 
goals and results, welfare policies, presence of women in positions of strategic relevance,  updating of top 
management bodies on issues of gender.  
 
 [GRI 405 -1] Members of the Bo ard of Directors by age and gender  
 31/12/2018  31/12/2017  31/12/2016  
Men < 30  0 0 0 
Men 30 -50 0 1 2 
Men > 50  9 8 8 
Women < 30  0 0 0 
Women 30 -50 2 2 1 
Women > 50 4 4 5 
 
  
                                                                 
1 For further information, refer to The skills model paragraph in this chapter . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
61 
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 405 -1] Members of the Group’ s professional categories by 
gender and age  
 2018  2017    2016  
 Senior 
Managers  Middle 
Managers  Office 
Staff  Total*  Senior 
Managers  Middle 
Managers  Office 
Staff  Total  Senior 
Managers  Middle 
Managers  Office 
Staff  Total  
Men  499 3,211  33,154  36,864  564 3,265  34,346  38,175  647 3,391  35,355  39,393 
Women  102 1,242  19,693  21,037  108 1,222  19,924  21,254  126 1,235  20,471  21,832  
Total  601 4,453  52,847  57,901  672 4,487  54,270  59,429  773 4,626 55,826  61,225  
Up to 
32 
years  0 18 5,365  5,383 0 16 6,051  6,067  0 20 6,990  7,010  
From 33 
to 45  58 590 13,540  14,188  49 686 14,291  15,026  61 878 15,617  16,556  
Over 45  543 3,845  33,942  38,330  623 3,785  33,928  38,336  712 3,728  33,219  37,659  
Total  601 4,453  52,847  57,901  672 4,487  54,270  59,429  773 4,626 55,826  61,225  
* The “ workers ” category is not shown as it consists of 1 unit; it is integrated into the “ office staff”  category.  
The generational imbalance is mainly due to the Italian component that, due to adverse market conditions and in order 
to guarantee work for its employees, has in the past renounced generational renewal through major new hiring 
campaigns.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
62 
 New skills and development  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 404] The 2018 materiality analysis confirmed the development of internal 
employment as a material topic for the entire Group.  
The skills model  
In 2018, the various components, processes and applications of the development model were further refined.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 404]  In 2018 , an additional skill was introduced across the 4 areas and for all 
roles: “Diversity and inclusion” . The aim of this is to stimulate integration and enhance diversity throughout the company 
population, placing particular importance on gender equality.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
The main applications of 2018 are as follows:  
• Onboarding programmes : for welcoming new recruits to the Company, to speed up their “ time to perform ”, encourage 
engagement and “ intent to stay ”. In 2018, the entire process was refined to increase its effectiveness and monitor its 
progress and effects.  
• Performance Management : the process involves the evaluation of the goals and responsibilities of the entire 
workforce (managers, professionals and employees) and is divided into three phases (assignment of objectives, 
evaluation, feedback). In the first four months of this year the entire 2017 Performance Management process was 
concluded which involved the entire Domestic Business Unit (around 50,000 people): [GRI 404 -3] 99.9% of people 
were evaluated by their direct superior and 87% s tated that they received feedback from their superior. In July, a 2018 
Performance Management process was launched with the assignment of objectives and was completed in September 
and involved 99% of the people.  
• [GRI 404 -2] Managerial Development : with the  aim of identifying and enhancing current and future Company 
managerial assets through a series of ad hoc processes and plans to assess the potential future usability of staff in managerial roles. In particular, during 2018,  the system to assess potential was further consolidated, in terms 
of methodologies and processes, and a review of the governance and post -assessment management phase 
was planned, to more effectively support people on their development path. In addition, to “protect ” the staff 
4 Areas  
 Create value for the 
company, staff and 
customers, in the 
short term at 
sustainable costs  
Deal with change in a 
timely and dynamic 
way to ensure 
effectiveness and 
operational efficiency  
Act with determination, 
promote exchange and 
integration, gain the 
consent and collaboration 
of others  
Deal with situations with a 
broad and cross -cutting 
perspective, identifying 
interrelations between the 
different aspects and the 
most effective approaches  
EXECUTION  
 PROACTIVITY  
 SPEED  
SYSTEMIC 
VISION  
Planning and  
organisation  
People management  
and development  
Teamwork  
Customer care and results 
achievement  
Respect of  
rules and procedures  
Initiative and  
decisions  
Communication and 
negotiation  
Entrepreneurship  
and business  
orientation  
Relationships and  
knowledge networks  
Growth  
orientation  
Open to change  
Problem  
management  
Strategic thinking  
 
Creativity and  
innovation  
Analysis and overview  
 
Learning and knowledge  
application  
Technological  
orientation  
Communication and  
presentation  
Written  
communication  
Adherence to  
principles and values  
“Diversity and inclusion”  
New cross -cutting skill  
Skills evaluated  
in the 2018 Performance Review  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
63 
 base with skills which are critical and/or exposed to “ market risk ”, particularly young graduates hired by the 
Company in the last 7 years, personalised paths with remuneration measures and valuable training initiatives 
have been iden tified and put in place. When filling organisational positions, TIM favours internal promotions 
identified using the succession planning system : each potential internal candidate’ s suitability is assessed both for 
filling specific organisational roles and for their growth towards more complex roles. recourse to the external market 
is only on specific request of senior management or due to a lack of internal candidates available in the short to 
medium term.  
• [GRI 404 -2] Self engag ement Map (formerly  Motivation Review) : to follow, last year ’s assessment trialled in some 
companies of the Group (TCC, Sparkle, HRS and INWIT) the assessment tool was consolidated and a 
communication plan launched for its application in TIM S.p.A., beginning with a target of  young people already 
working in the Company.  
Development and skill activities  in Brazil  
[GRI 404 -2] [GRI 404 -3] In 2018, TIM implemented various programmes that had a major impact on people, consistent 
with organisational changes and competitive market positioning:  
 
Career paths:  the Career Workshop programme continued, aiming to promote reflection and encourage involvement 
and commitment to career management, raise awareness and promote a proactive attitude to the process, and 
encourage self -awareness, building a career and an Individual Development Plan.  
Development Plan:  in 2018, individual development process (PDI) focused on enhancing the role that each employee 
plays. Model 70 -20-101 has been reinforced, offering different ways of training, with collaborative and practical 
methods.  
Education plan : the training plans are directly connected to TIM ’s strategy. The themes of accountability, new capabilities 
and customer experience were explored in more depth to increase the level of engagement and employees ’ knowledge 
with a particular focus on new digital capabilities.  
Digital Learning Trail : the employees ’ digital learning trail has been developed and implemented, with focus on assets 
such as the digital mindset, innovation, accountability, customer experience, agility for execution, collaboration network 
thinking, change management (with 100 “ change agents ” being trained to spread digital transformation throughout TIM).  
TIM Talks : in 2 018, a development week took place, with the involvement of Human Resources, business managers and 
experts who offered employees across the country a unique self -development experience with workshops and talks 
particularly on business, culture, careers, le adership and human development.  
 
Training  
[GRI 404 -2] The transformation of the TLC industry towards digital company models, the technological evolution of 
infrastructure and market challenges linked to the development of new digital and innovative services are all part 
of an employment market undergoing profound transformation. At the TIM Academy, systems and methods of acquiring, disseminating, sharing and managing knowledge were strengthened and developed in 2018 to encourage 
organisational learni ng. 
Deployment of the Group ’s Knowledge Management Model is in its fourth year of application. The activities carried 
out and their close monitoring have allowed us to deploy further activities to optimise and launch new initiatives to 
support the producti on and dissemination of new content, from creating internal and external relationship 
networks, exchanging knowledge and generating ideas, with the aim of encouraging the Group ’s innovation 
processes.  
In addition, in 2018 the knowledge network model was fu rther developed with the establishment of a new type of 
corporate community called “ TIMSh@re” . This is a key element of “ business meta- organisation ”, aimed at 
overcoming the traditional functional and linear approach to processes in favour of a synchronous and adaptive 
                                                                 
1 Model 70-20-10: knowledge is acquired in three ways. 70% through on the job training (activities carried out, problem so lving, discussions with 
employees. This is experimental because it comes from practice and actual work); 20% through interpersonal relationships and respective 
feedback; 10% through training during courses, seminars, workshops and readings.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
64 
 model with activities and skills interaction along the entire process chain with an end- to-end perspective.  
In keeping with the identified programme definition drivers1, the TIM Academy platform, which is always available 
with multi -device access, presents learning plans that are customised to the person and role, with an open training 
offer with guided self -learning courses on specialised skills and professions.  
The training activities are divided into three macro -categories, shown below wi th the main activities carried out in 
2018.  
Management education  
• [GRI 404 -2] 2017/2018 process : in 2017, training for the managerial target focused on the cultural change needed 
to achieve the Plan objectives, on customer care and on management of people a t times of transformation. The 
process, developed in “ blended ” mode, involved about 700 managers, proposing targeted and differentiated 
programmes based on the complexity of the roles managed. The process ended in May 2018. The “ Around the 
Complexity ” path  for middle management was launched in the south, with the aim of providing tools to manage 
organisational complexity and support the development of e -Leadership to approximately 60 managers 
managing operational areas in the south. In 2019, the process may  also be extended to other areas of the 
country.  
• Coaching/Mentoring : in-person and online coaching courses were launched to support managerial roles.  
• Online library : all managers have access to various online libraries to make full use of videos, webinars and 
materials from national and international speakers on various topics.  
 
Development of role -based and specialised skills, and new capabilities  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 404] [GRI 404 -2] Training to develop role- based and specialized skills as well 
as new capabilities is essential for the implementation of the strategic drivers, and therefore occupies a central role 
in the Group ’s training investments plan.  
[GRI 404 -2] In 2016 a professional retraining service was launched called “ Job Centre ”, which starts by identifying the 
company requirements and then goes on to recruit and offer training courses useful to people in acquiring the skills a nd 
knowledge necessary to cover the new roles.  
In the first few months of 2018, as part of this now completed project, a further 181 professional retraining activities were 
completed which, added to those carried out in the previous 18 months, resulted in a particularly significant number of 
retrained staff, 2,925 in the three- year 2016/2018 period. This was made possible with a structured training plan organised 
to reinforce specialist skills as well as transversal skills for company processes, which inclu ded classroom sessions 
alternating with on the job training.  
On completion of the activities related to the objectives for the period and organisational changes, the Education 
department currently oversees retraining paths and the alignment and dissemination of skills within the Group.  
 
  
                                                                 
1 Which are:  
• re-qualification and the enhancement of professional skills;  
• development of digital skills of the entire company population;  
• evolution of managerial profiles;  
• individual development plans for the entire company workforce.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
65 
 Development and empowerment  
[GRI 404 -2] The organisational changes and the evolution of business- linked skills require new tools to support the 
change and the awareness of TIM ’s people, such as the already discussed agile working in addition to  
• Digital skills development : TIM Academy developed a digital course on target population for all Group 
employees. They begin by completing a self assessment of their knowledge and are then offered a European 
DigComp standard certified training course1. An “ open badge ” is awarded following an end -of-course 
assessment test. In 2018 over 15,000 open badges were awarded and over 30,000 people took part in the training;  
• “English@TIM ”: English language training open to all the Group ’s employees. A personalised English course can 
be put together thanks to the online language training platform;  
• The TIM Skills Model : this e -training programme, for managers and professionals, is to help promote the new 
TIM Skills Model to face new business challenges (see the Development and New Skills section in this chapter);  
• Individual development training plans : e-training courses available for all those working at the Company, to boost 
the skills;  
• Training plan for young staff : about 300 employees were included in ad hoc training plans to enhance their in 
role skills.  
 
 
Institutional and corporate culture  
[GRI 404 -2] This training aims to support the transformation of the organisation culture in line with the evolution of 
the social, environmental and economic context and at disseminating knowledge of the content required by the 
legal formalities. In this sense, instit utional and mandatory training, for the entire population, aims to raise 
awareness and disseminate knowledge on the issues pursued by the Compliance, Health, Safety & Environment, 
Regulatory and Equivalence (for issues related to Antitrust and Equivalence)  departments in addition to the Privacy and 
ITS Compliance departments . 
All personnel operating in the Security Department of TIM are trained and updated on national and European 
Community legislation and regulations governing company safety, and go about their duties in complete 
compliance with all current company procedures and policies in force.  Security personnel do not perform crowd 
control duties nor escort people or valuables, which is instead a task institutionally assigned  to the police force.  
In Brazil,  all new employees attend courses on key issues for TIM, such as ethics, sustainability, environmental policies, 
safety, the skills model, technical training and anti -corruption policies. Employees take part in courses in line with Group 
skills. The courses begin with business integration, in- depth corporate solutions analysis and caring activities and 
matching these issues to department activities.  
In 2018,  the integration concept was extended to all employees who start the development process on their first day at 
TIM, and they are supervised and supported for the whole of their first year at the Company in the process of integration, orientation, training and assessment. The training plans are directly connected to TIM ’s strategy. To increase the level of 
involvement and knowledge of our employees, responsibility, new digital skills and customer experience topics were 
addressed. The customer experience topic has been developed through training employees to become topic 
ambassadors in TIM.
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 The DigComp model is a common European reference framework for the development of digital expertise.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
66 
 Group training figures  
[GRI 404 -1] The tables below show Group training hours by professional category. The appendix contains a comparative 
focus on training by gender, as well as a breakdown of the most significant training areas (environment, health and 
safety , Human Rights, anti -corruption).  
2018  Hours  Participation1 Participants  Coverage2 
 Totals  Per capita    
Total  1,694,508  
 29.27  
 939,162  
 58,654  
 101.3%  
 
Senior Managers  18,432  
 30.67  
 6,360  
 648 
 107.8%  
 
Middle Managers  104,679  
 23.51  
 87,364  
 4,344  
 97.6%  
 
Office Staff  1,571,397  
 29.73  
 845,438 
 53,679  
 101.6%  
 
 
2017  Hours  Participation  Participants  Coverage  
 Totals  Per capita     
Total  1,722,336  28.98  636,980  57,954  97.5%  
Senior Managers  22,817  33.95  6,782  663 98.7%  
Middle Managers  95,654  21.32  44,537  4,400  98.1%  
Office Staff  1,603,865  29.55 585,661  52,891  97.5%  
 
 
2016  Hours  Participation  Participants  Coverage  
 Totals  Per capita     
Total  1,823,553  29.78  505,888  57,591  94.1%  
Senior Managers  27,874  36.06  3,817  745 96.4%  
Middle Managers  87,474  18.90  23,515  4,266  92.2%  
Office Staff  1,708,205  30.60  478,556  52,580  94.2%  
[GRI 404 -1] TIM invested 13.8 million euros in training courses in 2018, equal to a cost of 238.5  euros per head. The 
value shown only takes into account the amount spent on training courses and does not include the personal 
benefit obtained by course participants and the positive impact on TIM ’s performance. The training courses are 
therefore worth more than they cost to deliver3. 
  
                                                                 
1 Shows the overall number of participation in training sessions, in the various forms provided (classroom, online, training on  the job).  
2 Coverage refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total, i.e. the % of human resources of the Group who took part in at least 
one training session compared to the total number of human resources in each individual category. Coverage and pe r capita are calculated on 
the number of staff at 31/12.  
3 The figures relating to training investments and costs per capita for TIM S.p.A. only are available in the appendix to this c hapter, after the training 
number tables for TIM S.p.A.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
67 
 Remuneration policy  
[GRI 102 -37] The Group ’s remuneration policy is aimed at ensuring the company remains competitive in the labour 
market, and at achieving the Company ’s strategic objectives by pursuing sustainable long -term results in line with 
TIM’s business risk management policy.  
The primary purpose of TIM ’s remuneration structure is to balance fixed and variable remuneration and enhance 
the benefit and welfare system, with the aim of increasing recipients ’ satisfaction at a sustainable cost.  
The components of individual remuneration are:  
• fixed remuneration  
• short -term variable remuneration  
• long -term variable remuneration  
• benefit and welfare.  
The fixed component takes into account the breadth and strategic nature of the position held and is dictated by 
performance in the reference markets.  
Perio dic comparisons of internal remunerations and external market remuneration practices allow the 
establishment of the remuneration strategy to be adopted; TIM ’s comparative remuneration market is Italian 
companies comparable by size and/or market capitalisat ion. 
Given the need to be selective when making changes to remuneration, especially the fixed component, this will 
concern cases of high quality staff where there is strong misalignment with the reference market average.  
In addition to changes to fixed rem uneration, during salary reviews, other variable remuneration instruments (Lump 
Sum bonus) can be put in place -  normally excluding Senior Management with Strategic Responsibilities -  to reward 
outstanding performance or particularly good results during ex traordinary initiatives not part of normal activities.  
The short -term variable remuneration (MBO) on the other hand aims to establish a transparent link between pay 
and the degree of fulfilment of annual targets. To this end, the targets were fixed accordi ng to quantitative 
indicators that represent and are consistent with the strategic priorities and business plan, measured according to 
pre-established and objective criteria. In 2018, as in 2017, the management incentives structure was simplified by 
reduci ng the number of objectives.  
The MBO 2018 system provides for a “ gate ” objective made up of the company indicator (Group EBITDA), a bonus 
access condition linked to all the incentive objectives and applied indiscriminately to all participants in the plan. The 
gate target for 2018 was not achieved.  
For those who report directly to Executive Directors1, the bonus target values are set in continuity with 2017 and are 
up to 50% of the fixed component. For the remaining incentivised staff, the target values are set -  based on the role 
complexity - at up to 30% of the fixed component.  
There are Group, departmental and individual objectives. For 2018, the performance management weighting was 
reduced from 30% to 10% to give greater importance to departmental obj ectives. The Performance Management 
objective for all MBO recipients (with the exception of the Executive Directors) will continue to be fuelled by the overall assessment result, which takes into account both individual objectives and skills to the same de gree.  
The accrued bonus is fully liquidated in cash form, at the time that the results achieved are confirmed.  
A contractual clawback
2 mechanism is in force, which allows retrieval of the variable remuneration paid out to 
Executive Directors and managers w ith strategic responsibilities starting from 2016. As defined in the policy, the 
clawback clause can be triggered in the three years following payment of the sums.  
  
                                                                 
1 To provide accurate information on the relationship between Senior Management remuneration and that of the company population as a whole 
[GRI 102 -38], [GRI 102 -39], in accordance with the “Policy for Information Classification and Management in terms of confidentiality”, TIM provides 
some information, useful for the calculation, in the usual table form in the Remuneration Report (section II pages 23 -25) and in the Annual 
Financial Report (Consolidated Financial Statements Note 27 - Employee Costs page 221).  
2 A contractu al clause allowing variable remuneration paid to be recovered in the event that the disbursement was a result of malicious or  
grossly negligent behaviour of the Executives involved, or in the event of a data formulation error that led to a balance she et restatement.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
68 
 Long -term variable remuneration is aimed at promoting consistency between the interests of  management and 
those of shareholders, through sharing of the business risk.  
On 24 July 2018, the Board of Directors approved the 2018- 2020 LTI Plan, Performance Share plan, with a three -
year vesting period1, and a 2- year lock -up. This Plan is reserved to the Chief Executive Officer and owners of 
managerial positions with a major impact on company results. The Plan is subject to the achievement of the 
performance condition linked to the increase in both the share value and economic and financial indicators.  The LTI 
Plan is also subject to the claw back clause for the Chief Executive Officer and senior management with strategic responsibilities.  
The benefits and welfare area constitutes the non -monetary element of remuneration; the Company also 
confirmed a su bstantial investment in terms of dedicated economic resources in 2018.  
In particular:  
• benefits are assets made available to beneficiaries, depending on their role and are aimed at improving their 
well- being; these services generate an economic value separate from both fixed salary and other forms of 
variable remuneration;  
• welfare is the package of non -monetary services available to the entire corporate population regardless of role, 
aimed at increasing individual and family well -being of all employees . Consistent with this approach, from 2018 
recipients of the performance bonus (the collective incentive system aimed at the entire non -director population 
and not involved in individual incentive instruments) can choose to convert the monetary premium int o welfare 
services, thus benefiting from associated tax relief.  
 The following are the main objective types linked to sustainability in the company MBO system  
 
This year the objectives for Human Resources, Environment, Shareholders, Institutions and Community stakeholders have 
merged in the new Transformation Project corporate objective and apply to 95% of managers, with a total 10% weighting 
on the  overall objective.  
                                                                 
1 Vesting period  is the period that separates the time of the Plan assignment from that of the Performance Shares accrual, corresponding 
to the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 . Reference stakeholders  Targets subject to incentives  % of managers  
(to whom the target applies)  
Customers  
 Customer  satisfaction  52% 
Quality  of delivered  service  85% 
Quality of the service perceived by consumer 
and business customer  27% 
Quality of the service perceived by other 
national fixed and  mobile telephony 
operators  18% 
Transformation Project  95%  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
69 
 Industrial relations  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 402]  The 2018 materiality analysis confirmed managing labour relations as a 
material theme and identified stakeholder engagement as a new topic for the whole Group. [GRI 103 -2: Management 
Approach] [GRI 402]  TIM has  always  entertained open  and transparent  relationships with trade unions and workers’  
representatives, in the belief that it is only through continuous, constructive dialogue that the best possible balance 
can be struc k with respect to  the expectations  of all stakeholders.  [GRI 102 -41] All Group workers, both in Italy and in 
Brazil, are covered by Collective Labour Agreements reached with trade union organisations and all personnel are 
guaranteed the possibility of attending union meetings, in terms of paid leave and company space to enable them to be 
held, as well as of freely participating in consultation procedures for the election of trade union representatives. In no Group operations is the right to union participation at risk or disputed. Amongst other things, union agreements lay down  
the ways in which these rights can be enforced and establish the bodies in charge of controlling compliance therewith. [GRI 402 -1]
 Organisational changes with significant effect on employment levels and personnel are discussed with the 
trade union representatives and, in some cases, an ad hoc agreement is stipulated, specifying the terms and conditions 
of the reorganisation . [GRI 408 -1] [GRI 409 -1] Collaboration  with the workers ’ representatives, together with the internal 
control systems and procedures, h as meant that no violation or risk has been reported with regards to the application of 
the Group ’s Social Responsibility policies protecting the essential rights of employment, such as the ban on forced or child 
labour1. 
 
The Industrial Relations model  
TIM has developed its industrial relations model over time to be geared towards ensuring constant dialogue and 
constructive engagement aimed at promoting the appropriate participation of trade union representatives and 
organisations.  
The structure of TIM’ s current industrial relations model, formalised with the trade unions in the Protocol of 23 June 2016, 
is aimed at enhancing collaboration on matters required by law and collective bargaining, in the areas of information, consultation and negotiation, bo th at national and regional level.  
At a local level, there is a widespread presence of trade union representatives in all the Italian regions, which fosters an active decentralised participation allowing the specific regional needs and opportunities to be better understood and 
combined by both parties.  Today, 450 TIM people hold the office of trade union representative.  TIM recognises specific 
prerogatives defined by company agreements in force at the time for union representatives in the company, in addition 
to the protections and rights provided by law and the TLC national labour agreement.  
Due to the organisational complexity and multi -regional presence, trade union representatives elected a national 
representative body -  in line with the Consolidated Law  on Representation 10 January 2014 -  called the National Trade 
Union Representatives Coordinator, delegated to manage negotiations with the company for matters of a national 
nature.  
 The industrial relations system is set up with a focus on preventive phases of information and union discussions, also 
through specific corporate bodies (in the form of permanent joint commissions ) with the task of the technical 
development of specific subjects such as training and occupational health and safety.  
This syste m is based on a widespread knowledge of the company ’s strategies, as well as a particular focus on the 
protection of collective interests and the professional development of workers, enhancing the dialogue that takes place 
both nationally and locally.  
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 408] In terms of child labour, the policies allow for some completely legal exceptions, such as, for 
example, training contracts for which incentives are provided by the Brazilian government.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
70 
 The 2018 -2020 Business Plan and the application agreements for the 2019 -2020 two -year period  
This has allowed agreements to be reached for the implementation of efficiency improvement plans that can mediate 
between the needs of the workers and those of the Company. For example, a complex negotiation process involving the 
leading trade union organisations was completed in late 2015 with the signing of a framework agreement to manage 
staff redundancies. Like its predecessors, the agreement provided for the use of a mixture  of integrated instruments and 
measures that are not socially traumatic but tha t are economically sustainable, including the use in 2016 -2017 of 
Defensive Solidarity Contracts, as required by the Jobs Act , combined with the strategic role of the training lever, as a 
pivotal element to encourage professional retraining and re- qualific ation in order to counteract redundancies. Defensive 
Solidarity Contracts are agreements that provide for working hours to be reduced in order to avoid downsizing. For the 
workers to whom the contract will be applied, provision is made for INPS (Istituto N azionale della Previdenza Sociale) to 
make up part of the remuneration not received due to the reduction in working hours.  
The Plan management agreement provided that at the end of the Defensive Solidarity Contracts two -year period the 
Parties would define - as indicated in the framework agreement plan -  a subsequent agreement to also ensure 
occupational protection for the 2018 financial year, through a Solidarity Contract with a duration of 12 months. Having 
noted the impossibility of implementing the planned programme, TIM had to identify new solutions to support the 
objectives of the Business Plan.  
In this framework,  negotiations took place with the National Trade Union Representatives Coordinator and the trade 
unions for the national labour agreement, la unched January 2018 and in line with the 2018 -2020 Plan and related 
employment measures, in an attempt to identify a balanced and timely solution to meet business needs and objectives.  
The negotiations took place over numerous sessions where TIM put forwar d its proposal based on a Plan to make around 
6,500 staff reductions without forced redundancies and the recruitment of about 2,000 young people.  This proposal was 
not agreed by the union.  
In March 2018, negotiations reopened and TIM further outlined its o perating market scenario, the sector trends and the 
guidelines of the 2018 -2020 Strategic Plan, approved by the BoD in March 2018, detailing the guidelines and programmes 
in place to take better advantage of business opportunities, as well as the Plan’ s organisational repercussions and 
consequent effects on employment levels. The company has therefore put forward new proposals in the hope of 
identifying shared solutions for Plan management but this attempt to reach shared and sustainable solutions has not 
been agreed upon by the trade unions either.  
The Agreement of June 2018 concludes its complex path, as part of the joint examination sessions pursuant to Art. 24 of 
Legislative Decree No. 148/2015, with the signing of an agreement with the Ministry of Labou r and Social Policy, which 
has defined a series of measures and actions to support the pursuit of business objectives and management of the 4,500 
announced redundancies and connected to the 2018 -2020 Business Plan, approved in March 2018, through unforced and 
socially sustainable methods.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [402] In summary, in the signed agreements framework, the Parties have agreed to:  
• the application of the Defensive Solidarity Contract, affecting about 30,000 TIM people; The contract provides for a 
vertical reduction of working hours of 10%, out of a total of 26 days over 12 months, distributed on a predefined 
calendar, starting in June 2018;  
• the confirmed early retirements under the agreement of October 2015 pursuant to Art. 4 of law No. 92/2018 planned 
for the year 2018, while for the two -year period 2019 -2020 a new agreement is expected for a further 4,000 early 
retirements;  
• the shared intention to begin negotiations on specific issues such as the performance bonus, holidays and seco nd 
level bargaining, aimed at safeguarding the company ’s competitive ability, improving labour productivity and 
operating efficiency, in the context of people development;  
• the opportunity to relaunch industrial relations, with a path of negotiations, which  take on a central importance in the 
process of radically changing the Group ’s organisational, productive and competitive conditions.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
71 
 In line with the commitments referred to in the agreements of June 2018:  
• a specific agreement on PBs1 was signed in July  2018, which reconfigures the mechanisms for providing the EBITDA 
indicator value in line for that defined for MBOs2 for senior management for the remaining duration of the agreement. 
The threshold set for EBITDA (weighted at 40%) is 95% with a return of 7 0% on the value of the PB;  
• negotiations on Industrial Relations and 2nd bargaining levels have been launched.  
 
On 26 February 2019, the application agreements for the two -year period 2019 -2020 , pursuant to Art. 4, paragraphs 1 to 
7 of Law No. 92/2012 to incentivise the departure of 4,300 TIM S.p.A. employees meeting the necessary requirements.  
In particular, the measure is aimed at employees who qualify for either old- age or early retirement by:  
• 31 May 2024 and give their consent to end the employment rel ationship in 2019;  
• 31 December 2025 and give their consent to end the employment relationship with effect by 30 November 2020. 
Particular attention is paid to the TIM people with serious illnesses: the company will already start to assess access to 
isopens ione (early retirement) in 2019.  
For joining employees, TIM S.p.A. undertakes to pay INPS a monthly amount corresponding to the pension that would be due to them under current rules, up to the first effective pension date, old- age or early retirement, and to pay the related 
contribution to the institution until the minimum requirements have been reached, in accordance with the law and 
administrative provisions of these explanatory notes.  
As part of the provisions identified in the agreement pursuant to Law 223/1991 of 8 November 2017, a specific 
accompanying measure was provided for ending the employment relationship -  on a voluntary basis -  for employees 
meeting the necessary requirements to access to “ Quota 100 pension”  (Decree Law 28 January 2019 No. 4).  
 
Work -life agreements  
• In September 2018, the Company and trade union signed specific agreements, aimed at facilitating working methods 
for 700 TIM employees in Genoa and the province, following the collapse of the Morandi bridge. In particular, the 
memorandum of understanding provides for the adoption of temporary extraordinary measures to reduce the 
inconvenience for employees both for travel between home and work, and that related to carrying out their 
professional activities, with the intention to  assist with the state of emergency in the city.  
• For staff in Rome and Bari, cities with particular interests in the company office rationalisation project, an agreement 
was reached to extend the number of agile working days at home agreement for 2018, to facilitate the work -life 
balance.  
• In 2018, TIM people were able to choose to take advantage of a days of paid leave in lieu of the economic payment 
contractually agreed for the 4 November bank holiday. This opportunity, also aimed at promoting work -life ba lance, 
was shared in agreement with the trade unions. At local level, similar agreements were signed for the local patron saint holidays falling on Sundays in 2018.  
 
Senior Management Staff  
In February 2018,  an agreement was signed with the senior management staff trade union representative, which will 
allow for a resignation incentive, through a mix of new and socially sustainable instruments, such as Art. 4 of Law 92/2012, 
to ensure efficiency targets over the period are met (100 Executives in the TIM, Ol ivetti, INWIT, HRS, Sparkle, Telecontact 
Centre and TI Trust Technologies areas). The Agreement also provides, in line with the legislative changes on the subject, 
a welfare plan for the Group ’s senior management for the two -year 2018 -2019 period.  
 [GRI 10 3-2: Management Approach] [GRI 402]  In Brazil in 2018, TIM held two meetings with national federations that 
together represent the whole country to negotiate the renewal of the 2018/2019 Profit Sharing Plan. In addition, the renewal of the 2018/2020 Collective Labour Contract was also addressed, which included, among other things, new 
clauses for 20 -day paternity leave, a holiday for call centre operators and the possibility for women to return early from 
maternity leave in certain circumstances.  
                                                                 
1 Performance Bonuses . 
2 Management by Objectives . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
72 
 Health and safety  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 403]  The 2018 materiality analysis confirmed the protection of health and safety 
as a material topic for the entire Group.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 403]  Within the Italy, the regulatory provisions for occupational health and 
safety, in addition to defining the necessary criteria for risk identification and assessment, provide that adequate 
participation and consultation of workers through the Workers ’ Safety Representatives has been implemented.  
The Health and Safety at Work Management System imp lemented by TIM ensures that the Company complies in full 
with national legislation and agreements reached with trade unions; it also establishes numerous initiatives aimed at 
ensuring comparison tables are put in place to maintain high safety standards.  
TIM’s Safety Management System  Model  involves the full involvement of all players that participate in the safety process: 
company management, operational coordination figures, appointed doctors, workers and Workers ’ Safety 
Representatives (WSR).  
[GRI 403 -1] In relation to the latter,  the legislation  requires that  they  are or appointed  by the workers within  the 
framework of the Company Trade Unions. [GRI 403 -4] The number and method of designation or election of workers ’ 
safety representatives, together with the salaried working hours and the tools used  to fulfil  their  duties  are agreed  
during  the collective  bargaining process.  
[GRI 403 -4] the corporate relationship model in terms of safety, which has always been based on participation logic, 
includes over 100 Worker ’s Representatives for Safety distributed throughout the country who support 5 Committees 
made up of a mix of company/trade un ion members with specific workers ’ health and safety functions. These 
Committees, present at national and local level, according to the agreements stipulated with the trade union organisations, play a participatory and collaborative role aimed at guarantee ing joint analyses and discussion by the 
company party and the union party of all matters relating to health and safety at work, on a national and local level.  
[GRI 403 -3] In this context, the “ Health, Safety & Environment ” (HSE) department supports Company organisation in the 
management of health, safety and environmental issues by assessing risks and identifying the most appropriate 
prevention and protection measures and in line with technological development.  
[GRI 403 -2] The identification and assessment of risks found at the Company, which is the priority activity of the preventive 
actions, is ensured through constant oversight of company processes and their evolution in close connection with the 
management lines. [GRI 40 3-3] These activities are performed by specialised internal staff capable of conducting 
instrumental analyses and surveys on safety in the workplace (high and low frequency electromagnetic fields, noise, 
vibrations, natural radioactivity, lighting, micro -climate, manual handling of loads etc.).  
[GRI 403 -2] The control measures applied to eliminate or contain the risks include:  
• the numerous health and safety training programmes, differentiated according to the risks and professional 
profiles found at the Com pany;  
• the latest generation protection and/or collective equipment and devices often designed ad hoc in collaboration with the most important multi -nationals on the market;  
• any organisational arrangements necessary, implemented in collaboration with the lines, which can guarantee an acceptable level of risk, where it cannot be eliminated.  
The most significant performance indicators to measure the effectiveness of the actions adopted include the outcomes of the accidents analysis, which generates improvement plans defined on the basis of the causes that led to the events 
and that can lead to the updating of the Company ’s risk assessment.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
73 
 [GRI 403 -3] Work activities are classified at low and medium risk levels, in line with the ATECO classification criteria of the 
National Institute of Statistics; there are no high- risk classified activities in TIM S.p.A. or the other Group subsidiaries.  
Specialist activities also continued during 2018 in updating of the risk identification and assessment process in line with 
the revised employer model, and the consequent review of the organisational and procedural framework linked to the 
management of prevention aspects.  
Monitoring campaigns with instrumental surveys focused in particular on physical agents such as: indoor, outdoor and 
electromagnetic fields noise; an indoor pollutants monitoring plan was also launched. In the second half of the year,  the 
work -related stre ss risk assessment was also launched. In relation to training, work continued with technical operational 
personnel, increasingly focused on the application of new technologies and new operational scenarios. With reference to 
accidents, careful analysis of events and where necessary potential identification of corrective actions continued and in 
addition direct involvement of the lines affected and of the HR department was reinforced for greater synergy.  
A number of digital projects are in the trial phase in collaboration with technical personnel; these are also aimed at the 
application of new technologies in the Safety area with particular reference to work at height and in confined spaces.  
 
Injuries and occupational illnesses  
[GRI 403 -2] The data and the ma in accident indices for TIM S.p.A. are shown below.   
 31/12/2018  31/12/2017  31/12/2016  
Number of accidents (excluding in progress) *  424 481 524 
Severity index** 0.18 0.20  0.23 
Frequency rate** 6.72 7.67 8.66 
Average injury duration in hours  145.07  139.81  145.51  
Unproductivity index* 1.13 1.26 1.52 
Accidents per 100 workers  0.98  1.08 1.21 
 
* Starting from 2018 the number of injuries is presented net of dressed injuries (which involve only a dressing with work bei ng immediately 
resumed): 6 cases in 2018.  
 
** The severity, frequency and unproductivity indexes are respectively:  
- the number of conventional working days lost due to accident per thousand hours worked  
- the number of accidents per million hours worked  
- the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked  
 
In TIM S.p.A., to ensure correct management of accident events, a procedure has been put in place describing the 
rules and requirements of each subject in the “ genesis ” process, the management and closure of reports of 
incidents at work and/or while travelling involving workers for which companies are required to pay an INAIL1 
premium . 
The positive trend of a reducing number of occupational accidents is confirmed in 2018, with a recorded decrease of 9.3% 
compared to 2017. Accident indexes, with the exception of a slight increase in the average duration of injuries, also show an improvement compared to the previous year ’s values. Details on the accidents, occupational diseases and absences 
required by the GRI [GRI 403 -2] standard are given in the Appendix to this chapter.  
  
                                                                 
1 National institute for insurance covering accidents at work.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
74 
 The main types of accidents identified were, in descending order: per sonal falls, traffic accidents, sprains/pulled muscles, 
shocks, injuries resulting from materials/equipment handling, crushing, injury from falling objects and other types of 
minor accidents. In relation to occupational diseases, complaints submitted to IN AIL (National Institute for Insurance 
against Accidents at Work) in the reference year and subject to recognition procedures were taken into account. During 2018, occupational diseases reported by workers related to musculoskeletal, respiratory, auditory a nd central nervous 
system diseases and mental/psychosomatic illnesses . 
[GRI 403 -4] In Brazil  the collective agreements state as a rule that information must be provided on the prevention of 
accidents in the workplace and occupational diseases, and TIM comp lies with this practice.  
[GRI 403 -2]
 The data and the main accident indices for Brazil BU.   
 31/12/2018  31/12/2017  31/12/2016  
Number of accidents (excluding in progress)*  13 12 15 
Severity index** 0.01 0.01 0.01 
Frequency rate** 0.88 0.74 0.81 
Average injury duration in hours  95 84 178 
Unproductivity index** 0.01 0.06  0.14 
Accidents per 100 workers  0.14 0.13 0.15 
* The figure does not include dressed injuries  
** The severity, frequency and unproductivity indexes are respectively:  
- the number of conventional working days lost due to accident per thousand hours worked  
- the number of accidents per million hours worked  
- the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 403]  In relation to Health & Safety issues in 2018, the Company made 
improvements in occupational health examination practices, with more perceived attention given to employees. The company also developed self -care campaigns such as Pink October and Blue Novem ber, to increase awareness of breast 
and prostate cancer prevention. In terms of medical insurance, the Company has worked to digitise activities resulting in 
faster reimbursements to employees.  
 
The Company carries out the Environmental Risk Prevention Pr ogramme (PPRA) every year in line with legal 
requirements; a study conducted at TIM ’s Brazil offices through on -site safety inspections, identifying the risks and control 
measures. The aim of the Medical Occupational Health Control Programme (PCMSO) is to indicate occupational health 
checks relating to any environmental risk conditions as a prerequisite for monitoring workers ’ health. Moreover, an 
Internal Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT) is held each year to raise awareness among employees on Health & Safety 
related aspects.  
The internal committee for the prevention of accidents at work (CIPA) is made up of company representatives and 
workers based in all the regional offices of TIM, in line with the legal requirements of Order 3214/78 -  Regulatory Standard  
5. With the support of CIPA, the company sets up influenza vaccination campaigns and blood donation programmes and 
promotes the adoption of healthy habits amongst employees.  
In addition, periodic audits and/or inspections are performed to assess the effec tiveness of the prevention measures in 
processes and workplaces set up to continuously improve health and safety conditions. The Health & Safety team is 
made up of 32 members, strategically distributed in the regional offices of TIM Participações.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
75 
 People Caring  
The welfare model  combines tradition and future with specific strategic and organisational awareness, which places 
welfare at the heart of the Human Resources strategy, enabling the use of services and initiatives aimed at encouraging 
company, famil y and social sustainability.  
Strongly focused on developing work ability (a person ’s capacity to perform their work as best they can now and in the 
future, with respect to the demands of their job, regardless of their age) and engagement  to support digital  
transformation at TIM, the model provides for the classification of activities for 3 specific action areas:  
• Work -life balance: the set of services and initiatives to improve work/life balance;  
• working hours management: projects to enable people to gain a more digital, flexible and simple vision of work;  
• inclusion management: activities to place everyone in a position to give the best of their potential, identifying 
personalised solutions and recovering blocked energies and unexpressed areas of productivity . 
Inclusion is therefore a key area, of TIM ’s welfare system, but also the most challenging one, and it is no coincidence that 
it is also considered a profoundly identity -based and strategic lever. In fact, it clearly permeates all founding documents 
of th e new organisational identity: from the Ethics Code to the Human Rights Policy and values.  
Inclusion also plays a key role in knowing how to innovate the products and services offered; anticipating market needs 
actually means going beyond the limits often generated by work routines and habits to look at the activities, processes 
and people from a unique point of view.  
In 2018, TIM was confirmed in the Top 100 of Thomson Reuters ’ Diversity and Inclusion Index, moving from 93rd position 
in 2017 to 6th, the to p Italian company and the top telco in the world. TIM ’s inclusion in the Diversity and Inclusion Index 
confirms the Group ’s commitment to equal opportunities, non- discrimination and inclusion as the basis of its company 
strategy to improve internal expertise, organisational well -being and therefore company performance.  
 
Work -life balance  
Work -life balance is the first pillar of TIM ’s welfare and is based on the belief that performance and organisational well -
being are connected to each other and to the organisation of family and work life. In 2017, confirmed in 2018, TIM received 
the Family Audit certification, a managerial tool that aims to start a cultural shift through innovative life -work balance 
initiatives, setting off a virtuous cycle of continuou s improvement.  
This is why TIM established a range of services to help its people reduce their care- loads, continuing to adapt all processes 
to the new notion of family, moving from the idea of a nuclear family to the registered family which includes all o f the 
employee’ s family members, irrespective of blood or legal ties.  
The main ones include:  7 company nurseries and 1 company infants ’ school; 333 reimbursements for partial cover of 
school fees for employees ’ children enrolled in nurseries and infants ’ schools or for babysitting services; 43 “TIM Summer ” 
campuses/camps/colleges for employees ’ children for a total of 6,278 participants; “ Mum and Dad ” permits for parents 
with children up to age 11, allowing them to use permits for a few hours or entire days to offset their absence within the 
given 3- month period; “ Mum and Dad ” loans for parents with children aged 0 to 11 who are eligible for loans up t o a 
maximum of €2,500 for each child, around 600 reimbursements for university fees for employees ’ children, 63 inter -
cultural study grants study for children with good school marks. Moreover, they can access a wide programme of 
agreements with external or ganisations (around 200) via 2 e- commerce portals customised for TIM.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
76 
 The “Special Welfare ” programme, as described in the paragraph on remuneration policies in this report, has offered 
TIM’s people, who receive the Productivity Award and one- off contrac t renewal, the possibility of converting the bonus 
into services, which can be purchased through a dedicated platform or by requesting reimbursement of expenses already 
incurred, in this way enjoying the tax advantages offered by law.  
In 2018, a programme was launched to raise awareness of healthy lifestyles and illness prevention. The first e- learning 
training module, available for all on the TIM Academy platform, deals with sexually transmitted diseases.  
Working hours management  
[GRI 103 -3: Management App roach] [GRI 407] The second pillar of TIM ’s welfare initiative, which is especially based on 
Agile Work, a project allowing people to work from home or satellite offices closer to home, which involved around 14,000 
people during its trial which finished on  31/12/2018. In total, 300,000 agile days were used (63% from home) with 190 
satellite offices in 150 cities nationwide available, for a total of 32,936 available places every month. Taking into account  
travel avoided, over 260,000 hours of commuting were saved (with a corresponding quality of life improvement), 
amounting to over 8 million kilometres and a related 1,200 tons of CO 2 avoided. At the end of the trial it was decided to 
extend Agile Work for part of 2019.  
Another important area of action is Mobility Management, whereby TIM helps people travel from home to work and back 
by car pooling, company shuttle buses (235 trips per day to the company ’s offices in 5 cities), bicycle racks at company 
offices (1,782 bicycle parking spaces in 29 cities and 60 c ompany offices).  
Inclusion Management  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 406] [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 406]  [GRI 405]  
In 2018, TIM took part in testing of an analysis model on the themes of inclusion with La Sapienza University, which clearly demonstrated that people who feel included and have the better inclusion skills have the highest satisfaction and 
engagement levels. For TIM working on inclusion is crucial for corporate performance.  
At the end of 2018,  an internal survey was carried out, in partnership with La Sapienza University of Rome, involving a 
sample of 4,000 people representing the TIM S.p.A. on the themes of personal initiative and work context. One section was dedicated to employee satisfactio n, based on the original Smith Kendall and Hulin scale (1969): the average 
satisfaction value calculated, on a scale from 1 to 6, was 4.12
1. 
The main areas of development of TIM ’s Inclusion Management are:  
• Cultural diffusion and awareness : through the TIM Equity & Inclusion Week, with courses on Human Rights, inclusion 
in general and disability management; launch of the #TIM4inclusion community; the social network campaign #TIM4inclusion; a specific reference to the issues of inclusion in the key organisational identity documents: code of 
ethics, human rights policy, charter of values, leadership model.  
• Disability management : at TIM, there are over 2,000 employees with disabilities, accounting for around 4% of 
the workforce. The following have been made avai lable for these employees to have a positive work day:  
• the policy of automatic workstation adaptation;  
• solutions to improve communication between deaf and hearing employees2; 
• the activities of the Working Capital accelerators that assist several disability  project start -ups; 
• support for employees ’ children with disabilities during TIM Summer camps;  
  
                                                                 
1The percentage of highly satisfied employees (5 + 6) was 28.5%.   
2 TIM offers the LIS interpreting service in the key moments of interaction between manager and employee, subtitles in main com munications on 
the Intranet, specific e -mail inboxes, as well as free video calling services and an integrated communication platf orm developed internally, which 
can be used both from smartphones and desktop computers.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
77 
 • Gender : TIM is working in partnership with Valore D1, both as a supporting member and as a member of the Board of 
Directors. Because of this, more than 100 individuals a year have the opportunity to attend skill- building courses, 
mentoring and coaching programmes, as well as courses and workshops on welfare and work -life balance2; 
• Age management : in Italy, more than half of the Group ’s people were born between 1 960 and 1980. This figure 
increases in the area of caring services alone. TIM has therefore launched an important age management programme 
that includes a portfolio of activities: from the cross -generational “masters of the trade ” meetings, to mentoring, t o 
the redesign of models of development, training and rewards.  
• Sexual orientation and gender identity : thanks to the partnership with PARKS, Liberi e Uguali, of which TIM is a 
founding member and Board member, we have implemented TIM ’s definition of “famil y”, which extends all benefits 
granted to its employees (car, healthcare, supplementary insurance) to all cohabiting partners, regardless of sex, and 
grants the opportunity to access the company ’s many care services (crèches, summer stays, study stays) to the 
registered family of the employee regardless of the blood bond, and therefore also to homosexual families and their children);  
• Employee volunteering initiatives : these are an integral part of TIM ’s inclusion management programme, since they 
promote coming together and improving listening and comprehension skills and, indeed, inclusion.  
The main voluntary activities include:  
− 1,710 Group employees have renewed their commitment to helping CIAI3, the Community of Sant ’Egidio and Save 
the Children, giving  their support to the remote adoption of children, with a total contribution of around 190,000 
euros; 44 blood donation days were organised (around 10,800 blood donations a year);  
− in eight company offices, charitable collections for non- profit organisation  were held, promoted by employees; 
over 700 employees signed up to take part in “ Race for the Cure ” organised by the Susan Komen Foundation for 
breast cancer research.  
 
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 401]  In Brazil,  given the importance of the people who work for the Company, 
climate investigations are particularly significant. 95% of employees took part in the 2018 corporate climate survey, corresponding to 8,487 participants, beating the previous year ’s 7,986 participants by 4 percentage point s. The general 
degree of approval in TIM was 75%, marking a 4 percentage point improvement on 2017.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 405]  In 2018, roadshows were held where senior managers presented the 2017 
survey results at various sites. Seminars w ere held to increase knowledge and define the priorities with the Executive 
Committee. Moreover, second level managers were invited to participate in working groups and propose action plans for climate -related priorities: Cooperation, Strategy, Training an d Structure & Processes. Specific action plans to improve the 
results in 2018 were provided for sectors that obtained the most critical results in 2017. Thanks to the targeted work, the 
level of consensus in these sectors increased.  
Diversity & Inclusion r epresents another very important aspect for the Company. TIM believes that diversity is a reflection 
of society and therefore of the employment market. The Company promotes a culture that respects and appreciates 
differences, in the conviction that the greater the diversity within a group the greater the exchange of experiences and 
solutions that help to create a healthy working environment and a competitive advantage in the marketplace. As 
described in the Social Responsibility Policy4, any expression or f orms of discrimination are expressly prohibited, whether 
they are based on sexual orientation, ethnic origin, gender, disability, age or other things.  
  
                                                                 
1 www.valored.it  
2 TIM has also joined the Women’s Employment Manifesto, a document whereby it is committed to 9 areas of activity; TIM operates  through 
work -related learning to bring students into contact with a technologically -advanced company like TIM, participation in projects (such as Valore 
D’s “InspiringGirls”) aimed at girls in particular to overcome the preconception that scientific and technological subjects are a prerogative exclusive 
to male students, and the organisation of the Girls Hackathon #TIMgirlshackathon.  
3 Italian Centre for Childhood Aid.  
4 http://ri.tim.com.br/ShowCanal/Sustainability?=4K/0QqB9zIbMs3+gpxdxTA==  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
78 
 To promote the inclusion of disabled people (pessoas com deficiência –  PcD) in the Company, TIM continu ed the PcD 
programme ensuring that the available work positions are also open to this population. The company also participated 
in special job fairs aimed at disabled people and put a variety of measures in place to make its facilities accessible to all , 
quickly adapting interior spaces and pursuing awareness -building activities with managers and teams.  
In doing so, TIM has been able to increase the number of disabled people hired. In fact, with reference to the hiring quota percentage (5% of the total staf f) established by the Conduct Adjustment Agreement (Portuguese acronym: TAC) signed 
with the Brazilian Prosecutor ’s Office (Law no. 8213/91), as of October 2018 TIM, having hired 185 disabled people, was 
compliant by 41%.  
 
Other initiatives for employees  
[GRI 201 -3] To promote employee personal and family well -being through enhanced investments, TIM has put in place a 
company loan scheme for predefined reasons for all Group personnel. In 2018 employees parenting reasons were extended (for example: purchasing a child ’s first home) and care/assistance of their relatives (for example: needs arising 
from the relatives of colleagues (for example: care of relatives).  
To support preventative staff health care, TIM provides all those who are 45 years of age or older, the chance to join a 
flexible and personalised health prevention programme every two years.  
ASSILT (supplementary healthcare association for the employees of TIM Group companies), funded by the Group 
companies, by employee members and retired members, i s a non -profit -making organisation providing services to its 
members and beneficiaries that are supplementary to those provided by the Italian national health service, including -
together with public healthcare establishments - collective and individual res earch, knowledge- gathering initiatives and 
health prevention activities, and the promotion of health education initiatives to protect the health and physical well -
being of its members. In 2018, the association disbursed refunds totalled approximately 51 million euros (around 550,000 
cases). As of December 31, 2018, the Association had 144,000 members, including 46,000 employees, 32,500 pensioners 
and 65,500 family members.  
ASSIDA provides senior management staff with refunds for the cost of supplementary health services to those provided 
by the Italian national health service. As of December 31, 2018, the Association had 3,237 members in service or retired, 
in addition to family members, making a total of more than 6,500 assisted members.  
TELEMACO is the nat ional complementary pension fund for employees in the telecommunications industry, established 
in 1998 as a non- profit association and operative since October 2000; its objective is to ensure that those subscribing are 
able to maintain their standard of living when retiring, thanks to the creation of supplementary social security, over and 
above the public provisions. It is intended for workers, office staff and middle managers of companies that apply the 
national telecommunications contract, for employees on permanent, apprenticeship or placement contracts and for 
people who are physically supported by the workers subscribing to the Fund. At 1 January 2019,  there were 36,501 
subscribing employees of Group companies, around 57,900 total subscribers, and 215 associated companies with active 
members.  
[GRI 401 -2]
 All Group workers, whether full or part -time, on permanent or fixed- term contracts, enjoy the same b enefits, 
whilst, in Italy, the supplementary welfare institute is extended to workers on apprenticeship or placement contracts, as well as to employees on permanent contracts.  
CRALT is the recreational club for employees of the TIM Group and organises sigh t-seeing, sports, cultural and recreational 
activities for its members, employees, pensioners and their families. By entering into specific agreements, CRALT also 
allows members and their families to purchase goods and services at particularly good prices,  which can also be settled 
in instalments. One of the most significant of these is the agreement and the resulting contribution provided for the 
purchase of school and university books for the children of members, as a valuable contribution to household pu rchasing 
power.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
79 
 As of December 31, 2018, there were 40,940 members, including 35,628 employees and 5,312 pensioners. In 2018, CRALT 
made an average contribution of 16% to the cost of activities for the benefit of its members.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
80 
 APPENDIX  
Below is the analytical data for the company workforce, broken down according to the GRI Standards.  
[GRI 102 -8f] The Group figure includes not only the Domestic and Brazil Business Units, but also other minor entities, for 
very few units. In accordance with the principle of relevance, no specific column has been added for these entities.  
[GRI 102 -8a] Employees by contract type and gender  
 2018  
Permanent contract  2017  
Permanent contract  2016  
Permanent contract  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  36,787  20,963  38,107  21,184  39,306  21,767  
Domestic  31,866  16,183  33,267  16,446  34,379  16,746  
Brazil  4,896  4,762  4,794  4,714  4,860  4,989  
 
 2018  
Fixed -term contract  2017  
Fixed -term contract  2016  
Fixed -term contract  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  77 74 68 70 87 65 
Domestic  77 74 68 70 86 65 
Brazil  0 0 0 0 0 0 
[GRI 102 -8c] Employees on permanent and fixed- term contracts, by job type and gender.  
Employees on permanent contracts  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Full Time  Part Time  Full Time  Part Time  Full Time  Part Time  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  35,289  13,615  1,498  7,348  36,559  13,907  1,548  7,277  37,776  14,187  1,530  7,580  
Domestic  30,874  10,202  992 5,981  32,220  10,496  1,047  5,950  33,389  10,754  990 5,992  
Brazil 4,390  3,397  506 1,365  4,293  3,388  501 1,326  4,320  3,403  540 1,586  
Employees on fixed -term contracts  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Full Time  Part Time  Full Time  Part Time  Full Time  Part Time  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  6 5 71 69 4 2 64 68 5 3 82 62 
Domestic  6 5 71 69 4 2 64 68 4 3 82 62 
Brazil  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
81 
 [GRI 102 -8a] Employees on the payroll and agency contract workers, by gender.  
Employees on payroll  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  36,864  21,037  38,175  21,254  39,393  21,832  
Domestic  31,943  16,257  33,335  16,516  34,465  16,811  
Brazil  4,896  4,762  4,794  4,714  4,860  4,989  
 
[GRI 102 -8d] Agency contract workers  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  0 0 0 0 0 4 
Domestic  0 0 0 0 0 4 
Brazil  0 0 0 0 0 0 
 
[GRI 102 -8b] Employees by geographic area and gender  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Italy  Abroad  Total  Italy  Abroad  Total  Italy  Abroad  Total  
Men  31,788  5,076  36,864  33,208  4,967  38,175  34,338  5,055  39,393 
Women  16,217  4,820  21,037  16,481  4,773  21,254  16,874  5,048  21,832  
Total  48,005  9,896  57,901  49,689  9,740  59,429  51,122  10,103  61,225  
 
[GRI 102 -8] Employees of suppliers working at the Group offices and whose activities are part of the 
core business of TIM1  
 2018  2017  2016  
External FTE on site  569 631 943 
 
  
                                                                 
1 The only core business operations that require a significant working contribution from the employees of suppliers at the company offices relate 
to the development of IT platforms. The data in the table refers exclusively to these cases.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
82 
 [GRI 401 -1a] 1Hirings by age and geographical area  
 2018  2017  2016  
 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  <30 
Group  1,506  1,398  59 1,355  1,022  64 1,518  736 63 
Domestic  191 184 23 176 142 34 214 144 38 
Brazil  1,313  1,213  36 1,176  880 30 1,303  592 25 
 
 2018  2017  2016  
 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  <30 
Group  2.6%  2.4%  0.1%  2.2%  1.7%  0.1%  2.4%  1.2%  0.1%  
Domestic  0.4%  0.4%  0.0%  0.3%  0.3%  0.1%  0.4%  0.3%  0.1%  
Brazil  13.7%  12.6%  0.4%  12.3%  9.2%  0.3%  11.6%  5.3%  0.2%  
 
[GRI 401 -1a] Hirings by gender and geographical area  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  1,548  1,415  1,310  1,131  1,081  1,236  
Domestic  230 168 216 136 242 154 
Brazil  1,315  1,247  1,092  994 838 1,082  
       
       
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  2.6%  2.4%  2.2%  1.9%  1.7%  1.9%  
Domestic  0.5%  0.3%  0.4%  0.3%  0.5%  0.3%  
Brazil  13.7%  13.0%  11.4%  10.4%  7.5%  9.7%  
 
  
                                                                 
1 The KPI tables [GRI 401] show each percentage calculated on the basis of the average number of employees for the indicated area . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
83 
 [GRI 401 -1a] Distribution of Group hirings by geographical area  
 2018  2017  2016  Changes  
(2018/2017)  
Italy  374 336 378 38 
Abroad  2,589  2,105  1,939  484 
Total  2,963  2,441  2,317  522 
 
 2018  2017  2016   
Italy  0.8%  0.7%  0.7%   
Abroad  26.3%  21.5%  16.9%   
Total  5.0%  4.0%  3.6%   
 
 
[GRI 401 -1a] Distribution of Group employees by geographical area  
 2018  2017  2016  Changes  
(2018/2017)  
Italy  49,167  50,652  52,237  (1,485)  
Abroad  9,827  9,780  11,468  47 
Total  58,994  60,432  63,705  (1,438)  
 
 
 2018  2017  2016   
Italy  83.3%  83.8%  82.0%   
Abroad  16.7%  16.2%  18.0%   
Total  100%  100%  100%   
 
[GRI 401 -1b] Turnover by gender and geographical area  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  2,858  1,633  2,539  1,698  3,436  3,539  
Domestic  1,609 437 1,365  425 1,424  407 
Brazil  1,223  1,189  1,158  1,269 1,985  3,128  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
84 
  2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  4.8%  2.8%  4.2%  2.8%  5.4%  5.6%  
Domestic  3.3%  0.9%  2.7%  0.8%  2.7%  0.8%  
Brazil  12.8%  12.4%  12.1%  13.3%  17.7%  27.9%  
 
[GRI 401 -1b] Turnover by age and geographical area  
 2018  2017  2016  
 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  <30 
Group  1,251  1,518  1,722  1,428  1,434  1,375  3,138  2,268  1,569  
Domestic  138 293 1615  165 328 1,297  138 283 1,410  
Brazil  1,112  1,224  76 1,260  1,106  61 3,000  1,979 134 
 
 2018  2017  2016  
 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  >50 <30 >=30; <=50  <30 
Group  2.1%  2.6%  2.9%  2.4%  2.4%  2.3%  4.9%  3.6%  2.5%  
Domestic  0.3%  0.6%  3.3%  0.3%  0.6%  2.6%  0.3%  0.5%  2.7%  
Brazil  11.6%  12.8%  0.8%  13.2%  11.6%  0.6%  26.8%  17.7%  1.2%  
 
[GRI 401 -3b] Employees who benefited from parental leave, by gender  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  191 1,129  163 1,166  201 1,370  
Domestic  58 736 52 854 68 999 
Brazil  132 390 110 312 132 369 
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
85 
 [GRI 401 -3c] Employees  who returned after having benefited from parental leave, by gender1 
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  * * 156 1,158  197 1,331  
Domestic  * * 52 851 67 988 
Brazil  * * 103 307 129 342 
 
* The data will be available from the end of 2019.  
[GRI 401 -3d] Employees at work after a year from the end of parental leave, by gender2 
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  * * 143 1,019  143 1,117  
Domestic  * * 30 686 44 841 
Brazil  * * 113 333 98 276 
 
* The data will be available from the end of 2019.  
[GRI 401 -3e] (return to work rate) Percentage of employees who returned to work after parental leave 
out of total employees benefiting from leave   
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  * * 95.7%  99.3%  98.0%  97.2%  
Domestic  * * 100.0%  99.6%  98.5%  98.9%  
Brazil  * * 93.6%  98.4%  97.7%  92.7%  
 
* The data will be available from the end of 2019.  
 
  
                                                                 
1 Please note that in the table, the year of return of employee x has not been calculated according to the year in which x effe ctively returned, but 
according to the year in  which x took leave. Therefore, if x took leave in 2017 and returned in 2018, his return is in any case reported in the 2017 
column. This is why the data for the 2018 column is still partial and not yet able to be published.  
2 Please note that in the table , the year of continued work of employee x has not been calculated according to the year in which x was at work 
after 12 months of leave, but according to the year in which x took leave. Therefore, if x took leave in 2017 and after 12 mo nths was still at w ork 
in 2018, his continuation at work is in any case reported in the 2017 column. As we do not yet know which of the employees wh o went on leave 
in 2018 will still be at work after 12 months, we are unable to calculate the figure for 2018.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
86 
 [GRI 401 -3e] (retention rate) Percentage of employees at work after 12 months from the end of 
parental leave out of total employees benefiting from leave  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  * * 87.7%  87.4%  71.1%  81.5%  
Domestic  * * 57.7%  80.3%  64.7%  84.2%  
Brazil  * * 102.7%  106.7%  74.2%  74.8%  
 
* The data will be available from the end of 2019.  
 
[GRI 403 -2a] Injury rate out of total workforce* (number of injuries over hours worked)   
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  6.11 4.26 6.92 4.26 7.70 3.66 
Domestic  7.00 5.31 8.04  5.39 9.05 4.75 
Brazil  0.64  1.15 0.48  1.07 0.43 1.21 
  * Temporary workers are not considered in this type of record. In any case, there were 0 temporary workers in 2018.  
 
[GRI 403 -2a] Days lost over workforce* (days of injury over working hours) 
 2018  2017  2016  
 
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  0.15 0.08  0.19 0.09  0.20  0.10 
Domestic  0.19 0.12 0.22 0.12 0.24 0.15 
Brazil  0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.01 
 
* Temporary workers are not considered in this type of record. In any case, there were 0 temporary workers in 2018.  
 
[GRI 403 -2a] Absenteeism rate out of total workforce* (total hours of absenteeism over working 
hours)  
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  5.52 10.81  5.59 9.38 6.09  11.91  
Domestic  5.71  11.01  6.47 12.00  6.58 12.69  
Brazil  4.71 10.41  1.61 3.99 4.04  10.64  
 
* The absenteeism rate is calculated taking into consideration the additional items with respect to those of the GRI 403 -2 indicator. From 2016 
the absenteeism rate calculation method used in Brazil was adapted to that used in the other Companies of the Group.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
87 
 [GRI 403 -2a] Occupational disease rate out of total workforce* (number of cases over workforce)  
 
 2018  2017  2016  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Group  0.05  0.02  0.05  0.01 0.03  0.02  
Domestic  0.05  0.03  0.06  0.01 0.04  0.02  
Brazil  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
* Temporary workers are not considered in this type of record. In any case, there were 0 temporary workers in 2018.  
 
[GRI 404 -1] The following tables report training carried out in TIM S.p.A., broken down according to 
gender  
2018  Hours  Participation*  Participants  Coverage**  
 Totals  Per capita     
Total  1,249,089  29.3 761,258  42,809  100.4 %  
Senior Managers  15,473  34.2 5,772  504 111.3 %  
of whom women 2,678  35.7 804 83 110.7 %  
of whom men 12,795  33.9 4,968  421 111.4 %  
Middle Managers  90,543  24.8 82,710  3,689  100.8 %  
of whom women 24,443  23.7 22,224  1,025  99.2 %  
of whom men 66,100  25.2 60,486  2,664  101.4 %  
Office staff/workers  1,143,073  29.7 672,776  38,633  100.2 %  
of whom women 272,187  23.0 217,144  11,774  99.6 %  
of whom men 870,886  32.6 455,632  26,859  100.5 %  
 
2017  Hours  Participation*  Participants  Coverage**  
 Totals  Per capita     
Total  1,317,426  29.8 457,785  43,372  97.9%  
Senior Managers  18,933  35.5 5,887  541 101.3%  
of whom women 3,420  41.7 1,051  89 108.5%  
of whom men 15,513  34.3 4,836  452 100.0%  
Middle Managers  74,218  20.09  38,173  3,634  98.3%  
of whom women 15,651  15.4 10,042  1,001  98.7%  
of whom men 58,567  21.8 28,131  2,633 98.2%  
Office staff/workers  1,224,275  30.57  413,725  39,197  97.9%  
of whom women 326,299 26.9 143,028  11,823  97.6%  
of whom men 897,976 32.1 270,697  27,374  98.0%  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
88 
 2016  Hours  Participation*  Participants  Coverage**  
 Totals  Per capita     
Total  1,058,194  24.8 351,897  37,732  88.4%  
Senior Managers  21,632  36.7 3,161  580 98.5%  
of whom women 4,139  42.7 570 101 104.1%  
of whom men 17,493  35.5 2,591  479 97.4%  
Middle Managers  57,545  18.0 17,242  2,828  88.3%  
of whom women 16,379  18.6 4,798  800 90.7%  
of whom men 41,166  17.7 12,444  2,028  87.4%  
Office staff/workers  979,017  25.2 331,494  34,324  88.3%  
of whom women 264,911  22.8 113,811  9,847  84.9%  
of whom men 714,106  26.2 217,683  24,477  89.7%  
 
* Shows the overall number of participation in training sessions, in the various forms provided (classroom, online, training on the job)  
** Coverage refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total, i.e. the % of human resources of the Group who to ok part in at least 
one training session compared to the total number of human resources in each individual category (senior managers, middle manager s, office 
workers). Coverage and per capita are calculated on the number of staff at 31/12.  
 
 
[GRI 401 -1] TIM S.p.A. invested 11.1 million euros in training courses in 2018, equal to a cost of 260.5 euros per head.  
Focus charts are presented below by type of training referring to TIM S.p.A.  
Environment 2018 TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita  Participants  Coverage  
Total  9,508  0.2 3,918  9.2 % 
of whom women 1,323  0.1 328 2.5 %  
of whom men 8,185  0.3 3,590  12.1 %  
Senior Managers  17 0.0 4 0.9 %  
of whom women 2 0.0 1 1.3 %  
of whom men 15 0.0 3 0.8 %  
Middle Managers  297 0.1 41 1.1 %  
of whom women 81 0.1 6 0.6 %  
of whom men 216 0.1 35 1.3 %  
Office staff/workers  9,194  0.2 3,873  10.0 %  
of whom women 1,240  0.1 321 2.7 %  
of whom men 7,954  0.3  3,552  13.3 %  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
89 
 Environment 2017 TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita  Participants  Coverage  
Total  9,017  0.2 3,093  7.0%  
of whom women 1,596 0.1 452 3.4%  
of whom men 7,421  0.2 2,641  8.5%  
Senior Managers  0 0.0 0 0.0%  
of whom women 0 0.0 0 0.0%  
of whom men 0 0.0 0 0.0%  
Middle Managers  86 0.0 22 0.6%  
of whom women 2 0.0 4 0.4%  
of whom men 84 0.0 18 0.7%  
Office staff/workers  8,931  0.2 3,071  7.7%  
of whom women  1,594  0.1 448 3.7%  
of whom men 7,337  0.3 2,623  9.4%  
Health and Safety 2018 TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita Participants  Coverage  
Total  135,850  3.2 15,232  35.7 %  
of whom women 15,133  1.2 5,227  40.4 %  
of whom men 120,717  4.1 10,005  33.7 %  
Senior Managers  133 0.3 21 4.6 %  
of whom women 10 0.1 1 1.3 %  
of whom men 123 0.3 20 5.3 %  
Middle Managers  3,798  1.0 613 16.8 %  
of whom women 489 0.5 141 13.6 %  
of whom men 3,309  1.3 472 18.0 %  
Office staff/workers  131,919  3.4 14,589  37.9 %  
of whom women 14,634  1.2 5,085  43.0 %  
of whom men 117,285  4.4 9,513  35.6 %  
 
 
Health and Safety 2017 TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita Participants  Coverage  
Total  164,924  3.7 18,901  42.7%  
of whom women 11,399  0.9 4,710  35.7%  
of whom men 153,525  4.9 14,191  45.7%  
Senior  Managers  997 1.9 148 27.7%  
of whom women 171 2.1 19 23.2%  
of whom men 826 1.8 129 28.5%  
Middle Managers  4,687  1.3 2,459  66.5%  
of whom women 888 0.9 760 75.0%  
of whom men 3,799  1.4 1,699 63.4%  
Office staff/workers  159,240  4.0 16,294  40.7%  
of whom women  10,340  0.9 3,931  32.5%  
of whom men 148,900  5.3 12,363  44.2%  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
90 
 Anti -corruption 2018 – TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita  Participants  Coverage  
Total  149 0.0 229 0.5 
of whom women 55 0.0 86 0.7 %  
of whom men 94 0.0 143 0.5 %  
Senior Managers  1 0.0 2 0.4 % 
of whom women 0 0.0 0 0.0 %  
of whom men 1 0.0 2 0.5 %  
Middle Managers  18 0.0 25 0.7 %  
of whom women 6 0.0 9 0.9 %  
of whom men 12 0.0 16 0.6 %  
Office staff/workers  130 0.0 202 0.5 %  
of whom women 49 0.0 77 0.7 %  
of whom men 81 0.0 125 0.5 %  
Anti -corruption 2017 – TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita Participants  Coverage  
Total  16,624  0.4 32,611  73.6%  
of whom women 4,678  0.4 9,169 69.4%  
of whom men 11,946  0.4 23,442  75.4%  
Senior Managers  176 0.3 344 64.4%  
of whom women 27 0.3 51 62.2%  
of whom men  149 0.3 293 64.8%  
Middle Managers  1,398  0.4 2,723  73.7%  
of whom women 375 0.4 716 70.6%  
of whom men 1,023  0.4 2,007  74.9%  
Office staff/workers  15,050  0.4 29,544  73.8%  
of whom women 4,276  0.4 8,402  69.4%  
of whom men 10,774  0.4 21,142  75.7%  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
91 
 Human Rights 2018 – TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita Participants  Coverage  
Total  3,248  0.1 759 1.8 %   
of whom women 1,557  0.1 341 2.6 %  
of whom men 1,691  0.1 418 1.4 %  
Senior Managers  472 1.0 39 8.6 %  
of whom women 57 0.8 6 8.0 %  
of whom men 415 1.1 33 8.7 %  
Middle Managers  578 0.2 143 3.9 %  
of whom women 355 0.3 66 6.4 %  
of whom men 223 0.1 77 2.9 %  
Office Staff  2,198  0.7 577 1.5 %  
of whom women 1,145  0.1 269 2.3 %  
of whom men 1,053  0.0 308 1.2 %  
 
 
Human Rights 2017 –  TIM S.p.A.  
 Hours  Per capita  Participants  Coverage  
Total  3,883  0.1 3,479  7.9%  
of whom women 1,655  0.1 1,517  11.5%  
of whom men 2,228  0.1 1,962  6.3%  
Senior Managers  657 1.2 273 51.1%  
of whom women 116 1.4 43 52.4%  
of whom men 541 1.2 230 50.9%  
Middle Managers  782 0.2 342 9.3%  
of whom women 371 0.4 108 10.7%  
of whom men 411 0.2 234 8.7%  
Office Staff  2,444  0.1 2,864  7.2%  
of whom women 1,168  0.1 1,366  11.3%  
of whom men 1,276  0.0 1,498  5.4%  
 
Privacy 2018 – TIM S.p.A.  
 
Hours  Per capita  Participants  Coverage  
Total  13,371  0.3 10,402  24.4 %  
of whom women 4,471  0.3 3,581  27.7 %  
of whom men 8,900  0.3 6,821  22.9 %  
Senior Managers  285 0.6 107 23.6 %  
of whom women 51 0.7 15 20.0 %  
of whom men 234 0.6 92 24.3 %  
Middle Managers  2,364  0.7 1,269  34.7 %  
of whom women  649 0.6 318 30.8 %  
of whom men 1,715  0.7 951 36.2 %  
Office Staff  10,722  0.3 9,026  23.4 %  
of whom women 3,771  0.3 3,248  27.5 %  
of whom men 6,951  0.3 5,778  21.6 %  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
TIM PEOPLE  
92 
 [GRI 405 -2] Ratio of women/men according to basic salary and ratio of women/men according to 
remuneration, broken down according to each professional category  
TIM -  S.p.A.  2018  2017  2016  
Senior Managers  GAS  0.90  0.88 0.93 
TAR 0.91 0.89  0.93 
Middle Managers  GAS  0.95 0.96 0.95 
TAR 0.93 0.94  0.93 
Office Staff  GAS  0.96 0.96 0.95 
TAR 0.96 0.95 0.95 
 
 
Brazil  2018  2017  2016  
Senior Managers  GAS  0.77 0.80  0.77 
TAR 0.80  0.80  0.85  
Middle Managers  GAS  0.97 0.96  0.95 
TAR 0.98  0.96  0.95 
Office Staff  GAS  0.69  0.70 0.67 
TAR 0.69  0.70 0.67 
 
GAS = Gross Annual Salary, comprising recurring fixed remuneration.  
TAR = Total Annual Remuneration, comprising the Gross Annual Remuneration + bonuses awarded during the reference year (the bonuse s may 
refer to individual or group incentive systems or take the form of special awards or merito cratic policy awards).  
 The value chainTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
94 
 The Community  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 413]  With its networks, products and technological solutions, TIM is one of the 
main protagonists of the evolution towards a digital economy and, given its size, reach, infrastructure and technological 
assets, is fully integrated with the area of operation and the social, economic and production context.  
TIM is aware of this strategic role  and therefore works constantly to manage and innovate its infrastructure and 
technologies, which it places at the service of the country and to which end it makes significant investments.  
 
The Group companies intend to contribute to the economic well -being and growth of communities in which they operate 
by delivering increasingly digitalised services. Consistently with this objective and with its responsibilities towards the 
various stakeholders, including the competitors listed in the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com , the 
Group considers research and innovation to be essential conditions for growth and success.  
 
As private entities requiring cost -effective management, Group companies take the social impact of telecommunications 
services into account in their decision -making activities, responding to the needs of the Community, including the weakest 
members of society.  
 
The Group looks favourably upon and, where appropriate, supports social, cul tural and educational initiatives aimed at 
the enhancement of the individual and the improvement of their living conditions. The mission of the Fondazione TIM  
(FTIM) is to promote the culture of digital change and innovation, promoting integration, communication, economic and 
social growth.  
The investment strategy implemented by TIM Participações aims to promote the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups 
in Brazilian society, particularly children and teenagers, through the implementation of educational p rojects that reinforce 
the concept of “ enterprise without frontiers ” including in the social sphere. With this spirit, in 2013 the Instituto TIM  was 
founded.  
 
MACRO AREAS OF INTERVENTION  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION  PROJECT 
IMPLEMENTATION  
 
The two main areas of  
intervention as regards 
investment in the community are 
the following:  
- voluntary activities consistent with the Group ’s core business, 
associated with the provision 
of ICT services and digital 
content;  
- activities aimed at the general 
development of the 
community mainly including 
the activities of Fondazione 
TIM in Italy and Instituto TIM in Brazil.   
TIM identifies the projects to be implemented by the 
following means:  
- consultation with the stakeholders and direct 
contact with civil society organisations;  
- partnership projects with stakeholders and 
associations;  
- benchmarking against other TLC operators;  
- involvement in industry associations;  
- knowledge of sector problems;  
- external lobbying in response to social 
emergencies (e.g. earthquakes).  
  
Each project i s 
implemented in 4 stages:  
- planning;  
- selection;  
- management;  
- controls.  
 
Security and management of emergencies  
With the aim of ensuring maximum cooperation, in terms of security and management of emergencies, national and 
local institutions and affected communities, TIM has signed and implemented the following conventions:  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
95 
 • the “memorandum of understanding between the Department of Civil Protection of the Presidency of the Council of 
Ministers and the providers of electronic communication services to allow  emergency information to be sent across 
national geographical areas ”; 
• the “agreement between the crisis unit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the 
operators of electronic communication services for the provision of services which allow messages to be sent to 
Italians abroad in emergency situations ”. In 2018, this Convention was put into place for the World Cup in Russia (14 
June – 15 July), to allow SMS messages from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to TIM customers in Rus sia; 
• The “Convention for implementing a device to generate Missing Child Alert ” launched with the Italian Ministry of the 
Interior, Department of Public Security;  
• the “contract for the supply of information on the location of SIM cards used in TIM phones ” with the national 
mountain and cave rescue corps to locate people lost in the mountains.  
 In 2018, as required by the relevant laws regarding training, in order to:  
• test the soundness of the emergency planning and the ability of the company ’s operational Crisis Management 
Systems to respond;  
• maintain staff, structures and tools of the emergency management system in a state of readiness;  
• identify, where necessary, actions to improve internal company processes and the processes used to interface with 
the rel evant stakeholders (institutions, communities, customers)  
TIM took part in the following exercises:  
• international Civil Protection and Defence “ Neiflex ” flood risk exercise, organised by the Presidency of the Council of 
Ministers, Department of Civil Protection, in cooperation with the Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia regions and other 
European countries;  
• national Civil Defence “ Stesicoro”  terrorism risk exercise, organised by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with 
the Prefectures of Syracuse and Trapani.  
 
TIM’s involvement in these drills is necessary as the company delivers essential services and is part of the National Civil 
Protection System (law 225/1992) together with other public and private member organisations and the Ministry of the 
Interior ’s Interministerial Technical Commission for Civil Defence.  
 
In addition, in relation to training, TIM has circulated, inside and outside the Group, the contents of the “ I don ’t take risks ” 
campaign. The campaign organised annually by the Department of Civil Protection throughout Italy aims to strengthen 
the culture of risk prevention and raise awareness about safe behaviour.  
 In 2018, TIM ensured company representation in national and local institutional crisis units and ensured service requests 
were satisfied and immediately actioned within 12 hours and within the 24 hours laid down by the PCM Directive 
3/12/2008 “Operating Directions for the management of emergencies ”. 
 
Relations with local communities  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 413]  In addition to the usual relations with national institutions, as described in 
the sustainability section of the www.telecomitalia.com  website, TIM works every day to ensure that relations with 
regional and local bodies are lasting and satisfactory, believing that this is the only way to create appropriate conditions 
for the development of its area of operation and improve people ’s quality of life, while allowing the institutions and TIM 
to achieve their respective objectives.  
 A central department within TIM is dedicated entirely to managing relations with local institutions, which also relies on 
local authority acc ounts who are specialised in managing institutional relations on technical matters related to the 
development of fixed and mobile networks.  
 
The Relations with Local Authorities department, as part of its duties:  
• carries out all possible actions of an institutional nature aimed at facilitating the development of the fixed and mobile 
telecommunications network;  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
96 
 • identifies the intervention priorities of the other company departments through the Field Integration Committee1; 
• establishes the priorities and determines how to interact with public bodies in light of the requirements identified;  
• constantly monitors existing institutional relations and systematically develops the network of relationships;  
• contributes to drawing up agreements with regions and municipalities;  
• listens systematically to all requests and reports from local institutions and directs them correctly to the relevant 
departments within TIM;  
• supports other departments of TIM in the implementation of territorial projects;  
• prevents disputes ari sing, above all in reference to network development issues.  
 
Particular attention is paid to organisations that deal with issues relating to:  
• the development of fixed and mobile ultrabroadband networks;  
• digitalisation of public utility services;  
• use of pub lic funds;  
• the spread of digital culture.  
 
TIM responds flexibly to requests, regardless of how they are received from local institutions.  
 Joint projects between TIM and local authorities are managed in a way that defines the roles and duties of each part y, 
formal control mechanisms and measurement tools. TIM promotes the formation of joint control committees, i.e. 
committees formed of representatives of all the parties involved.  
The composition and objectives of the committees are determined according to the specific requirements of the project and provide for the presence of stakeholders without any kind of discrimination. Monitoring and constant interaction with 
the decision- making centres of local institutions take place by means of meetings, hearings, the presentation of position 
documents and involvement in workshops as well as in the work of regional commissions and specialist working groups.  
TIM frequently organises communication initiatives on specific issues of local interest.  
 
[GRI 413 -1] Among the main subjects of dialogue with local authorities during 2018 we would highlight the following:  
• development of new ultrabroadband networks, local coverage and reduction of the digital divide;  
• actions of an institutional nature involving local administrations aimed at encouraging development of the fixed and mobile telecommunications network;  
• the drawing -up of protocols with local authorities in order to develop new fixed and mobile generation access 
networks;  
• draft regional laws and municipal r egulations regarding the installation of mobile telephony systems and 
electromagnetic fields, in order to represent the company ’s requirements (also with the presentation of observations, 
amendments and participation in hearings) with a view to the simplif ication and standardising of the relevant national 
provisions;  
• proposed excavation rules, in order to ensure the consistency of the authorisation process and the respective regulations with national regulations, particularly in order to ensure simplification at local level;  
• promotion of digital transformation initiatives to facilitate knowledge and dissemination of new technologies by seeking forms of partnership with local public administration;  
• promotion of TIM’ s digital solutions and services system for the creation of smart cities;  
• drawing up of 20 regional policy reports aimed at taking stock of the development of regional policies regarding digital services and network infrastructure in light of the new EU funds programming policy for 2014- 2020;  
• the ce ntral and local management, coordination and monitoring of complaints received by local institutions, through 
the internal Digital Development Project amongst other means.  
 [GRI 413 -2] The potential negative impacts arising exclusively from excavations for  installing cable ducts or positioning 
radio base stations  are mitigated through the use of low environmental impact technologies, such as mini -trenches, and 
thanks to prior agreements with local communities, e.g. regarding aerial installation sites.  
 
                                                                 
1 Internal local committees involving the managers of departments with local branches.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
97 
 How the contribution to the Community is measured  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 413]  The contribution made to the community by the Group, calculated 
according to the London Benchmarking Group (LBG)1 guidelines, amounted to 17 million euros in 2018. 2016 and 2017 
data is available on the Group website, sustainability channel.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initiatives consistent with the core business  
Fundraising  
In a national and international context in which crisis and conflict scenarios multiply, against an ever -increasing number 
of subjects in need and emergency situations, private fund- raising is a key factor in the cohesion and support “ from person 
to person ”. 
For over 15 years, TIM has been a key player in the solidarity chain associated with humanitarian, scientific or 
environmental projects which it supports by allowing people to make a donation of 1 or 2 euros by sending a text message 
and of 2.5 or 10 euros by calling a dedicated free number from a landline.  
 
The new Self -Regulatory Code issued by AgCOM established 60 numbers, divided into 30 permanent numbers (lasting 
one year) and 30 temporary numbers (lasting 20 days), with a special price list. The 2 numbers assigned to emergencies continue to be free. The amounts collected are returned in full, with no withholdings applied by either the tax authority 
or the Company for the costs incurred.  
155 campaigns were launched in 2018, which raised over 11 mil lion euros. The largest amounts of money are raised for 
medical and scientific initiatives, with social welfare initiatives at national level, such as violence against women, close behind.  
 
Digital Culture Projects  
In a coordinated and complementary manner  with respect to the Country ’s technological infrastructure path, the TIM 
Group aims to improve the digital literacy of the population and enhance excellence in the Country via the potential 
offered by the internet.   
                                                                 
1 More than 150 major international companies subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 1994 and is the global gold standard f or the 
classification of voluntary contributions made by companies in favour of the community. In accordance with the LBG model, in order to measure 
and represent the Group’s commitment to the community, the contributions disbursed have been subdivided into three categories  (Charity, 
Investments in the community, Initiatives in the community), adopting the customary pyramid -shaped representation. For further information, 
see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, which contains further details about data for the last three  years. The LBG 
guidelines are considered a reference for the preparation of the statement for determining economic value generated and distribu ted. The graph 
constitutes additional information regarding the areas required by Legislative Decree 254/2016.  
CHARITY  
AND DONATIONS  
0.04 €M  
INVESTMENT IN  
THE COMMUNITY  
13.94 €M  
COMMERCIAL INITIATIVES 
WITH POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACT 
ON THE COMMUNITY  
3.14 €M  
Total:  
17.12 €M  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
98 
 Digital skills  are one of the key facto rs in allowing economies to achieve a competitive advantage over the past twenty 
years, as shown by much of the work carried out by the OECD or promoted by the European Commission. In this respect, 
the Digital Agenda asks Member States to take action to br oaden knowledge of digital tools and increase the number of 
people with evolved digital skills, particularly by disseminating ICT technologies in schools. In this context, schools must make a radical change in the way they plan and provide education, and in the way pupils, teachers  and parents relate to 
one another. Because of the importance of this subject, the European Commission constantly monitors the speed with 
which digital technologies are being introduced in schools and in teaching processes.  
 
TIM has supported the Programma il Futuro  [Programme the Future] initiative of CINI1 in collaboration with the MIUR 
since 2015. This promotes the introduction of computational thinking and coding in the educational programmes of 
schools of all levels.  
 
Since 2016,  TIM has promoted the TIM ScuolaDigitale . During the 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 school years, the project aimed 
to bring school teachers of all levels and background degrees closer to digital tools, to give them an overview of 
technological applicatio ns that add value and provide new opportunities for teaching. Over two years, more than 200 
meetings were held throughout Italy, involving over 4,500 teachers. For the 2018/2019 school year, the project aims to 
make junior high school students more familia r with the key concepts of new technologies, e.g. the Internet of Things, 
Robotics, stimulating students ’ creativity and passion and transforming them from passive technology users to aware 
and active users. 3,000 students will be involved in the classroom  during the school year, in addition to all those who 
following the online teaching on scuoladigitale.tim.it.  
 
TIMsostiene is the new crowdfunding platform  which is aimed at becoming a reference point for those who, even with a 
small donation, want to contribute to the good of Italy. TIMsostiene hosts the main fundraising campaigns of the most 
well- known non- profit sector organisations in Italy. Covering fou r thematic areas -  Health and Research, Culture, 
Environment, Society -  where you can discover the initiatives and their objectives and follow their results, to enable you 
to make conscious donations and be a part of a shared change. The entire donation am ounts are given to the chosen 
campaign; TIM also bears the costs of any transaction fees provided by companies that offer digital payment services. 
The new platform follows on from the experience of WithYouWeDo, TIM ’s first crowdfunding portal dedicated to  the 
initiatives of individual citizens and small associations that in its three years of activity raised about two million euros.  
 
In addition, for some years, TIM has made some of its assets (technology, project management and human resources) 
available to the Radio Dynamo project of the Dynamo Camp , which hosts 200 families and 1,300 children aged 6 to 17 
each year suffering from serious illnesses free of charge. The web based radio station (radiodynamo.it) is one of the most 
popular activities in the Ca mp, and also one of the major activities of its outreach programme, Dynamo outside the Camp, 
which allows it to reach out to many young people all year round who, for a variety of reasons, cannot attend the Camp.  
 
 
The commitment of Fondazione TIM  
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 413]  The TIM Group companies are particularly attentive to the needs of the 
Community in which they operate and implement wide- ranging initiatives and projects dedicated to their social and 
economic development. The mission  of the Fondazione TIM (FTIM) is to promote the culture of digital change and 
innovation, promoting integration, communication, economic and social growth. FTIM can operate, in Italy and abroad, 
by the methods and with the tools that are considered appropr iate in each case for it to achieve its statutory purposes.  
 In accordance with this mission, four areas of intervention have been identified  
• Education : innovation in teaching and education, promoting initiatives aimed at updating the technology in Italian 
schools and introducing radical innovations in educational methods and tools.  
• Innovation Culture : a programme of unconventional activities in the world of foundations for the purpose of 
promoting a culture of innovation and becoming a point of reference f or this.  
                                                                 
1 Consorzio Interuni versitario Nazionale per l’ Informatica [National Interuniversity Consortium for Informatics].  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
99 
 • Social Empowerment : non -profit -making organisation are businesses. FTIM promotes both the better use of new 
technologies and improved management and efficiency to help the organisations “ do good well ”. 
• Historic and Artistic Heritage : Italian artis tic heritage represents excellence in the “ technology of the past ”. FTIM 
wants to contribute to its enhancement and public use through present -day technology.  
 
TIM’s activities take place according to the following criteria.  
TOOLS  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES  PROJECT SELECTION AND 
MONITORING  
FTIM pursues its objectives by 
assigning contributions to 
projects put forward by third 
party individuals and non -
profit institutions,  according to 
requirements established by 
the Board of Directors. Since 
2015, FTIM has a lso taken on an 
operational role, managing a 
number of projects itself.  FTIM works to disseminate a culture 
of innovation, in order to promote 
solidarity and civil, cultural and 
economic development.  
The foundation therefore 
undertakes to work for an 
increasingly digital, advanced and 
competitive Italy to improve living 
conditions for people. This translates 
to innovative projects for the 
promotion and diffusion of science 
and technology, as well as the 
development of models, 
technological tools and systems  to 
support non -profit associations.  The selection  is made based on 
the social impact of projects, which must be measurable, 
sustainable and replicable.  
The monitoring system  is 
established according to the 
specific characteristics and 
objectives of each p roject. 
Monitoring is a requirement for 
all projects, whether selected by 
tender or directly. As well as 
being an eligibility requirement, 
it also provides an assessment 
parameter.  
 
In 2018, FTIM concentrated its resources on a number of important projects which allowed it to focus increasingly on 
technological innovation to improve the solutions identified and broaden the range of targets to achieve, with an 
exponential effect in terms of the impact on our national community.  
In the  Education  area the TRIS project -  New technologies and home education for students unable to regularly attend 
school - was created through a Framework Agreement signed in 2012 by MIUR, CNR -  Institute for Educational 
Technologies and FTIM that allowed for the trial of new socio- educational inclusion models for students unable to 
participate in normal educational pathways to guarantee their right to study.  Remaining in the field of Education, the 
collaboration continued between FTIM and Accademia della Scala, which is intended to enhance and promote the work of one of Italy ’s centres of excellence and to innovate in the field of training, in order to hand down traditional and valuable 
trades; a transformation project which combines education in theatrical occupations with t he most innovative 
technologies, supporting young talent and bringing young people closer to the opera world.  
Still in the area of Education, the E -Rob project involved trials of robotics programming activities in the classroom to 
enhance school learning a nd promote cognitive and social -relational development in primary schools through the 
development of inclusive education for children with learning needs/disability, exploiting the flexibility of technology 
systems. This was a local project with the Fondaz ione Stella Maris of Pisa and Istituto Superiore Sant ’Anna of Pisa.  
 
As part of its commitment to the enhancement of historical and artistic heritage , FTIM signed an agreement with the 
Municipality of Rome on December 2015 which provides funding of 6 million euros for the restoration of the Mausoleum 
of Augustus. In addition to the agreement for the restoration, another agreement was signed for the enh ancement and 
multimedia activities, again with the municipality, but implemented directly by FTIM, which will spend 2 million euros. Work is expected to be complete by March 2019. Full details of the project can be found on the 
http://www.mausoleodiaugusto.it/  website, which has received many national and international awards.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
100 
 Within the Social Empowerment  area, FTIM has been at the forefront of dyslexia care since 2009 with a multi- year 
program me that has enabled the creation of screening protocols, IT campuses, digital books and the dissemination of a 
more inclusive approach in schools. The Dyslexia 2.0 project, completed in 2018, allowed to the training and certification 
of 60% Italian schools  as Dyslexia Friends, and the provision of a standardised screening tool free of charge and accessible 
to all, to identify the risk factors and avoid the diagnosis of false positives.  
 To strengthen the commitment to students with dyslexia, the Virtual Rea lity project for inclusive education is: a Living 
Lab coordinated by the Istituto Superiore Mario Boella. Co -designed by students, teachers and editors it allows joint 
exploration, trialling, testing and assessment of new approaches and solutions to help t he evolution of inclusive 
education. And finally, at the of 2018 the Dyslexia Friends Advanced Course was launched with the Italian Dyslexia 
Association. The e- learning path extension aims to involve 90% of Italian schools, for a transformative impact.  
 Still in the Social Empowerment area, FTIM has committed itself to working with Agenda Tevere non- profit organisation 
on a path of sustainable growth, environmental and cultural protection, and urban and social regeneration of the Tiber River. The objectiv e is to give the river back to the city of Rome and turn it into a shared city space.  
 
In the Innovation Culture area, the Confiscati Bene 2.0 Project is a national web portal created by the Libera Association 
in collaboration with FTIM, founded on OpenSource technologies, for transparency and promotion of the reuse of 
confiscated assets. The platform ’s objective is to collect, create and provide free updated data on assets as well as on 
the “life” of assets.  
In addition, Lectures and high -level less ons were given on topics related to the world of innovation by leading figures on 
the international cultural and scientific scene.  
 
 
Instituto TIM  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 413]  In 2013, the TIM Institute was founded with the aim of defining strategies 
and providing resources for the dissemination of science and innovation to support the development of the community in Brazil, particularly by means of mobile technology.  
Four areas of activity were identified in which to develop projects:  
• educa tion/teaching  
• application  
• work  
• social inclusion 
 
TOOLS  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES  PROJECT SELECTION AND MONITORING  
• Partnerships with 
organisations, institutions and 
public and private entities.  
• Free software/open source 
technologies and materials.  • Implementation of educational 
projects for the social inclusion of young people and teenagers.  
• Implementation of training 
projects to encourage daily use 
of the Internet and mobile 
phones as tools for social 
development and inclusion.  • Projects are selected  according to 
their relevance to the company ’s 
strategies and requirements.  
• Initiatives are monitored and a final 
evaluation is carried out on 
completion. A report is drawn up for each project that provides a detailed 
description of the initiative and the 
results achieved, also in quantitative 
terms.  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
101 
 O Círculo da Matemática do Brasil (Brazilian Math Circle)  
One of the greatest obstacles to scientific and technological progress in Brazil is the poor standard of maths teaching in 
schools. According to the  Ministry of Education, only 42% of students in the third year of primary school can do simply 
arithmetic like addition and subtraction. In PISA1 in 2012, based on the results achieved in maths by its students, Brazil 
came 58th on a list of 65 countries.  By focusing attention on the first few years of primary school, the O Círculo da 
Matemática do Brasil project, working with its founders, professors Bob and Ellen Kaplan of Harvard University, introduces 
the Maths Circle approach to the Country, perfecting  and adapting its content to the Brazilian context.  Launched in 2013, 
the project involved around 25,000 students and 4,500 teachers from 29 cities.  
TIM Faz Ciência (TIM Does Science)  
The results achieved by Brazilian students in science are far from ideal . The PISA science test conducted in 2012 placed 
Brazil in 59th place on a list of 65 countries. Out of the three areas assessed - reading, maths and science - the last was 
the one in which Brazilian students had achieved the least satisfactory results. Th e project was created with the aim of 
providing the necessary tools for teachers to learn about the scientific disciplines more effectively. More than 300,000 
students and approximately 10,000 teachers from 398 cities have been involved since the start of the project.  
TIM Tec  
One of the Brazilian government ’s priorities is to increase the availability of professional and technological education 
courses. In 2011, the government launched PRONATEC2 on which 6 million people are currently enrolled. One of the 
initiatives of PRONATEC is the e- TecBrasil Network, which provides free technical and distance learning courses.  
TIM Tec is a distance learning platform that uses the MOOC (Massive Open Online C ourses) concept3. These courses, 
which are provided and made available for free on the platform, are intended for students attending high schools and technical colleges. Anyone can enrol on the courses, which teach programming languages and how to create databases, 
websites, games and many other things. There are also courses for primary school teachers and others intended to 
improve the skills considered to be basic for the training of any professional, such as how to write well. The technology 
and content  of the TIM Tec platform are share with Federal Institutes of Education, Science and Technology, with the 
support of the Department of Vocational and Technological Education of the Ministry of Education (SETEC/MEC). The TIM Institute supports the Federal I nstitutes in the process of installing and using the platform. Currently the platform offers 
30 courses with about 60,000 enrolled students.  
Further information about the Instituto TIM programmes and initiatives is available in the TIM Participações Sustainability 
Report at https://institutotim.org.br/
 
  
                                                                 
1 Programme for International Student Assessment.  
2 Programme for Access to Technical Education and Employment.  
3 Massive Open Online Courses.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
102 
 Research and development  
In Italy  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Innovation understood as a research and development activity for 
innovative technologies and services, processes and business models represents a key factor in the company ’s ability to 
keep up with the profound transformations brought about through ICT, as well as a necessary asset acting as a driving 
force in this evolution in terms of its customers and the national system, helping to overcome the socio -cultural barriers 
that limit the opportunity to participate in the information society and enjoy its benefits.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  TIM has always considered  innovation to be a strategic asset and takes 
great care in governing its individual aspects, from its strategic role to responsibility, objectives and policy.  
In terms of role, both technological and business -based innovation are also confirmed in 2018 as  the central element to 
the response to change in the technological, market and competitive context. In line with this, the Group has taken action 
in several ways:  
• by continuing the action, started in 2016, to strengthen internal innovation lines, focusing  laboratory activities and 
research groups on key aspects of the development of the fixed and mobile network towards future 5G standards and 
ultrabroadband, and issues concerning service platforms and new operations systems;  
• by confirming the tendency towa rds the “ Open Innovation”  principle with the aim of maximising the benefits deriving 
from the integration of innovative contributions generated internally with external sources of innovative ideas, by opening 2 BICs -  Business Innovation Centres in Italy, in Naples and Catania, in cooperation with respective global ICT 
partners CISCO and HUAWEI; 
• by interacting with the start -up world in order to catalyse the latter ’s capacity for innovation through the TIM #Wcap 
acceleration programme and equity investments  through TIM Venture. In 2018, TIM #Wcap launched a Call for Start-
ups and two Calls for Partners;  
• by implementing initiatives which allow for the growth of co -creation ecosystems like the IoT Open Lab, a laboratory 
dedicated to the development of IoT solu tions based on key technologies for the Telco Operator with a view to open 
innovation.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Innovation management is overseen, with different missions, by the 
Innovation Technology Architectures & Innovation Department  and by engineers, but involves various internal and 
external stakeholders of the company:  
• other areas of the company involved from time to time, both as internal customers for the innovation output solution and as centres  of expertise on the topic;  
• tradit ional and digital partners, for the joint go2market of digital services;  
• research centres  and universities, for cooperation and joint projects. 
[GRI 203 -1] In 2018, 18 research contracts came 
into effect, for a total value of 840,000 euros;  
• Standardisation Bodies and Associations: TIM is still very active within the main Standardisation Bodies and 
Associations, with 27 memberships in 2018, for a cost of 900,000 euros. On a national, but above all international, level there is a broad circle made up of standardisation bodies (ETSI, ITU, CENELEC and 3GPP among others), 
associations (GSMA and NGMN to name the major ones), alliances (oneM2m and BBF), and telco open communities 
(ONF, OPNFV and CORD), which play a fundamental role in the evolution of the TLC indus try for networks, platforms 
and services. Finally,  there are the Ministries (Ministry of Economic Development and Ministry of Education, 
Universities and Research), the European Union and public authorities (e.g. CNR and local authorities) for projects 
funded through participation in competitive tenders, and partnership initiatives. In particular, 2018 saw the 
establishment of two specific Consortia: KIC U -Move, the Community for Knowledge and Innovation in urban mobility, 
promoted by the European Institute  of Innovation and Technology (EIT), with the support of the EU, in order to 
promote urban mobility, and Competence Industry Manufacturing 4.0 (CIM 4.0), set up in December 2018 after the 
award of the Ministry of Economic Development Industry 4.0 contract,  to help fast track the process to transform a 
considerable section of the production system at local and national level, and act as an integrated hub for the dissemination of expertise and good practices, offering training and on- site experience, in technological and industrial 
sectors in Piedmont and other Italian regions. The Ministry of Economic Development will fund the consortium projects 
over the next three years.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
103 
 TIM’s technological evolution is based on the CTO Technology Strategy which identifies the technological strategy in 
terms of guidelines, specific technologies and adoption roadmap over several years. The three- year Technological plan is 
the Group reference document and includes the technological evolution plans for subsidiaries. The plan sets out the main 
external factors that may affect company strategies (regulation, standards, suppliers, other market operators) and 
establishes the company entities involved, the applicable technological architecture and evolution of specific 
technologies, along with relative roadmaps for deployment or assessment. The qualitative and/or quantitative goals 
address the long term and have been given an annual framework. They are defined so that they can be objectively measured in compliance with quality standar ds (ISO9001) and environmental standards (ISO14001), and operational 
innovation processes, in the same way as TIM processes, in general, are based on Telemanagement Forum ’s reference 
standard E -Tom.  
While with Huawei and Cisco, TIM has built a “joint innovation and shared success ” path, with Microsoft it has signed a 
strategic agreement for the development of artificial intelligence, added to numerous collaborations in place among companies, both in Italy and Brazil. Artificial intelligence, with the h elp of Data Analytics and Big Data Advanced Analytics, 
is now an essential lever in digital transformation. The collaboration with Microsoft will lead to the development of innovative tools to customise products and services and enhance TIM ’s product offer ing. 
 
[GRI 203 -1] Overall, in 2018 TIM committed around 1,300 human resources to working on technological innovation and 
engineering activities for an overall investment of 1,165 million euros, for the S.p.A., amounting to around 8% of revenues.  
 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Activities for the future of mobility and networks: initiatives for 
5G 
In October 2018, the tender of the Ministry of Economic Development for the award of user rights to 694– 790 MHz, 3600–
3800 MHz, and 26.5 –27.5 GHz b and frequencies for 5G mobile telecommunications services was completed, with an 
overall undertaking for TIM of 2,399 million euros. Frequency rights in the 3600 -3800 MHz and 26.5 -27.5 GHz bands were 
definitively made available in January 2019, while those in the 694- 790 MHz bands will be made available in July 2022.  
5G allows for not only faster speeds than those possible with earlier technologies, but also a multitude of services with 
very different requirements, in particular in the mMTC 1 and URLLC 2 areas.  
TIM has followed the development of 5G from 2012, actively participating in the definition of international standards as 
well as European consortia and projects which laid the foundations for the system and contributed to the introduction of 
innovative use cases and applications. In particular, TIM participated in the European Horizon 2020 METIS and METIS II 
projects included in the 5GPPP European initiative and in another 12 projects concerning all the main technological turning points of 5G, collaborat ing with the main providers of network technologies and terminals through specific MoUs.  
TIM began in 2016 with a programme, known as 5G for Italy, to build an ecosystem of partners, together with which it 
develops user scenarios that allow revenue streams  and winning business models to be identified. In 2018, it has 
experimental development projects on 5G services with 14 active partners in the vertical markets of industrial automation and robotics, port logistics and smart agriculture.  
In March 2018 TIM, together with Fastweb and Huawei, signed a memorandum of understanding with the municipalities 
of Bari and Matera: the cities will have full 5G coverage by 2019, with 10 application areas launched and over 70 use 
scenarios. In 2021,  experimental service pr ovision is foreseen for 1% of the population. The investment is for over 60 
million euros over 4 years, and involves 52 partners (7 universities and research centres, 11 public administration bodies, 22 companies based in Apulia and Basilicata, 12 leading companies in the sector and start -ups). The application areas 
range from media and virtual reality (distribution and video contribution), to smart port (logistic security) and smart city 
(monitoring and transport); from smart agriculture (precision farming ) to public safety (population safety and law 
enforcement support) and from healthcare 5.0 (remote diagnostics, hospital e- learning) to mobility and road safety 
(assisted driving and logistics).  
As part of the Torino 5G project, based on the strategic agreement between TIM, Ericsson and the Municipality of Turin 
and other industrial partners, TIM installed the first 5G millimetre- wave antennas in the historic city centre to offer public 
5G connectivity and put on a first live demo, at Palazzo Madama, of s elf-connected and remote- guided services on the 
5G network and the new frontiers of mobile technology: from drones for environmental monitoring, automation of industry 4.0 with robot arms connected to 5G, up to immersive virtual tours in museums and applic ations for public safety.  
                                                                 
1 Massive Machine Type Communication. 
2 Ultra Reliable and Low Latency Communication. TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
104 
  
In addition, the “ San Marino 5G ” project involves testing all 5G technologies and services until its progressive introduction 
throughout San Marino, with the aim of providing a new mobile infrastructure to citizens, businesses and local public 
administration, characterised by a remarkabl e transmission capacity, around 10 times higher than 4G, and able to 
connect a very high number of objects, well ahead of the 2020 deadline set by the European Union.  
 
The operational activities for technological development and 5G trials are accompanied b y structured technical 
communication ranging from publishing to promotion with events of a scientific scope. In particular, in 2018 many 5G initiatives haven taken place, such as the opening of the first Innovation Hub in Rome, which is the result of the agreement 
signed with Qualcomm for long -term 5G and IoT ecosystems cooperation.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] IoT Open Lab  
In November 2016,  TIM opened the IoT Open Lab, which became fully operational in 2017, at its base in Turin. Its purpose, 
according to the methods inherent in Open Innovation, is to support the development of IoT  solutions based on key 
technologies for the Telco Operator. In particular, the IoT Open Lab acts as a business accelerator to support companies 
in entering the ecosystem of technologies standardised by the 3GPP and, as regards the current period, Narrow B and IoT 
technologies. In 2018, more than 180 companies and customers visited the Lab, and among them, around fifty construction companies agreed a partnership with TIM allowing them to use the Lab ’s facilities free of charge.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Research with universities  
The Open Innovation activities (understood as R&D participatory behaviour) for 2018 were largely concentrated on the 
new Innovation model pursued at TIM and guided by top management. Research and development activit ies in 2018 
focused on infrastructure issues and application solutions with a particular emphasis on opportunities afforded by 5G.  
As already stated, the financial commitment amounted to 840,000 euros, involving 70 TIM technicians and 60 university researc hers dedicated to specific research, including:  
• in cooperation with the Polytechnic of Turin on research projects in cognitive computing, a vehicle for artificial 
intelligence solutions, and 5G;  
• the academic research partnership as part of the Ministry of Economic Development Bari- Matera 5G project involved 
TIM, together with academic organisations, in the full 5G coverage of cities scheduled for 2019, with 10 application 
areas started and over 70 use scenarios. In 2021, the entire metropolitan area of the 2 cities will be covered;  
• research projects started also in partnership with the University of Catania under the technology/innovation plan to 
fast-track the market delivery of the entire IoT ecosystem and 5G development activities.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Funded research activity  
TIM has always been active in innovative and research initiatives funded by the European Commission and by national 
public administrations. This has enabled it to obtain funding of nearly 14 million euros over the 2016 -2018 period and to 
take part in projects with a high innovation content, thanks to which it has been able to develop and consolidate its own know -how in sectors with a fast -paced technological evolution, working together with  leading European, North American, 
Korean and Japanese research centres . In this area, it has been involved in activities carried out as part of funded projects 
concerning 5G, virtualisation and intelligent mobility services, furthering its expertise and g aining a prominent position in 
the international sphere.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Patents and Intellectual Property Rights  
During 2018, the Group ’s portfolio of patents grew to include new patents filed (TIM ranks sixth as the Italian company 
for number of European patents filed), and was also streamlined, eliminating some patents that were no longer worth 
investing in, given advances in technological progress. The patenting areas relate to the whole ICT sector, with areas of excellence in the mobile sector, where TIM is one of the six leading Telcos worldwide.  
Specifically, TIM ’s portfolio of patents included 3,285 patents held by TIM at 31 December 2018, of which 2,791 granted in 
41 countries around the world and 494 published in 13 pa tent offices, relative to some 601 inventions.  
11% of the patented inventions came from collaborations with universities and research institutes, from the beginning of collaborations in 1997 to the present day.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
105 
 Participation in a Patent Pool for LTE with a  patent essential for the relative standard should also be noted. The Patent 
Pool acquired new participants over the course of the year (bringing the current total to 19 license- holders) and granted 
several licenses to 42 companies.  
 
 
In Brazil  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [ GRI 203]  The Innovation & 
Technology Department, headed by the CTO of TIM Participações, is responsible for Research and Development (R&D) 
activities. Its main responsibilities are defining the technological innovation of the network, the evolutionary needs for 
new technologies and devices and the architectural guidelines together with the development of strategic partnerships, 
so as to exploit the new business models and guarantee the evolut ion of the network infrastructure in line with the 
business strategy. The organisational structure of Innovation & Technology is currently made up of 25 people in the 
Networks area, including telecommunications engineers, electrics and electronics engineer s, IT experts and other 
technicians of various origins, competences and experiences, who cover all innovative needs and provide support to R&D.  
In terms of infrastructure, one important result was the establishment of TIM Lab, a multi -purpose test environm ent 
focusing on innovation, which is able to guarantee the assessment of innovative services, products and technologies, 
certifying their functional efficiency and performance and the development of new models and configurations, 
consolidating the innovation flow. TIM Lab plays a strategic role in providing support for the conduct of Credibility Test, 
Trials and Proof of Concept (POC), for the validation of the services in collaboration with the main suppliers of technology 
and partners, through the sharing  of knowledge and the technological infrastructures for interoperability tests, the 
assessment of capacity and the definition of technical requirements; in synergy with the R&D department, it facilitates 
innovation and promotes collaborations with universities and research institutes.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] In January 2017, a new TIM Lab Innovation Centre was opened at the 
Corporate Executive Offices complex in Barra da Tijuca, in the state of Rio de Janeiro: a building with a surface a rea of 
650 square meters, able to accommodate more than 60 people. This new office hosts technicians and researchers and 
can be seen as a space of innovation open to new opportunities and the development of innovation for the Brazilian 
telecommunications m arket, also operating as a national reference point for R&D activities.  
In 2018, more than 180 validation and innovation projects were concluded. Moreover, new technological areas, such as 
transport and fixed access solutions, were included in the range of  initiatives relating to innovation and R&D. In this regard, 
more than 4 million reais were invested in 2018, including the new lab premises; based on the 2019 -2021 plan, further 
investments of 12 million reais have been allocated.  
The Innovation & Technol ogy department continues to work on projects and initiatives aiming to ensure the evolution of 
the business of TIM Participações through the recommendation of sustainable, efficient network platforms and “disruptive”  models, including anticipating the availability of new services. These projects can be divided into the following 
groups:  
• New generation networks  
• Positive environmental and social impacts  
• Open Lab initiatives  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] New generation networks projects  
The reassi gnment of the 1,800 MHz, 850 MHz and 2,100 MHz bandwidths from 2G/3G to 4G, gives TIM Participações three 
important competitive advantages:  
• reduction of costs for LTE deployment;  
• expansion of the LTE coverage area and activation of the Carrier Aggregation strategy, improving the customer 
experience through higher “ throughputs ”; 
• improved indoor coverage. In addition to the expansion of coverage, use of the 850/1,800/2,100 MHz bandwidths could 
increase the capacity in cities already covered by the LTE bandwidth at 2.6 GHz, at limited additional cost.   TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
106 
 Another important consideration in this scenario is that over 94% of current LTE terminals are already compatible with 
the 1,800 MHz an d 2,600 MHz bandwidths, and with the other bandwidths available; hence, implementation of the LTE 
multilayer is proving to be an excellent strategy that benefits from the dissemination of devices.  
The deployment of the LTE 700 MHz layer will result in significant expansion of the coverage and indoor penetration, 
promoting the presence of LTE throughout the national territory and consolidating TIM Participações ’ leadership in LTE. 
The actual roll- out will follow the rules dictated by the EAD 1 () in order to manage the spectrum cleaning and avoid 
interference problems with the analogue TV transmission service. 82% of the LTE devices employed by the current users 
of TIM Participações services are enabled for the 700 MHz bandwidth.  
At the end of 2018, over 1,426  cities could test the LTE 700 MHz coverage.  
In 2015, as part of the IP Multimedia Network Evolution, three tests were carried out at the Innovation Lab to assess the IMS2. In 2016,  the tests were extended to live networks, allowing TIM Participações to set up the functional infrastructure 
to provide services such as Voice over LTE, Video over LTE and Wi -Fi Calling, entirely laid on IP and activated by an IMS 
platform. In 2017,  TIM launched VoLTE high definition voice call services on the market, providing call services without the 
need to pass through switched lines. At the end of 2018, over 2,522 cities could use this service.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Projects with positive social and environmental impacts  
The expansion of “ 4G RAN sharing ”, in partnership with other Brazilian mobile operators, aims to define the architectural 
requirements, technical assumptions and specifications for the “ LTE RAN sharing ” solution, optimizing the network 
resources and costs. In this regard, TIM has pursued  and considered RAN Sharing Solutions since 2007. Another strong 
motivation lies in coverage issues and timing in compliance with regulatory requirements. The RAN Sharing agreement 
allows TIM to promote the evolution of LTE development in rural areas of Br azil, with effective sharing of access and 
backhauling. At present 4G RAN Sharing relies on two national partners, improving the possible benefits and efficiencies of this technical model.  
Following continuous testing activities, savings and energy efficiency solutions were introduced, which primarily concern 
the low traffic periods for the 2G, 3G and 4G access layers. The energy consumption recorded for the site, dependent on 
the access technology and coverage conditions, showed a reduction of up to 10%.  
According to TIM Participações, the large -scale introduction of IoT could drastically change the mobile market in that it 
exploits the creation of services and represents a potential tool for agricultural applications, connected vehicles, tracking  
solutions , and social and healthcare support. In 2017 TIM invested in TIM Lab and in the E2E sector, improving existing 
smart parking applications and activating the connection of new applications, preparing the terrain for future NB -IoT and 
LTE- M commercial networ ks, which were launched in 2018 in the city of Santa Rita do Sapucai.  
From 2018, together with Nokia and BRDigital, TIM Participações offers connectivity to rural areas, both enabling 
commercial applications in agribusiness and allowing digital inclusion f or sector employees and residents of small towns.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Open Lab initiative  
In 2017 TIM Participações  joined the Telecom Infra Project (TIP), an initiative founded by Facebook, SK Telecom, Deutsche 
Telekom, Nokia, Intel  and other companies, which aims to identify new approaches to the creation and deployment of 
telecommunications network infrastructure. TIM Participações has transformed TIM Lab into the first TIP Community Lab 
in Latin America, which will be used by TIP members to create universal standards relating to solutions, initially for 
transport networks, in order to overcome the challenges linked to the interoperability of the different providers. This 
initiative represents an open and collaborative approach to t he development and testing of new technologies and 
solutions.  
Moreover, in October 2018, TIM joined up with a new work team in the Telecom Infra Project (TIP) together with Vodafone 
and other mobile operators, called DCSG (Disaggregated Cell Site Gateway).  This project is an opportunity to define a 
common set of requirements to produce devices that are more flexible and cost -effective.  
  
                                                                 
1 Entidade Administradora de Processo de Redistribuição e Digitalização de Canais de TV e RTV . 
2 SMI: IP Multimedia Subsystem, solutions focused on functional tests, specific analyses and interoperability with the so -called “legacy system”.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
107 
 Digital inclusion  
 
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  The 2018 materiality analysis confirmed geographical and social digital 
inclusion in Italy and Brazil  as a material topic. Amongst other things, the ICT sector offers both potential to allow 
everyone to participate in social and economic life and solutions for a more liveable future, saving time and natural 
resources1. 
 
Geographical digital inclusion  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] 5G technology2 
At the end of 2018, the assignment of 5G frequencies in Italy, available until 2037, was completed.  
This new technology goes beyond a simple evolution of 4G performance, aiming to create an entire innovative network 
and service platform capable of meeting the future demands of the 2020 digital society3. 
According to the ITU -R IMT.2083 (IMT Vision) Recommendation4 of 2015, the 5G system includes a number of business 
scenarios that can be grouped into three main macro -categories (each characterised by different requirements) 
summarised in the following figure (scenarios for IMT use for 2020 a nd beyond).  
 
 
 
 
 
The use scenarios are:  
• Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB), for video transmission and Gbps 5 communication (enabling Augmented/Virtual 
Reality ); 
                                                                 
1 According to “McKinsey Global Institute 2018/smart cities: digital solutions for a more liveable future” it a lso produces less waste . 
2 Acronym for fifth generation mobile technology and standards.  
3 5G will be introduced gradually because, in the first phase ( early drop ), 5G radio access will be “supported” by the LTE ( Long Term Evolution ) 
network, which will play an integral and subordinate role.  
4  International Telecommunication Union -Radiocommunication Sector , International Mobile Telecommunications.  
5 Giga byte per second  (over one  billion bytes of information per second).  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
108 
 • Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication (URLLC), typical of many industry needs and the most demanding 
vertical1 markets - self-driving  cars energy management , robotics  - and mission critical ; 
• Massive Machine Type Communication (mMTC), which enables object connectivity, IoT (Internet of Things ) and Smart 
Cities . 
 
 
Over the next few years, 5G will be the revolution that everyone can experience in their daily lives. Its field of application 
is much wider than the technology that came before, thanks to the current scenarios in which it will be used, which are 
characterised by:  
• sensors availabl e, at competitive costs, able to translate physical information into digital, transforming the objects 
around us into digital data;  
• the most widespread connectivity allowing any object to transfer and receive data at any time;  
• artificial intelligence technology allowing sophisticated processing of large amounts of information.  
 
Main applications will target:  
• the automotive and transport sector:  
• the area of connectivity between vehicles and between vehicles and infrastructures, aimed at increasing safety 
and saving energy;  
• infotainment2 connectivity, where large volumes of data can be transmitted on the move (e.g. GPS3, parking 
sensors, voice commands, guidance systems and assisted braking);  
• self driving and connected cars which -  thanks to a system able to receive all the information about the 
surrounding environment -  can be remotely controlled and driven;  
• industry 4.0, namely:  
• digital transformation of the industrial world with the adoption of robots, three- dimensional printers (3D printing) 
and other comp lex tools;  
• the systematic addition of sensors to products, to produce data to improve production and processes;  
• the evolution of the supply chain to enable real -time management of relations with suppliers and end customers;  
• the new media world, with changing use habits and new formats, including virtual and augmented reality solutions, 
which require new transmission capabilities;  
• healthcare, with remote assistance, to enable specialists to assist patients with chronic diseases from afar;  
• public safety , with mobile video surveillance solutions that can integrate data and images for a far broader vision, 
guaranteeing greater public security levels than the past;  
• assistance for tourists who can have information and multimedia content on their visits at th eir fingertips, thanks to 
sensors on their smartphones;  
• the information sector which can ensure “ live” connections with a better video quality without complex instruments, 
thanks to a greater bandwidth availability, combined with a reduced latency.  
 
5G sys tem implementation must be done in compliance with energy efficiency constraints (measured in bit/Joule ) where, 
according to the ITU IMT- Vision recommendation (M.2083), energy consumption of the new system must be 
appropriately monitored and “not greater ” than that of existing networks. With a view to this, TIM is already assessing 
the energy consumption of new radio base stations in light of eMBB, to ensure the increase in occupied bandwidth (up to 
100 MHz) is not accompanied by a proportional increase in consumption.  
 
  
                                                                 
1 Vertical markets are linked to a specific industrial sector and defined by end customer type (not product type). Meeting the needs of vertical 
market customers means providing them with added value in terms of e xpertise and market -specific best practice, as well as having a detailed 
understanding of customer needs and related market development factors.  
2 A word derived from English merging information  and entertainment . Car  infotainment  is the set of multimedia functions used by the car.  
3 Global Positioning System . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
109 
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] TIM’s ultrabroadband network  
Starting from 2012, TIM has been developing its ultrabroadband1 network with the aim of bringing high speed connectivity 
services with fibre optics to most of the Italian territory and contribute to the economic growth of the country.  
The coverage objectives for 2021, in Italy and in Brazil, are published in the Group ’s business plan, available on the website 
at the following link, from slide 20:  
telecomitalia.com/content/dam/telecomitalia/en/archive/documents/investors/Presentations/Investor_Relations/2019/F
Y18-Results -and-2019 -21%20Plan.pdf  
 TIM chose to implement tw o different NGAN network architectures for the supply of high speed services with fibre optics:  
• FTTC (Fibre To The Cabinet) architecture. The fibre optic cables leave the exchange and go to the street cabinet, where 
an active device is installed (ONU) that  transfers data traffic on twisted double copper cables to reach the 
modem/routers at the customer ’s site. The FTTC network, thanks to eVDSL
2 technology, can reach speeds of 200 
Megabits per second and, with further technological developments, possibly up to 300 Mb/s;  
• FTTH (Fibre To The Home) architecture. The fibre optic cables leave the exchange and arrive directly inside apartments 
(through the so -called “vertical ”). At the customer site,  an active device is installed (ONT) that transfers data traffic 
from the fibre optics to the modem/routers. The FTTH network technology GPON3 can reach speeds of one gigabit 
per second and is developed in ar eas already covered by FTTC technology, so as to ensure to customers choice in 
terms of connection speed.  
 
 
 
 
In order to deal with the digital divide that has arisen in the so -called marginal areas of Italy, which would otherwise 
remain excluded from the mainstream plans of telecommunications operators due to the low profitability of investments, 
between 2005 and December 2018, TIM implemented a programme of investments allowing ADSL coverage (gross4 
coverage > 70%) to be provided for 7,672 municipalities  in total5. 
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203- 1] As of December 2018, TIM, in Italy, had activated the ADSL service in 
around 9,690 exchanges, including 8,500 with optic fibre carriers. Alongside its plan to extend coverage, TIM has launched an ad ditional plan to expand the active network
6, where necessary, to guarantee full usability of the service by customers 
and the development of digital inclusion.  
 
                                                                 
1 Also known as NGAN, Next Access Generation Network . 
2 Enhanced Very High -speed Digital Subscriber Line.  
3 Gigabit Passive Optical Network.  
4 Official TIM coverage data refer to the technical coverage of the telephone population (in terms of 64 kbit/s equivalent line s) gross of areas that 
cannot technically be served due to the characteristics of the copper access network (presence of digital d evices such as multiplexes - MPX, 
Remote Concentration Units (RCUs), Multiplexes with Fibre Optic Backhauling -  MD48, excessive distance from the exchange, etc.).  
5 The decrease - compared to the data reported in the 2017 TIM Sustainability Report (7,705 m unicipalities in total) - is due to the numerous 
mergers following the change in the municipality registry in Italy, which reduced the number of total reference municipalitie s (8003 in 2017 and 
7960 in 2018).  
6 The plan consists of actions to ensure full a vailability of the service by customers by expanding the capacity of equipment used, in terms of both 
user ports and bandwidth available on the Internet. The technical term for this is desaturation of DSLAM equipment, performed  either in advance 
or once sp ecific broadband quality and availability thresholds are exceeded.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
110 
 [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] The following table shows the percentages of coverage as of December for the past three years . 
 
Indicators  2018  2017  2016  
LTE Coverage (*) 99 >97.5  >96 
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed 
telephony) FTTX (**) 79.8 77.0 58.9  
of which FTTH  14.2 9.2 3.9 
 
(*) The percentage refers to the residential population. Coverage values are subject to change based on ISTAT and urbanisation updates.  
(**) FTTX stands for Fibre To The X, where X can be C for cabinet, H for house, B for building or E for exchange. The percent age is determined by 
the ratio between the number of properti es connected with “cabinets ” reached by access optical fibres (or which can be served directly from 
an exchange if within acceptable distances) and the total number of properties that have or have had active telephone lines i n the past 
(includes a small pe rcentage of FTTH related only to the city of Milan).  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] At the end of December 2018, TIM ’s FTTX ultrabroadband 
network covered around:  
• 2,680 municipalities, with FTTC fibre technology service;  
• 120 municipalities, also with FTTH fibre technology service.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] The principal objectives to increase Italian 
geographical digital inclusion, for 2021, are shown in the following table.  
 
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed telephony) FTTC  % 81 
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed telephony) FTTH  % 22 
 
 
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  A focus on innovation and investments in new infrastructure and 
technologies also characterises TIM ’s action in Brazil , a country where the Group has been operating since 1997 through 
its subsidiary TIM Participações and which is the Group ’s second biggest market. Its presence in Brazil has been incr easing 
in recent years thanks to strategic acquisitions: the Intelig and AEM Atimus fixed network infrastructure has allowed the Group to strengthen the backbones and connecting links of the mobile network radio base stations through the use of 
fibre -optic  cables which, in view of the development of LTE networks, are even more important and strategic.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -1]
 TIM has invested nearly 7 billion euros in Brazil  over the last 5 years, with 
a focus mainly on new generation infrastructure construction and  actively contributing to the modernisation of the 
country.  
Following the acquisition in 2014 of the right to use the 700 MHz bandwidth (with an expenditure of 936  million euros), in 
2018 TIM Participações continued to invest in strengthening the infrastructure of the 3G network and achieved leadership 
in 4G, in terms of both the number of cities covered (3,272 in December 2018) and coverage related to the urban 
population (93% in December 2018).  
  Indicator  Unit of measurement   
Target 2021  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
111 
 [GRI 203 -1] In Latin America, ever since it was introduced, mobile telephony has played a key role in the process of 
integrating more disadvantaged people, contributing to cohesion and to involvement in social and democratic life. TIM 
Participações manages almost 55.9 million mobile lines (December 2018) and has always played a major role in this 
context. Work in the past to extend the mobile network coverage to the whole country continues with some important 
develo pment axes, such as the expansion of the fibre optic network, the intensification of sites, the reassignment of 
frequencies and the distribution of VoLTE1. 
[GRI 203 -2] TIM Participações is distinguished by social inclusion projects like the Broadband Imple mentation Project for 
Rural Market Failure Areas2 (Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency Obligation3), which brings fibre optics to 
certain municipalities of rural areas previously not served by the market. However, the availability of infrastructur e is only 
one of the ingredients and has to work together with an overall digital growth of the population in a literacy development process that produces an increase in demand and stimulates investment. In this context,  the project has reached 800 
municip alities and 4,138 schools.  
The aim is to encourage and spread the use and distribution of goods and ICT services to the remotest areas, as well as 
making services more accessible for all segments of the population, contributing to the reduction of economic  and social 
inequalities.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2]
 Targets to increase geographical digital inclusion to 
foster leadership in 4G coverage which has improved features and enable rapid migration of 2G and 3G to 4G. TIM 
Participações also has targets for fibre development, although very selective, as shown in the following table.  
Brazil 2021 Targets – Geograph ic Digital Inclusion4 
Indicator  Final figures 2018  Target 2021  
FTTH (millions of 
families)  1.1 >4 
 
 
Digital inclusion in society 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -2] The commitments of TIM in Italy, in terms of discounts and specific 
measures, essentially concerned the following categories of customers:  
• deaf, blind and partially sighted people. In compliance with the resolution of the Authority for Communications 
Guarantees (AGCom) No. 46/2017/CONS, TIM has given both internet and landline concession offers to these 
customers5. These concessions never expire and once activated do not require any request for renewal, and are also 
reserved for the nuclear family in which the deaf, blind or partially sighted person lives; for further information 
regarding concessions, it is possible to contact TIM customer service 187 and 119. Assistance can also be provided for 
the deaf by contacting TIM customer service 187 and 119 with the Pedius app, available for Apple and Android, which uses voice recognition a nd speech synthesis technologies, transforming the voice of the operator into written text for 
the customer;  
                                                                 
1 VoLTE  (Voice  over  LTE) is a technology that allows you to make voice calls on the LTE (4G) network.  
2 Broadband implementation project for areas of rural market failure.  
3 On the mandate of ANATEL (Brazilian National Agency for Telecommunications).  
4 Furthermore, the target for 4G coverage at the end of 2020 has also been set: > 4,200 cities (96% of the urban population) wi th a final figure in 
2018 of 3,272 cities (93% of the urban population).  
5 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 ] In accordance with the aforementioned resolution, for:  
• fixed telephony, for the benefit of deaf customers, is exempt from the telephone service subscription fee (VOICE OFFER), with  180 free 
monthly hours of internet (broadband ADSL connections) on the offer “by usage” already active on the line (the benefit wa s only available 
to customers who had activated a by usage offer before 14 January 2018). There is also a discount of 50% on the subscription to an additional 
internet offer or a discount of 50% on the subscription to voice+internet offers, as specified fo r blind and partially sighted customers (different 
offers in the TIM SMART HOME and FIBRE range);  
• mobile telephony the TIM concessions guarantee a 20 Gb volume of data traffic and the sending of SMS Unlimited for deaf custo mers (TIM 
EASY SMS+GB), while, f or blind and partially sighted customers, an offer consisting of unlimited minutes of voice traffic and a volume of data 
traffic of 10 Gb (TIM EASY VOICE+GB). These dedicated offers are on the tim.it websites: tim.it/agevolazioni -per-non-vedenti -e-non-
uden ti/offerte -fisso; tim.it/agevolazioni -per-non-vedenti -e-non-udenti/offerte -mobile.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
112 
 • people on low incomes who find themselves in a situation of “ economic and social hardship ”. TIM reserves such 
concessions - established by AGCom1 or by the Company on its own initiative2 - for customers with an ISEE3 family 
unit income not exceeding 8,112.23 €/year, for telephone use service in their primary residence (on the traditional RTG 
network4). The concession is valid for the same duration a s their ISEE certificate (15 January of the year following 
issue) and the request must be renewed annually;  
• “social card ” holders. On its own initiative, TIM gives these customers a reduction on the telephone service subscription 
amount (14.69 euros/month including VAT). The benefit is valid for one year and is automatically renewed on 1 January of each year. In this case, these benefits cannot be combined with each other and the customer can request 
only one
5. 
In addition, TIM guarantees to support custome rs residing in areas affected by natural disasters (seismic events, floods), 
both in the phase of emergency management and in the medium/long term, to protect their needs.  
 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] In Brazil , TIM Participaç ões has continued to promote 
commercial offers to encourage the spread of the mobile web, particularly among the poorer classes. This relates to 
offers with reduced rates, particularly suited to promoting the broadening of sociocultural digital inclusion, for example, 
INFINITY WEB, LIBERTY WEB and LIBERTY WEB Rural (offer in the rural areas of the states of Rio de Janeiro, Espirito 
Santo, Paranà and Santa Catarina).  
Furthermore, the Data Connections project - required by ANATEL of operators who purchased the frequencies detailed 
in the Bidding On Notes 6No. 004/2012 (e.g. Claro, Oi, TIM and Vivo) -  guarantees cover of rural areas of Brazil, including 
public schools, in accordance with the division bet ween operators. TIM guarantees this service in the states of Rio de 
Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Paranà and Santa Catarina (data download  at 256 kbps and upload  at 128 kbps); from January 
2018,  download speed is 1 mbps and upload 256 kbps and, in December 2018 , the project was 97.5% implemented. Further 
information is available at the link: anatel.gov.br/consumidor/telefonia -fixa/atendimento -rural  
  
                                                                 
1 AGCom Resolution No. 258/18/CONS (already approved by AGCom 314/00/CONS and 330/01/CONS) provides for a 50% reduction of the 
subscription amount for the voice offer (9.44  euros/month VAT included) and a total of 30 minutes of free calls per month to national landlines 
and mobile phones. Once the free minutes limit has been exceeded, national calls to landlines and mobile phones are charged a t the expected 
by usage prices f or the voice offer (10 cents/min including VAT, without a connection fee).  
2 Customers holding social cards, in compliance with the Ministry of the Economy and Finance Decree of 16 September 2008.  
3 Indicator of the Equivalent Economic Situation . 
4 General Telephone Network.  
5 Customers holding social cards, in compliance with the Ministry of the Economy and Finance Decree of 16 September 2008.  
6 Offers on annotations.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
113 
 Customers  
[GRI 103 -1: Manage ment Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The 2018 materiality analysis highlighted the Group ’s 
relationship with its customers as a material topic.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The Group ’s objective is to ensure an immediate and 
competent response to customer needs, standardising its conduct in relation to fairness, transparency in relationships 
and contractual commitments, courtesy and collaboration, with customer centrality as the logic and in full compliance 
with the principles established by company policies and procedures. In this context, collaborative activity with consumer 
associations is also promoted through the specific agreements on the matter.  
 
Customer satisfaction  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] The nature of the telecommunications market is increasingly marked 
by great competitiveness and digitalisation which, together with simplification and compliance with customer expectations in terms of content and services, are key elements of the competitive arena.  
All this drives companies to change their business models and customer experience  has become the lever used to 
compete and the main activity of players who lead in the market with strategic positioning. An excellent customer experience  is the guidin g factor for increasing loyalty and the perceived value of the brand, and in attracting new 
customers.  
In this area, TIM has begun a transformation process focused on improving customer experience  and strengthening the 
relationship with the brand. The “ TIM around the Customer ” project includes various initiatives based on transparency, 
simplicity and respect for the customer. In this field, improvement plans have been launched with targeted actions and 
various initiatives that, with the aim of transforming the culture, involve all employees in innovative ways: “ make the 
difference” , “idea sharing ” and a story about customer experience  (where employees are the actors).  
To drive this transformation TIM has developed an extensive listening system, which picks u p on customer experience  in 
the different “moments of truth ” of the customer journey
1, for example: web browsing, purchasing a service, calling 
customer care , reporting a malfunction, posting  on social media . 
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] Of the surveys conducted, the monitoring of the Customer Satisfaction 
Index (CSI), based on the ACSI standard ( American Customer Satisfaction Index ), is particularly significant. The aim is to 
collect information on the quality perceived by TIM customers and the main competitors. Monitoring the CSI has earned 
certification of conformity with the UNI 11098:2003 standard and has been included in the managerial ( management by 
objectives ) and collective incentive system.  
The 2018 results of the CSI confirmed t he high levels recorded in 2017 (74.48 in 2018, - 1% compared to 2017)2. In particular, 
TIM consumer mobile achieved an excellent result, gaining and maintaining market leadership. The ties customers 
demonstrated with respect to the Group are also seen in t he high propensity to loyalty, in an increasingly competitive 
context where the consumer ’s experience is enriched through comparison with different markets.  
TIM’s ever -greater focus on “ continuous improvement ” of processes and the customer experience  can also be seen 
through the Net Promoter Score (NPS) of customers who speak with the telephone assistance service, which have been 
confirmed to be extremely positive (NPS above 10)3. 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] In Brazil , in 2018 TIM Participações confirmed significant 
commitment to investment in the development of the digital environment, to improve the quality of services offered to its customers. It further improved the “ My TIM App ” channel which, in October 2018, had 7.52 mil lion users and 44 million 
                                                                 
1 The customer journey  is the set of experiences that a customer has when interacting with a company for a specific need, from the first contact 
with the company, through a specific channel, until, going through one or more touch points provided by the company itself or  by othe r 
consumers, the expected result is achieved or not.  
2 For consumer customers, the CSI was 75.53 in 2016 and 75.26 in 2017.  
3 The Net Promoter Score  (NPS) is an indicator based on international standards and used in various industrial sectors. The NPS is based on the 
potential recommendation of the operator in relation to the experience accrued. On a scale of 0 to 10, “promoters” are custom ers express ing 
votes of 9 or 10, “detractors” are those providing a score of 0 to 6, whereas the rest of the customers are considered as “pa ssive” and are not 
countered towards calculating the NPS. The NPS is calculated as the difference between the percentages of th e “promoters” and “detractors”.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
114 
 accesses per month. The customer base for “ My TIM App ” has reached the following levels, in relation to the customer 
base using smartphones and data management in the last three months:  
• pre-paid: 18.0%  
• check1: 33.3%  
• post -paid: 40.8%.  
 
The My TIM App evolution process has continued, focused on improving performance and enriching the service 
portfolio, as highlighted by the following initiatives:  
• platforms: continuous workgroup improvement for problem solving, integrated vision and follow -up; 
• sales: “My TIM App ” has started to contribute to sales (25% of migration to digital);  
• “My TIM Website ”: migration to the new version that allows reactive behaviour. The process began with prepaid 
customers in 2017 and extended to all other sec tors in 2018;  
• “My TIM App ”: continuous improvements in usability and introduction of new functions. Structured planning of 
activities to spread the app.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] TIM Participações also communicates with its customers through 
Twitter and Facebook. In December 2018, “ @TIMBrasil ” (twitter.com/TIMBrasiles ) had around 756,000 followers and on 
Facebook (facebook.com/timParticipações) around 2,818,000 likes. In 2012, TIM Participações also activated a further 
channel “@TIM_AJUDA ” (https://twitter.com/TIM_AJUDA ), which allows it to communicate with customers via Twitter; 
In December 2018,  this account had 276,000 followers and 218,000 tweets.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] TIM Participações carries out three types of nationwide customer 
satisfaction surveys (by means of interviews):  
• the survey regarding TIM and its comp etitors ’ consumer customers is conducted on a “ reflective”  basis – monthly 
from June 2017, with data consolidation every quarter –  and measures the customers ’ general perception of the 
Company and its touch points. The survey method changed from 2017, shif ting from telephone interviews to an online 
panel , thereby reducing the number of participants2; 
• the Call Centre Satisfaction Survey , carried out once a month “ cold” through telephone interviews, involving its mobile 
customers who have contacted the call centre in the last fifteen days. Since June 18 this survey has reduced the sample size and target audience, now considering only back -office post
3 and back -office con trol cases;  
• the transactional type Call Centre Survey , established in 2017 and partially replacing the survey conducted through 
telephone interviews, according to which TIM Participações sends its mobile phone customers (prepaid, postpaid, 
control and busi ness) an SMS to invite them to evaluate the call centre within 30 minutes of the “ contact ”. 
TIM Participações survey type  2018  2017  2016  
Consumer customer(*) 7.08 6.95 7.30 
Consumer mobile telephone call centre(**) 7.05 7.81 7.31 
Business mobile telephone call centre(***) 6.95 7.03 6.81 
Consumer mobile telephone transactional call centre(****) 6.15 5.84  N/A 
Business mobile telephone transactional call centre(**) 6.17 5.56 N/A 
 
(*) Average index, on a scale of 0 to 10.  
(**) Average mobile consumer customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.  
(***) Average mobile business customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.  
(****) Average mobile consumer customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.  
(*****) Average mobile business c ustomer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.  
 
  
                                                                 
1 A service package offered by TIM, which has the main characteristics of a fixed monthly amount.  
2 It involved a group of selected participants who agreed to provide information at set intervals for a long period of time.  
3 Basically, the  back office  is everything that the customer does not see (e.g. administrative services), but which allows the services intended for 
them to be provided.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
115 
 [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] Use of social networking in customer care  
In recent years, TIM Customer Relationship Management  has been increasingly focused on the monitoring of new digital 
contexts, identifying the future of assistance, care and loyalty of its customers in the monitoring and management of 
care  contacts obtained from the social networks (Twitter and Facebook).  
In 2010, TIM launched the Caring on Social Media  project and, over the years, has built up a new relationship with digital 
mobile and landline telephone customers, building trust by re- engineering and reviewing processes, developing 
management systems, ext ending monitoring times and investing in the training of social caring  agents.  
 
With the projects already launched in 2017, aimed at both improving the service provided and monitoring quality in 2018, TIM has strengthened its operational model through the use of a new social tool platform, for the integrated 
management of all touch points , leading to further development in the operator ’s functions and in controlling the main 
performance indicators.  
TIM continues with its strategy strongly oriented towards d igitisation and innovation, also offering new digital caring  
channels to the customers ’ advantage, who receive personalised and quick answers that improve customer experience , 
loyalty and engagement . 
From July 2018, through the Instant Messaging channel in the new version of the TIMpersonal app, fixed and mobile 
consumer customers have the opportunity to interact with customer service in a smart way; from  November TIM has also 
offered the new customer service channel on WhatsApp (the first telephone operato r in Italy to offer this service). Initially, 
this assistance service is reserved for TIM Pay customers, the payment tool that integrates telephone service with the innovative “mobile banking ” solution (TIM Pay customers can receive dedicated assistance with all TIM fixed and mobile 
services). WhatsApp assistance will be progressively rolled out to other services, for example sending invoices, notification  
of payment deadlines and many courtesy activities.  
 
At 31 December 2018, TIM ’s social caring  team managed 1,177K caring  interactions on the Facebook page and 226K on 
Twitter; in particular,  the customer care  demand amounted to 807K for mobile and 596K for landline.  
On the same date, there were 138K conversations on the TimPersonal Instant Messagi ng channel and 4.5K on WhatsApp. 
The main reasons for contact with digital  customers were requests for clarifications of a commercial, administrative or 
technical assistance nature.  
This has allowed TIM, also in the third and fourth quarter of 2018, to consolidate its leading role on social networks  and 
also its digital leadership in the Socialbaker rankings; TIM has positioned itself in first place as a brand in Italy and eig hth 
in world brands, in terms of social channel response time and rate (AMIQ1 indicator, a parameter calculated taking into 
account the relationship between the number of managed public posts and the response time of the brand within 24 
hours).  
 
The contribution of social networks  is also important for TIM to enhance and promote the many social, cultural and 
innovative initiatives, such as the Mausoleum of Augustus project, the dissemination of the TIMHitech 5G project initial 
results, numerous social issues (especially those overseen by the TIM Foundation) and support for publishing Cor porate 
Social Responsibility  projects (e.g. the TIM Digital School and TIMSostiene).  
All this has allowed TIM to consolidate its position at the top of the various communities , created on various social 
networks  (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube) for its main brands: TIM, TIM Business, TIMvision, TIMmusic, Working 
Capital , with over 3.7 million followers . 
 
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 Answered Minus Ignored Questions . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
116 
 [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] Involvement of call centre operators  
In 2018, the activities involving call centre operators have progressed along the path structured in previous years related 
to focusing on improving basic knowledge and the process of providing information/training through the TUO portal 
(acronym for Trova, Usa and Organizza –  Find, Use and Organise).  
Specifically, the most relevant actions focused on:  
• the organisation of ad hoc  courses for interested employees using virtual classrooms;  
• the implementation of surveys to verify learning, on a monthly basis or based on particular needs, the results of which 
allow planning for possible tr aining recovery interventions focused on the most critical issues;  
• the dissemination of information with the most relevant news through fixed and mobile consumer newsletters ; 
• the publication of fact sheets on the most important topics (for example: fixed d elivery process);  
• the increase of information sent by email to customers, in support of contact with them.  
 
Self-service area  
In the course of 2018,  TIM has introduced actions to raise awareness and encourage the wider use of the MyTIM private 
area of the tim.it website, which through registration allows some types of requests to be forwarded in a simple and direct way (subject of further development) . 
This allows customers to avoid having to make written requests, leading to economic and time savings, and to monitor the progress of the issue. Some types of requests, such as direct debits, can be immediately carried out through automatic 
processing.  
 
PEDIUS -  Managing calls for the hearing impaired  
Also in 2018, hearing impaired customers could use the PEDIUS service, which allows access to TIM ’s call centres , in 
addition to the usual channels. The trial phase was launched in September 2014 and the serv ice: 
• is available to all customers on app stores  (both Apple and Android);  
• aims to ensure that inbound contact is accessible to hearing -impaired customers through an app that allows normal 
calls to be made using voice synthesis and recognition technology.  
 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -44] Customer Satisfaction in incentive systems  
TIM’s managerial ( Management by Objectives ) and collective (performance bonus) incentive systems include objectives 
associated with customer satisfaction indicators in keeping with the business plan for the current period. The targets are 
made up of several aspects corresponding to different market segments. More details are available in the TIM People 
chapter of this report.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
117 
 Conciliation procedures  
[GRI 103 -2: Mana gement Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The conciliation procedure between TIM and the consumer 
protection associations who signed the framework agreement for the out -of-court settlement of telephone disputes, was 
the first example of joint conciliation in Italy (operational in 1993 throughout the national territory). In 2011,  the European 
Parliament recognised “ Italian joint conciliation”  as an example of best practice based on the protocol signed by the 
Company and Consumer Associations, where the Comp any undertakes to use an alternative procedure to resolve 
disputes that may arise between company and consumer, known as “Alternative Disputes Resolution ” (ADR). In 
December 2018 there were 22 consumer associations that had signed up to the conciliation agreement, 19 of which 
registered with the CNCU (National Council of Consumers and Users), an organisation representing consumer 
associations - chaired by t he Italian Ministry of Economic Development -  with the task of contributing to improving and 
strengthening the consumer/user in the market.  
 
In 2016, on entry into force of Legislative Decree No.130/2015, implementing European Directive No. 2013/11/EU, the  
Italian legislator made an important choice by counting “ joint conciliations ” in ADR procedures, completely reforming the 
original Art. 141 of the Consumer Code. By virtue of this new European and national regulatory framework, the TIM -
Consumer Associatio n Joint Conciliation Procedure was:  
• recognised as an “ADR Body ” possessing the requisites of stability, efficiency and impartiality required by the 
regulatory framework;  
• registered on the list of recognised ADR Bodies, established by the AGCom (Italian Com munications Authority) on 30 
June 2017.  
The basis for the dissemination and success of the conciliation procedure is:  
• it is a free model;  
• the mandatory requirement to seek recourse to conciliation as a prerequisite for judicial requests to proceed.  
Undoubt edly, conciliation is successful also thanks to the good relationships built up and maintained over the years with 
consumer associations which, as stakeholders of the Company, have always provided a wealth of information to the 
company through their contri butions.  
 Following the establishment of the ADR Body, there was a revision of the Joint Conciliation Regulation and the application 
methods of the unitary conciliation protocol established between TIM and the Consumer Associations registered at the 
CNCU. The protocol, defined as unitary because it is a common basis of the various regulations also applied by other 
telephony operators (Vodafone, WindTre, Fastweb), contains the common procedures and regulations to be applied for general harmonisation and rationalisation, including from a consumer -user perspective. The ADR Body, established in 
compliance with the provisions of Art. 141 ter of the Consumer Code, is established at the TIM headquarters.  
 
Since 2009, in compliance with the voluntary undertakings given and approved by the AGCom  in 2008, TIM has also been 
managing conciliation requests at Co.Re.Com (Regional Communication Committees) and Chamber of Commerce offices 
(until June 2018), replicating the organisational model successfully applied for joint conciliations. In this way, customers 
can choose to use the consumer associations or follow alternative paths through Co.Re.Com to settle any disputes with 
the Company out of court.  
 The decision to abolish the Chambers of Commerce conciliatory channel -  also taken in light of the AGCom Resolution 
203/18/CONS “Approval of the regulation on the procedures for resolving disputes between users and electronic 
communications operators ” whic h, from July 2018, introduced the new “ ConciliaWeb ” conciliation management system 
developed by the Authority (which has made it easier for customers to apply for and manage conciliation on- line) and 
the now fully operational ADR TIM/Consumer Associations body - is essentially linked to three reasons:  
• the CCIAA channel has become secondary (fewer than 1,000 cases per year throughout the country) to other 
conciliation channels (Co.Re.Com and ADR TIM -Consumer Association), also recording the lowest conciliation rates 
out of the three channels;  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
118 
 • the CCIAA channel is the only one that operates on a fee basis requiring, for the conciliation process, a contribution 
(not insignificant) to the chamber of commerce, instantly and at the expense of the operator;  
• there  are currently just over twenty CCIAAs in operation and for a number of years TIM has been the only operator on 
the market who agrees to take part in Chambers of Commerce conciliations.  
 
Beyond the choice of procedure by the customer, the underlying aspect  of the conciliation is always the customer ’s needs, 
making it possible to build up a good relationship between the customer and the Company.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] To date, the conciliation model has achieved high 
qualitative and quantitative results; specifically, in 2018 the use of the Co.Re.Com channel continued to see significant figures, accounting for 68.5% of the conciliations discussed, while the Joint channel accounted for 30.6% of the requests 
discussed, w ith the Chamber of Commerce channel making up the remaining 0.9%.  
The positive trend seen in the conciliation system in previous years continued in 2018 (albeit with a significant increase in  
the number of cases handled); in fact:  
• 97% of the requests for j oint conciliation (16,438 out of 16,928) were reconciled, a percentage that is stable year on 
year despite the 25.5% increase in the cases discussed in 2018 with respect to the previous year (14,302 in 2017);  
• 84.9% of the requests discussed at the Co.Re.Co m and Chambers of Commerce were reconciled (35,293 reconciled 
out of 41,554 discussed). This percentage remained high in 2018, and was even higher than the previous year, also 
considering the 14.4% increase in the cases discussed compared to 2017 (36,313 in 2017).  
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44]
 TIM supported the conciliation activity through:  
• the seminars and joint training initiatives involving dedicated personnel from TIM, AGCom, Co.Re.Com. and Consumer 
Associations;  
• the debat es, conferences, interviews and other promotional activities involving senior management in order to 
disseminate the correct cultural approach to the subject.  
 
Conciliation is becoming increasingly widespread among customers, particularly in view of the:  
• better knowledge of the procedure, which is considered to be a quick and economical way of resolving disputes;  
• economic crisis, which leads people to resort to conciliation even for small amounts (e.g. potential inefficiencies involved in transferring from  one operator to another);  
• large number of Co.Re.Com, which are opening provincial offices in many regions to make the conciliation system more easily available to people (avoiding the costs involved in travelling to regional capitals).  
 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Manag ement Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] In Brazil TIM Participações has close relations with the 
Agencies that make up the consumer protection system, such as ministries, public defenders and legitimate civil 
protection entities, which promote the cultur e of good relationships between companies and their customers, such as 
SENACON1 and PROCONS2; TIM Participações also participates in the Conciliation Forum, which promotes dialogue 
between companies and consumer protection agencies, with the aim of resolving disputes, managing workshops with 
consumer protection authorities with the participation of company employees and taking part in external events to 
improve the quality of service offered to its customers.  
TIM Participações is the operator with th e lowest number of complaints in PROCONS, part of the SINDEC, the national 
consumer protection Information System (source: SINDEC of SENACON official report).  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] In 2014,  SENACON launched the Consumi dor.Gov.br web 
platform for conflict mediation, which facilitates the resolution of customer complaints and simplifies PROCONS work. 
TIM Participações was one of the first companies to join the aforementioned platform, through which customers can also 
repo rt whether the complaint has been resolved or not and the quality of the response provided by the company. In 2018, 
                                                                 
1 National Secretariat for Consumer Protection.  
2 Consumer Protection Programme.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
119 
 the average customer satisfaction score of TIM Participações, who used the aforementioned platform service, was 3.9 on 
a scale of 1 to 5.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] Also in 2014, following an ANATEL resolution, TIM 
Participações has established its own Users ’ Council, which aims to offer solutions to improve the services provided. In 
2017, the Users ’ Council, to gether with the Public Defence Department, created a new conciliation channel - Canal 0800 
Defensoria Pública -  which aims to reduce complaints in court, through a direct channel of communication between the 
Public Defenders and TIM Participações. In 2018,  this channel was made available to Public Defence departments of 23 
State capitals; in 2019,  the objective is to extend it to the main cities in the country ’s interior with a consumer protection 
office within the Public Defence department.  
In 2018, the Us ers Council:  
• begun dissemination activities through which retail sellers -  after introducing the TIM Participações service channels 
- taught customers how to download the Consumidor.Gov.br application on their smartphones. This activity, aimed 
at direct reconciliation between the customer and company, has already been implemented in six states and in 2019 the objective is to roll it out in six other states;  
• held training courses for PROCONS employees and Public Defenders, about TIM Participações services (invoicing, credit top -up, plans) to reduce the number of complaints. In particular, in the north -eastern region, PROCONS 
employees have begun to promote the Meu TIM  application to avoid the complaints linked to easy -to-solve 
procedures;  
• in relation to information accessibility, it has continued to disseminate the Consumer Protection Code both in Braille and in Brazilian sign language (Libras), through its website and during events in which it participated;  
• launched the information guide for telecommunic ation services users in a digital version and in Braille and promoted 
the installation of the Giulia application, which provides accessibility for the deaf. Consumer protection agencies and other public sector agencies have recognised this latter application as a form of social action;  
• has made the service available to the Public Defence departments of 23 state capitals and the objective of 2019 is to roll it out to the country ’s main cities with a Consumer Protection Department within the Public Defence Of fice (in 
2017 the Users ’ Council, together with the Public Defender Department, created a new conciliation channel -  called 
“Canal 0800 Defensoria Publica ” - to avoid cases in court, opening a direct line of communication between the Public 
Defenders and T IM Participações).  
In 2018 the National Forum of Users ’ Councils was held, during which the ANATEL “ Letter of Brazil ” was established: 42 
proposals were put forward by the Presidents and Vice -Presidents of the Users ’ Councils of telecommunications 
companie s which they undertook to observe. TIM received positive feedback from ANATEL, which:  
• gave advance notice of TIM ’s participation in most of the proposals (TIM was the company with the highest percentage 
of proposal participation, 90.48%); 
• observed that “ TIM’s Users’  Council is differentiated and fully functional ”. 
 
At the end of 2018, at its headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, TIM held the 3rd National Forum of TIM ’s Users’  Councils, which 
was attended by members of the five regional councils, including PROCON, Public Defenders, public authorities, 
academics, ANATEL and consumer protection agencies representatives, as well as employees from TIM ’s various sectors. 
During the meeting, among other things, it emerged that the Company and its employees were completely committed to satisfying customers through all service channels.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 - 43] [GRI 102 -44] In 2018, TIM achieved excellent results in settling claims 
submitted by PROCON offices: CIPs (Preliminary Investigation Letters) 79%; 76% were justified complaints (source: 
SENACON official report).  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
120 
 Certifications  
[GRI 102 -12] For the areas of the Company which have a significant impact on the various stakeholders because of the 
products and services they offer, the Group has obtained and/or confirmed certifications that ensure that procedures and 
conduct are in line with the stakeholders ’ expectations.  
The certifications achieved and/or confirmed at 31 December 2018 for the main activities and/or company are shown 
below:  
• quality of products and services offered: UNI EN ISO 9001 standard;  
• environmental protection: UNI EN ISO 14001 standard;  
• efficient energy management: standard ISO 50001;  
• health and safety at work: BS OHSAS 18001 standard;  
• general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories: ISO/IEC 17025 standard;  
• Information Technology services: ISO/IEC 20000- 1 standard;  
• information security: ISO/IEC 27001 standard;  
• information security risk management1: ISO/IEC 27005;  
• the ability of a data centre  to guarantee continuity of the services provided: ANSI/TIA regulation 2-942; 
• security for credit and debit card transactions and cardholders protection from improper use of personal information: 
PCI/DSS standard 3; 
• software and IT solution production processes: CMMI -DEV 4 certifications;  
• fulfilment of the AGID (Digital Italy Agency) requirements to perform the role of:  
• Accredited Operator for Certified Email;  
• Accredited Custodian for storing electronic documents;  
• Accredited digital identity manager for SPID services (public service manager);  
• Qualified Trusted Service Provider5 for Timestamping in accordance with eIDAS regulations (EU Regulation 910/2014).  
 In Brazil, as required by ANATEL (National Telecommunications Agency, the Brazilian telecommunications authority), KPI 
Survey Method Quality
6 Certificates were also achieved for the whole Country regarding:  
• personal mobile service (TIM Cellular);  
• switched fixed telephone service (TIM Celular and Intelig);  
• multimedia communications services  (TIM Celular).  
 
Detailed information about the certifications achieved by the various functions/companies of the Group can be found in 
the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.  
 
Child protection  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b] The 2018 materiality analysis highlighted -  for the TIM Group -  the online 
protection of children (cyberbullying, child pornography, gambling), as a material topic.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b] Group Companies have undertaken numerous initiatives to protect 
children from content that may harm their psychological and physical development (for example, content that is violent, 
racist, offensive to relig ious sentiment, etc.).  
Adult services come under value added services (also called Premium or content -based services) and can be supplied by 
TIM or external companies that own the content via SMS, MMS or mobile internet services (WAP -  wireless application  
protocol ), which can be activated, received and/or used on mobile phones, tablets and PCs. The TIM card, once activated, 
is enabled to use value added services with adult content, excluding TIM cards registered in the name of a minor for 
whom adult conten t services are disabled.  
                                                                 
1 Supporting the information security management system requirements (ISMS) according to ISO/IEC 27001.  
2 American National Standards Institute/ Telecommunications Industry Association.  
3 Payment Card Industry Data Security  Standard . 
4 Capability Maturity Model Integration – Development . 
5 Qualified supplier of services.  
6 Quality indicators for the survey method . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
121 
 The Group –  in accordance with current regulations –  provides the customer with a series of tools to protect minors from 
accessing the sensitive content provided; TIM constantly updates and communicates these tools to the customer,  
through its own information channels (including the 119 customer service and the website tim.it ). Protection tools 
currently available to customers include:  
• permanent restriction ( black listing ) of mobile users from acces sing adult content;  
• adult content provided on the TIM mobile portal ( “TIM WAP ”) can only be accessed by entering a code (adult content 
PIN) on the user ’s mobile device, which is different from all other codes used on the device itself in order to prevent 
minors from accessing said content. The customer is provided with the adult content PIN confidentially, and is 
responsible for its proper use and safeguarding;  
• customers can ask for their mobile number to be black listed  only for sensitive content other tha n adult content at 
any time via TIM ’s usual information channels.  
Further information regarding the activation and deactivation of the above protection tools is available at tim.it, from 
Customer Services on 119 and from authorised TIM retail outlets.  
 
The TIM- Protect solution is the exclusive TIM option for total protection against web threats:  
• parental control: protects young people while surfing the Net, filters web searches, gives warnings in the case of behaviour that is judged to be dangerous, allows you to block access to sites or apps or limit their use (maximum usage time setting);  
• theft protection: protects the device from loss and/or theft, ensuring remote control by sending a simple instruction 
(block device, find device, delete data, SIM change notification);  
• protection and privacy: protects all access to e -commerce, home banking and social media websites. Ensures privacy 
by filtering unwanted calls and messages;  
• antivirus: manages the device securely without affecting its operation, protecting it during use against viruses, 
malware
1 and other threats.  
 
The Company is particularly focusing attention on parental control, with the launch of offers dedicated to the younger 
generation (under 12s) with the TIM Protect service included, at no additional  cost. The Company is also implementing 
co-marketing2 initiatives with certain operating partners in the “ kids” segment, which is particularly sensitive to matters 
of child protection.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b] At the end of 2018, 154,436 customers had activated TIM Protect.  
TIM is constantly looking for ways to develop its offer portfolio to meet customer needs; among other things, from May 2018 payment for the service takes place on an annual rather than monthly basis.  
TIM also wants to help customers to make the best use of the TIM Protect service and, in October 2018, it made a 
freephone number 800 500 500 available (three months trial); through this, an operator can give the customer step by 
step assistance and maximum support  in the installation and use of the TIM Protect service.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b]
 In terms of tackling online child pornography and computer crime, from 
an organisational perspective, TIM has established –  within the Security Department and, specifically, as part of the 
Security Operations Centre –  the role of “ Key Contact for the Postal Police ”. 
This person manages relations, and the flow of information, with the Postal Police3 and the competent authorities, and 
has the task of coordi nating, within the TIM Group, the process of abuse management , in accordance with the relevant 
legislative framework. Furthermore, TIM has adopted an organisational and management model pursuant to Legislative 
Decree 231/2001, aimed at preventing offences that may result in liability for the Company.  
  
                                                                 
1 Software created to compromise the security of a computer or IT systems and devices. The term is a combination of the words malicious and 
software.   
2 Commercial agreement between companies that have the same objective, are not in direct competition and decide to coordinate their 
marketing activities.  
3 CNCPO -National Centre for the Fight against Online Child Pornography, CNAIPIC – National Centre against Digital Crime for the Protection of 
Critical Infrastructure.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
122 
 TIM has deployed resources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and tackle “ abuse ”, i.e. any activity committed 
in violation of the rules of conduct and the legislation that governs the use of networ k services, digital systems or means 
of communication in general. The SOC1 oversees the following initiatives and activities:  
• form available on TIM’ s corporate and commercial portals, which can be used by TIM ’s customers, or by outside users, 
to report any  crimes involving child pornography encountered while browsing the internet. There is a guide to 
completion, and reports can also be submitted anonymously. This activity is managed in collaboration with the 
Assurance Competence Centre , under Open Access/Wholesale , which receives reports and forwards them to be 
managed by the SOC;  
• management of the abuse desks, operational groups that handle abuse differentiated by type of service (set up in 
accordance with national and EU regulations on child protection), the prevention of cybercrime and the fight against 
sexual exploitation (child pornography). The abuse desks receive reports from external users/customers on alleged 
cybercrimes or the presence of child pornography on the Group ’s networks, then direct them to the relevant 
department, where necessary involving the relevant authorities (through the Key Contact for the Postal Police);  
• filtering : in accordance with the implementing Decree of Law 38/2006 (Gentiloni Decree) which defines the technical 
prerequisites of filtering tools that providers of Internet network connections must use in order to prevent access to 
sites identified by the Postal Police through the CNCPO, TIM has also introduced a filtering system for foreign websites 
with child pornograp hy content;  
• gambling : in accordance with Article 1, subsection 50, of Law 296/2006 –  on tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance in 
the gambling sector –  and at the request of the Italian Autonomous Administration of State Monopolies (AAMS), TIM 
blocks the r esources as and when they are reported, making them inaccessible to customers.  
 
Moreover, TIM participates in the following initiatives:  
• “GSMA - Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse Content ” in the context of the GSM Association , for technological, 
policy and communications initiatives aimed at protecting children in the mobile phone sector;  
• Alliance to better protect minors online , platform launched by the European Commission as part of the Better Internet 
for Kids (“BIK”) strategy for defining and implementing the principles and technologies required to make the internet 
a safer place for children;  
• Safer Internet Centre  (SIC) – Connected Generations (national centre for promoting safe and positive use of the 
internet and digital technologies, co -financed by the European Commission as part of the Connecting Europe Facility  
and coordinated by the Italian Ministry of Education, Universities and Research), where it is a member of the Advisory 
Board . In 2018 TIM maintained the Navigare Sicuri (safe surfing ) application;  
• “Convention for implementing a device to generate Missing Child Alert ” launched with the Italian Ministry of the 
Interior, Department of Public Security.  
 
 
Moreover, the Group has activated appropriate filtering and abuse prevention systems, including for services provided in 
Brazil: images, backgrounds, video streaming, audio content (podcasts) together with brief erotic information via SMS 
and images via MM S (in partnership with a content provider). Customers can buy adult content services (wallpapers, 
videos, podcast) through the WAP portal main page and, to access, they must click on “ ADULT”  (available on the main 
page of the portal), declare that they are of age and insert a password. TIM Participações restricts the portfolio of adult 
content to level 3.2 of the international classification.  
 
  
                                                                 
1 Security Operations Centre . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
123 
 Product responsibility  
[GRI 103 -1: Management A pproach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417] [GRI 419]  The 2018 materiality analysis confirmed service quality 
as a material topic which, for the TIM Group, also incorporates responsibility for the products and services offered.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417] [GRI 419]  TIM is primarily an operator of telecommunications 
services, which do not endanger the physical health of users1, and it does not produce the telecommunications 
equipment it sells2. 
In order to verify that the products placed on the market comply with health and safety legislation, the Company has:  
• appropriate internal structures that check the incoming quality of the products it markets (telephones, modems, etc.), 
both in Italy and in the production centres of manufacturers overseas;  
• laboratories that test the products marketed by the Group, particularly as regards the electromagnetic emissions of 
the mobile3 devices.  
 
In this way, any non- conformities of products are detected prior to their market release, ensuring that products that  do 
not conform with the essential requirements of the European Directives do not reach the end customer.  
Services provided to customers are subject to the requirements set out in the Service Charters and in the Terms & 
Conditions of Subscription, availabl e at telecomitalia.com.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417] [GRI 419]  This paragraph describes the management approach 
assessments for each of the above mentioned Standards, with the relative methods used and results.  
 
[GRI 416 -1] In its laboratories, TIM validates the satisfaction of the essential requirements envisaged by the current 
Directives for the release of CE marking; conformity with these requirements is certified at source by the manufacturer.  
For products sold in Italy, the reference framework is the set of standards that support Directive RED 2014/53/EU and EMC 
42014/30/EU, divided by product macro -family5. 
In relation to electrical safety in the use of equipment by customers, as required by the Low Voltage Directive 2014/35/EU, 
TIM carries out checks on the technical provisions introduced to reduce the risk of electrocution, overheating, fire and 
mechanical hazards, by applying standards EN 60950 -1 and EN 60065.  
 Furthermore, TIM checks:  
• energy efficiency aspects, requir ed by Directive 2009/125/EC ErP ( Energy -related Products ), as equipment placed on 
the market, are checked against the stand -by/off- mode power consumption and performance limits set by European 
Regulations 1275/2008/EC, 801/2013/EC and 278/2009/EC, for equi pment and their external power supplies (available 
as accessories);  
• the functionality under various environmental conditions of terminal installation and use and accessory components for connection to the fixed network is checked. Checks are carried out in compliance with temperature and humidity 
ranges established by ETSI ( European Telecommunications Standards Institute ) standards for the specific “ service 
condition” , on which different “ severity ” levels are based. The checks are carried out based on the p rovisions of the 
ETSI EN 300019 standards, with the tests set out under IEC -EN series 60068 -2-1 (cold), 2 (dry heat), 14 (temperature 
changes), 30 (moisture changes), 78 (continuous humidity);  
• electromagnetic compatibility, regulated by Directive 2014/30/E U (which replaces the previous Directive 
2004/108/EU), since unintentional electromagnetic signal emissions are checked –  to avoid interference that can harm 
radio communication –  and to fulfil certain electromagnetic interference immunity requirements.  In TIM, constant 
checks are carried out on terminals and network equipment to determine whether they comply with the requirements 
                                                                 
1 Threats  of a psychological, security and privacy nature are dealt with in the paragraphs Protection of Minors, E -security, Privacy . 
2 At Olivetti, the Group company operating in the digital solutions  and IT sector, there are hardware production plants; in the con text of the Group 
as a whole, these activities are not significant as the entire 2018 revenues of Olivetti amount to 0.82% of the TIM Group.  
3 In 2018, 13 fixed network devices, 12 mobile network devices and 2 network products were checked in TIM laborato ries.  
4 Electro Magnetic Compatibility . 
5 For “ Corded terminals ”, the following standards may be applied: EN 55022 and EN 55024, EN 55032, EN 55035, EN 60950 and EN62368 -1; for 
“Cordless terminals”, standards EN 301489 -1, EN 301406, EN 50371, EN 60950- 1, EN 62311 and ITU -T P360; for “mobile terminals (smartphones, 
data cards etc.)”, standards EN 300328, EN 300440, EN 301489, EN 301511, EN301893, EN 301908, EN 302291, EN 60950 -1 and EN 62209.  
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
124 
 of international ETSI, CENELEC1 standards regarding electromagnetic compatibility.  In particular, checks are carried 
out on the compliance of equipment with the limits set by standards to limit the emission of electromagnetic 
disturbances which, in addition to polluting the surrounding environment, can interfere with radio communications.  
 
To promote sustainable development in its areas of influence -  in addition to the mandatory requirements for electrical 
safety law, energy consumption and EMC on marketed equipment, TIM also carries ou t checks on electrical (in compliance 
with the series K ITU -T2 Recommendations) and mechanical robustness (in compliance with the installation classes 
required by the European standard ETSI EN 300019) requirements, to contribute to the reduction of the original WEEE. 
Ensuring equipment placed on the market of has an adequate level of electrical and mechanical robustness, in line with 
the expected stress in the field, reduces the rate of equipment failure and, therefore, the quantity of waste. The addition 
of these robustness requirements, also within TIM apparatus specifications, requires the manufacturer to use adequate 
protection devices on the electrical interfaces of devices, such as overvoltage and overcurrent limiters, with the 
consequent reduction in the number of destructive failures and therefore results in apparatus which can be repaired with 
the replacement of a few components (by repair centres).  
  [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417]
 By law, telecommunications equipment sold in Br azil must be 
approved by the regulatory authority ANATEL, which verifies, in its laboratories, conformity with Brazilian legislation on 
electrical and electromagnetic safety. There is specific ad hoc legislation to be complied with for each kind of equipme nt; 
TIM Participações asks its suppliers to ensure that devices have the ANATEL certificate of approval.  
 
[GRI 416 -2] Over the past three years, no non- conformities with European customer health and safety legislation have 
been found in any product that has reached the final marketing stage, neither in Italy nor in Brazil . 
 [GRI 417 -1]
 When contracts are drafted, for all fixed telephony products, TIM requires packaging to include an 
environmental statement, a statement about the origin of the tantalum if it has been used in the components, a user manual containing safety information, details of any hazardous materials in t he product and disposal information. With 
regard to labelling of mobile devices, as they are consumer products that TIM merely resells and do not require any customisation, the Company simply requires national legislation to be complied with.  
 
[GRI 417 -1]
 In Brazil TIM Participações, in addition to compliance with national legislation, requires information on the 
correct use of equipment; TIM Participações does not have the procedures on the information and labels on products and 
services. Contracts with su ppliers of mobile devices include a ‘ product packaging ’ clause, which requires that each box 
contain instructions for the correct use of both the product and the accessory kit and the connection jacks associated with the product.  
 For a particular product range, TIM eco -friendly, discussed in detail in the Environment chapter  (TIM ecofriendly ), all the 
relevant environmental parameters are also shown (e.g. energy consumption).  
 
[GRI 417 -2]
 Over the past three years, no non -conformities regarding product information and labelling have been found 
in any product that has reached the final marketing stage (100% tested for fixed and mobile terminals).  
 
  
                                                                 
1 European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization . 
2  International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunication  Standardization  Sector . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
125 
 There have however been a few cases in which non- conformities with regulations concerning information and “labelling ” 
of services have been found. In particular, T IM Participações  has only received financial penalties; in TIM Participações in 
2018, 3 incidents occurred for which ANATEL issued total penalties of 397,009 reais, in 2017 there were 13 incidents for  a 
total of 896,730 reais (in respect of the guarantees and rights to protect users) and in 2016 there were 3 incidents for tota l 
penalties of 236,331 reais.  
The regulatory Authority ’s sanctioning procedures for non- conformities with regulations regarding information on 
services are part of the system of “ penalties for the violation of regulatory legislation regarding consumer protection in 
the supply and use of TLC products and services ”; this means that, for Italy, non -conformities regarding information o n 
services have been merged with non- conformities regarding the supply and use of services (table below).  
[GRI 419 -1] Number and value total cash in fines  – by the Italian Competition and Market Authority (AGCM)  – for non -
compliance with laws and regulations concerning the supply and the use of products and services in Italy.  
Description  20181 20172 20163 
    
Number of fines for non -conformities regarding 
the supply and use of products and services  3 3 1 
Total monetary value of these fines (in euros)  6,600,000  2,350,000  410,000  
 
[GRI 419 -1] Number and value total cash in fines -  by AGCom (National Regulatory Authority for Communications) -  for 
non compliance with laws and regulations concerning the supply and the use of products and services in Italy.  
 
Description  
 20184 20175 20166 
Number of fines for non -conformities regarding 
the supply and use of products and services  10 3 3 
Total monetary value of these fines (in euros)  4,027,000  1,422,000  2,480,000  
 
  
                                                                 
1 In 2018 AGCM closed three proceedings, two initiated in 2017 and one in 2018. Of the proceedings initiated in 2017, one ended with a fine of 4.8 
ml (misleading advertising messages for the TIM Smart Fibra offer) and one was archived. The third proceeding started in 2018 ended with a 
fine of 1.8 ml (unfair commercial practices in recovery actions).  
2 In 2017 AGCM opened five proceedings against TIM, one of which closed with undertakings (accepted by AGCM on a proposal from TIM), two 
with fine (one of 300,0 00 euros for non -compliance with Judgement 10246 and the other of 50,000 euros for non -compliance on oppressive 
clauses) and two to close in 2018 (one for misleading advertising of the TIM Smart Fibra offer and the other for breach of do micile provision fo r 
dispatching invoice by e -mail).  In July 2017 the procedure on the right to rethink, initiated in 2016, ended with fine of 2,000,000 Euros.  
3 In 2016 AGCM opened four proceedings against TIM, two of which archived after appeal (one on the TIM Prime offer  and one on internet sales), 
one ended with a fine of 410,000 euros (distance contracts) and one ended in 2017.                                                    
4 In 2018 AGCom completed ten proceedings, of which five had started in 2017 and five in 2018.  Of the ten cases, one was closed with a settlement 
offer and the other nine with fines, i.e. 170,000 euros for failure to carry out portability and migration procedures, 1,160, 000 euros for unclear 
and incomplete information on the available basic rate plans, 58,000 euros for violating compliance with minimum US (Universal Service) 
quality objectives, 116,000 euros for violating transparency and spending control, 696,000 euros for billing cycles violation , 87,000 euros and 
232,000 euros transparency violat ion, 464,000 euros and 1,044,000 euros for violating the ius variandi law (presumption of harassment).  
5 In 2017, AGCom started eight proceedings against TIM of which:  
• one ended with archiving;  
• two concluded with fine (one of 30,000 euros for breach of the regulations on access, the other 1,160,000 euros for breach of the regulations 
on billing cycles);  
• five to close in 2018 (non -execution of migration/portability procedures, lack of information on basic plans and passage free of charge toward 
the mobile price plans, violation of quality obligations laid down by AGCom Resolution, breach of art.1 subsection 31 Law 249/97, violat ion of 
transparency legislation).  
In 2017, the proceedings started in 2016 for breach of the quality obligations laid down by AGC om Resolution were completed, with fine of 
232,000 euros.  
6 In 2016, AGCom started two cases, one of which closed with archiving (non -compliances with temporary measures) and one which ended in 
2017 (fine of 232,000 euros). AGCom has also concluded three p roceedings started against TIM in 2015 with fine (2,000,000 euros for manoeuvre 
that introduced flat prices, 120,000 euros for breach of legislation on migrations and 360,000 euros for violations of legislation on quality).  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
126 
 [GRI 419 -1] The number and total monetary value of the fines for non -conformities with laws and regulations regarding 
the supply and use of products and services in Brazil1, imposed by ANATEL.  
 
 
Description  2018  2017  2016  
Number of fines for  non-conformities regarding 
the supply and use of products and services  9 4 2 
Total monetary value of these fines (in reais)  180,123  2,467,722  274,698  
  
[GRI 417 -3]
 Overall number of nonconformities with legislation and voluntary codes regarding marketing communications 
in Italy.  
 
Type of non -conformity  2018  2017  2016  
Number of non -conformities with legislation 
resulting in a fine or penalty  0 0 0 
Number of non -conformities with legislation 
resulting in a warning  1 0 0 
Number of non-conformities with voluntary 
codes2 2 1 4 
 
 
[GRI 417 -3] In Brazil  the only notifications relating to advertising and marketing communications are issued by CONAR3, 
a non -governmental self -regulation organisation for advertising which assesses non-conformities with the Brazilian 
Advertising Self -Regulation Code ( “CBAP ”) and can recommend that the company change/correct or suspend the 
advertising (it does not impose financial penalties); CONAR seeks to ensure that each advertisement is true, honest, and 
compliant with the laws of the country and the principle of fair competition.  The infringement proceedings may be closed 
if the parties reach a settlement, if the perpetrators cease the infringement or also if the violation of the Code of Ethic s 
has not been demonstrated.  
In 2018 , TIM Participações received only one notification from CONAR, for a case brought by a customer, to which it 
responded with a unanimously accepted defence. The company received three notifications in 2017 and two in 2016 . 
 
ANATEL can impose fines or warnings in the event of non -compliant “general marketing communications ”. In 2018,  
Anatel imposed a fine on TIM Participações of 280,984 reais and one in 2017 of 70,471 reais (both relating to unclear 
Company commercial infor mation ); no fines were imposed in 2016. The two fines above are pending a final decision.  
  
                                                                 
1 The cases include the supply of unsolicited services, failure to comply with established quality targets, unforeseen interruptions to the service, 
coverage by means and at times other than those established with the authority and service and billing irregularities.  
2 The cases are re gulated by the Institute of Advertising Self -Regulation, which operates in compliance with the code of commercial 
communication and is competent in defining all disputes relating to advertising involving the associated subjects, directly o r indirectly. The  
decisions of the Board never result in pecuniary sanctions but, where appropriate, in a termination order for the disputed pr ess release.  
3 Conselho Nacional de Autoregulamentação Publicitária.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
127 
 Safeguarding privacy and personal data protection  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 418]  The 2018 materiality analysis confirmed the safeguarding of privacy and  
personal data protection as a material topic for the Group.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 418 ] Respecting privacy regulations is a priority for TIM, which since 2003 has 
had a structured organisational model in place which is capable of overseeing the correct application of this legislation 
at Group level. Company departments are committed to ensuring the correct processing of personal data of data 
subjects, including customers and employees, in carrying out business activities.  
In May 2018, the D ata Protection Department was established at TIM Group level, dealing with control, consultation, 
training and information regarding the application of privacy  legislation.  
The adoption of legal measures and the instructions of the Italian Data Protection Authority for personal data protection 
is assured by constantly updating the Group regulations and policies. Of these, the “ System of rules for the application of 
the regulations relating to the protection of personal data in the TIM Group ” is particularly important; it defines the 
provisions and operating instructions to comply with these provisions, completely reviewed and updated in 2018, to incorporate amendments to the law.  
From 25 May 2018, Regulation (EU) No. 2016/679, concerning the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data ( “General Data Protection Regulation ” or GDPR), includes various updates on the previous legislation on 
the matter, such as:  
• harmonisation of legislation, with common rules directly a pplicable across the EU;  
• applicability also to non -EU parties that process the data of people in the EU for the purposes of sales or monitoring 
of their behaviour;  
• the level of significance of the obligations in relation to the privacy and accountability r isk of entities that process data 
(e.g. provisions on the privacy impact assessment , documentation of processing, security and data breach
1 measures, 
and the introduction of the role of Data Protection Officer ); 
• strengthening rights exercisable by individu als (e.g. customers, employees), such as the new rights to be forgotten 
and to personal data portability;  
• economic significance of the sanctions applicable in case of violation.  
The GDPR has become the primary source of the applicable regulatory framework in Italy and the Personal Data 
Protection Code (Legislative Decree 196/2003, as extensively amended by Legislative Decree 101/2018) now contains the 
national provisions completing those of the GDPR.  
 
To ensure -  within the Group Companies -  conformity of p ersonal data processing with the GDPR, TIM carried out the 
activities envisaged in the adjustment plan by the 25 May 2018 deadline, which was implemented by almost all departments of TIM and the Group Companies in about 18 months. Specifically, the actions  have included:  
• the appointment of the Data Protection Officer  and activation of related touch points for data subjects for matters 
relating to the processing of their personal data;  
• the appointment of internal Privacy Officers, employees with specific dut ies and instructions to assist the Company ’s 
senior management in implementing the obligations;  
• the updating or issue of numerous policies and procedures, including those that define obligations relating to data 
breach  (extended to all types of personal da ta), privacy impact assessment  (for the processing of high privacy risk 
personal data), customer profiling, management of data subject requests concerning the exercise of their rights;  
• updating of the TIM compliance catalogue to render it compliant with the requirements of the processing activity 
register;  
• the updating of the texts of the numerous processing of personal data disclosures, provided by TIM and other Group 
companies to the different types of data subjects (e.g. customers, employees, visitors) ; 
• the review of the procedures to ensure compliance with the law in cases of activities assigned to third parties (e.g. suppliers and business partners).  
  
                                                                 
1 Data breach.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
128 
 A specific training project was then put in place to raise awareness in the various company departments and to illustrate 
the policies and procedures issued for GDPR application. Eight training programmes were carried out involving the 
participation of about 600 TIM and Group Company employees.  
Training initiatives were carried out in the area of privacy , particularly involving internal staff that have been reassigned 
to Commercial Departments so that the privacy obligations to be introduced in sales and telemarketing activities are 
properly understood and applied, as well as the personnel responsible for  carrying out obligatory services for the legal 
authorities.  
 
The effective application of the internal policies is monitored through an extensive control system based on regular self -
assessment procedures, sample checks carried out by the relevant central  and regional departments, based on 
established procedures and methods, as well as for planned and identified second level controls, also due to the inherent risk level of processing.  
In consideration of these activities, the update is scheduled for the periodic report on the status of adoption of the security measures envisaged by privacy legislation that, in a company document, formalises the activities carried out to guarantee 
compliance with the provisions on personal data processing, the results achiev ed and the status of improvement plans.  
Finally, also during the course of 2018, TIM continued to take the steps required to ensure the implementation of 
provisions in its internal processes to deal with any violation of personal data security (so -called “data breaches ”), as well 
as to respond to the numerous customer requests (for example, to know what personal data is being processed by TIM 
or exercise other rights) and the information requests submitted to TIM by the Italian Data Protection Authority.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 418 ]
 The table below shows the information requests made to TIM, in Italy, by 
the Italian Data Protection Authority, including those made following reports by customers.  
 
 2018  2017  2016  
Requests received  71 124 33 
 
 
 
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 418 ] In Brazil , TIM Participações  believes that the confidentiality of customer 
information is a primary commitment for telecommunications companies and monitors its systems 24 hours a day in 
order to prevent and detect any unauthorised access attempts.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [ GRI 418]  As pursuant to article 5 of the Federal Constitution, and article 3 of the 
General Law on Telecommunications No. 9,472 of 1997, the right of customers to the confidentiality of their personal data 
is established (with the exception of cases provided for by the law). The Personal Mobile Service regulation, in articles 89, 
90 and 91 of Resolution No. 477 of the national telecommunications agency (ANATEL), requires companies to take 
responsibility in this respect and establishes that any waiver of confidentiality must take place only if requested by the 
relevant authority in the cases provided for by law. Federal Law No. 12,965 ( Brazilian Civil Rights Framework for the 
Internet ) of April 2014, articles 3, 7, 8, 10, 11, 16, ensures the privacy and protection of personal data also for Internet users.  
On 14 August 2018 the President of the Republic approved the General Data Protection Act No. 13,709/2018, which will come into force in August 2020; this law applies to any data processing by a legal person o r entity governed by public or 
private companies, regardless of the area and country in which it is located or in which the data is located, on condition that:  
• the processing is carried out in the national territory;  
• the purpose of the processing is the provision, amongst other things, of goods or services or the processing of data of persons located in the national territory;  
• the personal data subject to processing has been collected in the national territory.  
 
In December 2018, the Provisional Measure  No. 869/2018 -  approved by the previous Brazilian President -  amended Law 
No. 13,709, to create the National Data Protection Authority (within the structure of the Presidency of the Republic); it 
implies wider state control and, among other matters, extends the entry into force of the law to twenty -four months.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
129 
 To guarantee the confidentiality of the its customers ’ information, in accordance with national legislation (including 
Articles 10 and 11 of the “ Marco Civil ”), TIM Participações has issued relevant  internal policies and procedures to ensure 
the confidentiality of information relating to its customers, one of which is a specific policy for safeguarding privacy 
(updated in June 2016), based on the “ need to know ” principle (personal data processing is restricted to the minimum 
required to carry out the work) and separation of functions. These policies and procedures provide the methods for the 
classification and management of information to guarantee suitable protection levels.  
 The ICT Security and ICT  Risk Management department is responsible for updating policies, procedures, and governance 
of information security, ensuring the involvement of all areas related to the matter, disclosure and compliance with the guidelines within of the TIM Group in Braz il. 
TIM Participações, after classifying the information, performs a risk analysis of systems that store such data, mitigates 
the relative vulnerabilities and makes its employees and suppliers aware. All TIM Part. service providers, which offer value 
added  services (VAS), must sign an agreement to not disclose information of which they become aware.  
Although TIM Participações has not yet acquired certification, it carries out its activities according to ISO 27001, the 
international standard of best practice for information security management. In the event that a customer submits a 
complaint for violation of privacy, the Company assesses the situation and provides clarification to resolve any problems 
(even potential ones). Customers have access to data priv acy procedures when they have signed the related plans 
according to the terms and conditions of the contract.  
In relation to technological resources, TIM Participações has a number of specific technical resources to support 
management of this issue, such a s, for example, data loss prevention (DLP), identity management, content filtering, and 
the Cyber Security Operations Centre  (CSOC).  
 The CFO -  Security - ICT Security and ICT Risk Management Department is responsible for updating the policies and 
proced ures, their management and governance of information security; moreover, it guarantees the involvement of all 
the departments involved, the diffusion and co mpliance with the guidelines in TIM Participações . 
 TIM Participações undertakes to comply with the Sarbanes -Oxley Act , in accordance with its guidelines, relating to 
internal controls for the confidentiality, control and protection of personal data.  
In addition, the company Anti -corruption programme includes an organisational -business model, available o nline on the 
Intranet, which guarantees personal data processing in compliance with the rights and dignity of the persons involved and within the limits of what is necessary for processing. The model is compliant with Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/01,  
Brazilian anti- corruption law No. 12,846/2013 and international standards, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  
(FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act . 
 
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 418] [GRI 418 -1]
 TIM Participações:  
• at 31 December 2018 there were 206 pending complaints from customers, of which 195 were opened in 2018, 10 in 2017 and one in 2016;  
• in 2018, 63 complaints were closed (of which 26 were already reported in the 2017 TIM Sustainability Report). For 12 of these complaints the court found in  favour of TIM Participações or they did not incur any loss for the company. In 
49 cases,  the judges found against the Company and ordered compensation for customers for a total of 1,000 reais 
to 12,000 reais. The remaining two cases closed with an agreement between the parties.  
 
It should be noted that the difference between the legislation of Italy and Brazil does not allow for any comparisons to 
be drawn between homogeneous data.  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
130 
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 418]  Research and innovation in e -security  
TIM is involved both in research and in innovation regarding cyber security  and more generally the security of information 
and networks. Activities carried out in 2018 included the following:  
• ongoing work on the research, collection, management and use of intelligence  connected with the new security 
threats ( Cyber Threat Intelligence Management ) with the development and experimentation on a proprietary Threat 
Intelligence Platform ; 
• experimentation in Artificial Intelligence and in particular Machine Learning  techniques for the development of new 
methods of analysing security data;  
• conception and start of development of innovative tools for the automation of specific cyber security  processes;  
• participation in European research programmes (HORIZ ON 2020) and in particular the call for “ Establishing and 
Operating a pilot for a Cybersecurity Competence Network to develop and implement a common Cybersecurity 
Research & Innovation Roadmap ” with the CONCORDIA proposal ( Cyber security cOmpeteNCe fOr R esearch anD 
InnovAtion ) first in the final ranking and accepted for four -year community funding;  
• overseeing and guiding mobile cyber security  with participation, as Deputy Chair , in the work of the GSMA (GSM 
Association) Fraud and Security Group ; 
• the colla boration, within the scope and 3GPP1 SA2 SECAM3, for the definition of the security requirements and test 
methods on devices for 3GPP standard (SECAM) networks and those for the security of 5G infrastructure;  
• guidance of the NGMN Alliance Security Competen ce Team  (Next Generation Mobile Network Alliance ), an 
international organisation focused on the development of new generation networks and services, in particular the 
fifth generation (5G);  
• participation, within the ETSI4, in the work of TC CYBER focused on cyber security  and the ETNO5 field, NSecFC WG 
(Network and Services Security, Fraud and Cybercrime ), and more specifically the CERT TF ( Computer Emergency 
Response Team Task Force ) subgroup on “ Cyber Threat Intelligence ” and Distributed Denial of Servi ce Mitigation ; 
• implementation of various scouting and testing campaigns to identify and assess new security solutions/processes;  
• the development of new IPR6. 
 
 
Smart Services  
[GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] In the context of public sector services and businesses, in accordance with the Italian Digital 
Agenda (ADI) and European Directives, in 2018 TIM consolidated and streamlined its Smart Services offer (security, energy 
efficiency, environmental and digital services in urban areas) with the aim of promoting the Sm art City model to improve 
the quality of life through the development of innovative digital services that move municipalities to a Smart Community model (as indicated by the Digital Agenda), to enable new forms of collaboration between citizens, businesses  and public 
administrators.  
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 The 3rd Generation Partnership Project . 
2 Security Assurance . 
3 SECurity Assurance Methodology.  
4 European Telecommunications Standards Institute . 
5 European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association . 
6 Intellectual Property Rights . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
131 
 SMART LIGHTING  SMART BUILDING  TIM ENERGREEN  TIM 
URBAN SECURITY  DIGITAL SCHOOL  
KIT 
Integrated management of 
the local infrastructural 
networks and construction 
of the Smart City 
environments.  
1Revenues: 23 K euros  
Enabled services:  
• planning of electricity 
consumption and 
maintenance. Energy 
saving is estimated 
within a range 
between 15% (light 
produced by high -
efficiency lamps, e.g. 
LEDs) and over 30% in 
the case of light 
produced by old style 
lamps (e.g. sodium 
vapour or 
incandescence). Added 
to these values is the 
option of varying 
lighting by switching on 
and/or reducing the 
intensity of individual 
lamp posts; 
• video surveillance;  
• digital communication 
with citizens and users 
in general (e.g. 
tourists);  
• Wi-Fi hotspots 
(broadband access).  
 Intelligent 
management and 
automation of 
buildings thanks to ad 
hoc solutions able to 
be implemented on a 
project basis through 
the TIM Energreen  
offer.  
The energy saved can 
be estimated at 
around 10%, if only the 
Metering & Reporting 
function is 
implemented, but it 
can rise to over 50% 
for specific efficiency 
projects.  Remote management 
of energy 
consumption, 
implemented on TIM 
assets and services, 
for the purpose of 
saving energy.  
Revenues: 2,080 K 
euros  
Enabled services:  
• on-site energy 
audit: on-site 
analysis for 
energy 
efficiency;  
• Metering & 
Reporting ; 
• Efficiency 
strategy  
(advanced 
reporting and 
Energy 
Management  
consulting 
services);  
• Energy Cost 
Management 
Services ; 
• Special Project : 
ad hoc  efficiency 
improvement 
work.  
 
 Management of 
participated security 
and urban territory 
control.  
Revenues: 270 K euros  
Enabled services:  
• computerised 
management of 
the penalty 
issuing process 
for traffic and 
other violations 
for local public 
administration;  
• participated 
management of 
urban issues, with 
reporting of 
safety -related 
issues, antisocial 
activities and 
urban decay;  
• real time 
monitoring of the 
urban and natural 
environment of 
cities (humidity, 
temperature, 
noise pollution, 
CO 2, gaseous 
pollutants, etc.);  
• monitoring of 
available public 
park ing spaces.  Integrated digital 
management of 
teaching and school 
administration2. The 
offer can be configured 
according to the 
requirements of the 
different schools and 
includes a range of 
integrated modular 
services with assisted 
and integrated 
management.  
Enabled services:  
• enabling 
infrastructure 
(fixed internet, Wi -
Fi & security 
connectivity);  
• digital teaching 
services (teaching 
platform, 
application 
integrated with 
school e -book 
stores, with which 
schools can 
organise activities, 
training courses, 
and individual and 
collaborative 
study);  
• catalogue of turnkey 
products and 
services (creation 
and/or expansion 
of relationships, 
MDM3, high 
definition 
monitors, 
furnishings, 
accessories and 
much more).  
 
     
The revenue trend envisaged by TIM for the Digital Territory over the next three years is +10% Year on Year.  
The Olivetti Smart Lighting system4 combines the replacement of traditional lighting with low energy consumption LED 
lights with the optimisation of lighting system management throug h wireless technology remote control, allowing for 
                                                                 
1 The revenues from this are not high as it is offered to gether with other products.  
2 TIM acts as a representative of technology to support schools on the path of digital renewal, making available its expertise in the field of IT and 
data networks.  
3 Mobile Device Management , the definition of best practice  guidelines and those for providers of solutions for centralised management and 
security of smartphones and mobile devices.  
4 olivetti.com/it/iot -big-data/soluzioni -iot/smart -lighting.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
132 
 savings of up to 65%. Assuming an average consumption per capita for public lighting in Italy of about 99.8 kWh1 and 
considering a 50% consumption reduction for a municipality of 100,000 inhabitants using this lighting system, it would 
be possible to achieve overall annual energy savings of 4,990,000 kWh, equal to a 1,926t reduction of CO 2 emissions 
(Scope 2)2. 
 
  
                                                                 
1 Calculation based on data from TERNA (the Italian electricity transmission system operator) and ISTAT (the Italian National I nstitute of Statistics), 
relating to December 2017.  
2 Using the same emission factor used by TIM in this Rep ort for Scope 2 emissions reporting, i.e. 0.386 kg CO 2/kWh.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
133 
 The supply chain  
 
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  The 2018 materiality analysis confirmed the consolidation of 
social and environmental aspects of the supply chain as a material topic for the Group.  
Digital represents the new collective progress factor, offering new opportunities that impact the economy and society in 
different ways.  
Suppliers have a direct influence on the communities and in the areas within which they carry out their activities; in addition, the involvement o f the organisations that monitor the related social and environmental aspects, must be 
considered.  
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]
 The procurement process adopted by the TIM Group is based on 
the competitive comparison of the technica l and economic characteristics of the offers presented by the selected 
suppliers, based on corporate procedures that comply with business ethics.  
Products and services are acquired at the best market conditions and must meet the specific requirements of 
functionality, quality, safety and respect for the environment, in complete compliance with current laws and legislation.  
 
[GRI 102 -9] The purchasing departments focus on specific sectors, so as to provide accurate responses to the 
requirements of internal c ustomers and stakeholders.  
TIM’s purchases mainly take place in the two geographical areas where the Group ’s major operations are based, Italy and 
Brazil, and are mainly in the following categories of products/services:  
• telecommunications networks,  
• telecom munications products,  
• information technology,  
• technical and professional services,  
• power systems.  
• other.  
 
[GRI 102 -9] In total, 4,749 suppliers received purchase orders from the Group in 2018 ( -6% compared with 2017 and - 14% 
compared with 2016), including 3,757 for the Domestic BU1 (-6% compared with 2017 and - 9% compared with 2016), 994 
for Brazil  (-9% compared with 2017 and - 30% compared with 2016)2. 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  The selection of the TIM Group ’s suppliers involves a pre -
contractual qualification stage, in which the economic/financial and technical/organisational characteristics are assessed. If the result of this assessment - which also includes consideration of the business ethics and respect for Human Rights, 
worke rs’ rights and the environment - is positive, the suppliers are registered on the Group Supplier Database.  
[GRI 412 -3]
 In all the contracts signed, there is a specific clause which makes it mandatory for the supplier to accept the 
principles expressed in th e Group ’s Code of Ethics and Conduct3. 
  
                                                                 
1  For the year in question, Domestic BU suppliers also included the companies of Persidera and Olivetti.  
2 The sum of the two addenda differs from the total because some suppliers received purchase orders both from the Domestic BU and the Brazil 
BU. 
3 The Group Code of Ethics (CE) reads: “Compliance with the Code must also be guaranteed by external collaborators and, where e nvisaged in 
the company procedural system, by third parties that do business with the Group”. In particular, the internal procedures require suppliers to 
accept the principles laid down by the CE, and contracts for temporary consortia or corporate investments to contain clauses for safeguarding 
the Organisational Model 231  (which is based on the CE). The UN Global Compact is, on the matter of Human Rights, the point of reference of 
the Group’s CE, which reads: “TIM has signed up to the United Nations’ Global Compact on Human Rights, work standards, enviro nmental 
protection and the fight against corruption, and ensures that this institutional commitment is fully implemented by undertaking regular 
initiatives on environmental and social issues”. The CE also contains specific clauses on the prohibition of discrimination,  intimi dation, corruption 
and the protection of health and safety. Moreover, the Group policy on respect for Human Rights specifies that “Fundamental H uman Rights 
(e.g. working hours, fair remuneration, minimum age for starting work, workplace conditions, accessi bility to the disabled, protection of 
maternity, prohibition of harassment, prohibition of forced/compulsory/restricted labour)” and “rights regarding health and s afety (we consider 
the high standards of health and safety as a milestone of our success and our aim is to minimise injuries and occupational illnesses)” must be 
guaranteed for both the people of the Group and the human resources of suppliers.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
134 
 [GRI 412 -3] As regards the domestic operations, the Italian suppliers on the database with considerable value (the 
threshold is 3,000 euros cumulative per year) receive1 initial screening in relation to respect for the principles of the Code 
of Ethics and are subject to regular assessment. The actions taken by TIM to check suppliers varies depending on the 
riskiness of the supplier and the value of the purchase: ranging from simple to complex questionnaires and docum ent 
checks to specific audits on sustainability matters.  
[GRI 414 -1] Specifically, in 2018, 100% of new suppliers enrolled in the Register signed a specific questionnaire in which 
they undertook for themselves and for any authorised subcontractors, collabo rators and employees to observe the 
principles of behaviour contained in the Group ’s Code of Ethics and Conduct2. 
While the supply is taking place, registered companies which have received purchase orders normally undergo incoming 
quality control checks (a  requirement for the acceptance and use of the purchased goods) and monitoring of the vendor 
rating. For some of these , environmental and social audits3 are also carried out.  
For some sectors, the Group also measures and monitors subcontracting suppliers, in particular, for network jobs; there 
were 889 subcontracting businesses ( -4% compared with 2017 and +1% compared with 2016). In this sector,  the 
estimated total number of suppliers involved in the supply chain is 9164. 
In the last three years,  no significant changes have occurred in the structure of the Group ’s supply chain.  
 
 
Sustainability initiatives  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  In 2018, the process that defines activities aimed at improving 
the sustainability of the supply chain  continued to be applied. These activities involve the qualification, incoming quality 
and vendor rating  stages.  
In particular, the suppliers were classified according to the potential risks associated with their sustainability performanc e, 
carried ou t using a specific method that considers the social -environmental and business continuity aspects associated 
with the procurement markets in which they operate. For this reason, the procurement markets (i.e. procurement 
categories homogeneous among themsel ves) have been classified in accordance with parameters such as:  
• the geographical areas of reference and the risks connected with them,  
• the potential impact on the environment and on the society of the suppliers ’ activities and of the products/services 
supplied throughout their entire life cycle, including risks relating to violations of Human Rights, employment and 
environmental,  
• the impact on the reputation of TIM as a customer.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  A matrix has been creat ed which, by relating the spending 
associated with the specific purchase market to the risk index calculated on the basis of the parameters listed, has 
allowed purchase markets to be divided into four classes, identifying those most critical from the point  of view of 
sustainability and economic impact. Suppliers belonging to the classes at greatest risk are the subject of sustainability audits carried out by third party companies specialising in the sector. These audits are repeated periodically to monitor 
the implementation of any corrective actions and, if the results are positive, to verify that the standard of performance 
found is being maintained. The tools developed and used for the Domestic BU have been explained and transferred to 
the Brazil BU.  
 
[GRI 308 -1] [GRI 407 -15] [GRI 408 -1] [GRI 409 -1] [GRI 414 -2] All suppliers of the Domestic BU have been assessed to 
consider the social/environmental risk; in 2018, 42 were considered to be at greatest risk ( -18% compared with 2017 and 
                                                                 
1 Excluding government agencies.  
2 In Brazil the percentage was 96%.  
3 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [ GRI 308] [GRI 414 ] In particular, checks are envisaged on health and safety and the environment, the result 
of which goes towards forming the supplier rating , to which the system of penalties/incentives is connected. Checks are also envisaged in 
relation t o respect for employment legislation.  
4 In the Brazilian BU, at present there is no systematic monitoring of level two suppliers.   
5 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 407]  The Group policy aimed at preventing the risk of violation of trade union rights  is that relating to 
“Relations with Suppliers in the TIM procurement process”, which reads: “...the Group demands of its suppliers and promotes, through them, 
and including with regards to sub -suppliers, respect for the following principles and provisions  of law in force in the countries where these 
stakeholders operate. … all workers must enjoy the legal right to establish and/or subscribe to trade union organisations to protect the individual and collective interests. The role of the workers’ trade union  representatives must be acknowledged, and they must not be subject to any form 
of discrimination; in order to go about their union activities, they must be guaranteed remunerated permits and the means nec essary to 
communicate with the workers on the workp lace”. The same concepts are also stressed in the Group’s policy on respect for Human Rights.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
135 
 -13% compared with 2 016). 16 purchase and suppliers1 operating in the following geographical areas are considered to 
be at greatest social risk: Asia, Central and South America, North Africa and Eastern Europe.  
 
[GRI 410 -1] For the employees of organisations which supply secu rity guard services in Italy, the Consolidated Law on 
Public Security must be complied with, in particular Art. 138, subsection 2, which specifies the professional and training 
requirements of sworn guards. In Brazil , law 7102/83 establishes the rules rela ting to private security; among other things, 
it provides that all those intending to be hired as security guards for a security business must have attended a training course, delivered by schools accredited by the Federal Police. After hiring, once every two years the guards must take an 
update course.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]
 Since 2014, all suppliers interested in a qualification process (new, 
extension, renewal), relating to areas of procurement that present the greatest risk in terms of sustainability answer a 
specific self -assessment questionnaire to determine the socio -environmental sustainability risk. Periodically updated 
based on the results and evolution of the qualification process, the questionnaire was developed according to the main 
requirements of the relevant responsible corporate management standards relating to respect for ethical values and to 
safeguarding the environment (including SA 8000, UN Global Compact and ISO 14001) and to the best industry practices . 
[GRI 308 -1] [GRI 414 -1] The self -assessment sustainability questionnaire is integrated into the application that handles 
the supplier qualification process, which automatically extended it to all new suppliers operating in markets where 
sustainability is  considered to be at risk. Refresher campaigns were mounted for suppliers previously qualified in TIM ’s 
Register of suppliers. The results of the questionnaire will make it possible to refine the risk matrix described above.  
[GRI 308 -1] The application of the green procurement policy , which contains guidelines for establishing the environmental 
requirements of products/services purchased, continues to be an integral part of the procurement process. The policy 
covers all stages of the product life: design, p roduction, use and end of life. Published on the “ vendors hub ” supplier portal 
of TIM and in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, the document helps to orient purchasing policies 
towards low environmental impact products and services.  
 
[GRI 414 -1] [GRI 414 -2] In 2018 in Brazil  a self -assessmen t questionnaire on sustainability issues was sent to suppliers 
whose orders exceeded one million reais, equal to 71% of the total number of suppliers. All 831 suppliers involved responded by the end of 2018. The results are used as an indication for future selection processes.  
 
Sustainability checks  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  Activities intended to verify the sustainability performance level 
of common suppliers and sub -suppliers continued in 2018 in the framework of the Joint Audit  Cooperation2 (JAC) 
initiative, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding initially signed at the end of 2009 by TIM, Orange and 
Deutsche Telekom. The initiative was subsequently joined by: Proximus, KPN, Swisscom and Vodafone Group in 2011; 
Telenor and Telia Company in 2012; Verizon in 2013; AT&T, Telefónica and Rogers in 2016; MTS, Telstra and Veon in 2018.  
 
The purposes of the Joint Audit Cooperation  initiative are:  
• to verify the sustainability of the most important suppliers/sub -suppliers that are common to the members of the 
JAC, with production plants located in geographical areas with a significant degree of socio -environmental risk. The 
checks are made through audits carried out by Third parties using a specific method developed by the JAC m embers 
themselves, who share the results of the verifications;  
• to contribute to the increased sustainability of suppliers/sub -suppliers involved by devising and implementing 
corrective actions and ongoing improvement programmes, establishing long -lasting and mutually beneficial 
cooperation with them in terms of efficiency, productivity and risk reduction in the supply chain ; 
                                                                 
1  NGAN (Next Generation Access Network , i.e. the next generation network) equipment, data – GBE ( Gigabit Ethernet , i.e. the evolution to 1,000 
Mbit/s of the Fast  Ethernet  -IEEE 802.3u standard -protocol operating at 100 Mbit/s), DWDM ( Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing, i.e. the 
technology used to increase the amount of bandwidth available on a fibre optic channel) equipment, 3G access, LTE mobile acce ss (Long  Term 
Evolution ), assurance,  creation ; delivery, civil works, integrated solution –APPL; call centre ;  telesales, access gateway , marketing, middleware 
(set of computer programs that operate as intermediaries between different applications and software components) IPTV equipme nt, handset . 
2 Further information is available on the jac- initiative.com website.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
136 
 • to perform capacity building  activities, through specific supplier training programmes, particularly in order to 
disseminate a culture of sustainability throughout the supply chain (sub -suppliers a nd sub -sub-suppliers).  
 
[GRI 308 -2] [GRI 407 -1] [GRI 408 -1] [GRI 409 -1] [GRI 414 -2] Between 2010 and 2018, thanks to the gradual increase in the 
number of members of JAC, 454 audits1 were carried out –  91 in 2018 alone -  in production plants (suppliers and sub- 
suppliers) located in Asia, Central and South America, North Africa and Eastern Europe. The checks were carried out 
through international specialised companies selected by competitive tender and related to a total of more than 970,000 
workers. The su ppliers included in the audit campaign belonged to the user devices and appliances, network appliances 
and IT equipment production sectors.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  The table below shows the non- conformities recorded during 
audi ts on Group suppliers, including those relating to Human Rights2. 
 
 2018  2017  2016  
Environment  30 (22)  38 (32)  21 (17)  
Discriminations  2 (2)  11 (10)  2 (2)  
Business ethics  28 (24)  53 (48)  26 (25)  
Forced labour  3 (2)  7 (3)  6 (5)  
Child labour  3 (3)  4 (4)  4 (2)  
Freedom of association  2 (2)  3 (2)  5 (5)  
Working hours  38 (27)  60 (46)  46 (33)  
Salaries  7 (6)  21 (22)  8 (6)  
Disciplinary proceedings  1 (0)  3 (1)  2 (2)  
Health and safety  105 (77)  182 (142)  124 (113)  
 
Data relating to suppliers also operating for the Brazil BU is given in brackets.  
 
[GRI 308 -2] [GRI 414 -2] For all the non -conformities encountered, specific corrective action plans were drawn up that 
established resolution procedures and timetables amongst others. The implementation of these plan s is monitored on a 
constant basis by the JAC members3. 
Over time, the incidence of the number of non- conformities detected by audits has gradually decreased, a sign of 
suppliers greater attention to corporate social responsibility  issues. In fact, from a non- compliant audit value of 7.1 in 
2016, it went from 5.4 in 2017 to 5.3 in 2018; the progressive average since 2010 was 6.7 non- compliant audits.  
Moreover, in the 2016 -2018 three -year period, 84% of the non- compliances detected w ere remedied within one year from 
the start of the corrective action plan, for a total of over 500 actions.  
The first three areas affected by these actions were health and safety, working hours and business ethics.  
On 31 January and 1 February 2018, the seventh annual suppliers Forum in the JAC programme was held in Guangzhou 
(China) on the theme of: “ How to ensure supplier’s long term improvement of sustainability performance after site has 
been audited? ”. The event was attended by 200 delegates, represent ing telecommunications operators, suppliers, 
members of the press, organisations operating in sustainability and non- governmental organisations.  
The Forum was also attended remotely, via live streaming . 
 
                                                                 
1  310 of whom were TIM suppliers (46 in 2018 alone). The total number of audits may be affected by the presence of some audits conducted 
over two years.  
2 Due to the adoption of a new calculation system, data for corrective actions for the years 2017 and 20 16 may differ from those published in the 
2018 TIM Sustainability Report.  
3 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  As the aim of the initiative is to help suppliers in the countries at greater risk - in terms 
of the application and respect for sustainability principles -  improve their performance, non -conformities always result in corrective actions and 
not the termination of the purchase contract.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
137 
  
Supplier involvement initiatives  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  Use of the suppliers ’ portal ( vendors hub ), launched at the end of 
2011 to improve communication and optimise operational processes by applying social networking  systems to the 
business context, is now well establis hed; the Portal has around 4,312 vendors  enabled to use the application platform. 
The portal allows suppliers to access a private area to view important data and events connected to their relationship 
with TIM and manage all their own details, thus acquiring smooth operation and transparency. The vendors hub  also 
includes a public area containing information for potential suppliers.  
Documentation is exchanged electronically (e.g. offers, purchase orders, contracts, qualification documentation, surveys), 
therefore reducing the environmental impact resulting from the use of paper, transporting and storing documents.  
On 13 December 2018, TIM provided a new way of talking to our partners and suppliers. The Procurement Unit & Real 
Estate  department has invited more than one hundred suppliers to take part in the first ecosystem convention. The name 
chosen for this event was “ Let’s network for the Future ”. 
During the event, the top six suppliers contributing to various aspects of the business received an award; in particular, the 
supplier Ericsson received recognition for the ‘ Sustainability in practice’  category.  
The award was given based on the following criteria: the sustainability questionnaire given during the supplier qualification pha se, result and management of on site sustainability audits.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
138 
 Supply chain commitments  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  
 
2018 results and 2019 objectives: Italy  
INDICATORS  DETAILS  2018 
OBJECTIVES  FINAL FIGURES 
2018  2019 
OBJECTIVES  
% suppliers audited  Total amount of high risk suppliers who 
have undergone an in -depth sustainability 
audit since 20101 80% of high risk suppliers  84%  85%  
% of suppliers assessed  Suppliers assessed with a basic ethics 
questionnaire. Moreover, suppliers 
belonging to risk sectors are assessed with a more complex questionnaire
2 100% of qualified 
suppliers, as 
defined in the 
introduction to 
the section  100%  100%  
% procurement staff 
who received training 
on environmental, 
social and governance  
(ESG) risks relating to 
purchasing decisions  % staff directly involved in procurement, who participated in at least one training 
session on ESG matters  80%  83%  90%  
% contrac ts containing 
clauses connected with ESG risks   100%  100%  100%  
% suppliers with ISO 
14001 certificates or 
equivalent   70% of network 
businesses  90%  90%  
Integration of the ESG 
risk profile in the 
general supplier risk 
profile  All the suppliers qualified and registered in 
the register of suppliers are assessed based 
on an overall “ Key Risk Indicator”  (KRI) 
which also includes sustainability 
indicators  100% of 
qualified 
suppliers, as 
defined in the introduction to the section  100% 100%  
 
2018 results and 2019 objectives: Brazil3 
INDICATOR  DETAILS  2018 
OBJECTIVE  FINAL FIGURE 
2018  2019 
OBJECTIVE  
% of suppliers assessed4 Suppliers assessed with a basic ethics 
questionnaire.  n.a. n.a. 85%  
  
                                                                 
1 The number of high risk suppliers varies year on year, as it depends on the orders made ever y year and the procurement market in which the 
same suppliers operate. The same applies in general to the total number of suppliers belonging to the various procurement mar kets.  
2 The KPI refers to new suppliers and existing suppliers in case of renewal or  extension of their qualification.  
3 This is a new objective; the final result for the year 2018 is shown in the Appendix, “2017 and 2018 results” (“TIM Brasil” t able).  
4 Suppliers contracted directly by the Business Support Officer department . Human rightsTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
140 
  
TIM’s Commitments  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 406]  [GRI 407]  [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412]  The materiality analysis, 
conducted by TIM in 2018, confirmed the promotion and protection of Human Rights as a material topic for stakeholders 
and for the Group, along the entire “value chain ”. This result, which may seem surprising for a telecommunications 
operator that works in countries considered to be at low/medium risk of Human Rights violations, is based on two sets of  
reasons:  
• the broad meaning TIM assigns to the concept of “ Human Right ”. This sphere includes not only basic Human Rights 
common to all e conomic sectors, such as the right to fair remuneration, non- discrimination, the right to not resort to 
forced and/or compulsory work, etc., but also Human Rights specific to a telecommunications company, such as the 
right to access information, freedom of  expression (in particular online), protection of privacy and safety online, and 
protection of children (from cyberbullying, for example);  
• the public outcry caused by Human Rights violation incidents,  which  can seriously  affect business reputation.  
 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach]  [GRI 406]  [GRI 407]  [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412]  TIM signed up to the 
Global  Compact  in 2002; between 2008 and 2011, TIM was a member of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Working 
Group set up by the Global Compact Bo ard in 2006 with the aim of providing Global Compact with a strategic Human 
Rights input.  
 
From 2012, TIM has been one of the members of “ The Human Rights Peer Learning Group ” (PLG), established in the 
context of the Global Compact Network  Germany with the “ technical ” support of Twentyfifty  Ltd1. 
The twelve companies, which established the PLG in 2018, participated directly in the selection, preparation and 
presentation of the topics discussed ( good practice, joint analysis, lessons learned ), with the contribution of statements 
and external experts. The topics discussed during the two webinars in which TIM participated in 2018, are as follows:  
• 15 March: “ Internal and external awareness on modern slavery ”; 
• 11 December: “ Meeting transparency r equirements and communicating Human Rights effectively ”. 
 In recent years, in order to strengthen its commitment to the protection of Human Rights, TIM has implemented, inter alia: 
• Human Rights due diligence;  
• the “Respecting Human Rights in the TIM Group ” policy;  
• information and training on Human Rights.  
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach  ]401  [GRI 406]  [GRI 407]  [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412] TIM monitors and 
analyses reports of possible breaches of Human Rights received through the whistleblowing  portal made available to all 
stakeholders.  
 
Complaints received and handled regarding Human Rights  
 2018  of which 
substantiated  2017  of which 
substantiated  2016  of which 
substantiated  
Italy  2 0 10 2 7 0 
Brazil  52 15 31 10 20 13 
  
                                                                 
1 PLG is a learning platform and active leadership for European companies, where the meetings take place in respect of the Chatham House Rule . TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
141 
 Due Diligence  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach]  [GRI 406]  [GRI 407]  [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412] Among the objectives of 
due diligence are:  
• the identification and mapping of Human Rights risks resulting from the company ’s operations;  
• confirmation that each topic is governed by a specific internal regulatory framework (e.g., policy, procedure), has a 
management system that regula rly monitors and traces the performances (if possible through appropriate indicators, 
such as those concerning health and safety), and that the relative responsibilities have been assigned;  
• the definition of a gradual improvement path which, starting with simple respect for the local laws, guides the policies 
and processes of Human Rights towards sharing with the appropriate stakeholders through appropriate involvement 
initiatives;  
• the highlighting of any gaps or inconsistencies between the company ’s variou s departments and/or between the 
different companies of the Group;  
• the possibility to discuss Human Rights with the other companies.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach]  [GRI 412- 1] TIM carried out the first internal due diligence  on Human Rights 
(concluded in 2014) using the tool OCAI1, and the involvement of the Group ’s two biggest entities in terms of workforce 
(the percentage of employees covered was 98%) and investments, Domestic BU 2(excluding Olivetti and TIM Sparkle) 
and th e Brazil BU. The Sustainability Reporting, Monitoring and Relationship  Department examined the questionnaires 
that had been filled in and conducted the related feedback with the Italian departments in order to further examine the contributions provided and define the action plans  for the level two and three self -assessments (respectively 3.1% and 
8.6% of all the responses)
3. 
In Italy, at the end of the feedback, the following emerged:  
• on a scale of one to six, the average score of all the answers was 4.4;  
• the need to prepare the TIM Group ’s Human Rights policy (around 2/3 of the insufficient self -assessments regarded 
this aspect);  
• the usefulness of organising internal Human Rights training courses.  
 
[GRI 414 -1] [GRI 414 -2] The results of the audit on Human Rights carried out on the suppliers of the group are set out in 
this Report and in the Sustainability section of the Group ’s website.  
 
 
Human Rights Policy  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach]  [GRI 406]  [GRI 407]  [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412]  The Policy applies to every 
individual within the Group and also concerns Third Parties who have business dealings with TIM.  
The Policy, issued in 20154, aims to make respect for Human Rights an essential requirement in the performance of TIM ’s 
operational activities. Both in Italy and in foreign companies, the Group has set up processes through which it undertakes 
to respect Human Rights and has identified those that may be negatively influenced by the Company ’s activities, such 
as: 
• [GRI 403 -3] [GRI 406 -1] [GRI 408 -1] [GRI 409 -1] Human rights common to all industry sectors (e.g. rights concerning 
health and safety at work, diversity, equality and non- discrimination, working hours, fair pay, minimum age for 
                                                                 
1 Organisational Capacity Assessment Instrument , created by Twentyfifty Ltd. with funding from the Global Compact Network  Germany 
Foundation. OCAI, which does not operate as an expert in compliance  
• fully reflects the “UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”;  
• takes into account the interpretations provided by the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human  Rights;  
• In completing the OCAI, for each question, the company/department must assess its own position, current and potential, on a s pectrum of 
six levels that range from “non -responsive” to “Human Rights promoter”.  
2 Including Industrial Relations, Health & Safety, Equal Opportunities, Privacy, Procurement, Compliance, Protection of VAS customers, 
Protection of customers of the universal telephony service.  
3 No level one response was supplied during the first round.  
4 Available via the link  telecomitalia.com/tit/it/sustainability/news -events/news -group/policy -diritti -umani.html  in Italian and via the link:   
tim.com.br/sp/sobre -a-tim/sustentabilidade/principios -e-politicas -da-tim in Portuguese; the policy is also available in English.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
142 
 starting work, accessibility for the disabled, protection of maternity, forced/compulsory/restricted labour, the zero 
tolerance approach to any form of corruption, the rights of our customers to responsible advertising, rights related to 
the use of armed security, according to the highest international standards and practices).  
• [GRI 407 -1] rights agreed with the unions and included in National Labour Agreements (in line with the principles of 
the International Labour Organization).  
 
The Group ’s internal processes also focus on a series of individual rights a ffected by the core business , including the rights:  
• associated with access to telecommunications services and innovation;  
• [GRI 418] associated with the privacy of the Group ’s employees, customers and suppliers, and the protection of their 
personal data;  
• associated with freedom of expression, in particular online, supported by access to telecommunications technologies;  
• potentially violated by added value services (for example, services with content reserved for adults and gambling);  
• of children and young people to be protected from (cyber)bullying or harassment;  
• associated with environmental protection (in particular electromagnetic fields);  
• of the communities in which TIM carries out business, with particular attention to vulnerable groups of people (e.g.  
disabled people, minors, the elderly, women).  
 
The Policy sets out the unfiltered and anonymous reporting mechanisms in line with the requirements of the company procedures (specifically, that relating to “ whistleblowing ”), available on the Group ’s websit e. 
 The efficiency and monitoring of the Human Rights Policy, approved by the Chairman of TIM, is ensured by the Human Resources & Organizational Development  department, responsible for its observance as regards the involvement of TIM ’s 
people; the Procurement Unit & Real Estate  Department, responsible for seeing it is complied with by suppliers; the 
Compliance  Department, which monitors the risk of non- compliance with the reference legislation; and the Sustainability 
Reporting, Monitoring and Relati onship  Department, responsible for updating the Policy.  
 
(In)Formation and training on human rights  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 406]  [GRI 407]  [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412]  Following the publication 
of the Policy, in 2015 a classroom tr aining course was organized and attended by representatives of the various company 
departments. The course was held by an external company expert in sustainability 1issues and was attended by the 
General Manager of Amnesty International  Italy.  
Moreover, an online course was created for everyone in the company, available from the end of 2015. The course has 
been recently updated and is currently available on the TIM Academy e -learning platform.  
 
Both the workshop and the online course highlighted, among other things:  
• what Human Rights are and the main international Institutions that govern them;  
• businesses and Human Rights, focusing on any impact their activities may have on Human Rights;  
• the importance of businesses that operate in the telecommunications industry in the defence of Human Rights;  
• TIM and Human Rights: what can be done -  in the case of doubt -  by individuals of the Group for the protection of 
Human Rights;  
• how and when to use the reporting mechanism.  
 
In 2018 in Brazil  TIM Partecipaç ões made a version of the course respecting the local context available to all its employees 
on the  “Conexão TIM”  platform.  Among its aims were to broaden knowledge of the subject among employees, in 
particular to highlight how Human Rights feature in day to day work.  
TIM also continued to promote diversity  through its internal communication channels; during the TIM Talks week, 
promoted by the Human Resources department for employee development, diversity was one of the topics discussed. 
                                                                 
1  Avanzi Srl, more information is available at  the website avanzi.org . 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
143 
 TIM took part in th e due diligence on Human Rights course organised by Global Compact Network  Brazil.  
 
[GRI 412 -2] The training activities mainly concerned the dissemination of the Group ’s Policy for the Respect of Human 
Rights and observance of occupational Health and Safety standards.  
 
 
Number of training hours on Human Rights in the Group  
 
Business Unit  2018  2017  2016  
Domestic  177,323  197,057  110,722  
Brazil  22,581  19,269 48,036  
 
 
Percentage of employees trained on Human Rights in the Group  
 
Business Unit  2018  2017  2016  
Domestic  54 80 21 
Brazil*  110 92 110 
* The percentage takes into account the number of employees still at the Company and those who have left.  
 
 
Complaints and incidents  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 406]  [GRI 407]  [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412] The Group ’s Code of Ethics 
and Conduct requires employees, collaborators and consultants, as well as third parties who have business relations with 
the Group -  in respect of activities and services of interest to the Group - to promptly inform the Head of the TIM Audit 
Department, either directly or via their line manager, of any violations or collusion to violate:  
• legal or regulatory requirements,  
• provisions of the Code of Ethics,  
• internal policies and procedures,  
and any irregularities and/or negligence.  
 
The handling of reports above, specifically those for which the Head of the Audit Department is responsible (known as 
“whistleblowing ”), is a requirement of the Sarbanes -Oxley Act and  – in part  – of the “ UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights ”. 
 
The “Whistleblowing ” procedure requires the Head of the Audit Department, who answers directly to the Board of 
Directors, independently of the senior executives : 
• to ensure that incoming complaints are rece ived, logged and undergo preliminary analysis;  
• based on the results of the preliminary analysis, to launch a structured audit activity (if required);  
• to communicate the results of the analyses to the relevant departments so that they may take the appropria te 
corrective actions (if required). The non -compliance is only closed once the Audit Department has verified the 
effectiveness of the corrective actions implemented by the relevant departments;  
• to ensure the traceability and retention of the documentation regarding the complaints received and their analysis;  
• to update the reporting procedure and disseminate it internally together with the Human Resources & Organisational 
Development department.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
144 
 The Whistleblowing1 procedure is available both on the company Intranet and via the website www.telecomitalia.com.  
 
Employees were made aware of this in a letter from the CEO and a news  item published on the company Intranet.  
 
In 2018, a total of 160 complaints were received in Italy and 1,009 in Brazil.  
 
In the case of Italy, of the 160 complaints, 51 were anonymous and 109 non -anonymous - classified as follows:  
• 82 in the context of the “ Whistleblowing ” procedure2; 
• 76 not covered by the procedure and sent to the relevant departments for the respective checks, inf orming the Audit 
Department of the result; including:  
 70 customer complaints (poor service);  
 6 other;  
• 2 “irrelevant ” ones in terms of the purpose of the procedure.  
 
 
In the case of Brazil , of the 1,009 complaints, 647 were anonymous and 362 non- anonymous, classified as follows:  
• 782 in the context of the “ Whistleblowing ” procedure3; 
• 189 customer complaints (poor service);  
• 38 “irrelevant ” ones in terms of the purpose of the procedure.  
 
 
Below are the Human Rights -related complaints received through the main tool which TIM provides for all stakeholders, 
to report any kind of regulatory irregularity or breach of the Code of Ethics and Human Rights Policy, i.e. the “Whistleblowing ” procedure , available at the following link:  
telecomitalia.com/content/dam/telecomitalia/documents/Governance/ it/codici_principi_procedure/Procedura -
Whistleblowing -ITA.pdf . 
 
In 2018, no substantiated reports were received relating to Human Rights for which the 231 Supervisory Board is 
competent.  
 Complaints received and handled regarding Human Rights in general  
 
Italy 2018  of which 
substantiate
d 2017  of which 
substantiate
d 2016  of which 
substantiate
d 
Total number of complaints regarding Human Rights 
received through the main reporting mechanisms  0 0 34 0 0 0 
Handled during the reporting period  0 0 3 0 0 0 
Resolved during the reporting period  0 0 2 0 0 0 
Total number of complaints received prior to the 
survey period and resolved during the reference period  1 0 0 0 0 0 
  
                                                                 
1 The aforementioned Procedure is being updated, also following the entry into force of Law no. 179 of 30 November 2017, “Provi sions on the 
protection of parties reporting offences or irre gularities they become aware of in the context of a public or private employment relationship”.  
2 For example: network coverage, relations with suppliers, health and safety of workers, presumed harassment and or discriminat ory conduct; 
those relating to Hu man Rights are detailed in the tables in the chapter.  
3 Of which 703 were of the “company” type (processes that can be improved, etc.) and 79 of TIM Part. people type (employees in crisis 
situations).  
4 Two complaints concerned the rights related to access  to telecommunications services and one the human resources of TIM suppliers.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
145 
  
Brazil  
       
Total number of complaints regarding Human Rights 
received through the main reporting mechanisms  81 0 52 0 83 4 
Handled during the reporting period  8 0 5 0 8 4 
Resolved during the reporting period  7 0 4 0 8 4 
Total number of complaints received prior to  the 
survey period and  resolved  during the  reference 
period  1 0 0 0 0 0 
 
 
[GRI 406 -1] [GRI 411 -1] Complaints received and handled regarding discrimination issues  
Italy  
2018  of which 
substantiate
 2017  of which 
substantiate
 2016  of which 
substantiate
 Total number of complaints regarding discrimination 
received through the main reporting mechanisms  0 0 34 1 0 0 
Handled during the reporting period  0 0 3 1 0 0 
Resolved during the reporting period  0 0 2 1 0 0 
Total number of complaints received prior to  the 
survey period and resolved during the reference 
period  1 0 0 0 0 0 
 
Brazil        
Total number of complaints regarding discrimination received through the main 
reporting mechanisms  55 1 36 0 27 1 
Handled during the reporting period  5 1 3 0 2 1 
Resolved during the reporting period  5 1 3 0 2 1 
Total number of complaints received prior to the 
survey period and resolved during the reference 
period   
0  
0  
0  
0  
0  
0 
 
  
                                                                 
1 All eight complaints concerned alleged breaches of the privacy  laws of customers and/or employees.  
2 Of the five complaints, four concerned suppliers’ failure to apply workplace health and safety rules and one the sexual exploitation of 
children/adolescents.  
3 Of the eight complaints, three cases (one substantiated and resolved) concerned the working conditions of employees of TIM Pa rt. suppliers, 
three other cases (one substantiated and resolved) concerned customers and/or employees’ privacy , and the final two (both substantiated and 
resolved) concerned the impact of business activity on the community in which it operates (e.g. electromagnetic emissions).  
4 The three cases of discrimination or harassment concerned, in one case religious faith, substantiated and resolved and in another, physical or 
mental disability, and in the last, unsubstantiated political persuasion.  
5 Of the five complaints, two concerned discrimination or harassment based on ethnicity or race, two other cases (one substanti ated and resolved ) 
discrimination or harassment based on sexual orientation and in the final case discrimination based on economic- social conditions.  
6 Of the three complaints two concerned discrimination or harassment based on sexual orientation and one discrimination or  harassment of an 
obese person.  
7 Of the two complaints one (substantiated and solved) concerned discrimination or harassment based on ethnicity or race and in  the other based 
on sexual orientation.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
146 
 [GRI 411 -1] No incidents of discrimination or violations of the rights of indigenous people have been reported in the Group 
in the last 3 years1. 
 
Complaints received and handled relating to labour issues  
Italy  
 2018  of which:  
substantiated  2017  of which 
substantiated  2016  of which 
substantiated  
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received through the formal 
mechanisms in the reference period  22 0 43 1 74 0 
Handled during the reporting period  2 0 4 1 7 0 
Resolved during the reporting period  1 0 4 1 7 0 
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received previously, which were 
resolved in the reference period 0 0 1 0 0 0 
 
Brazil        
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received through the formal 
mechanisms in the reference period  395 14 236 10 127 9 
Handled during the reporting period  39 14 23 10 12 9 
Resolved during the reporting period  38 14 21 10 12 9 
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received previously, which were 
resolved in the reference period 0 0 0 0 7 3 
 
 
TIM Participações offers its own Whistleblowing  channel for clarification requests or forwarding complaints of alleged 
Human Rights violations by internal and external stakeholders, ensuring maximum confidentiality. A unique identification 
code, associated with each reported complaint, al lows the complainant to check the status of the work in complete 
anonymity. Full information about this is available by clicking on this link: tim.com.br/sp/canal -de-denuncias . 
 
 
 
                                                                 
1 The only geographical area with an indigenous populatio n where TIM operates is Brazil . However, telecommunications activities do not have a 
negative impact on these populations.  
2 The two complaints concerned, in one case sexual harassment at work, unsubstantiated, and in the other the right of the worke r to p erform 
activities and tasks respecting their dignity in the course of work.   
3 Of the four complaints, three concerned the execution of duties in relation to the worker’s dignity (one of which is substant iated and resolved) 
and one of harassment . 
4 The seven complaints concerned the execution of duties in respect of worker’s dignity in five cases, harassment in one case and -  in the last 
case - worker’s freedom of expression.  
5 Seventeen complaints related to harassment  (of which ten were substantiated a nd resolved), fifteen breaches of the union contract (one 
substantiated and settled) and seven complaints concerned sexual harassment at work (three of which substantiated and resolve d). 
6 Eighteen complaints concerned harassment  (of which nine substantiat ed and resolved) and five sexual harassment at work (one of which was 
substantiated and settled).  
7 Eleven complaints concerned harassment  (of which eight were substantiated and resolved) and one sexual harassment at work (which was 
substantiated and settl ed). AppendixTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
148 
 TIM Group - Consolidated economic -financial highlights  
[GRI 102 -7] 
 
(millions of euros)  Revenues *  EBITDA*  Capital expenditures  Headcount at period 
end (number)  
 2018*  2017  2016  2018*  2017  2016  2018*  2017  2016  2018  2017  2016  
Domestic  15,031  15,354  15,006  5,955  6,171  6,698  5,518  4,551  3,709  48,200  49,851  51,280  
Brazil  3,943  4,502  4,047  1,467  1,635  1,325  890 1,150  1,167  9,658  9,508  9,849  
Other activities  - - 11 (19) (16) (18)   - 43 70 100 
Adjustments and 
eliminations  (35) (28) (39) - - (3)   -  - - 
Consolidated total  18,940  19,828  19,025  7,403  7,790  8,002  6,408  5,701  4,876  57,901  59,429  61,229  
 
*From 1 January 2018 the TIM Group retroactively adopted the IFRS 9 (Financial Instruments) accounting standard, making use of the 
specific exemptions provided by the standard and without restating the previously recognised periods, as well as the IFRS 15 (Revenues from contracts with customers) accounting standard using the simplified retrospective method. Consequently, operating and fin ancial 
data of previous years have not been restated. Further details are provided in the Note “ Accounting Policies ” to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements at December 31, 2018 of the TIM Group.  
  
[GRI 201 -4] 
The total contributions, collected as part of research and innovation projects financed by national and 
international public bodies, amounted to 5.3 million euros in 2018 (5.2 million euros in 2017 and 7.2 million euros in 
2016). It should also be noted that the total contributions received in 2018 from the Domestic BU amounted to 
approximately 119 million euros.  
 
 
 
Other consolidated economic -financial data  
 
(millions  of euros)  31/12/2018  31/12/2017  31/12/2016  
 Total Equity  21,747  23,783 23,553  
- attributable to Owners of the Parent  19,528  21,557  21,207  
- attributable to non -controlling interests  2,219  2,226  2,346  
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to Owners of the Parent  (1,411)  1,121  1,808  
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to Non -controlling interests  259 166 158 
Net financial debt carrying amount  25,995  26,091  25,955  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
149 
 [GRI 201 -1] Economic value produced and distributed  
(millions of euros)  2018  2017  2016  
a) Total operating revenues and other income  19,281  20,351  19,336  
b) Interest income and dividends received  54 129 159 
c) Gains (losses) on disposals of non -current 
assets  (1) 11 14 
d) Directly produced economic value (a+b+c)  19,334  20,491  19,509  
e) Operating expenses  8,649  8,824  8,128  
f) Employee benefits expenses  3,105  3,626  3,106  
g) Lenders  1,585  1,705  1,729  
h) Duties and taxes  696 750 946  
i) Distributed economic value (e+f+g+h)  14,035  14,905  13,909  
Non -distributed economic value (d-i) 5,299  5,586  5,600  
 
 
Detailed expenses  
(millions of euros ) 2018  2017  2016  
Employee benefits expenses  3,105  3,626  3,106  
• Salary and wages  1,994  2,056  2,116  
• Social security expenses  738 745 770 
• Sundry expenses  373 825 220 
Operating expenses  8,649  8,824  8,128  
• Acquisition of goods and services  8,186  8,388  7,793  
• Other operating expenses  1,135  1,097  983 
• Change in inventories  (102)  (35) (9) 
• Internally generated assets  (570)  (626)  (639)  
Lenders  1,585  1,705  1,729  
• Distributed dividends  281 223 191 
• Interest expenses  1,304  1,482  1,538  
Duties and taxes  696 750 946 
• Direct duties  571 639 846 
• Indirect duties and taxes  125 111 100 
- relating to Domestic BU  598 679 873 
- relating to Brazil BU  74 64 84 
- relating to foreign operations  24 7 (11) TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
150 
 For each jurisdiction where the Group permanently operates with its own company subsidiaries, the 
income tax expenses paid locally are shown (millions of euros ) 
  
2018  2017  2016  
Argentina   0.03    0.45    (0.03)   
Austria   0.02     
Belgium   0.02    0.02    
Bolivia     
Brazil   42.78    33.64    51.78   
Bulgaria     
Chile   0.02    0.01   
Colombia    0.05    
Russian Federation    0.01   
France   0.23   0.28    0.37  
Germany   0.34    (0.04)    0.07  
Greece    0.01   
Ireland    2.30   9.16  
Virgin Islands (U.S.)     
Israel   (0.06)    0.16   0.41  
Italy   684.06    1,055.23    143.82   
Luxembourg   10.53    4.77   11.44   
Netherlands   0.06    0.05    0.04   
Panama    0.02    
Paraguay    
 0.05   
Peru   0.05    0.06    
Puerto Rico   0.04    0.08    
Czech Republic     
United Kingdom     
Romania   0.01   
 
San Marino   0.19   0.14   0.10  
Singapore   
  
Slovakia   
  
Spain   (0.04)     (0.07)   
Switzerland   0.02    0.04    0.01  
Turkey   
 (0.27)    
USA   1.08   2.30   1.32  
Venezuela   0.01   0.20    
Total   739.38  1,099.51  218.48  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018 
APPENDIX 
151 
 [GRI 102-43] [GRI 102-44]  Initiatives with stakeholders – summary tables  
 
 
 
 Dialogue Partnership Information Consultation 
 
 COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  THE ENVIRONMENT  Commitment . TIM has undertaken to reduce its 
environmental impacts, aimed at improving its 
performance energy efficiency, to adopt purchasing 
policies that take account of environmental issues, and to 
propose innovative technological solutions to individuals, 
companies and PA for the containment of environmental 
impacts. 
Activities . The active collaboration between TIM and 
industry associations and non-profit organizations 
translates in the subscription of the commitments, 
charters and codes that influence and direct the Group’s 
strategy for the Environment. In 2018, worthy of mention 
is the drafting of the Specific Group Policy on the 
Environment  (“Commitment to environmental 
sustainability in the TIM Group”). 
On the energy front, testifying to its commitment, TIM 
won the 2018 Energy Manager award for the service 
sector. 
Activities.  By way of example, the environmental 
Statements product initiatives for customers -TIM eco-
friendly (Environment); the Smart Service offer (security, 
energy efficiency, environment, digital services of the 
city) was consolidated and rationalised (Customers). Collaboration with other telecoms operators on 
issues of environmental importance in the context 
of industry associations and non-profit 
organizations including European 
Telecommunications Network Operators’ 
Association (ETNO), European Telecommunications 
Standards Institute (ETSI), the CDP and 
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) (The 
TIM Group and Environment). 
 
 
 
 
Present at Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), in 
particular in the Industry Responsibility Committee 
Work Group for the sustainability of products and 
services (Environment). 
  
Commitment . TIM is engaged in research and 
development for ICT solutions Internet of Things (Internet 
of Things) for the Smart City who have a positive 
environmental impact. 
On the subject of combating climate change, TIM 
Participações, on the internal front, adopts a four-fold 
strategy which - by way of example - has translated into 
the adoption of a biogas plant for energy self-generation 
(end 2018) (Environment). TIM collaborates with a number of municipalities in 
multi-year projects in the context of eco-
sustainability : REPLICATE (Florence Smart City) and 
the MONICA project (Turin Smart City), SMILE 
project (Turin Smart City). (Environment)   
 
In Brazil. Partnership with the Ministry of Science 
Technology, Innovation and Communications 
(MCTIC) to develop solutions for the mitigation and 
adaptation to climate change. (Environment and 
The value chain/Customers) 
  
Activities . Issue of guidelines and standards on 
measurement methodologies and calculation of the 
levels of exposure to electromagnetic radiation issued by 
the radio systems-mobile.  TIM actively participates in the committees and 
working groups of CEI (The Italian Electrotechnical 
Committee)  (Environment). 
 
  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
152 
  
 
 
                                                                 
1 The 3rd Generation Partnership Project.  
2 Security Assurance.  
3 SECurity Assurance Methodology.   COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  THE COMMUNITY  Commitment. The Group is committed to the issues of 
online security and the dissemination of good Internet 
surfing practices, in particular for the protection of minors from content that may damage their 
psychophysical development.  
Activities . Since 2017, the “ Safe Su rfing ” App created by 
TIM has been available (in collaboration with the State 
Police); TIM -Protect is the exclusive TIM option for total 
protection against WEB threats.  
Agreement with the Ministry of the Interior -
Department of Public Security for the impl ementation 
of a minor disappearance warning device.  Member of the Advisory Board of Safer Internet Centre 
(SIC) , which TIM participated in 2 working groups: 
“School ” and “Communication” . 
TIM participates in the “GSMA - Mobile Alliance against 
Child Sexual Abuse Content ” and “Alliance to better 
protect children online ” working groups  (The value 
chain/Customers).  
 
 
Commitment.  Also in 2018, innovation, both 
technological and business -based, is confirmed as the 
central element to respond to the change in the 
technological, market and competitive context. 
Innovation management is overseen, with different 
missions, by the Innovation Department and by 
engineers, but involves various internal and external 
stakeholders of the company.  
 
Activities.  Opening of 2 Business Innovation Centres 
with Cisco and Huawei; 18 research contracts totalling 840 thousand euros; activities with 27 stan dardization 
bodies and associations (including ETSI, ITU, CENELEC 
and 3GPP), alliances (oneM2m and BBF) and telco open communities (ONF, CORD) and associations (GSMA and NGMN). TIM actively participates in these initiatives, 
contributing to the definition and evolution of 
technologies with innovative solutions such as NBIoT. Open Innovation programmes financed by TIMWCAP and supported through the IoT Open Lab in Turin. In 2016, TIM launched a programme (5G for Italy) to build an ecosystem of partners (14 in  2018), with which to 
develop usage scenarios (Bari/Matera project, Turin project, San Marino project)  TIM develops numerous co -design partnerships by 
signing MoUs with Tech companies (including Ericsson, Huawei, Cisco and other companies of international significance), innovative start -
ups, important 
Universities and research centres European and North American, NGOs and civil society, many according  to 
the principles of 
the Open Innovation . In 2018, R&D 
activities focused on infrastructure issues and application solutions, particularly in the 5G area. For example, the cooperation agreement with Qualcomm to share a strategic vision on the development of advanced business and services and to test innovative 
solutions to accelerate their dissemination. 
(website/media archive/press notes  
In Brazil . RAN -sharing agreement with other Brazilian 
mobile operators for the development of LTE in rural areas with s ystem benefits and efficiencies and positive 
environmental and social impacts.  
Since 2017, TIM Participações has transformed TIM Lab into the first 
Telecom Infra Project (TIP) Community Lab 
in Latin America, which will be used by the members TYP (Facebook,  SK Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Nokia, 
Intel and other companies) to create standard universal relative - initially - solutions transport networks.  The TIP 
is an initiative collaborative which aims to identify new approaches to the creation and deployment of the 
infrastructure of telecommunications networks.  (The 
value chain/Research and development).  
Commitment . Technological evolution. The strategic 
agreement with Microsoft is part of the TIM three- year 
technological plan and will lead to the development  of 
innovative tools that will expand the Group ’s offer.  Strategic agreement  for the development of artificial 
intelligence with Microsoft.  
Commitment.  TIM is committed at the national and 
international level to research and innovation activities 
for cyber security and information and network security.  TIM participates in international work groups for the 
monitoring and steering of cyber security (GSM Association Fraud and Security Group), for the definition of security requirements (in the 3GPP
1 SA2 SECAM3 
area), for cyber and network security, respectively, in the ETSI and in the ETNO field and leads the Security Competence Team of the NGMN Alliance (Next Generation Mobile Network Alliance) for the 
development of new generation networks and services.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
153 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  TIM PEOPLE  Commitment . In 2018, with the aim of promoting the 
involvement of people, TIM continued the process 
undertaken the previous year in internal 
communication that develops in two fundamental 
directions:  
• the conversion from traditional channels of internal communication initiatives toward the most innovative, 
in a logic web -centric, to facilitate the exchange of 
ideas and dialogue between all members of the 
corporate community;  
• the “ story ” of the stra tegy, actions and corporate 
activities in a clear, direct, simple and capillary manner, 
through ad hoc communication plans on every project.  Activities for internal communication with the various initiatives:  
• 
1,450 live meetings on strategies with the fi rst lines 
and all employees, connections in video conferencing 
(94% of the population covered);  
• the “We tellers ” network, meetings and targeted 
actions for communication of the strategy;  
• communications plans supplemented by series of 
videos and video interviews to explain the strategies, 
news, projects and jobs in TIM (TIM People/Internal communication).  
Brazil. In 2018, training and communication initiatives were undertaken to support managers in illustrating the company strategy to their respective teams (TIM people/Commitment to our people).  
 
 
Commitment.  TIM is strongly committed to consider 
tools and services aimed at enhancing human 
resources and motivate people in the Company, 
making them capable of adapting and manage the fast 
change in the telecommunications sector through the continual updating of t he skills technical- behavioural 
and styles of work.  In 2018, an additional skill, “ Diversity 
and inclusion” , was introduced across the other 4 
areas.  
Activities.  Based on the results of the performance 
management was proposed to each person the relative individual development plan: during the year 
were enjoyed approximately 20,000 individual 
development plans about 32,000 euros gross total assigned (63%), including the plans managerial 
individual.  
Development Plans leadership management 
succession plann ing. 
Test of new tool for assessment “Motivation Review ” 
and scientific validation with La Sapienza University.  In 2018, the performance management process  
involved 99.8% of people and 86% received feedback 
from their superior.  
Assessment of managerial potential  is instrumental to 
the identification and enhancement of the current and future managerial pool of the Company (447 
assessments). Experimenting a 
new assessment 
process  (Motivation Review) aims to identify individual 
motivation in 4 Group companies (1,978 people of 
which 179 managers) (TIM People /Development and new skills).  
 
Commitment . The management system of health and 
safety provides numerous initiatives aimed at ensuring 
safety ever greater to workers.  
 
Activities.  Campaigns to monitor the physical agents; 
training initiatives toward all the company staff; analysis of accidents and eventual identification of 
corrective measures; created a digital product 
dedicated to the management of emergencies in case of earthqua kes.
 In terms of safety, TIM has adopted a relational model 
based on a participatory approach that envisages over 
100 Workers ’ Safety Representatives  and 5 Health and 
Safety Committees .  
(4 territorial and 1 National); According to the agreements stipulated with the trade union organisations, these Committees play a participatory and collaborative role aimed at guaranteeing joint analyses and discussion by the company party and the 
union party of all matters relating to health and safety 
at work, on a national and territorial level (TIM 
People/Health and safety protection).  
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
154 
 
TIM PEOPLE  Commitment . The strategy of Digital Transformation 
adopted by TIM imposes the need to develop new skills 
and professional figures  able to optimally interpret 
new business opportunities, also making recourse to re-training activities.  
 
Key issues  of the skills development strategy in TIM:  
• retraining and enhancing professionalism;  
• development of digital skills of the entire company population;  
• evolution of managerial profiles;  
• individual development plans, and for the whole population.  
Activities . Initiatives in support of production and 
dissemination of new content, the creation of networks of relationships internal and external, the exchange of knowledge and generating ideas, principally through 
TIM Academy . Training activities 
are divided into th ree macro -categories: management 
education, evolution of role, specialist and new skills, 
development and empowerment.  
 
In 2018, through the TUO portal  (acronym for Trova (Find), 
Usa (Use) and Organizza (Organise) TIM continued to 
involve call centre opera tors in the process of expanding 
basic knowledge and providing information/training with 
various initiatives aimed at improving the customer 
experience (The value chain/Customers).  TIM Academy . Since 2014, it has developed an 
innovative approach to learnin g and sharing of know -
how to support the digitising and cultural and business transformation process.  
In summary, the TIM Academy offers 
programmes, 
courses and training , in classroom settings, online or 
on-the-job; it promotes the sharing of know -how and 
skills through communities, workshops, seminars and 
think tanks , with qualified national and international 
teachers and endorsers; it designs and delivers new 
digital learning formats : web based training, video, 
webinar, virtual learning and MOOC.  
In 2018,  as part of the network of knowledge model, a 
new company community, “ TIMSh@re ”, was 
introduced with the aim of improving inter -functional 
sharing and collaboration, especially in areas of high technological innovation.  
In 2018 the “ JOB Centre”  professiona l re-training 
project was completed, which since 2016 has offered training courses for people to acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for new roles. In the three- year 
period 2016/2018, 2,925 people were re- trained.  
In Brazil , 6 training and development programmes  
have been activated, of great impact on people, with various involvement methods.  
 
Commitment . In 2018, TIM consolidated its relationship 
model with the main stakeholders of the academic world, schools, social and institutional organisations, with the aim of guiding young people, helping implement the university “ third mission ”, enabling 
innovation, enhancing and fully utilising talent and 
disseminating digital culture, also with a view to 
identifying a pool of qualified candidates in line with 
annual requirements. These drivers:  
• enhancement of internal skills with teachers and testimonies on sp ecific topics;  
• professional orientation students in line with the digital skills;  
• open innovation opportunities.  Partnerships  designed and implemented in 2018 with 
universities and schools were put in place in synergy with TIM ’s Employer Branding activities, facilitating 
dialogue with students and the selection and recruiting 
process (website/Actions and dialogue/People 
development).  
 
 
At national level, TIM has, on several occasions, 
outlined the strategic positioning of the company in relation  to the main economic and production 
indicators and the consequent need to identify measures aimed at supporting the recovery of competitiveness, profitability and at improving the quality of services, in order to protect employment, people, and defend the company scope.  
Activities. In 2018, TIM focused its efforts on projects to 
improve the quality of service (TIM around the Customer), on plans for developing and updating the 
skills of its people to address the digital transformation 
challenges (TIM Academy), with work -life 
reconciliation tools (Agile Work from the 2017 agreement with the Trade Unions).
 On 11 June, after extensive discussion, TIM, the 
National Union Representatives Coordination Unit and the Trade Union Organisations stipulating the National  
Collective Bargaining Agreement on the guidelines of the 2018 -2020 Plan, signed an 
agreement at the 
Ministry of Labour and Social Policies aimed at 
supporting the pursuit of business objectives and the 
management of 4,500 redundancies through non-
traumatic and socially sustainable tools.  
On 2 February, an agreement was reached with the 
union representatives of Managerial personnel for the 
achievement of efficiency targets through socially 
sustainable tools (TIM People/Industrial Relations).  
 
   COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
155 
 
TIM PEOPLE  Key issues . At national level, TIM has, on several 
occasions, outlined the strategic positioning of the 
company in relation to the main economic and production indicators and the consequent need to identify measures aimed at supporting the recovery of competitiveness, profitability and at improving the quality of services, in order to protect employment, 
people, and defend the company scope.  
 
Activities. The agreement provides that the 
performance bo nus is composed of various 
components that have as indicators objectives seen by 
the management incentive systems that recognize the 
input of all the workers to the results.  The company and the trade union reached an understanding that determines the struc ture of the 
2017/2019 performance bonus for companies of the TIM Group.  
A specific joint consultancy body has been set up to 
manage the agreement, which will be notified of the goals each year, derived from the budget process, in 
accordance with the Strate gic Plan; this body is tasked, 
inter alia, with analysing the types of services accessible through welfare (TIM People/Industrial 
Relations).  
 
Commitment . The understanding on agile working 
reached with the Trade Union Organizations in July 
marks another step on the road to TIM ’s digital 
transformation and represents an additional 
undertaking by the Parties to achieve the goals of 
improving productivity, promoting social, economic and environmental sustainability and encouraging work -life balance, with particular attention to family 
care needs.  
Activities.  In December 2018, TIM extended the testing 
of agile work started in September 2017 and expired on 31 December 2018 until April 2019, pending reaching a 
new agreement with the trade unions.  Discussion between TIM and trade unions on agile 
work , following the agreement reached in July 2017 
with the aim of sharing the diffusion of agile work in 
the Company (TIM People/Industrial Relations).  
 
Commitment.  TIM Participações is committed to 
enhancing and motivating people who work in the 
company to retain them and create a pleasant, safe 
and productive environment given the challenging 
objectives of the digital transformation plan.  
 
Initiatives.  In 2018 road shows were held during which 
the managers presented the results of the 2017 survey. Working groups were organised and action plans were 
proposed for climate -related priorities and for the most 
critical areas.  
 Brazil.  Climate survey  in which 95% of employees took 
part (+ 4% compared to 2017).  The general degree of 
consent of TIM reached 75% (TIM people/Commitment 
to our people).  
 
   COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
156 
 
 Activities.  97% of the questions of joint conciliation 
discussed and 84.9% of questions discussed at the 
Co.Re.Com and Chambers of Commerce were settled.  Collaboration with consumer associations (“joint 
conciliation” ) and with the CoReCom for the 
settlement of disputes with customers. In December 2018, the agreement was signed by 22 consumer associations of which 19 registered in the National 
Consumer Consu mers Council chaired by the Ministry 
of Economic Development.  
In Brazil , TIM Participações participates in initiatives in 
collaboration with the agencies that constitute the 
Consumer Protection System (Forum for Conciliation, Consumidor.gov.br web platform) and has set up its own (Users ’ Council) for the reduction of complaints in 
court. TIM participated in the National Forum of Users ’ 
Councils and held the 3rd National Forum of TIM Users ’ 
Councils from which it emerged that the company and its empl oyees are completely committed to satisfying 
customers through any service channel (The value 
chain/Customers).  
 
 
 
   COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  CUSTOMERS  Commitment . Quality and customer experience 
constitute the fundamental pillars of the path of TIM 
toward a future “digital ”. The customer is at the centre 
of TIM and of all processes, to improve the quality of service and strengthening of the relationship with the brand.  
 
Activities.  TIM has initiated an extensive 
transformation process to improve the customer experien ce: “TIM around the Customer ” which includes 
various activities and involves all employees in innovative ways. In 2018, TIM enhanced its Customer Relationship Management model, already oriented towards presence in new digital arenas, through the 
use of a n ew social platform for the integrated 
management of all contact points, also proposing new 
digital caring channels (Customers/Customer 
Satisfaction).  
In Brazil , TIM Participações, through important 
investments in the evolution of the digital 
environment, improved the quality of customer relationship management services (in particular “MyTIMApp ”). 
 Customer satisfaction is systematically measured in the various m oments of the customer journey 
(purchase of a service, call to customer care, reporting of a fault, post on social media) in particular by 
monitoring the Cu stomer Satisfaction Index (CSI) . In 
2018, TIM was the leader in Mobile Consumer and also improved th e satisfaction of the fixed network 
customer.  
In Brazil, TIM Participações measures customer 
satisfaction through three types of surveys, conducted 
on a national basis through interviews (on consumer 
customers, the “ call centre Satisfaction Survey and the 
Call Centre Survey) (The value 
chain/Customers/Customer Satisfaction).  
 
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
157 
 
THE SUPPLY CHAIN  
 Key issues : the best offer conditions, improved 
quality, compliance with the Code of Ethics and 
Conduct of TIM, the security rules, the environment 
and human rights, improve the sustainability of the supply chain.  
 
Activities.  The corrective actions to suppliers with 
the highest risk, to improve the level of performance.
 The sending of a self-assessment questionnaire in terms 
of sustainability suppliers for greater risk in the 
qualification phase and periodically suppliers already qualified;  
periodic sustainability audits made by third -party 
companies on suppliers of the classes with the highest risk. (The value chain/Sustainability throughout the supply 
chain).  
In Brazil  TIM Participações sent a self -assessment 
questionnaire on sustainability issues to approx. 50% of 
suppliers. The results will provide an indication for future selecti on processes.  
 
Key issues.  Verify the level of performance over the 
sustainability of suppliers and subcontractors common to the TLC operators subscribers.  
Activities.  Definition and implementation of 
corrective and programmes continuous 
improvement of suppliers/sub -suppliers involved; 
specific training programmes for suppliers, also in order to propagate the culture of sustainability.
 Joint Audit Cooperation , an initia tive which provides for 
CSR audit activities conducted in the production plants of 
common suppliers and sub -suppliers based on an 
agreement signed with another 12 telecommunications operators. 89 audits in 2017, of which 52 on suppliers TIM. (The value cha in/Sustainability throughout the supply 
chain).  
 
Key issues. Involve suppliers and partners in the TIM 
ecosystem, improving the level of awareness and knowledge on sustainability issues, awarding a prize 
to those who have distinguished themselves.
 Ecos ystem convention with suppliers and partners “ TIM 
let’s network for the future”  13 December with over 100 
companies from 15 countries, including Brazil. Six suppliers 
who distinguished themselves, not only for their contribution to the business, but also f or excellence in 
quality, digital innovation and sustainability were awarded prizes.
 
Key Issues. Transparency, improving 
communication and optimisation of operating processes.
 Exchange of information and documentation with suppliers via the “
Vendors hub ” portal, which in 2018 had 
around 4,312 enabled sellers. (The value chain/ Sustainability throughout the supply chain) and 
(http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/vendorshub.html).  
 
 
Commitment. TIM has undertaken with its industrial 
partners to give an acceleration toward the 
development of an open ecosystem dedicated to the research and the creation of innovative projects enabled by mobile technology of the future for solutions that may be used by citizens and 
industries in the future “ termination (units) Society ”. 
Activities . Three important initiatives were launched 
in 2017 -  Turin 5G, San Marino 5G and Bari -Matera 
5G - to provide these municipalities with 5G radio 
mobile coverage.  TIM and Eric sson strengthen their collaboration for the 
development of the 5G technology with a MOU  intended 
to accelerate the evolution toward the new network. The 
initiative joins schedule “ 5G for Italy ” started by the two 
companies in 2016 for the realisation of innovative projects enabled the technology 5G. (2/3/2017)  
(http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/archivio/media/note -
stampa/corporate/2017/TIM -Ericsson.html).  
 
 
   COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
158 
 
SHAREHOLDERS  
 Key issues . Updated information, financial and non -, on 
the Group, with the greatest attention to the needs of 
all the various categories of people: main stream, SRI, retail shareholders.
 Financial communication online, through the Group 
website 
http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/investors.html) a nd 
“TI Alw@ys on” shareholders ’ club.  
(http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/investors/sharehol
ders/individual -shareholders/club -tialwayson.html) 
provides important information to the individual investors and the general public (6,145 shareholders 
active in 2018). (The TIM Group/Stakeholders 
engagement).  
 
Commitment.  Broaden the basis of investors.  
Key issues. Evolution of the Domestic competitive 
environment, in the face of new operators in mobile and 
fixed wholesale;  
Plan for separation of the fixed access network, and its 
potential impact on operational and financial dynamics;  
Financial discipline in the management costs and 
toward the purchases of video content;  
Evolution of regulation, in the face of growing infrastructural competition and a conseq uent 
geographical differentiation of TIM ’s positioning;  
5G auction, its results and the possibilities of managing 
the roll -out costs of the new technology;  
Growth of customers served with FTTx technology, 
convergent services and the penetration of Business  
customers in ICT services;  
Digitization as an element of operational efficiency, service improvement and sales support;  
Important opportunities to reduce the total costs offered by the decommissioning of legacy components of the network;  
Trend of CAPEX an d their correct sizing, offering 
important growth opportunities for net cash generation;  
Continuous development of TIM Participações and its positive results; Possible support for the Group ’s deleverage from 
inorganic options;  
The level of attention on gov ernance issues and on the 
possible settlement of contrasts emerging among the 
main shareholders is always very high.  
 In 2018,  the Investor Relations Department has 
managed over 500 meetings including: conference calls 
(4 events on the occasion of the annu al and quarterly 
results), road shows, meetings at the Group ’s 
institutional offices (reverse road shows), meetings 
(group and individual) mainly with shareholders, participation in the main TLC sector conferences. The 
Group. (The TIM Group/Stakeholders en gagement) 
(http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/investors/presenta
tions.2017.html)
 
   COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
159 
  COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES   
INSTITUTIONS  
 Key issues. Privacy and protection of personal , discipline 
audiovisual, the fight against corruption, protecting 
minors, the digitization of industry through the 
development of new network technologies, the protection 
of authors ’ rights.  
Activities. The activities in clude participation in the 
working group set up by the European Commission to draw up the 5G Action Plan.
 Individual and team meetings with representatives of 
the national institutions (Commissions in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, parliamentary h earings) 
and international on issues of relevant business for the Group (for example participation with platforms for discussion, public consultation, workshops, meetings of the Committees, and meetings with the EU 
Commission, with Agencies or work groups and studies 
specialist such as, for example, the Centre for the European Policy study). The placement toward 
institutions and bodies takes place through individual 
actions and/or with the participation of other operators 
principally through 
ETNO which has TIM as a member 
of the Board (The TIM Group/Governance and 
sustainability management and 
communities/Research and development).  
 
Commitment. Extend its knowledge of digital tools and 
increase the number of people in possession of digita l skills 
qualities are the objectives of the European Digital 
Agenda. TIM, as a country company and making  the  
reference SDGs its own , in collaboration with the 
institutions , is engaged on this issue through the 
dissemination of ICT technologies in schools and processes 
didactic.  
TIM’s commitment is also expressed through the 
initiatives of the TIM Foundation and Instituto TIM in Brazil  in particular to improve the learning of  STEM 
disciplines (The value chain/Initiatives consistent with the core business).
 Since 2015, TIM has participated as Founding Sponsor partner, now Benefactor, in 
Programma il Futuro 
(Programme the Future), a MIUR initiative, 
implemented by the CINI (Nati onal Inter -University IT 
Consortium) that favours the introduction of coding 
and computational thinking in the educational programmes of schools of all levels.  
Within the context of the MOU signed with MIUR, since 
2016, TIM promotes ScuolaDigitaleTIM. For the 
2018/2019 school year, the project aims to introduce secondary school children to new technologies, the Internet of Things and Robotics.  During the school year, 
3,000 students will be involved in the classroom, in addition to all those who will follow the online teaching on scuoladigitale.tim.it.  
 
Activities.  TIM and TIM Participações, the two Group 
companies which have joined the Global Compact, draw up an annual “Communication on Progress ”, which 
reports on progress achieved by the companies in 
promoting and applying the 10 core principles of the 
Global Compact.  
The topics discussed during the two webinars organized 
by the Peer Learning Group on Business and Human 
Rights in 2018 were the following::  
• “ Internal and external awareness building on modern 
slavery ”; 
• “ Meeting the transparency requirements and 
effectively communicating Human Rights ”; 
Activities . TIM monitors and analyses the complaints of 
any violations of Human Rights that come through the 
portal whistleblowing and in 2018 continued the 
preparation of a specific procedure, “Management of 
complaints of any violations of Human Rights by TIM 
Group ”. 
In the last two years, TIM has also implemented: 
• human rights due diligence  
• “Respecting Human Rights in the Group ” policy;  
• information and training on Human Rights  
In 2018, TIM Participações made a version of the localised course available on the TIM e -learning 
platform.  TIM and TIM Participações adhere to the related Global 
Compact  national networks.  
 Since 2012, TIM has been a member of the 
Peer 
Learning Group on Business and Human Rights , set up 
within Global Compact Network Germany.  
(Human Rights and  in website/relationship with the 
Institutions and the market)  
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
160 
  
  
 COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  INSTITUTIONS  
 Commitment.  At the local level, TIM has an ongoing 
dialogue with the institutions on general topics related 
to the electronic communications sector, particularly 
regarding the development of the ultra broadband networks and of the 5G standard and the reduction of the digital divide. From 2017, thanks to the safeguards 
stable over the territory, the Company has been able to 
strengthen and enhance dialogue.  
 
Activities . Between the activities performed, signing 
protocols with Local Organizations, to accelerate the 
devel opment of access networks of new generation; 
forms of collaboration with the Common to promote the spread and the learning of new technologies; 
agreements, protocols and partnerships with the local 
public administrations for the diffusion of innovation 
and digital culture; edition 2018 of 20 Policy Reports 
regional ‘state of the art and on the evolution of the 
regional policies regarding digital services, network 
infrastructure, digital agenda and smart cities.  Interviews, direct shareholdings in the work shops, the 
meeting of the regional commissions and the work 
groups specialist, joint projects with local authorities . 
TIM promotes the constitution of internal committees of joint control, consisting of representatives of all the parties involved, accordin g to the specific needs of the 
project with the presence of stakeholders without any 
kind of discrimination (The value chain and on 
sustainability website).  
 
 
Key issues. Network development and population 
coverage, digital inclusion and social, privacy,  protect 
consumers.  
Activities. Projects Instituto TIM in collaboration with 
the departments: TIM Faz Ciência (TIM Does Science); TIM Tec; Mapas Culturais (Cultural Maps).
 In Brazil . Dialogue initiatives with the Government, with 
Congress and at the local level (schedule of meetings 
individual and collective, debates, hearings and public 
consultation ). 
The dialogue between TIM and institutions is supported by the 
activity of Instituto TIM , through partnerships 
designed with the Government , particularly with the 
Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture; Instituto TIM operates for social progress promoting 
studies matters mathematician scientific and 
innovation among children and teenagers and developing free solutions that contribu te to social 
policies (The value chain and on -site web Sustainability 
and 
https://en.institutotim.org.br ). 
 
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
161 
  
 COMMITMENT - ACTIVITIES  INITIATIVES  COMPETITORS  
 Commitment . TIM undertook to provide answers  
personalised and prompt to customers and has 
implemented an internal constant oversight of the 
customer and also to ensure, in particular, for the constant 
monitoring of the various phases of the supply of regulated 
services.  Continuing dialogue with the OAO (Other Authorised 
Operators) on commercial issues and related to the 
implementation of the Undertakings, also through newsletter and portal on which are performed initiatives of involvement and counting the satisfaction 
(Sustainability website and 
www.wholesale.telecomitalia.com ). 
 
 
Commitment . TIM from his contribution to Authorities 
and Institutions for the governance of the process regulatory issues deemed tangible assets for the growth of the value of the Company, in order to reach a 
regulation simple, effective and symmetric. The 
constant discussions with AGCOM and the institutions 
ensure that TIM gathers their opinions, supplying transparent, reliable responses, and anticipates events, 
creating and exploiting the best opportunities for the 
Company.
 Discussion and ongoing dialogue with the Authority 
(AGCM and AGCOM in Italy, Anatel and CADE in Brazil) and with Trade Associations Italian companies, Brazilian and international (Sustainability  website).  
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
162 
 2017 and 2018 Results  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The results achieved are shown below, compared to the 
objectives published in the previous Sustainability Report for the year 2018 and in relation to only stakeholder Customers 
for the year 20171. 
TIM S.p.A. – Customers2     (*) Status Target: ●  achieved ● not achieved  
Area of reference  Indicator  Unit of 
measur
ement  Target 
2017  Actual 
figure 
2017  Status 
target 
2017  Target 
2018  
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Activation time for voice service (pre- paid service) – 
Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum period laid down in the contract  % 97 100 ● 
reached   97 
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Activation time for voice service (post -paid service) –  
Percentage of valid orders completed within the 
maximum period laid down in the contract  % 97 100 ● 
reached  97 
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Disputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices received within the survey 
period and the number of invoices issued in the same 
period (post -paid service)  % 1.2 0,63 ● 
reached  1.2 
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Disputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges on pre -paid cards within the survey 
period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the 
same period (pre -paid service)  % 1.2 0.39 ● 
reached  1.2 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for broadband Internet access services – 
Percentage of valid orders completed within the date 
agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)  % 95 97.7 ● 
reached  95 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for broadband internet access services – 
Average time of supply (active telephone lines)  Days  9 4 ● 
reached  9 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for broadband Internet access services – 
Percentage of valid orders completed within the date 
agreed with the customer (telephone lines transferred 
from another operator on which a broadband Internet 
access service was already in operation)  % 95 98.8  ● 
reached  95 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for  broadband Internet access services -  
Average supply time (telephone lines transferred from 
another operator on which a broadband Internet access service was already in operation)  Days  15 10 ● 
reached  15 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults  – Ratio between 
the effective number of malfunction reports and the 
average number of broadband access lines  % 12 6.5 ● 
reached  12 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults –  Average repair 
time  Hours  26 17 ● 
reached  26 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults -  Percentage of 
fault repairs completed within the maximum time 
contractually established  % 92 95.6 ● 
reached  92 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Disputed charges - Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in bills regarding all internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of bills issued in the same period  % 1.4 0.4 
● 
reached  1.4 
 
  
                                                                 
1 The actual figures of the above mentioned objectives for 2018 will be available in July 2019 at tim.it  
2The full list of quality indicators, and the respective objectives for them, is available at tim.it and  timbusiness.it . The above objectives are 
established by AGCom, with resolution no. 154/12/CONS for “mobile” services and resolutions No. 131/06/CSP, 244/08/CSP, 400/10/CONS and 
151/12/CONS for fixed internet access services.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018 
APPENDIX 
163 
 TIM S.p.A. – Other stakeholders 
Area of reference Indicator Unit of 
measureme
nt Target 2018  Final 
figures 
2018 Status 
target 
2018 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING Training on health, safety and the 
environment1 Hours of 
training 90,000 145,358 ● 
reached 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING Number of training hours per capita1 Hours of 
training 
Per capita 27 29.28 ● 
reached 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING Training - Coverage (percentage of 
employees who participated in at least one 
training session from the total population) % 80 100.4 ● 
reached 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
ACCIDENTS Accidents per 100 workers Number 1.05 0.98 ● 
reached 
ENVIRONMENT - ENERGY Eco-efficiency indicator 2 bit/joule 12,000 11,121 ● 
not 
reached 
ENVIRONMENT - ENERGY Self-production of cogeneration energy GWh 130 130 ● 
reached 
 
1 The data includes classroom, on-line and on-the-job training. 
2The indicator is calculated on the Domestic BU and Persidera and Olivetti Group operations are not included. For more information on the 
eco-efficiency indicator see Environment/Energy Chapter. 
 
 
 
TIM Brasil 
Area of reference Indicator 
 Unit of 
measurem
ent Target 
2018 Final 
figures 
2018 Status 
target 
2018 
HUMAN RESOURCES Training - Coverage (percentage of own, outsourced 
and intern employees who participated in at least 
one training session from the total population) % * 
Not 
applicable  88% * 
Not 
applicable 
HUMAN RESOURCES Sustainability training (percentage of the total 
population of own, outsourced and intern 
employees who participated in at least one training 
session on sustainability issues) % 90% 91% ● 
reached  
THE ENVIRONMENT  Collection of mobile phones, batteries and other 
accessories for recycling Tons 1 ** 
Not 
applicable ** 
Not 
applicable 
THE ENVIRONMENT  Relationship between recycled waste and total 
waste generated in offices % 13 13 ● 
reached 
THE SUPPLY CHAIN Suppliers assessed with sustainability criteria Number 350 831 ● 
reached 
* From 2018, the training figure is shown as total population coverage and no longer as the number of hours taken. 
** The collection programme for mobile phones, batteries and other devices was not implemented in 2018. 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
164 
 2019 and multi -annual targets  
The objectives for 2019 are shown below.  
TIM S.p.A. – Customers1  
Area of reference Indicator  Unit of 
measurement  Target 
2019  
CUSTOMERS - 
MOBILE  Activation time for voice service (pre -paid service) –  Percentage of valid orders 
completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract  % 97 
CUSTOMERS - 
MOBILE  Activation time for voice service (post -paid service) – Percentage of valid orders 
completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract  % 97 
CUSTOMERS - 
MOBILE  Disputed charges –  Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices 
received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same 
period (post -paid service)  % 1.2 
CUSTOMERS - 
MOBILE  Disputed charges –  Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre- paid 
cards within the survey period and the average number of  active SIM/USIM in the 
same period (pre -paid service)  % 1.2 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Activation time for broadband Internet access services –  Percentage of valid orders 
completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)  % 95 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Activation time for broadband internet access services –  Average time of supply 
(active telephone lines)  Days  9 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Activation time for broadband internet access services –  Percentage of valid orders 
completed within the date agreed with the customer (telephone lines transferred 
from another operator on which a broadband Internet access service was already 
in operation)  % 95 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Activation time for broadband internet access services - Average supply time 
(telephone lines transferred from another operator on which a broadband Internet 
access service was already in operation)  Days  15 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults  – Ratio between the effective number of 
malfunction reports and the average number of broadband access lines  % 12 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults –  Average repair time  Hours  26 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults - Percentage of fault repairs completed 
within the maximum time established in the contract  % 92 
CUSTOMERS - 
FIXED INTERNET  Disputed charges - Ratio between the number of disputed charges in bills 
regarding all internet access services (received during the survey period) and the 
total number of bills issued in the same period (broadband access services)  % 1.4 
 
 
  
                                                                 
1The full list of quality indicators, and the respective objectives for 2018, is available at tim.it. The above objectives are  established by  AGCom, 
with resolution no. 154/12/CONS for “mobile” services and resolutions No. 131/06/CSP, 244/08/CSP, 400/10/CONS and 151/12/CONS for fixed 
internet access services.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
165 
 TIM S.p.A. – Other stakeholders  
Area of reference Indicator  Unit of 
measurem
ent Final figures 
2018  Target  
2019  
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING  Training on health, safety and the environment1 Hours of  
training  145,358  90,000  
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING  Training - Training hours per capita1 Hours of  
training  
Per capita 29.28  30 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING  Training - Coverage (percentage of employees who 
participated in at least one training session from the total 
population)  % 100.4  98 
HUMAN RESOURCES  
ACCIDENTS  Accidents per 100 workers  Number  0.98  0.90  
ENVIRONMENT - ENERGY  Eco-efficiency indicator 2 bit/joule  11,121  13,300  
ENVIRONMENT - ENERGY  Self-production of cogeneration energy 3 GWh  130 150 
 
1 The data includes classroom, on -line and on- the-job training.  
2The eco -efficiency indicator is calculated on the Domestic BU and Persidera and Olivetti Group operations are not included.  
3 From 2014 the target was extended to the entire Domestic BU. In relation to this note that only TIM S.p.A. currently has coge neration plants. 
See the Multi -annual Targets table.  
 
 
 
  
 
Italy – Digital Inclusion   
Indicator  Unit of 
measureme
nt Final figures 2018  Target  
2021  
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed telephony) FTTC (*)  % 79.8 81 
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed telephony) FTTH  % 14.2 22 
 
(*) The percentage is determined by the ratio between the number of properties connected with “ cabinets ” reached by access optical fibres (or 
which can be served directly from an exchange if within acceptable distances) and the total number of properties that have or  have had active 
telephone lines in the past.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
166 
 Domestic BU –  Environment  
Area of  
reference  Indicator  Unit of 
measure
ment  Target  
2018  Final 
figures  
2018  Target  
Status  Target  
2019  Target  
2020  Target  
2021  
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ENERGY  Total electricity 
procured and  
produced  GWh  1,785  1,863  ● 1,740  1,730  1,720  
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ENERGY  Self-production of 
cogeneration energy  GWh  130 130 ● 
 150 170 170 
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ENERGY  Eco-efficiency indicator  bit/joule  12,000  11,121  ● 13,300  15,500  17,700  
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ATMOSPHERIC  
EMISSIONS  Reduction of CO2 
emissions from the 
purchase and 
production of electricity  
in relation to 2013  t 89,000 52,600  ● 110,000  111,000  115,000  
 
 
 
 
TIM Brasil –  2019 Targets  
 
Area of reference Indicator  Unit of 
measurem
ent Final figures 
2018  Target  
2019  
HUMAN RESOURCES  Training - Coverage (percentage of own, outsourced and 
intern employees who participated in at least one training 
session from the total population)  % 88 80 
HUMAN RESOURCES  Sustainability training (percentage of the total population of 
own, outsourced and intern employees who participated in at 
least one training session on sustainability issues)  % 91 90 
THE ENVIRONMENT  Collection of mobile phones, batteries and other accessories 
for recycling  Tons  0* 0.5 
THE ENVIRONMENT  Relationship between recycled waste and total waste 
generated in offices  % 13 13 
THE SUPPLY CHAIN  Main suppliers assessed with sustainability criteria.  % n.a.1  
85 
 
 
* The program to collect mobile phones, batteries and other accessories to be recycled is under review . 
  
                                                                 
1 Not available as this is a new objective.  TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
167 
 Table of the links between topics covered by Decree 254/16, topics which emerged as material in 
the TIM materiality analysis and the adopted GRI reporting standard  
Legislative 
Decree 
254/2016 topic  Material topic 2018 TIM  Results  Risks 
identified  Policies 
adopted  Topic 
Disclosure  page  
Environmental  Reducing the environmental impact of TIM ’s 
operations  305-1 
305-2 
305-3 
305-4 
305-5 
305-6 
305-7 50, 52  See table page 28  
Social  Developing digital infrastructures with next -
generation networks  203-1 
203-2 
413-1 102, 110, 130  
110, 130  
96  
See table page 28  Service quality (CSI)  203-1 
203-2 
417-1 
417-2 102, 110, 130  
110, 130  
124 
125  
Safeguarding privacy and personal data 
protection and security  418-1 129  
Online protection of minors (cyber bullying, 
child pornography, gambling)  102-2b 120, 121   
Integrating economic, social and environmental aspects in governance and the strategic plan  413-1 
413-2 96 
96  
Stakeholder engagement      
Develop the resilience of regions to disasters  203 
413-2 102, 110, 130  
96  
Employee issues  Managing the workforce and employment development  401-1 
401-2 
401-3 
402-1 59, 82, 83  
78 
59, 84, 85  
69 
See table page 28  Managing the health and safety of workers  403-1 
403-2 
403-3 
403-4 72 
72, 73, 86  
72, 73, 141  
72, 74   
Developing personnel competencies  404-1 
404-2 
404-3 66, 87  
62, 63, 64  
62, 63, 64   
Reduce inequality and favour equal opportunities in the company  405-1 
405-2 
406-1 60, 61  
92 
141, 145   
Respect of human 
rights  Promoting and safeguarding human rights  406-1 
407-1 
408-1 
409-1 
410-1 
412-1 
412-2 
412-3  141, 145  
134,136, 142  
69, 136, 141  
69, 136, 141  
135 
141 
143 
133, 134  See table page 28  
Fight against 
corruption  Correctness of corporate conduct  205-1 
205-2 
205-3 
206-1 
415-1 
419-1 19 
21 
20 
21 
21 
21, 125, 126  See table page 28  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2018 
APPENDIX 
168 
 GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the organization 10
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10
102-3 Location of headquarters 10
102-4 Location of operations 10
102-5 Ownership and legal form 10, 11
102-6 Markets served 10
102-7 Scale of the organization 10, 12, 13
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 59, 81
102-9 Supply chain 133
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 6, 10, 11
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 15, 27
102-12 External initiatives 18, 120
102-13 Membership of associations 18
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 27
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 18
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 16
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 14, 17
102-19 Delegating authority 14, 15, 17
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 
and social topics 15, 17
102-21Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and 
social topics 15, 18
102-22Composition of the highest governance body and its 
committees 14
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 15
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 14
102-25 Conflicts of interest 15
102-26Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 
and strategy15, 17
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 14
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 15
102-29Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 
social impacts15, 27
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 15, 27[GRI 102-55] GRI CONTENT INDEX
for “In accordance”- Comprehensive
GRI 101: Foundation 2016GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
169 
 GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 14, 17
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 15, 17
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 16
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 16
102-35 Remuneration policies 16, 17
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 16
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 16, 67
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 67 The ratio between the annual total 
compensation of the highest paid 
individual and the median annual
total compensation for all employees was 
not disclosed for confidentiality constraints. 
It was judged to fall under the category of 
information subject to the "Policy for the classification and management of 
confidentiality information" in that the datum, once disclosed and if not properly 
understood, could cause the company a 
reputational
damage.
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 67The ratio between the annual total 
compensation of the highest paid 
individual and the median annual
total compensation for all employees was 
not disclosed for confidentiality constraints. 
It was judged to fall under the category of 
information subject to the "Policy for the 
classification and management of confidentiality information" in that the 
datum, once disclosed and if not properly understood, could cause the company a reputational
damage.
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 69
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22, 115, 162
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 23, 113, 162
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 6, 10
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 24
102-47 List of material topics 27
102-48 Restatements of information 6, 10
102-49 Changes in reporting 27
102-50 Reporting period 6
102-51 Date of most recent report 6
102-52 Reporting cycle 6
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 6
102-55 GRI content index 168
102-56 External assurance 175GENERAL DISCLOSURESTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
170 
  GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 102, 105, 110
103-2 The management approach and its components 102, 110, 111
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103, 105, 110
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 102, 110, 130
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 110, 130
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 19
103-2 The management approach and its components 19
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 19
205-2Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and procedures21
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 20
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 38
103-2 The management approach and its components 39
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 39
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 39, 47
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 47
302-3 Energy intensity 48
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 47
302-5Reductions in energy requirements of products and 
services46
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 38
103-2 The management approach and its components 38
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 51
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 50
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 50
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 50
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 52
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 50
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 50
305-7Nitrogen oxides (NO X), sulfur oxides (SO X), and other 
significant air emissions50Not Applicable. Nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
sulfur oxides (SOx) and other air emissions 
from TIM Group's operations and activities 
are negligible and therefore not reported.GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 302: Energy 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016EnergyMATERIAL  DISCLOSURES
EmissionsIndirect Economic Impacts
Anti-corruptionGRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 
2016
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 305: Emissions 
2016TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
171 
  GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 133
103-2 The management approach and its components 134, 135, 137
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 136, 138
308-1New suppliers that were screened using environmental 
criteria134, 135
308-2Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken136
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 56
103-2 The management approach and its components 56, 57
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 56, 140
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 59, 82, 83
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employees78
401-3 Parental leave 59, 84, 85
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 69
103-2 The management approach and its components 57, 69, 71
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70
GRI 402: 
Labor/Management 
Relations 2016402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 69
103-1 Explanation of material topic and its Boundaries 72
103-2 The management approach and its components 72, 74
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 56, 57, 
403-1Workers representation in formal joint 
management–worker health and safety committees72
403-2Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 
fatalities72, 73, 86
403-3Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 
related to their occupation72, 73, 141
403-4Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 
with trade unions72, 74
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 62
103-2 The management approach and its components 56, 62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 66, 87
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programs62, 63, 64
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews62,63, 64
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 60
103-2 The management approach and its components 76, 77
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 61, 76,
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 60, 61
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 92Labor/Management Relations
Occupational Health and Safety
Training and EducationGRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety 2016GRI 401: Employment 
2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 404: Training and 
Education 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 405: Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 
2016EmploymentGRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016Supplier Environmental AssessmentMATERIAL  DISCLOSURESTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
172 
  GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 140
103-2 The management approach and its components 76, 140
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76, 140
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 141, 145
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 140
103-2 The management approach and its components 140, 141, 142
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76, 143
GRI 407: Freedom of 
Association and 
Collective Bargaining 
2016407-1Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be at risk134, 136, 142
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 140
103-2 The management approach and its components 140, 141, 142
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 140, 143
GRI 408: Child Labor 
2016408-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
child labor69, 136, 141 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 140
103-2 The management approach and its components 140, 141, 142
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 140, 143
GRI 409: Forced or 
Compulsory Labor 
2016409-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory labor69, 136, 141 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 140
103-2 The management approach and its components 140, 141, 142
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 140, 143
GRI 410: Security 
Practices 2016410-1Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 
procedures135
103-1 Explanation of the material topict and its Boundary 140
103-2 The management approach and its components 140, 141, 142
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 140, 141
412-1Operations that have been subject to human rights 
reviews or impact assessments141
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 143
412-3Significant investment agreements and contracts that 
include human rights clauses or that underwent human 
rights screening133, 134Security Practices
Human Rights Assessment
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 412: Human Rights 
Assessment 2016MATERIAL  DISCLOSURES
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016Non-discrimination
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
Child Labor
Forced or Compulsory LaborGRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
173 
  
 GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 94
103-2 The management approach and its components 95
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 97, 98, 100
413-1Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs96
413-2Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communities96
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 133
103-2 The management approach and its components 133, 134, 135
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 136, 138
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 134, 135, 141
414-2Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 
taken134, 135, 141
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 123
103-2 The management approach and its components 123, 124
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 123
416-1Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 
and service categories123
416-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 
safety impacts of products and services124
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 123
103-2 The management approach and its components 123, 124
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 123
417-1Requirements for product and service information and 
labeling124
417-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 
service information and labeling125
417-3Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communications126
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 127, 128
103-2 The management approach and its components 127, 128, 130
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 128, 129
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer data129
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 123
103-2 The management approach and its components 123
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 123
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 2016419-1Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and economic area21, 125, 126Local Communities
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016MATERIAL  DISCLOSURES
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016Supplier Social Assessment
Customer Health and SafetyGRI 414: Supplier 
Social Assessment 
2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 416: Customer 
Health and Safety 2016
Customer Privacy
Socioeconomic ComplianceGRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016
GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016GRI 103: Management 
Approach 2016Marketing and Labeling
GRI 417: Marketing and 
Labeling 2016TIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
174 
  
 GRI Standard 2016 DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 13, 149
201-2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change40
201-3Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement 
plans78
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 148
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive Behavior 
2016206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practices21
GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 49
GRI 306: Effluents and 
Water 2016306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 53
GRI 307: Enviromental 
Compliance 2016307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 42
GRI 411: Rights of 
Indigenous Peoples 
2016411-1Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 
peoples145, 146
GRI 415: Public Policy 
2016415-1 Political contributions 21Security Practices
Public PolicyWaterAnti-competitive Behavior
Effluents and Waste
Enviromental ComplianceGRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016Economic Performance Material TopicsOTHER DISCLOSURESTIM Sustainability Report 2018  
APPENDIX  
175 
  
 
 
 
 
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITORS  
[GRI 102 -56] 
 
 