>>Sustainability way
Report on activities 2002 
Report on activities 2002 >>1Preliminary Information >>
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information1Contents
2Chairman`s letter
3Achievements and commitments
4Context and method
2002 sustainability report 1Preliminary Contents 1
Information Chairman’s letter 2
Achievements and commitments 3
Context and method 4
Charters and Codes Charter of Values 7
Charter of Services 8
Environmental Charter 9
Code of Ethics 10
Code of Conduct for Insider Dealing 11
External Customers 13
Stakeholders Suppliers 19
Competitors 21
The State and institutions 23
Future generations: the environment and sustainable development 25
The Community 39
Internal Employees 47
Stakeholders Shareholders 53
Other Information Selected financial data 56
Auditors’ Report (Reconta Ernst & Young) 58/L50123CONTENTS/L50123CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
2002 sustainability report 21Preliminary Information >>
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information1Contents
2Chairman`s letter
3Achievements and commitments
4Context and method
The current international scenario and the
direct effects it is having on social andeconomic trends place greater focus on therole that business, and especially largecompanies, can play in shaping societaldevelopment and in directing change interms of framework and targets toward asystem of values.
Companies which are conscious of their
evolving role see themselves at the center ofa network of relationships with a variety ofstakeholders who can have a real influenceon their reputation and competitivity.Concern for values consequently becomes anintegral part of company processes and assuch can be measured, managed andmonitored.
The Telecom Italia Group has performed a
leading role in introducing the SustainabilityReport in Italy as a means of integratedperformance reporting and transparentcommunication of corporate strategies.
The course we have followed, from our 1997
social report to our 2002 integrated report,has been coherent and compliant with agrowing and more qualified commitment topromote Sustainability as a business value.
In 2002, the Group governance structure
was further enhanced through adoptingpractices and principles of conduct, formallyexpressed in codes and procedures. Thecorporate governance system wasimplemented with the Code of Ethics, whichis ideally placed upstream of the wholesystem and which constitutes, in terms ofgeneral policy, the set of principles which
guides the Group’s activities in relationshipswith our stakeholders for an ethical businessconduct.
Corporate strategy will be integrated with
the Strategic Sustainability Plan, whichaddresses areas for improvement inrelationships with stakeholders and outlinesprojects and targets in accordance withappropriate lines of action, thus setting up a
complete process for governance ofsustainability within the Group.
Marco Tronchetti Provera
1Preliminary Information >>
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information1Contents
2Chairman`s letter
3Achievements and commitments
4Context and method
2002 sustainability report 3/L50123ACHIEVEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS
… The Telecom Italia Group “proposes Sustainability as a business value, a tool for programming,
management and control.”
(from the Chairman’s letter - 2001 Sustainability Report)
/L50123DEPLOYMENT
In 2002, the systemic procedures for obtaining data and planning were set up.
The Key Performance Indicators were re-examined to conform them to the economical-financiallanguage, to measure them at regular intervals and against specific benchmarks.New KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) were identified through an in-depth rereading of issuesthat several evaluation ratings imposed. In 2002, twelve international questionnaires makinginquiries about the Group, conducted by Sustainability rating agencies, were answered.
Actions and objectives accomplished in 2002 are briefly listed below:
–Signing up to the Global Compact’s principles set by the UN Secretary General, Kofi Annan.
–Drawing up the Sustainability Report jointly edited with the Annual Report and presented at
the Shareholders’ Meeting.
–Creation of a Sustainability Database containing 380 KPIs.
–Admission to the FTSE4Good Index for Telecom Italia and Tim and to the DJSI for Seat.
Eligibility for admission to the DJSI for Telecom Italia and Tim.
–Approval of the Group Code of Ethics and Group Code of Conduct for Insider Dealing.
–Start-up of the CRSA (Control & Risk Self Assessment) project supplementing the existing
internal control system.
–Creation of the Group Sustainability Function and identification of the Function leaders.
/L50123GOVERNANCE
–At the meeting with the Financial Community (Milan 14 February 2003) Sustainability was
presented as one of the cornerstones for the growth and development of the Telecom ItaliaGroup.
–The Group Convention (Rome - 2 April 2003), which was centered on the theme “The Team,
The Project, The Values”, recognized that Sustainability is a key factor in successful businessand goes hand-in-hand with financial policies and strategies.
–Progetto Italia, publicly presented on 21 January 2003, is a further sign of the will to give a
unitary and strategic sense to all the resources and energies spent by the Group on variousfronts of activities in the cultural, social, and sports field.
–Analysis of the five-year set of data and introduction of KPIs have revealed areas of particular
attention: Future Generations and Shareholders. These are the focus points to which roughly
50% of the KPIs are dedicated and for which in-depth evaluations of the data and of the moresensitive areas are being carried out. The KPIs for Employees are very detailed, considering thegreat strategic significance given to human resources.
–The Strategic Sustainability Plan outlines a number of wide-ranging programs, or 
white
projects , and other projects and recommendations that will improve some aspects of
Sustainability in the Business Units and in the controlled companies and that will be reflectedin the MBO of the Functions which will carry them out. Plan control and management willconstitute the governance of Sustainability, which is responsible for coordinating relatedactivities in order to be able to plan action.1Preliminary Information >>
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information1Contents
2Chairman`s letter
3Achievements and commitments
4Context and method
2002 sustainability report 4/L50123CONTEXT AND METHOD
In the world
The sustainability principles were solemnly
restated in 2002 at the World Summit onSustainable Development (Johannesburg, 26August to 4 September) attended by 22,000
delegates representing virtually all membercountries of the UN (191 out of 195),governmental and non-governmentalinternational organizations, corporations andresearch institutes.The Summit confirmed the commitments(signed by governments at the UNConference on Environment andDevelopment in Rio de Janeiro ten yearsearlier) to promote and to adopt nationalstrategies for implementation by 2005 ofthe Agenda 21 principles and actions aimingfor balance between economic growth,
social development and environmentalprotection.The conference in Johannesburg approvedthe type II partnerships, ie partnershipsbetween governments, corporations andNGOs for the attainment of the goals ofsustainability (combating poverty, protecting human rights, defending humanhealth, promoting education, expandingaccess to water, defending oceans/marineresources, developing sustainableagriculture, aiding development, managingtoxic chemicals, developing renewableenergies, protecting the climate, protectingbiodiversity).In 2002, the United Nations EnvironmentProgramme continued its internationalbenchmark survey of corporate reporting(embodying the concept of sustainabilitysince 2001), assessing the social-economicperformance and the environmentalperformance of businesses, and particularlytheir contribution to employment,qualification of human resources anddevelopment of local communities.As also the Telecom Italia Group has alreadydone in 2002, many global corporationssigned up to the Global Compact, proposedby the UN Secretary General, Kofi Annan, 
for human rights, labor standards and
environmental protection.In Europe
The European Commission’s
“Communication on a sustainabledevelopment strategy”, approved at theGöteborg European Council in June 2001,invited all European companies with at least500 staff to publish a “triple bottom line” intheir annual reports to shareholders thatmeasures their performance againsteconomic, environmental and social criteria.The Italian government has definedcorporate social responsibility one of the fivekey objectives of the six-month Italian
presidency of the European Union in thesecond half of 2003 and stated that itintends to relaunch the program forcooperation between businesses andgovernments to achieve fair and sustainabledevelopment, signed at the EuropeanCouncil in Lisbon in spring 2000 by theheads of state and government leaders ofthe EU countries.In July 2001, the European Commissionpublished a Green Paper promoting aEuropean framework for Corporate SocialResponsibility. It set up a Round Table onCSR Management Standards to conduct awide consultation process addressingbusiness representatives, stakeholders, andresearch institutions to draw up socialresponsibility standards. It also promotedconcrete proposals for action to mobilizenew skills, respond to employees’expectations, assure access to economicservices of general interest, developinformation on socially responsibleinvestments, give Codes of Conductcredibility, make socially responsiblepractices more transparent, improveconsumer information, evaluate the socialand environmental performance ofbusinesses, promote the social responsibilityof SMEs, broaden social dialog, integratesocial and ethical requirements into calls fortenders, and develop pension funds.Additionally, social-environmental reportingis being given increasing importance in thelegislation of various European governments.By way of example, we mention the Frenchlaw introduced in 2002 requiring listedcompanies to take into account the social
and environmental consequences of theiractivities in their annual reports as from thisyear (and all other companies from 2003);
and the British, French and Danishgovernment requirements that pension fundprospectuses contain full information ontheir corporate social responsibility policies.
Civil society and business culture
The recommendations of national and
international government institutionsrespond, on the one hand, to the pressuresof civil society, particularly through manyNGOs (environmentalist associations,associations for the defense of human rights,for fair and ethical trade, for elimination of
child labor) requiring businesses to beaccountable for their objectives and theconsequences of their behaviors, and on theother, to changes in business culture whichhas now acquired the concepts ofsustainable development and socialresponsibility as essential elements incorporate strategy.
The basic theory behind this new business
culture is that a socially responsible businessby responding to the legitimate expectations
of its stakeholders wins their trust andcooperation and improves its reputation.This new business culture is embodied byCorporate Social Responsibility (CSR)Europe, which gathers businesses andassociations at European level and promotesbest practices in corporate sustainabilityreports through annual conferences. It setup the European Academy on CSR forresearch and management training oncorporate social responsibility issues.A growing number of entrepreneurs andbusiness managers is coming to believe thatvoluntary publication of a detailed report on
social-environmental performance is far-sightedly anticipating a tendency towardcompulsory, generalized standards that couldprove too rigid and inappropriate for varioustypes of business activity.The changes in business culture have alsoinvolved substantial changes in certification.As the British Association of CharteredCertified Accountants (ACCA) reports,reporting has gone from the old formatmarked by mere reference to the
shareholders to a report with a large numberof stakeholders, from standardizedinformation concerning only financialperformance to personalized, broaderinformation, from periodic reporting tocontinuous reporting, from informationbased on historical cost to information basedon intrinsic value, from a national context toa global context, from a static system to asystem in continuous evolution.In the most advanced experiences, such asthe Telecom Italia Group, the new forms ofsocial reporting are being integrated andcombined with the more traditionalinstruments to produce the dual bottom line,which combines the environmental reportand social report; this has paved the way forthe triple bottom line (TBL), which integratesboth the preceding reports with the financialreport thus forming a single documentcovering all aspects of corporateperformance.Indicators of economic and financial resultsare enriched with additional evaluationcriteria on the basis of which:–consumers, investors, customers,
partners and suppliers orient theirbehaviors and direct their spend optionsand investment decisions (financialresources, competencies and knowledge)in the economic relations they establishwith the business;
–entrepreneurs and business managers
draw up their strategies and checkperformance.
Social reporting is increasingly based onshared process standards, such as thequality principles proposed by theSustainability Reporting Guidelinesdeveloped by the Global Reporting Initiative(completeness, measurability, consistencywith the stakeholders’ point of view,accessibility, accuracy) and by AccountAbility1000 (inclusiveness, completeness,comparability, meaningfulness ofinformation, regularity, communication,external auditing, integration inmanagement systems, and continuousimprovement), with minimum core contentregarding corporate identity, corporategovernance mechanisms, calculation of valueadded distribution and the social report.
2002 sustainability report 51Preliminary Information >>
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information1Contents
2Chairman`s letter
3Achievements and commitments
4Context and methodThere are also specific principles and
standards for the various business sectors,such as those drawn up by ETNO (theEuropean Telecommunications NetworkOperators’ Association) of which TelecomItalia is a member along with 40 othertelecommunications companies.
Stakeholders
The Sustainability Report is therefore drawn
up considering the following categories ofstakeholders:•
customers/consumers , whose needs
are met by the company realizing valueadded through production of goods andservices;
•
suppliers , who provide the raw
materials, and intermediate goods andservices needed for production, socontributing to the quality of the finalproduct;
•
competitors , who stimulate the
company to improve productivity andefficiency;
•
the State , which receives resources in
the form of taxes, social security andnational insurance contributions, thetelecommunications license fee anddividends;
•
future generations , analyzed through
data on the environment and civildefense, whose capacity to satisfy theirown needs must not be jeopardized by
pursuit of present day objectives;
•
the Community , or civil society to which
the company contributes through sociallyrelevant activities in the fields of researchand innovation, education, health andsocial solidarity, culture, art and sport;
•
employees ;
•shareholders .
Indicators and standards
In the 2002(*)Sustainability Report Telecom
Italia Group was assessed in accordancewith the following international standards,using specific indicators to measure itsperformance in respect of:
•customers - the criteria established in the
Consumption Guidelines of the 
CEP
(Council of Economic Priorities) , a
private American association that in 1994drew up a group of indicators of ethical
consumption out of a cross-section of168 companies and 1800 best-sellingproducts in American supermarkets;
•suppliers - the 
SA 8000 index included in
the CEP indicators as an ethical standardfor subsuppliers belonging to developing
countries;
•future generations - the indicators of the
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the
GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) ,
launched in 1997 as a multi-stakeholderforum by the nongovernmental
organization CERES (Coalition forEnvironmentally Responsible Economies)based in Boston, which gathersenvironmentalist organizations,professionals, institutional investors,trade unions, religious organizations,businesses, and consulting and auditingfirms and is supported by UNEP (United
Nations Environment Programme); GRIestablishes economic, social, andenvironmental qualitative-quantitativeindicators;
•the Community - the guidelines of the
London Benchmarking Group , set up
in 1994, consisting of 74 internationalcompanies, and European benchmark inmeasurement of social and environmentalcontributions;
•employees - the 
Human Development
Enterprise (HDE) model, defined by 
Guy Standing, chief economist of ILO(International Labour Organization) based in Geneva;
•shareholders - the 
Dow Jones
Sustainability Group Index , the
FTSE4Good , and SIRI.
2002 sustainability report 61Preliminary Information >>
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information1Contents
2Chairman`s letter
3Achievements and commitments
4Context and method
(*) Prepared in /L50298
Telecom Italia by the
Group Sustainabilityfunction led by Dr. Aurora Sanza,in collaboration with Prof. AlbertoMartinelli, professorof Politics at theUniversity of Milan.The 1998 report wasawarded the “Oscar di Bilancio e dellaComunicazioneFinanziaria” (Oscar of Financial Reportingand Communication)“… for being a finecombination ofexcellent content andclear presentation …”.DJSGI (Dow Jones
Sustainability GroupIndex): an index ofsustainability-drivencompanies providedby Dow Jones inassociation withSAM (SustainableAsset Management).
FTSE4Good
(Financial TimesStock Exchange):an index of ethicallyresponsible
companieslaunched by FTSEin association withEIRIS (EthicalInvestmentResearch Service)and Unicef (UnitedNations Children’sFund).
SIRI (Sustainable
InvestmentResearchInternationalGroup): a coalitionof 10 researchorganizationsaiming to provideand promote qualityproducts andservices generatedby research onsocial investment 
/L50296worldwide.CHARTER OF VALUES
/L50123Pursue excellence in production and competitivity in the marketplace, creating economic value
and contributing to the prosperity of its customers and the Community at large.
/L50123Invest in human capital, respect the rights of employees, guarantee equal opportunities, promote
professional development, safeguard employees’ health and safety.
/L50123Develop service orientation, quality enhancement and speed of response in relations with
customers/consumers.
/L50123Account for the company’s strategies and activities to those who are affected by the company’s
decisions.
/L50123Foster cooperation among all those who contribute to achieving the aims of the company, thus
creating the conditions for mutual loyalty and trust.
/L50123Respect legality, fairness and transparency in management systems and in relations with business
partners and competitors.
/L50123Foster innovation through constant commitment in research and development.
/L50123Respect and safeguard the environment.
/L50123Contribute to sustainable development, pursuing current aims without jeopardizing the ability of
future generations to meet their own needs.
/L50123Aim for coherence in values, strategies and behavior.
2002 sustainability report 71Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes >>
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information7Charter of Values
8Charter of Services
9Environmental Charter
10 Code of Ethics
11 Code of Conduct for Insider Dealing
/L50123CHARTERS AND CODES OF 
THE TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
CHARTER OF SERVICES(*)
In order to constantly supply a quality service our activities are based on principles of:
/L50123Transparency:
adoption and verification of observance of the rules and contract provisions making them
accessible and easy to understand for all our customers.
/L50123Participation:
commitment to satisfy customers’ needs inviting suggestions and proposals to improve our
services and the Charter of Services, maintaining regular contact with Consumer Associations.
/L50123Continuity:
non-stop delivery of services, except when necessary routine and special maintenance work has
to be carried out, in mutual observance of the rules.
/L50123Efficiency:
guarantee of an immediate, informed and appropriate response to customers’ needs.
/L50123Equality and impartiality:
provision of services on an equal basis to all customers, without discrimination, throughout the
country.
/L50123Courtesy and helpfulness:
attention of our operators and staff to satisfy customers’ needs, constantly listening to their
requirements.
2002 sustainability report 8/L50296(*) Effective since
19 July 2001 infulfillment ofresolution no.
820/00/CONS ofthe “Autorità perle Garanzie nelleComunicazioni”(Authority forGuarantees inCommunications).The full documentcan be found onthe sitewww.187.it1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes >>
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information7Charter of Values
8Charter of Services
9Environmental Charter
10 Code of Ethics
11 Code of Conduct for Insider DealingENVIRONMENTAL CHARTER(*)
/L50123Our Vision
Sustainable Development is a strategic global environmental goal that takes into consideration
the need to conserve both the natural environment and the world’s scarce non-renewableresources for future generations through:•the provision of products and services that provide significant environmental benefits;
•a determination to manage our own operations in a way that minimizes negative
environmental impacts.
/L50123Our Approach
We recognize that the universal presence of telecommunications in today’s society places on us a
social obligation to be good corporate citizens. A responsible attitude to environmental issues isan important part of meeting that obligation. As a collective group of companies, our combinedturnover represents a significant proportion of European trade and this puts us in a uniqueposition to make a real difference.
/L50123Our Commitment
Whether together, or individually, we are committed to continuous improvement through action in
the following areas:
Awareness
•W e shall aim to ensure recognition and acknowledgement of all relevant environmental
impacts, including the positive and negative impacts of our products and services. Inparticular, we shall build the environment into our training programs and companycommunication programs.
Regulatory compliance
•W e shall strive to achieve full compliance with all relevant environmental legal requirements,
and to exceed these requirements where appropriate.
Research and development
•W e shall support research and development in the contribution new telecommunication
services can make to sustainable development.
Procurement
•W e shall build environmental considerations into our procurement processes. Special attention
will be paid to: energy consumption, waste management, process and product requirements,and the use of hazardous materials.
Providing Information
•W e shall provide relevant data and information about our environmental performance to
employees, customers, shareholders and governments.
Environmental management systems
•W e shall implement environmental management systems which support the development of
appropriate and well-structured environmental protection.
2002 sustainability report 91Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes >>
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information7Charter of Values
8Charter of Services
9Environmental Charter
10 Code of Ethics
11 Code of Conduct for Insider Dealing
/L50296(*) Signed in 1996
by Telecom Italiatogether with 24other Europeantelecommunicationsnetwork operators,members of ETNO(EuropeanTelecommunications
Network Operators’Association – themain association inthe sector for TLCoperators inEurope), throughwhich the variouscompaniesundertook to startspecific actionsaimed at protectingthe environment.CODE OF ETHICS
The Code of Ethics, adopted on 7 November 2002, forms the basis for the corporate governance
system, stating the objectives and fundamental values with which the Group identifies in relationto the principal stakeholders with whom it interacts. Telecom Italia promoted adoption of the Codeof Ethics by the Group companies for observation by their governing bodies, managements andworkforces. The Code is on the site www
.telecomitalia.it ; the fundamental principles are the following.
Ethical business practices are essential to business success; Telecom Italia has accordingly
adhered - and encourages all the companies in the Group to adhere - to the Global Compactpromoted by the United Nations with regard to human rights, the environment and laborstandards (art. 1). Group companies:
•have the primary 
objective to create value for their shareholders, to which end industrial and
financial strategies and business practices based on efficient use of resources are oriented;
they endeavor to achieve this objective in consistency with the following values :
–observance of the principles of legality, transparency, correctness and fairness in the
conduct of business;
–consequent adoption of organizational solutions to prevent and to sanction violations by
their employees and collaborators;
–ensuring that the market, investors and the public are fully informed about their actions;
–promotion of fair competition and pursuit of excellence and market competitivity;
–awareness of the strategic importance of the services they provide for the well-being and
growth of the community;
–protection and development of human resources;
–responsible use of resources, with the targets of sustainable development, respect for the
environment and the rights of future generations (art. 2);
•ensure equitable treatment of all categories of shareholders ; they pursue the reciprocal
advantages deriving from belonging to the Group in accordance with the law and withoutprejudice to the interest of each company (art. 3);
•found the excellence of their products and services on the attention paid to 
customers,
ensuring correct, courteous and collaborative behavior (art. 4);
•contribute to the well-being and growth of the communities in which they operate by
providing efficient and technologically advanced services; they consider research andinnovation essential to growth and success; they are aware of the social importance oftelecommunications services, endeavoring to meet the needs of the weakest members of thecommunity; they maintain relations with public authorities based on full and activecooperation and transparency; they support initiatives aimed at personal development andimprovement in the quality of life; they do not make contributions or give support to politicalparties and trade unions (art. 5);
•recognize the professional contribution of 
human resources as the principal factor of
success; they protect health and safety at work, they consider respect for workers’ rightsfundamental; they ensure equal opportunities and promote professional development (art. 6);
•believe in sustainable global growth in the interest of all today’s and tomorrow’s stakeholders;
they form investment and business decisions with respect for the 
environment and public
health, utilizing eco-friendly technologies and production methods to reduce the impact oftheir operations (art. 7);
•make transparency an objective in relationships with stakeholders, being aware of the
importance of correct 
information on their activities; they disclose information to the market
and investors in accordance with the principles of correctness, clarity and equal access (art.8);
•adopt procedures to ensure compliance with the Code in the behavior of the companies,
their employees and collaborators, including sanctions for violations (art. 9).
2002 sustainability report 101Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes >>
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information7Charter of Values
8Charter of Services
9Environmental Charter
10 Code of Ethics
11 Code of Conduct for Insider DealingCODE OF CONDUCT FOR INSIDER DEALING
The Code of Conduct for Insider Dealing, issued on 7 November 2002, is in line with Borsa
Italiana’s recent regulation, which from 1 January 2003 required listed companies to regularlydisclose transactions in their listed shares and the listed shares of their controlling companiesand the companies they control, by persons who may have access to price-sensitive information.The Code came into effect on 1 December 2002; the disclosure obligations apply from the firstquarter in 2003. The Code is on the site www
.telecomitalia.it ; the most significant points are
summarized below.
The Code regulates obligations regarding the declaration of and conduct related to personal
transactions carried out by significant persons , and the information regarding such transactions to
be disclosed to the market. The Code considers:
•significant persons , Directors, members of the Board of Statutory Auditors, General Managers,
the Secretary to the Board of Directors, the Internal Control owner (for the Telecom ItaliaGroup: the Director of In.Tel.Audit), the heads of Central Functions, Business Units andOperating Activities, the head of Latin America Operations and the assistants of the Chairmanand Managing Directors of Telecom Italia SpA; the heads of the units included in the centralfunctions of Telecom Italia S.p.A. Finance Administration and Control, Corporate and LegalAffairs, Communications and Image and Investor Relations. Others may be indicated inrelation to activity or assignment. Every significant person signs up to acceptance of the Code;
•
financial instruments , issued by Telecom Italia SpA, the companies it controls and the
companies it is controlled by, listed on Italian and international regulated markets, excludinginconvertible bonds; these include the certificates; listed and unlisted financial instrumentsthat give the right to subscribe for, purchase or sell financial instruments; derivatives;
•
transaction , any action on financial instruments, including exercise of stock options or pre-
emption rights, and significant transaction any transaction for an amount, summed with the
amounts of other transactions carried out in the three preceding months and not yet declared,exceeding euro 80,000;
•
referee , the Secretary to the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia S.p.A..
Not later than a week from the end of each quarter, significant persons shall send the referee a
list of the transactions in the quarter totaling an amount equal to or more than euro 35,000,
carried out also by the significant person’s spouse, unless legally separated, a minor child ornominees, trustees or subsidiary companies. The declaration obligation is immediate for
significant transactions .
Non-executive Directors and members of the Board of Statutory Auditors shall abstain from
carrying out transactions from the day on which the Board meeting to examine the reports for
each quarter is convened, or on which they learn of their contents, if earlier, until the day aftertheir release. Other
significant persons can carry out transactions from the day after the release
of data, until the closing day of the next quarter. Transactions outside the indicated period are
allowed only in the event of exceptional circumstances of personal necessity, and shall be judgedby the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Limitations shall not apply to the exercise of stock
options or pre-emption rights. The Board of Directors may establish additional periods orcircumstances in which 
transactions are subject to limitations and conditions.
2002 sustainability report 111Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes >>
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information7Charter of Values
8Charter of Services
9Environmental Charter
10 Code of Ethics
11 Code of Conduct for Insider DealingThe referee shall disclose information declared by significant persons to Borsa Italiana not later
than the tenth trading day after the end of each solar quarter. Significant transactions shall be
reported as soon as they are received.
Failure to comply with the declaration obligations or the limitations on carrying out transactions
shall entail:
–for employees, the disciplinary measures provided for by law and the labor contract;
–for other collaborators, termination of the relationship;
–for Directors and members of the Board of Statutory Auditors, proposal of annulment of office
at the next shareholders’ meeting.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. can obviously seek compensation for any loss and/or liability it may incur as
a consequence of behavior in violation of the Code.
2002 sustainability report 121Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes >>
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information7Charter of Values
8Charter of Services
9Environmental Charter
10 Code of Ethics
11 Code of Conduct for Insider Dealing1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
2002 sustainability report 13Customer satisfaction was the cornerstone
of Telecom Italia Group’s loyalty policy alsoin 2002, built through direct, enduringrelationships with customers, focusing bothon interpreting market demand and onresponding accordingly and promptly withprovision of appropriate services. Despite thediversity of Group activities, the 
Customer
Relationship Management (CRM) tools
adopted by the companies were similar (callcenters, toll-free numbers, service centers,websites, regular customer satisfaction
surveys – the latter often in collaborationwith independent agencies), althoughtailored to the type of customer and servicedelivered.To complete the information on the main
business results of the Business Units, aconcise description follows of CRM tools andof major achievements in 2002.
/L50123CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
/L50123Quality of service
The Domestic Wireline Business Unit is
primarily engaged in supply of fixed networktelecommunications services: it comprisesthe Telecom Italia S.p.A. function with thesame name and a number of national andinternational minor companies.In 2002, customer care at Telecom ItaliaS.p.A. was based on 169 toll-free numbers
(personalized for executive customers), 100service centers and the company website.The helpdesks answered nearly 64 millioncalls; the website was visited around 4
million times. Monthly surveys wereconducted on customer satisfaction in termsof provision of services and overall customersatisfaction. The call centers, spread acrossthe territory, share a common infrastructure,making the location where the call ishandled immaterial. In fact, the CRM systemprovides operators with information on allcustomers in real time. In 2002, this led tothe following results:•Customers satisfied with regular
operation of the telephone lines (no cut-offs or difficulty in getting the line) total90.9% of residential customers and 89.2%of business customers (Technical QualityLoyalty - December 2002 aggregate data;source: Doxa).
•Regarding the “187” service for
residential customers, 58% of thecustomers interviewed find the operatorsvery polite and say they are given clear
and full information in 43.6% of cases;64% get problems solved during a singlephone call (One Call Solution).
•Business customers who use the “191”
service are satisfied with the courtesy ofthe operators in 88% of cases and withcompetence in 85% of cases; 50% get aone call solution.
•77% of residential customers’ repairs and
74.6% of business customers’ are carriedout within the 2nd day after beingreported.
•Regarding the fault repair service, 60.8%
of residential customers are very satisfied
CUSTOMERS/L50123EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERSwith the courtesy of the service engineers
while 57.5% are very satisfied withservice engineer expertise; 92.7% ofrepairs were effective.
•Business customer satisfaction level with
the courtesy of fault repair engineers is 98.5%, with expertise 95.8%; repairsare considered effective by 83% ofinterviewed customers (source: Atesia).
•The satisfaction levels of executive
customers is, on average, 86.4% for thequality of provisioning, 81.7% forefficiency in restoration of services and80% for billing services.
The other companies in the Business Unitoperate in various markets. Intelcom SanMarino (retail and internet) provides anautomatic answering system for direct accessto service personnel. Services for faults areimmediate during office hours, and generallywithin 30 minutes of the customer’s call.Traffic control systems are rapid and highly
efficient.Latin American Nautilus and Med-1,respectively operating in the wholesalemarket and in installation of networks, basecustomer care on individual specializedservice, attaining high satisfaction levels. The same policy is followed by Atesia(telemarketing and market research).Path.net (network operator for public
administrations) is the subject of an audit onservice levels by the major publicadministrations customers and by thePresidency of the Council of Ministers. Itscustomer care service operates through a24-hour call center and service centers thatguarantee repair of 95% of faults within 8hours. Annual surveys are conducted on thequality of services, interviewing at least 90%of the users of its services.
The Telecom Italia S.p.A. - Domestic 
Wireline network is certified to ISO 9001;the program for attainment of ISO 14001certification relating to environmentalmanagement has reached an advancedstage. Vision 2000 certification has beenobtained for customer care services forbusiness customers.Certifications have been obtained by Atesia and Path.net (ISO 9001) and Med-1(ISO 9002).The 
Mobile Business Unit (TIM group)
operates in the national and internationalmobile telecommunications sector; itsinternational business is concentrated inSouth America and the Mediterranean basin.Group customer care is based on widespreadsales and service networks and services (toll-free numbers, call centers, websites)that are easily and regularly used bycustomers, who particularly appreciated theefficiency of these services in 2002. Forexample, customer satisfaction was 83.9%for the TIM call center, 90.3% for the Stet
Hellas call center and, on average, around70% for the call centers run by thecompanies operating in South America.Response waiting times were low andcomplaint rates very modest and well belowestimated figures. All companies have a CRMsystem in place or under development;customer surveys are conducted regularly,mainly by specialized agencies.At TIM, the three-monthly residentialcustomer surveys and six-monthly businesscustomer surveys determine the qualityindicators on which the top management’stargets are based. The mean time taken forprovision of response, activation of newlines, connection to the WAP service, andmobile phone repair, is constantlymonitored. Customer relationshipmanagement is followed also with loyaltyprograms, based on reduced-cost or freeproduct and service offers.Within the group, the customer careinitiatives successfully implemented by TIMwill be extended to all controlled companies.In Europe, Stet Hellas keeps officialdocumentation on quality, customersatisfaction and regular monitoring ofcorporate objectives. In South America, theBrazilian companies have set up efficientcustomer care services based on servicecenters, call centers, toll-free numbers andwebsites. Regular monitoring is carried out
on quality and provision of service,satisfaction with call centers and salesnetworks, clarity of information on charges,and complaints statistics, which are showingimprovements over time. Tim Peru carriesout internal quality and external satisfactionmeasurements – by customer and servicecategory – through surveys and interviews,
2002 sustainability report 141Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Communityalso using the sales network. Digitel
Venezuela has started up a system for
monitoring customer satisfaction based onmeasurement of network quality andsatisfaction with services and call centers.ISO 9000 certifications are rapidly spreading(TIM, Stet Hellas, Maxitel; Digitel Venezuelahas programmed ISO 9000 certification for2004). TIM’s project engineering,construction and operation of the North-Westand South 2 (Calabria and Sicily) regionalnetworks obtained ISO 14001 certification.TIM also gained OHSAS 18001 (OccupationalHealth and Safety Assessment Series)certification for the North-East regionalorganization and QualityWEB certification forits Investor Relations and i-tim sites.
Regarding the Operating Activity  
Latin
America Operations , which coordinates all
the South American companies, informationon the Entel Chile and Entel Bolivia groupsfollows, having reported on the mobile
telephony companies hereabove.To improve customer satisfaction, both Entel
Chile and Entel Bolivia set up call centers,toll-free numbers dedicated to segments ofits customer base, sales points, servicecenters and websites; the call centers werethe most successful service receiving asmany as 3.2 million calls in Bolivia.At Entel Bolivia quality monitoring is basedon statistics broken down by type of service.Similar methods are used by Entel Chile,where an organized system is, however, stillin the process of implementation. At bothcompanies, surveys were conducted throughthe sales network as well as throughspecialized independent agencies. Focus wasplaced on service and network quality andcustomer satisfaction with customer carepolicies and call center performance.Entel Bolivia obtained ISO 9000 certificationfor its mobile network; Entel Chile aims to
obtain the same certification for its customerservice in 2004.
The 
Internet and Media Business Unit is
responsible for the whole chain of value inthe media sector. Its operations extend fromdirectories to internet services, fromtelevision to marketing office products andservices. A significant part of its activities isconducted in other European countries
(France, Germany and the UK).In all the companies, customer relationshipmanagement is based on dedicated toll-free
numbers, call centers, which are greatly used
by customers, and corporate websites.
In the directories line, Seat Pagine Gialleprovides two toll-free numbers, one foradvertiser customers and one for phonedirectory distribution issues. Overall, itprovides over 2,000 service points,comprising 48 back offices and the agent’snetwork. In TDL Infomedia customersatisfaction is a definite corporate target,pursued through call centers, the websiteand regular face-to-face interviews based ona complete system of performanceindicators.As far as regards internet, Seat Tin.it keepsits services constantly monitored, also usinginnovative forms of contact with customersbased on the web and six-monthlytelephone surveys by an independentspecialized agency. Guaranteed coverage inthe event of faults is virtually continuous,resulting in the main indicators ofavailability, access and reachability for the
principal home pages of the Virgilio portalnearing 100%. A similar level of attention toservice is found also in Matrix.In the television business, La7’s call centerand MTV’s toll-free n umber are dedicated to
customers with signal reception problems.Cipi and Databank obtained ISO 9001certifications; Euredit obtained the Web TrustCertification for the webstore on theEuropages site.
The 
Information Technology Market
Business Unit is responsible for information
technology activities geared for the externalmarket. Its operations are almost entirelyconcentrated in Italy.The group leader, Finsiel, has a customerbase comprising a number of the majorState administrations, over 1,000 localauthorities, health administrations, transportcorporations, and large banking andindustrial groups. Customer relations aremanaged through dedica ted toll-free
numbers, website/e-mail (with more than
70,000 hits in 2002) and automatic callcenters; a vocal call center is being opened.
2002 sustainability report 151Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityThe helpdesk – the main service for
customer satisfaction – was used tointerview customers by telephone in order tomonitor customer satisfaction.Banksiel has more than 200 customersoperating in the banking and financialservices sector. The customer care activitiescarried out with them trigger serviceimprovements, followed by shared results. In 2002, there were around 75,000 accessesto the website.Quality policies are implemented also inCarisiel, where a project was launched for aninnovative, multi-channel front-end servicefor banks and their customers. Webred is
standardizing its process for obtaininginformation on customer satisfaction; itsCRM system functions through a toll-freenumber, regional offices and a teleservice
network, which will be extended to improvepromptness of service.A significant amount of the activities carriedout by Insiel, Banksiel and Webred attainedISO 9001 certifications.
The 
Information Technology Group
Operating Activity, almost entirely
concentrated in Italy, is responsible forgoverning technological innovation and ITservices for the Telecom Italia Group.The various companies in the group assuredcustomer service through toll-free numbers,service centers and websites/e-mail; Sodalia and Webegg’s sites had a very highviewing rate.Saritel’s customer service is diversifiedaccording to the services delivered; thequality monitoring system was developedthrough more marked automation of thesystem. The company’s target is to resolve50% of faults within 2 hours, and 99% within24 hours of reporting.Sodalia’s customer-centric quality policytakes the shape of both annual satisfactionsurveys with web questionnaires and aservicing procedure, which describes theoperations (technical assistance and servicetime) to be carried out on the installedproduct. This has led to a customersatisfaction, in terms of communication andservice provision, of around 70%.Webegg also bases its customer satisfaction
process on customer questionnaires, theresults of which form the basis for corrective
action and service improvements. Results in2002 were good. Customers expressed clearpreference (over 83%) for web/e-mailcommunications.Sodalia and Saritel both obtained ISO 9001certification; Sodalia also obtained dataprotection and website quality specificcertifications.
Of the businesses in 
Other Activities ,
TILAB, the Group’s research center, followsits customer satisfaction by sending outquestionnaires to customers, statisticalanalysis of responses and examination of theresults by the company management. Its affiliated company Loquendo, a leader invocal technologies and services, operates a
universal 24-hour toll-free number, twoservice centers and a website, whichreceived nearly 200,000 hits in 2002.Customer service is structured on severallevels, from taking on problems and failuresto fault repair, through to establishingcorrective action and improvements,involving the same resources whocontributed to developing the platformsconcerned. TILAB obtained ISO 9001certification for its corporate quality system,ISO 14001 certification for its environmentalmanagement system which is integrated intoits health and safety management system,ISO IEC (International ElectrotechnicalCommission) 17025 certification for its testlaboratories, and a number of activity-specific certifications.BBned operates in the Dutch market ofbroadband local access services for InternetService Providers and business customers.Its customer care policies are implementedthrough 2 toll-free numbers, 4 servicecenters and 4 websites; surveys on thequality of the network and quality of servicesshowed excellent results with over 95%satisfaction.
/L50123Consumer rights
The course of collaborative confrontation,
undertaken in 1997 with signing of theFramework Agreement with the majorassociations, continued throughout 2002,with working groups and liaison tables tomonitor and improve the instruments that
2002 sustainability report 161Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Communityare represented by the General Subscription
Conditions and the Charter of Services,which were further refined and agreed withthe Consumer Associations.
The Group’s commitment to consumer rights
was also aimed at developing a successfulworking relationship with the
Communications Guarantor (“Autorità per leGaranzie nelle Comunicazioni” - AGCOM),both in relation to services provided as aresult of mandatory requirements and inrelation to adoption by AGCOM of aconciliation and arbitration procedure fordisputes arising between operators andusers of communication services.
Additionally, an information campaign was
targeted at the possibility of benefiting fromspecial contract conditions for users on lowincomes.
The Telecom Group regularly participates as
a founder member in the Consumer’s Forum,an association that joins consumerassociations, business associations and studyand research institutions which operate inthe field of consumer interests and rights.During 2002, the Consumer’s Forum focusedon organizing conferences, study days andseminars on issues of interest to consumers.
In cooperation with “Ente Nazionale
Sordomuti” (national association fordeaf/speech impaired people), in Autumn2002 Telecom Italia started testing a newservice using ad hoc software, which willenable people with speech and hearingdisabilities to access the 112, 113, 115 and118 emergency services.
/L50123CONCILIATION 
AND ARBITRATION
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
As indicated in Telecom Italia’s Charter of
Services, customers may make use of a freeconciliation procedure, as a result of morethan ten years of cooperation with leadingConsumer Associations, for resolution ofcomplaints that are not handled to theconsumer’s satisfaction.Customers can have access to the
Conciliation and Arbitration procedure if theyreceive a response which they considerunsatisfactory or if they fail to receive aresponse, after making a complaint throughthe dedicated telephone service or in writingto Telecom Italia (Art. 2 Conciliation andArbitration Regulations).Customers can use the procedure forcontended accounts, reported faults orrepairs, phone directory errors or omissions,number changes, changes of address, failure
to activate service, disconnection.There is no value restriction in theconciliation process.In the case of arbitration, the Arbitror hasauthority for disputes not exceeding euro2,582.28.The expenses of proceedings, which aredetermined by the Arbitrator, can varyaccording to the value of the dispute butcannot exceed euro 206.58, inclusive of anyexpenses borne by the losing party.
The Board of Conciliation is a joint board
with territorial jurisdiction, formed by aConciliator appointed by Telecom Italia and amember of the consumers’ associationappointed by the customer.
The customer contacts the Conciliation andArbitration Office, which is located in thechief city of each region, and which has anindependent role in the dispute.
The Board of Conciliation draws up a record
of its decisions, which is binding for bothparties:
–in the event of agreement, the meeting is
concluded with a conciliation record;
–in the event of failure to reach
agreement, the customer can apply forarbitration.
The number of conciliation applications
received from 1 January 1986 amounts to30,025 (725 in 2002). Of these, a total of29,052 cases (97%) have been heard and958 (2.5%) withdrawn. The number ofapplications heard or withdrawn form the
total amount processed (30,010 applicationsequal to 99.5%). 25,182 (87% of heardcases) ended in conciliation and 3,870 (13%)failed to reach conciliation.
2002 sustainability report 171Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityTime taken for conciliation procedure: 25%
of responses are within 90 days fromsubmission and 58% of responses are within45 days from submission.
451 arbitration applications have been
received since the procedure was introduced(1 in 2002); 265 (59%) of these have beenheard, 103 (23%) have been withdrawn. The number of applications heard orwithdrawn form the total amount processed
(368 applications corresponding to 82%). 83 arbitration applications (18% ofapplications received) are awaiting 
hearing.In 75 cases arbitration was judged in favorof Telecom Italia (approx. 28% of casesheard), in 9 cases (4%) arbitration wasjudged in favor of the Customer; 181 cases(68%) were settled before the Arbitrator.
2002 sustainability report 181Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
–Financial year 2002
Subscription contracts : 799 lawsuits were served (15 by the Company and 784 against the
Company); 258 were concluded, 73 of which in favor of the Company, 4 with waiver of claim,23 against the Company, and 158 settled;Directory
: 121 lawsuits were served, 24 of which were concluded: 7 in favor of the Company, 1
with waiver of claim, and 16 settled.
–Financial year 2001
Subscription contracts : 465 lawsuits were served (10 by the Company and 455 against the
Company); 199 were concluded (54 in favor of the Company, 10 with waiver of claim, 11against the Company, and 124 settled);Directory
: 143 lawsuits were served, 30 of which were concluded: 9 in favor of the Company, 5
against the Company, and 16 settled.
TIM S.p.A.
–Financial year 2002
429 litigation cases were initiated, 109 of which were concluded: 29 in favor of the Company, 3
against the Company and 77 settled.
–Financial year 2001
230 litigation cases were initiated.
SEAT S.p.A.
–Financial year 2002
185 lawsuits were served.
–Financial year 2001
172 lawsuits were served./L50123DISPUTES AND LITIGATION
1,413 disputes were registered in Italy, at Group level.To quantify Telecom Italia Group’s business with suppliers, consumption of outside supplies and
services and industrial investments are shown below:
(millions of euro) 2002 2001
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
Consumption of raw materials and outside services 
(net of the telecommunications license fee or contribution) 12,127 12,518
– associated amounts 469 586
Industrial investments 4,842 8,164
– associated amounts and internal capitalized costs 1,130 665
Total contribution 16,969 20,682
– associated amounts and internal capitalized costs 1,599 1,251
Net total contribution 15,370 19,431
/L50123QUALIFICATION
Qualification of suppliers is centralized for all Telecom Italia Group companies. 
The process, which is initiated with a request for qualification by the buying functions, users orsuppliers, is based on product/service-specific parameters or checklists but meets commongeneral criteria.
Qualification can be of three successive typologies:
–basic (sales, financial statements, safety, social responsibility, regular social security payments,
compliance with environmental policies, etc.);
–economic-financial (examination of financial statements and evaluation of specific 
indicators);
–technical-organizational (verification of a supplier’s actual capability to produce or supply
required goods, services or works).
Supplier evaluations during the qualification process can result in:
–qualification;
–temporary qualification (eg, if economic/financial situations are not entirely favorable);
–provisional qualification (eg, if technical requirements are not entirely met);
–rejection.
Qualified suppliers are listed in the Telecom Italia Group Register of Vendors by commodity
category, and supplier data is updated annually in relation to the principalinformation/characteristics of the suppliers and according to Vendor Rating results.
All the most important information relating to the Register of Vendors, obtained during
qualification and in following annual updates, is managed centrally and is made available nation-wide for procurement process-related activities by an intranet application.
A similar, but more simplified, selection process is applied to subcontractors, the results of which
determine authorization to subcontract. The criteria for evaluating the capabilities ofsubcontractor applicants are restricted to basic elements such as: number of employees,minimum sales thresholds and technical/organizational ability.
Additionally, new telecommunication products/systems are qualified by the technical functions of
the Telecom Italia Group companies in order to verify conformity to technical specifications.
2002 sustainability report 191Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
SUPPLIERS
/L50296Telecom Italia
Group annualspend withsuppliers was euro15,370 million./L50123VENDOR  RATING
The overall quality of suppliers is measured in Vendor Rating terms (see following point) on the
basis of technical, commercial and administrative evaluations.
Specifically regarding technical evaluations, in addition to the standard quality control audits
preliminary to acceptance of supplies, checks are carried out:–at centralized level at the time of supplier qualification;
–by the individual companies in the Telecom Italia Group during the term of contract;
–on suppliers’ premises to check organization and conformance of standard supplies to technical
contract specifications (at prototype level technical product inspections are generally systematic);
–at the specific request of the buying function;
–on site to check the quality of execution of works.
These checks may be annual or six-monthly and the scale of the evaluation can vary according tothe Vendor Rating results trend.
The scale and depth of inspections in both the Qualification and Vendor Rating processes are
dependent on the risk, at Telecom Italia Group level, assigned to the specific commoditycategories (based on evaluation of factors such as: sales, technological innovation, costs of poorservice, safety).
The quality of supplies/works is controlled by the goods/service/work-specific Vendor Rating. 
The Vendor Rating overall score is split into Basic Areas and Scores; the latter are normallyassessed by questionnaires that take account, where possible, of compliance with both health andsafety standards and waste disposal regulations.
Vendor Rating results, stated in company reports, are sent to the technical and purchasing functions.
They are also reported to suppliers and improvements are identified with suppliers at central level.
The system for verifying supplier performance is illustrated to suppliers in documents provided
with contracts, covering all aspects related to the specific monitoring procedure.
/L50123SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS
Telecom Italia Group’s procurement policy is based on competition between qualified suppliers.
Selection of suppliers is generally determined by the parameters of: cost, procurement time, andquality of supplies.
Transparency in relationships with suppliers has so far enabled suppliers to fully meet tendering
requisites (in fact very few suppliers invited to tender fail to submit an offer). Online tendering viathe Corporate Internet site, allowing suppliers to know developments and the final results in realtime, has made mutual relations even more transparent.
Communications to suppliers, in terms of improving the quality of communication and applying
sustainability criteria, are developed by both the technical and the buying functions, consistentlywith their respective corporate responsibilities.
The Quality function in Corporate Procurement is the interface with the suppliers of all the
companies in the Telecom Italia Group responsible for communicating the Vendor Rating results.
Information on the safety and environmental standards suppliers are required to meet is included
in tender documents and related specifications.
2002 sustainability report 201Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
2002 sustainability report 21/L50123APPROACH
OLO (Other Licensed Operators), ISP (Internet Service Providers) and other television licensees
can - at one and the same time - be for Telecom Italia:–
Competitors and participate in defining rules for fair competition and for achieving
concurrence in communications. Creation of balanced, stable, predictable rules is a targetshared by all businesses in the industry. Developments in competitivity in Italy, judged one ofthe most advanced situations in the European context, were highlighted in the latestimplementation report recently published by the European Commission.
–
Partners in development of new services and new business models. In the recent past,
development first in mobile telephony followed by internet was also thanks to innovationsproposed by various businesses. The more successful models, from prepaid cards to freeinternet, spread rapidly to the benefit of all players in the market.
–
Customers of Telecom Italia, whose organization comprises a Wholesale Division, which sells a
wide range of services. Telecom Italia is one of the first operators in Europe to have offered servicessuch as the permanent virtual channel, partial circuits, wholesale direct circuits, and shared access.Supply times and the quality of service guaranteed to competitor customers are the same asoffered to the internal sales divisions. With the leveling of all Internet Service Providers thelegislative conditions have been created to guarantee equal treatment to all operators usingthe services offered by Telecom Italia.
/L50123PARTNERSHIPS
The Telecom Italia Group joined the digital TV sector with La7 and MTV , actively participating in
television associationism and starting experimentation on its own sites.At European level, relations with institutions in the industry increased. Telecom Italia supportsvarious initiatives, including a market and investments strategy for e-Europe.
As far as concerns relations with suppliers, participation in the working groups EIRUS (EuropeanIpqm and Rqms Users) in Europe and QuEST (Quality Excellence for Suppliers ofTelecommunications) in North America allows the Group to be informed of developments in
technical quality monitoring processes applied by the leading operators and manufacturers oftelecommunications products and systems.The principal associations in which the Group actively participates are:–
ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association)
ETNO is the principal policy group for European telecommunications network operators. To date,40 telecommunications network operators from 35 countries within Europe are members of thegroup. Its objective is to:•promote development of an efficient and fair regulatory and trading environment for the
European telecommunications marketplace;
•promote cooperation and coordination of activities between its members regarding the
development of harmonized telecommunications networks and services;
•establish and maintain a constructive dialog with central institutions and policy-makers thus
actively contributing to implementation of the Information Society.
Considering the value of the commitment it represents, adherence to the principles of theEnvironmental Charter, previously mentioned, is open to all companies wishing to supportsustainability, and consequently also companies which are not ETNO members.Telecom Italia is a member of the Executive Board and chairs the Sustainability Working Group.
–
ITU(International Telecommunications Union)
ITU is an international organization within the United Nations System which aims to promotedevelopment of the industry internationally through cooperation between the public andprivate sectors.COMPETITORSIt is organized in three sectors which work through study groups made up of experts drawn
from companies, standards-making organizations, government bodies, research centers andfinancing institutions. The three sectors are:
•ITU-R (Radiocommunication), which draws up the technical characteristics of terrestrial and
space-based wireless services and systems, develops operational procedures, andundertakes technical studies.
•ITU-T (Telecommunication Standardization), where the technical specifications for
telecommunication systems, networks and services are prepared and the tariff principlesand accounting methods used to provide international service are defined.
•ITU-D (Telecommunication Development), which focuses on the preparation of
recommendations, opinions, handbooks, guidelines and reports, which provide decision-makers in developing countries with best business practices relating to networkmanagement strategies and policies.
Experts from Telecom Italia, TIM and TILAB participate in, and often lead or coordinate, manystudy groups.
–
GSM Association
The GSM Association’s membership consists of more than 690 second and third generation
wireless network operators and key manufacturers. Its members provide digital wirelessservices to more than 800 million customers (end of January 2003) in over 192 countries -approximately 71% of the total digital wireless market today.
Its objective is to promote global development of wireless communications guaranteeingroaming, interoperability (between operators and between equipment and services), andencouraging cooperation in identifying the essential requirements that are shared with thestandards bodies in pursuit of the most technically valid solutions.TIM was recognized international technological leadership in directing and defining strategiesfor development of radiomobile services with the appointment of TIM’s general manager,
Mauro Sentinelli, as Deputy Chairman.
/L50123LITIGATION
TELECOM ITALIA brought two claims before the competent authority against Wind; the first
relating to the advertising campaign on “Canone Zero” (zero subscription charge) is pendingjudgment; the other concerning an advertising message on services in ULL was upheld.In addition, another two claims were put before the advertising self-disciplinary jury, both upheld,concerning Wind’s campaigns on “Canone Zero” and “Minuto Zero”.Two proceedings were lodged against Telecom Italia by competitors or consumers and both are
pending judgment.By the first of these Wind notified the AGCM, the competition and market watchdog, of theallegedly misleading messages publicized on the sites www
.wireline.telecomitalia.it and
www .aliceadsl.it in connection with the Alice service for internet access with ADSL technology,
requesting suspension of the messages. The objections concern the emphasis given to the peakspeed that can be achieved with ADSL, which could mislead consumers with regard to the speedthat can actually be reached in connection and navigation.In the second, the company Argo Studio S.r.l. raised the case of alleged deception in theadvertising message publicized on the “Corriere della Sera” newspaper concerning the Alice Timeservice, which did not specify that the offer was reserved for residential customers only.
As far as concerns TIM, in 2002 two proceedings were brought before the AGCM in connection
with misleading advertising, one of which was concluded favorably while the other is in progress.No sanction was issued and no appeal is pending with the Administrative Judge opposing thenegative provisions of the AGCM. During the year, no new preliminary proceedings on antitrustwere opened before the AGCM.
At Group level, there were 6 preliminary proceedings concluded in the Group’s favor, and 4
concluded with the AGCM entering a nonsuit, while 3 were ruled against the Group. Finesresulting from preliminary proceedings relating to competition amounted to euro 65,000.
2002 sustainability report 221Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
2002 sustainability report 23Telecom Italia Group
(millions of euro) 2002 2001
Total Italy Int. Total Italy Int.
Social security and national 
insurance contributions 1,199 1,141 58 1,225 1,157 68
Direct taxes (716) (897) 181 925 791 134
Indirect taxes 115 103 12 120 104 16
TLC license fees 431 383 48 524 472 52
Dividends 61 61 – 61 61 –
1,090 791 299 2,855 2,585 270
In 2002, the Telecom Italia Group paid the Italian State euro 791 million and international states
euro 299 million.Compared with 2001, direct tax (commensurate with the year’s income) decreased by euro 1,641million as a result of write-down of some investments and of the benefit arising from utilization ofprevious tax losses resulting from the merger of Blu into TIM.TLC license fees are reduced owing to the change (from 2.5% to 2%) in the rate applied to therevenues of Italian companies.
In 2002, the Group received capital grants solely from Italian Public Administrations, amounting
to euro 42 million (euro 22 million in 2001), euro 23 million pertaining to Telecom Italia SpA.
/L50123NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
Management of relations with the national institutions (Parliament and Government) continued
with the aim of representing the Group’s position on a range of issues of interest and ensuringthat it is taken into account in the process of approval of the principal, parliament andgovernment-led regulatory proceedings.In 2002, action in relation to the central institutions took the form of supporting the competentinstitutions (Parliament, the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of Technologies, theMinistry of Economy, the Ministry for the Civil Service, etc.) in preparing standards on the issuesof corporate interest:–financial law and related provisions (tax, employment, competition);
–law 166/2002, which delegated the Government to adopting one or more legislative decrees
to assimilate the Community Directives under Review ’99, which will completely reform thecurrent TLC standards provisions;
–legislative decree 198/2002 (the so-called “Gasparri decree”) which introduced standards with
the purpose of accelerating implementation of national telecommunication infrastructures andof supporting an adequate distribution.
With reference to the audit records, it is noted that the number of questions/interpellationsaddressed to the Group was in the region of ten or so less than in the previous year with a meananswering time of around fifteen days. Compared to the pre-privatization period, the number ofquestions put to the Group is roughly halved.THE STATE AND INSTITUTIONS/L50123LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS
Support for the standards activities of the Regions and local organizations - regional laws,
resolutions, orders - and of the regulatory activities of the local authorities on issues such asworks for implementation of network infrastructures, electromagnetic pollution, and local finance
continues. Relations continue with local self-government Institutions and Associations along withpresentation of Group recommendations.
/L50123INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
Turkey
In T urkey, the claim filed by IS-TIM with NCA (National Competition Authority) in December 2001
exposing the abuse of the dominant position of the two incumbent mobile operators in nationalroaming is being managed in agreement with the company IS-TIM and a final decision by theAuthority’s Competition Board is pending; furthermore, in view of persistent inertia on the part 
of the NRA (National Regulatory Authority) international arbitration proceedings were initiatedagainst NRA.
Cuba
As far as regards Cuba, the affiliated company ETECSA, manages relations with the Ministry of
Information and Communication (MIC) basically regarding: (expansion, quality, financial andtechnical) plans, tariffs and exemptions.
Bolivia
In agreement with Entel Bolivia, a report is being prepared on the issue of sharing Universal
Service costs among the various operators (today entirely borne by Entel) and on introduction ofcompetition in the local markets.
Brazil
In Brazil, the Group is helping in coordinating regulatory activity with NRA to govern migration of
SMC (Serviço Movel Celular) operators to SMP (Serviço Movel Personal) service, which involvesestablishing all the conditions required to define the service (tariff principles, customer access tothe service, network specifications for interconnection, routing, billing, etc.) in accordance withNRA directives.
Peru
In Peru, work is in progress in agreement with TIM Peru on the preparation of recommendations
for the local NRA on a number of issues, such as introduction of carrier selection from mobile
calls and guidance to the cost of mobile termination tariffs.
Other Countries
Relations with the local institutions in Venezuela, Chile and Greece are conducted directly by
Digitel Venezuela, Entel Chile and Stet Hellas.
2002 sustainability report 241Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
2002 sustainability report 25FUTURE GENERATIONS
/L50296(*) The data for
2002, currentlyunder processing,will be availablewith the first 2003six-monthlyreport.
Total27,915
42,128
Miscellaneous equipment9,545
13,964
Telephone poles5,355
11,433
Batteries2,853
4,047
Packaging1,443
2,262
Waste containing
asbestos1,395
1,238
Paper and cardboard505
286
Other types830
688Metals2,729
3,208Cables3,260
5,002
■  2001             ■  2000Waste produced by Telecom Italia S.p.A. (2000-2001) [tonnes]Respect for the environment, which is an integral part of Telecom Italia Group’s commitment in
adopting Sustainability as one of its prime values, ranks among the Group’s strategic objectivesand is the subject of continuous verification.
/L50123ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Group identified four major elements by which it measures the effectiveness of its
environmental management system and establishes programs to improve performance.
•waste management;
•consumption of natural resources and energy;
•air quality and climate changes;
•electromagnetic emissions.
All information reported herebelow has been obtained by processing appropriately reclassified
management accounting data.
/L50123Waste management
Updated data on waste generated in 2002 is available at the time of reporting only for some
organizations. The survey process is, however, under development and improvement.The waste generated by Telecom Italia derives from constant innovation and development of itsinfrastructures and from day-to-day business activities.Waste, primarily consisting of telecommunications materials and products, has been managed by a
single company at national level since 1999. Disposal processes favor reuse and recycling options,whenever possible.In 2001
(*), generated waste totaled 27,915 tonnes, a decrease of nearly 34% over the previous year.
Compared to 2000, there was a significant reduction in disposal of equipment and batteries, whichwere related to decommissioning of analog telephone exchanges, poles and cables.
Hazardous waste accounted for 29.7% of the total amount of waste (against 36.9% in 2000) while thepercentage of waste for recovery was 83% (89% in 2000).1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
2002 sustainability report 26■  2001             ■  200076
41Other types5
19Electrolytes11
4Adhesives and sealants15
13Ink and toner cartridges17
4Tank sediment and
purification plant sludge75
50Waste containing
PCBs/PCTs145
51CFC's159
80Demolition and
decommissioning waste327
426Glass reinforced plastic,
 plastic and rubberOther types of waste produced by Telecom Italia S.p.A. (2000-2001)
[tonnes]
Tank sediment and purification plant sludge  0.06%
Demolition and decommissioning waste 0.57%
Glass reinforced plastic, plastic and rubber  1.17%
Metals 9.78%
Paper and cardboard 1.81%
Waste containing asbestos 5%
Ink and toner cartridges 0.05%
Batteries 10.22%Packaging 5.17%
Telephone poles 19.18%Electrolytes 0.02%
Adhesives and sealants 0.04%
CFC's 0.52%
Other types 0.27%
Miscellaneous Equipment 34.19 %
Cables  11.68 %Waste containing PCBs and PCTs 0.27%Types of waste produced by Telecom Italia S.p.A. in 2001
In 2002, Seat S.p.A. produced 6.9 tonnes of sundry waste: the 22% increase in relation to 2001 
is primarily due to the campaign to eliminate halon which was carried out in 2002 and which can be considered completed.2002 sustainability report 271Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
1
■  2002             ■  2001  0.2
0.14Oil residues0.3
0.3Fan-coil filters0.4
0.39Fluorescent tubes1.2Toner cartridges2
0Halon3
3.37Packaging0.26EDP tapes and films05.65Total6.9Waste produced by Seat S.p.A. (2001-2002)
Up-to-date information on waste generated by TIM S.p.A. is not available at the time of reporting.
/L50123Consumption of natural resources and energy
The natural resources used directly by the Group’s companies include the materials employed in
the processes to produce the services operated either directly or made available to othertelecommunication companies, including:–
water , for civil use.
In 2002, consumption by Telecom Italia S.p.A. rose 17.7%; consumption by TIM S.p.A. fell28.2%, while it increased by just over 1.6% at Seat S.p.A.
(1);
–diesel oil and natural gas used in heating systems.
Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s diesel oil consumption in 2002 was reduced by over 14%, whereas natural
gas consumption rose by just over 4.3%; from an energy point of view, this means an overall
reduction of 0.68% for as far as regards consumption associated with heating (from 825,151 GJconsumed in 2001 to 819,54O GJ in 2002). The optimization program which is underimplementation expects to achieve a 3% reduction in fuel consumption for heating in 2003.In 2002, TIM S.p.A.’s consumption of diesel oil was down 4.7% and natural gas up 29.7% inrespect to 2001. Seat S.p.A., which has solely natural gas fuelled heating in its premises whereutility supplies are registered in the company’s name, reported a 1.6% increase inconsumption;
–
fuel for corporate fleet vehicles.
The fuel consumption of Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s fleet has reduced by around 11.5% comparedwith 2001, as a result of a reduction in the size of the fleet and distances traveled.A project is under way to reduce the corporate fleet by around 4,000 vehicles in 2003 and to introduce a number of vehicles using both gasoline and natural gas as fuels with the aim ofreducing pollution emissions to air.The overall consumption of the TIM S.p.A. fleet was almost stable; a consumption trend forSeat S.p.A. cannot be provided, as there is no record for fleet fuel consumption in 2001.The data indicated in the charts and tables include consumption by commercial fleet andcompany cars used by managers and sales teams./L50296(1) Seat S.p.A.’s
water consumptionrefers to the 7
company officeswhere supplies areregistered in the
company’s name.Electricity for power for corporate infrastructures and buildings is classed indirect consumption
of natural resources, as the majority of electric power generation in Italy utilizes fossil fuels(approx. 76%).
As far as regards Telecom Italia S.p.A., approximately 90% of purchased electric power is used by
the telecommunications network. As a result of action to improve energy management and theefficiency of infrastructures developed over the last three years, the Group succeeded in achievingan annual reduction in the consumption of electricity used to power the telecommunicationsnetwork exceeding 3%. In 2002, the reduction over the previous year was 3.36%. Planned actionsshould enable the downward trend to be maintained also over 2003.The consumption relating to other company premises fell by over 42%, chiefly due to thereduction in real estate and optimization of the use of space. 127 GWh (equal to 7.4%) arepurchased directly from hydroelectric power production.
In 2002, electric power consumption by TIM S.p.A. increased 5.12%. 
The company is experimenting alternative sources of electric power generation to power the Base Radio Stations (BRS), including photovoltaic and wind power production. In 2002, a program was launched to produce four BRSs in Calabria able to produce a total of 80kW. A 1.2 kW plant is already operating in Sardinia It is estimated that for every BRS with a power of18kW there will be a daily saving of 110 litres of diesel oil; this significantly reduces pollutantemissions to air (particulate, carbon monoxide, nitric oxide).
Seat S.p.A. increased electricity consumption in 2002 by 11.5% with respect to the previous year.
The company has developed a consumption monitoring plan to identify wastage and to targetcorrective action and an energy survey on the lighting situation in new premises using systems, in full compliance with the standards, employing light bulbs that can regulate lighting power inrelation to the natural light.
/L50123Air quality and climate change
Telecom Italia’s contribution to greenhouse emissions, primarily carbon dioxide (CO2), is basically
due to use of fuels for heating and transport and, indirectly, to consumption of electricity.In 2002, Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s emissions amounted to 950,304 tonnes of CO
2, produced directly
and indirectly; the estimated net reduction from 2001 was over 13%, which shows how actions tooptimize energy consumption have enabled the company to make a significant contribution to thecountry’s overall reduction in greenhouse emissions, which aims to achieve the targets set by theKyoto Protocol and by the commitments undertaken by the Italian Government.
In the same year, TIM S.p.A. and SEAT S.p.A.
(2)produced 231,293 tonnes of CO2(just over 2001’s
emissions) and 5,752 tonnes of CO2, respectively.
The CO2emissions were calculated following the guidelines published by UNEP(3)(United 
Nations Environment Programme) and the procedures prepared by ETNO (EuropeanTelecommunications Network Operators’ Association) under the Climate Change Project. 
The data on emissions resulting from use of electricity were drawn from the 2001 EnvironmentalReport published by ENEL.
2002 sustainability report 281Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
/L50296(2) A comparison
with SEAT S.p.A.CO
2emissions in
2001 is not providedas some impactswere not recorded.
/L50296(3) The GHG
Indicator, edition2000ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION [GWh] 2002 2001
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 1,706 1,835.0
TIM S.p.A. 431 410.0
Seat S.p.A.(4)6 5.4
Total 2,143 2,250.4
2002 sustainability report 291Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
Telecom Italia S.p.A. (GWh)
2001 2002
■ Total        ■ Network1,4001,5001,6001,7001,8001,900
1,835
1,664
1,6081,706TIM S.p.A. (GWh)
2001 20020100200300400500410431SEAT S.p.A. (GWh)
2001 20025.386.00
0.001.753.505.257.00
WATER CONSUMPTION [m3] 2002 2001
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 4,967,312 4,220,253
TIM S.p.A. 310,000 432,000
Seat S.p.A. 55,000 54,122
Total 5,332,312 4,706,375
Telecom Italia S.p.A. (million m3)
2001 20024.22
3.03.54.04.55.04.97 TIM S.p.A. (m3)
2001 20020100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000
432,000
310,000SEAT S.p.A. (m3)
020,00040,00060,000
2001 200254,12255,000/L50296(4) The
consumptionfigures for Seat SpA
refer to the 7
company officeswhere electricitysupplies areregistered in the
name of thecompany.2002 sustainability report 301Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
CONSUMPTION OF NATURAL GAS FOR HEATING [m3] 2002 2001
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 17,990,314 17,241,706
TIM S.p.A. 2,950,000 2,275,000
Seat S.p.A. 500,000 411,650
Total 21,440,314 19,928,356
TIM S.p.A. (million m3)
2001 200201232.282.95SEAT S.p.A. (m3)
2001 2002411,650500,000
0200,000400,000600,000Telecom Italia S.p.A. (million m3)
2001 200217.24
16.517.017.518.018.517.99CONSUMPTION OF HEATING OIL [liters] 2002 2001
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 5,393,518 6,280,431
TIM S.p.A. 140,000 147,000
Seat S.p.A. 00
Total 5,533,518 6,427,431
TIM S.p.A. (liters)
2001 2002050,000100,000150,000 147,000
140,000Telecom Italia S.p.A. (million liters)
2001 20024.04.55.05.56.06.56.28
5.39DISTANCE TRAVELED BY VEHICLES [km] 2002 2001
w/out with Diesel w/out with Diesel
catalytic catalytic catalytic catalytic
converter converter converter converter
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 36,820,000 209,840,000 39,640,000 91,575,000 208,177,000 21,962,000
TIM S.p.A. 0 17,510,000 15,004,000 0 22,352,000 750,000
Seat S.p.A. 0 3,200,000 3,000,000 0 NA NA
Total 36,820,000 230,550,000 57,644,000 91,575,000 230,529,000 22,712,000
2002 sustainability report 311Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
Telecom Italia S.p.A. (million km)
2001 200205010015020025030035021.96
36.8291.58208.18
209.8439.64
■Total km by diesel vehicles
■Total km by vehicles with catalytic converter
■Total km by vehicles without catalytic converterSEAT S.p.A. (million km)
2002
Totale km diesel0.001.753.505.257.00
3.00
3.20/L50296(5) The real size of
the fleet, ie, thenumber of vehiclesactually running,in 2002, was24,346 against areported 25,789,
which correspondsto 5.6% reduction;the difference isdue to time fordelivery/disposalof vehicles.DISTRIBUTION OF VEHICLES 2002 2001
w/out with Diesel w/out with Diesel
catalytic catalytic catalytic catalytic
converter converter converter converter
Telecom Italia S.p.A.(5)3,527 19,632 2,630 8,878 14,951 1,465
TIM S.p.A. 0 1,193 686 0 1,361 403
Seat S.p.A. 0 145 136 0 162 102
Total 3,527 20,970 3,452 8,878 16,474 1,970
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
2001 200205,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,000
■Diesel vehicles
■Vehicles with catalytic converter
■Vehicles without catalytic converter1,465
3,5278,87814,95119,6322,630TIM S.p.A.  (direct and indirect) [t]
■Veicoli diesel05001,0001,5002,000
2001 20021,1931,361403686SEAT S.p.A.
Veicoli diesel2001 20020100200300
145162102136
TIM S.p.A. (million km)
Totale km diesel010203040
2001 200217.5122.350.7515.00CO2EMISSIONS [t] 2002 2001
Electricity Fuel for Vehicle Electricity Fuel for Vehicle
heating fuels heating fuels
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 843,186 54,887 52,231 979,890 55,582 58,410
TIM S.p.A. 217,338 7,005 6,949 218,940 5,507 6,332
Seat S.p.A. 3,204 1,124 1,424 2,873 925 NA
Total 1,063,728 63,016 60,604 1,201,703 62,014 64,742
2002 sustainability report 321Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
Telecom Italia S.p.A. (direct and indirect) [t]
2001 2002
Heating oil700,000800,000900,0001,000,0001,100,0001,200,00016,832
38,750
843,186979,89058,410
52,23140,43214,455
210,000215,000220,000225,000230,000235,000TIM S.p.A. (direct and indirect) [t]
2001 2002
Gasolio per Riscaldamento394
5,113
217,338218,9406,332
6,9496,630375SEAT S.p.A. (direct and indirect) [t]
2002
Gas Naturale per Riscaldamento02,0004,0006,000
3,2041,4241,124Percentage breakdown
of CO 2 emissions generated
by Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Electricity
88.7%Heating
oil
1.5%Natural gas
for heating
4.3%Vehicle
fuels
5.5%
■Heating oil
■Natural gas  for heating
■Vehicle fuels
■ElectricityVEHICLE FUEL
CONSUMPTION [liters] 2002 2001
Leaded Unleaded Diesel Leaded Unleaded Diesel
Gasoline Gasoline Gasoline Gasoline
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 700,000 19,230,000 2,980,000 6,905,500 16,884,202 2,088,339
TIM S.p.A. 0 1,485,714 1,362,353 0 2,780,000 60,000
Seat S.p.A. 0 400,000 200,000 0 NA NA
Total 700,000 21,115,714 4,542,353 6,905,500 19,664,202 2,148,339
Telecom Italia S.p.A. (million liters)
2001 20022.09
051015202530
0.706.9116.88
19.232.98
■Diesel■Diesel
■Unleaded
■LeadedTIM S.p.A. (million liters)
Gasolio0123
2001 20020.06
2.78
1.491.36SEAT S.p.A. (liters)
2002
Gasolio0175,000350,000525,000700,000
200,000
400,000/L50123Electromagnetic emissions
The Telecom Italia Group’s attention to the issue of electromagnetic emissions can be summed up
in the following commitments and actions:–Absolute compliance with the legislation in force in the countries in which it operates. Italian
law on the subject is particularly strict. The corporate process is structured on rigorous projectengineering, site selection, and plant installation management. In particular, everytransmission mast is protected to create a restricted-access area (exclusion zone) wherepermitted exposure values could be exceeded.
–Careful and scrupulous management of company installations throughout the whole life cycle,
in compliance with additional internal efficiency and safety standards;
–Use of, and constant research for, leading-edge technology tools for monitoring and
investigation activities.Specifically regarding GSM, a procedure for monitoring the fraction of power emitted withrespect to the maximum rated power, obtaining testing data from measurements on theconnection between base radio stations and base radio station controllers (BSC), is underdevelopment. The possibility of promoting the application on a national scale will beconsidered at a later stage.Regarding UMTS, definition of methodologies of analysis and simulation for estimation ofradioelectric power in various propagating environments and multimedia traffic contexts is inthe process of refinement. The first results have already been presented at a number ofinternational conferences. The technology developed by TILAB for measurement ofradiofrequency power generated by a base radio station will shortly be integrated by a sensorthat will allow direct measurement of electromagnetic pollution.This technology, which is being patented, should prove more economical than the solutionscurrently available.Furthermore, detailed monitoring is conducted under the abovementioned programs. In 2002,TIM monitored 2,896 out of 4,059 transmitters.As far as regards mobile phones marketed through its sales network, TIM makes a selectionbased on the level of technological innovation and Standard Absorption Rate (SAR)
(6)
measurements, to guarantee reduced electromagnetic emissions levels.
–Cooperation and support in medical-scientific studies. Specifically, Telecom Italia S.p.A., in
cooperation with a number of Italian universities and national and international organizations,promoted investigations to check the emission values of electromagnetic radiations andpossible impacts. These investigations confirmed that the values of the electromagnetic fields generated by the equipment managed by Telecom Italia Group in Italy are within the
statutory limits and that, according to current knowledge, there are no associated risks at biological level.
/L50123ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
The environmental implications of the Group’s activities are identified, monitored and controlled
with specific management instruments and an Environmental Management System (EMS) hasalready been developed, or is under development, in some of the Group companies;implementation of the system is a target to be progressively extended across the Group.
TILAB developed an integrated system for environmental management in accordance with the
standard UNI EN ISO 14001 and for Health & Safety management to standard OHSAS 18001.The Environmental Management System received DNV (Det Norske Veritas, an internationallyaccredited certification agency) certification in 2001.The system covers operations in T urin, with a total of around 1,100 employees; in 2002, itinvolved a commitment in terms of human resources equal to 1.5 man/years.
2002 sustainability report 331Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
/L50296(6) Experimental
measurement of the absorption ofenergy associated with electromagneticradiation by biological tissues.The project for ISO 14001 certification of the Environmental Management System of the Network
Function of the Domestic Wireline (DW) Business Unit is nearing completion. In 2002, audits
were carried out by the certification agency IMQ-CSQ, all with positive results, in the Network’s
territorial facilities Center 2 (covering Lazio, Abruzzo, Molise and Sardinia), Milan, Center-North(Emilia Romagna, Marche and Umbria), South 2 (Calabria and Sicily), Piemonte-Valle d’Aosta, plusNetwork’s central function SQ, which coordinates the project.
Audits at the remaining facilities will be terminated by July 2003. On completion of the project,
all certificates issued for the individually certified operations will go to form a single ISO 14001certificate applying to the whole Network Function.
TIM is carrying on the project, begun in 2001, for implementation and certification of the
integrated system for Quality Management and Environmental Management, respectivelydeveloped to standards UNI EN ISO 9001 and UNI EN ISO 14001, in its territorial organizationsof the Network Function. To date, IMQ-CSQ awarded certification to the Network organizations inPiemonte, Liguria, Valle d’Aosta, Calabria and Sicily; certification is expected to be extended toCampania, Basilicata and Puglia by April 2003. The project will be completed in 2004.A program to monitor natural resources and energy consumption (consistent with development ofthe EMS) was started up and a program to reduce waste. The latter program aims for an overallreduction in the number of lead-acid storage batteries used (the target is a 1-2% reduction).Separate paper and toner collection was started in the certified organizations.A communication program was also started in these organizations involving all employees, boththrough in-house publications (TIMTAMTAM) and an intranet guide, and all local organizationsand suppliers to the territorial organizations involved. Communication initiatives are to include anopportunity to communicate on environmental issues with the national and local press, and theconcerned authorities.Initiatives aimed at reducing the visual impact of Base Radio Stations were carried out to improveintegration in the environment. Particular attention is paid to protecting the cultural heritage: forexample the radio stations placed on the “Palazzo Ducale” in Genoa and the “Palazzo deiNormanni” in Palermo were camouflaged and adapted to preserve the architectural and estheticintegrity of the aforementioned sites of historical-cultural interest as much as possible.TIM intends to report on its environmental management with the aim of promoting consumerand community trust and satisfaction, to extend its environmental policy to suppliers, and todevelop a collaborative relationship with public administrations.
/L50123Telephone directories
In 2002, 30,500,000 telephone directories were printed, using 43,500 tonnes of paper, and
25,200,000 copies of the “Pagine Gialle” (yellow pages) requiring 26,500 tonnes of paper. The total, amounting to 70,000 tonnes, represents a 2.8% reduction from 2001.The directories and “Pagine Gialle” are printed on recycled paper with a 40% recycled fibercontent for the former and a 30% fiber content for the latter. The 
Seat Group also recovers old
phone directories for recycling. In 2002, 70% of the telephone directories and 67% of the “Pagine Gialle” were recycled. It must also be reported that new multimedia products are being developed and will reduce industrial consumption of paper and chemical additives. The company forecasts a further 2% reduction in the amount of paper used for printing telephonedirectories and the “Pagine Gialle” in 2003.
/L50123Environmental research
Environmental research activities are conducted primarily by TILAB (a wholly owned subsidiary of
Telecom Italia S.p.A.) on behalf of the companies belonging to the Group.
2002 sustainability report 341Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityIn 2002, a number of activities were carried out by the Environment Lab:
a) evaluation of exposure to electromagnetic fields and electrical safety in work environments 
in Telecom Italia, and investigation into the electroacoustical performance of operatorheadsets;
b) evaluation of technologies and suppliers able to minimize the environmental impact of
Telecom Italia products (electronic equipment, telephones, telephone poles and network
materials) and processes;
c) feasibility analysis on a remote environmental monitoring system able to make use of 
both the fixed and mobile network capacities, guaranteeing good quality measurements at low cost;
d) development of instruments for optimizing energy management;e) study on electromagnetic fields, spanning three areas:
–dosimetry, ie, the activities serving for experimental evaluation of the Specific Absorption
Rate (SAR), for qualification of mobile telephones and development of contributions fordrawing up/revising national and international standards.
–electromagnetic theory, which has the objective of analyzing cell response when exposed to
an electromagnetic field and of calculating field distributions in the human head at UMTSfrequencies. It comprises theoretical activities for calibration of exposure facilities used inbiological testing.
–study and experimentation of the physiological and cellular effects of electromagnetic fields
at mobile telephony frequencies.
/L50123Fuel storage tank testing
The Group companies have oil storage tanks. The oil is used for both heating their premises 
and to supply diesel generators. These tanks are tested periodically to ensure fuel tank integrity and prevent oil leakage and consequent ground contamination.In 2002:–Telecom Italia S.p.A. tested 420 tanks without finding any irregularity;
–the 26 tanks belonging to TIM S.p.A., which receive regular scheduled maintenance, required
no additional service;
–Seat S.p.A’s 2 tanks were both tested and found to have no irregularities.
/L50123Generators
Compliance with standards, particularly on noise and emissions to air, calls for thorough
maintenance and testing, and also decommissioning and/or replacement of generators that fail to meet service and/or performance requirements. Generators are basically used to back-upthe power supply from the electricity grid.In 2002, 123 generators belonging to Telecom Italia S.p.A. were tested; one was replaced.Also in 2002, TIM tested 8 generators.Seat S.p.A. has 2 generators covered by routine service contracts; both were tested in 2002.
/L50123Civil Protection
To maintain increasingly efficient infrastructures dedicated to Civil Protection activities and, at the
same time aim to continuously improve them in terms of quality and quantity, it is necessary topromote constant development of the Crisis Management process.
Consequently, Telecom Italia’s Emergency and Civil Protection Plan is frequently revised to keep
pace with external requirements and in line with internal organizational developments(composition of the Crisis Teams, maintenance of the Interdisciplinary Coordination Centers,training programs, national and local practical drilling with the Civil Protection Department.
The CI.PRO (Civil Protection) Information System, consisting of a database that provides the
mapping of the geographic areas at risk and the distribution of the resources needed in
2002 sustainability report 351Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Communityemergencies, has been implemented with a more detailed cartography and can be accessed on
the network by the whole Group, enabling specific, customized services, thus becoming aninvaluable support for decision-making processes in crisis situations. The versatility and facility ofaccess to the system make CI.PRO also a product of commercial interest for bodies andorganizations concerned with this field.
Themed telephone cards (eg, forest fire prevention - summer 2002) and participation in displays
and conferences help to further communicate Telecom Italia’s commitment to civil protection.
All these activities combined and the highly-valued contribution of the employees involved, have
enabled Telecom Italia to carry out the role with which it is institutionally appointed in a fittingmanner, especially:
–on the occasion of the NATO - Russia Summit, for which the Group attended to the
provision/implementation of the complex TLC infrastructures at the Pratica di Mare militaryairport, taking care of every detail to an extremely tight deadline;
–in response to the natural calamities that struck Italy during 2002. The earthquake in Molise
put severe strain on the territorial and central organizations involved, especially due toconcurrence with other natural disasters such as flooding in the north of Italy and volcanicactivity by Mount Etna, which required an extremely high contribution in resources andequipment to restore the severely damaged national TLC networks.
In both circumstances, the Group’s efforts were recognized and greatly appreciated by both
representatives of the State organizations, particularly the Civil Protection Department, and otherbodies such as the rescue and aid organizations.
/L50123Health and Safety
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Occupational Health and Safety Management System
During 2002 Telecom Italia continued development of its occupational health and safety
management system by the creation of:•a corporate accident prevention policy;
•health and safety targets and a program to achieve them, which involved:
–completing and defining the principal procedures for prior assessment of health and safety
risks in introducing new work equipment, chemical substances or compounds, arrangingworkplaces, changing work organization or methods;
–processing industrial accident statistics;
–establishing health and safety responsibilities;
–raising “key people’s” awareness of health and safety issues;
–providing information and training for all employees exposed to specific hazards.
Training
Regarding training on health and safety in the workplace in 2002, training delivered directly by
the Environment, Health and Safety Service exceeded 24,000 hours. The areas covered included:•training for emergency response teams and employees responsible for helping the disabled in
emergencies;
•specialist training following introduction of new technologies and health and safety
procedures;
•basic health and safety training for newly-hired employees;
•training on Legislative Decree 626/94 and related legislation;
•training on specific hazards and the occupational health and safety management system.
2002 sustainability report 361Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityMonitoring
After completing characterization of the levels of professional exposure to electromagnetic fields
of employees who work on transmission towers, a three-year exposure level monitoring programwas started in 2002. Monitoring was conducted on around 150 sites.
TIM S.p.A.
TIM’s activities in the Health and Safety sector were:
–Design and implementation of a Health and Safety Management System to BSI-OHSAS 18001,
in the North-East region.
–Analysis of the company’s organizational situation and subsequent development of a
documents, procedures and standards system required to implement the Health and SafetyManagement System.
–Definition of the corporate Health and Safety Policy, of a program for improvement and related
targets, deadlines, indicators, resources and responsibilities designed to maintain, monitor andraise the health and safety performance.
–Organization and provision of a training program for all employees in the North-East region on
the whole Health and Safety Management System.
–Evaluation of the effectiveness and correct implementation of the Health and Safety
Management System through periodic in-house and on-site audits.
Training comprised:
–Health and Safety Fundamentals for all newly recruited or transferred (from other Group
companies or other functions) professional figures.
–Specialist training related to introduction of new technologies/operating procedures, health
and safety standards and procedures.
–Training for Contractor employees in the head offices and regional offices.
–Training on the Health and Safety Management System.
–Training for employees with responsibilities in emergencies.
Six hundred audits were conducted nationwide by the Environment, Health and Safety Service.
This is around 7% of the sites where audits could potentially be carried out (considering also thenew BLU acquisitions).To continuously monitor the observance of working conditions, operating procedures and
implementation standards were issued concerning incident reporting, for the purposes ofworkplace safety, the safety of premises, of plants, equipment, materials and protective
equipment. Procedures and standards were also drawn up for the measurement and monitoring ofhealth and safety performance, for health and safety audits, and use of videoterminal (VDT)workstations/environments.
A health campaign was addressed to VDT operators, involving 391 employees.Indoor environmental investigations were conducted in the S. Barbara premises in Padua and theTiburtina premises in Rome.
Seat S.p.A.
In compliance with Legislative Decree 626/94 and the Ministerial Decree of 10 March 1998,
health and safety training courses were carried out for Health and Safety Workers Representativesand employees with fire prevention, evacuation and first aid responsibilities.
Seat continuously monitors working conditions and carries out inspections in all its premises. As a
result of these inspections, any modifications and implementations required for the FirePrevention Certificate are defined and carried out.
2002 sustainability report 371Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityIn accordance with the Risk Assessment document, the site surveys provided for by Legislative
Decree 626/94 and subsequent amendments were carried out in agreement with the competentphysician. All 18 company premises are surveyed at least once a year, with the exception ofspecial reported cases.
Provision is made for health surveillance of videoterminal operators as required by Legislative
Decree 626/94, art. 55. In 2002, 99 operators in T urin received medical checks and 159 operatorsin Rome (Tin.it).
A consultant provides the in-house Environment, Health and Safety Service with professional
support. Software is currently being installed for space planning and management, which will be avalid aid also in this field.
Data on industrial accidents:
Telecom Italia TIM Seat
Number of industrial accidents 1,056 * 119 ** 48 ***
Accident severity rate 0.33 0.19 –
Accident incidence rate 11.47 9.12 –
Mean absence time 154.67 112.15 –
Loss of working hours rate 1.77 1.05 –
% of injured workers (against total) 1.71 1.2 –
* 924 in 2001
** 124 in 2001*** 29 in 2001
2002 sustainability report 381Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
2002 sustainability report 39In 2002, the Telecom Italia Group companies’ commitment to the Community and Future
Generations stakeholders was worth euro 120,885,000, equal to 1.6% of the Group’s operatingincome (euro 77,212,000 in 2001).This was calculated using appropriately reclassified management accounting data and is a partialquantitative estimate of the cost of community projects and initiatives recorded in the accountsaccording to several criteria.
/L50123CONTRIBUTION CLASSIFICATION ON THE LONDON
BENCHMARKING GROUP MODEL
The London Benchmarking Group (LBG), established in 1994, now comprises 74 leading
international companies and is currently the European benchmark in evolution of social-environmental reporting.
This model reclassifies contributions into four different categories. The pyramid diagram reflects
the possibility of measuring the benefits and business returns arising from the various activities:–at the base of the pyramid, the return can easily be measured since it is connected to the core
business;
–at the apex, donations are strictly linked to the Group’s sense of social and moral
responsibility.
The four-category classification proposed by the LBG model is not straightforward as a single
initiative may have effects in more than one different category. As a general rule, preference hasbeen given to comparability with previous years.
Classification according to this model compared with 2001, shows a general increase in the
contribution also as a result of introducing a more analytical data entry system. Nevertheless, the share of investment in each category is basically the same as in 2001.
Community activities selected to form the categories according to the LBG model
Charity Funding to Associations and liberal grants
Donations
Humanitarian projects [CRALT]
Community Scholarships, student work places
investments Education and employment projects
Investments in the social fieldEnvironmental Management DevelopmentElectromagnetic emissions – monitoring and measurementHealth & Safety Management System – improvementEnvironment, Health & Safety researchEnergy saving schemesTerritorial safety plans
Civil Protection
Social Short-term projects in the social field
initiatives Health and social solidarity related events
Culture, arts and sports events
Innovative Research and development for innovative services
services for Support for university research
social growth Technological innovation projects
Initiatives and projects promoting social growth
E-learning platform projectTHE COMMUNITY
Breakdown of Telecom 
Italia Group's contributionto the Community
(euro 120.885 million)
Innovative
servicesfor social
growth
66.4%Community
investments
19.4%Charity
3.9%Social
initiatives
10.3%LBG model
(millions of euro)
80.208
Innovative services for social growth4.735
Charity
12.438
Social initiatives23.504
Community
investments/L50123Charity
Domestic Wireline/Corporate
Numerous donations were made to support initiatives, foundations and associations such as
“Telefono Azzurro” (helpline for children), AIRC (Italian Association for Cancer Research),Telethon, and the Community of San Patrignano.
Atesia provided a freephone number to take donations over the phone, on the occasion of the “Lapartita del cuore” sports event, the proceeds of which were donated to not-for-profit associations.Intelcom S. Marino donated a minibus for the disabled.
Mobile
–Molise earthquake:
TIM participated in fundraising for the population hit by the earthquake by inviting all its GSMcustomers to send an SMS to the number 4466 at a cost of one euro from 5 to 11 November.All proceeds from the appeal went to assistance for the families in the Molise region hit by theearthquake.
–Peru Project:
TIM and TIM employees provided funding throughout 2002 for the project of the HumanRights Office run by the Caritas in Lima, which aims to help over 4 thousand victims ofdomestic violence who have benefited from health, legal and psychological counseling andprofessional training courses.The employees had the possibility to arrange their donations by accessing the companyintranet and filling in a form authorizing the donation to be taken from their pay. Each employee donation was matched by TIM.
–Telethon for muscular dystrophy and other genetic diseases:
TIM customers made their donations by sending an SMS to the number 44644, at a cost of 1 euro, including VAT . Telethon, therefore, received a net amount of Euro 0.833 for everymessage sent. TIM also provided “TIM informa” messages publicizing the appeal: whoeverwished to respond to the appeal was able to do so as from 5 December 2002, by answeringthe message in the affirmative.
–AIRC:
“Research is waiting for a message from you”: TIM supported this initiative directed atconsumers by donating 1 euro for each of its employees who have company mobile phoneswhich are not enabled to send text messages and could not be used to respond to the appeal.
–Funding was provided for a number of not-for-profit organizations (ELEPAP , an organization
which helps disabled children, Child’s Smile and Make A Wish Foundation). Stet Hellas donatedtelecommunication infrastructures to hospitals in Evros, one of the most depressed regions inGreece, and support in the construction of school infrastructures on twelve islands in theDodecanese region, struck by a natural disaster.
–TIM’s Maxitel Group bought hospital equipment for the children’s oncology department in the
Baleia Hospital (Brazil).
–TIM Peru donated prepaid cards and SIM Cards to the Firemen in Peru to help their work for
the community.
–The TIM Group’s Tele Celular Sul formed a partnership with Pastoral da Criança (an institution
internationally renowned for its achievements in reducing infantile mortality in poverty-stricken communities) and renewed its membership in the Abrinq Foundation for children’srights and abolition of child labor.
Internet and Media
Support was given to a number of initiatives including donations to the non-profit charity
organization ASIA through purchase of calendars (Seat S.p.A.), sponsor-a-child schemes (GialloVoice OPS), donations to parishes and to the Molise earthquake disaster fund (La7).
2002 sustainability report 401Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityOther companies
Information Technology Market
Banksiel chose to use Unicef Christmas cards again in 2002 and donated the sum allocated for
Christmas gifts to the Molise earthquake disaster fund.Insiel’s donations favored local not-for-profit causes, such as the International Center ofMechanical Science of Udine and associations such as AGMEN for the parents of children withhaemopathic-neoplastic disorders, ANFFAS for the families of subnormal children and adults, Pro-Senectute which helps and entertains the elderly, as well as UNICEF, Lega del Filo d’Oro, Medicinssans frontières and the Don Bosco Missions.
Information Technology Group
Netsiel gave donations to the children’s hospital “Bambino Gesù” in Rome and to the hospice
“Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza” in San Giovanni Rotondo.Sodalia gave donations to the SOS Village in Trento and an introductory computer and internetcourse for fourteen children living in the village.
Latin America Operations
Entel Chile supported a number of institutions fighting the use of drugs by the young and
providing social support. Entel Bolivia donated medicines and equipment to hospitals to help the needy.
/L50123Community Investments
Group activities to improve (building and technological) infrastructures from a safety and
environmental point of view continued also throughout 2002.
Domestic Wireline/Corporate
Education
The project “Telecom Alleniamoci alla Vita” (Telecom fit for life), which has been sponsored by 
the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research, aims to promote the social and individualgrowth of the young through the values of sport. It is a three-year, nation-wide project forschools of all types and levels, targeted and diversified for students, teachers and families by anintegrated package of educational materials and aids: teaching cards, posters, films, CD Roms,guides and booklets.
Telecom Italia’s collaborative projects with the academic world, which are now consolidated, aim
to initiate a profitable exchange with reference to career opportunities. In 2002, nineteenscholarships were awarded:
–“Master Bocconi MEGeS”;
–“Borsa Scuola Superiore di Specializzazione in TLC”;
–“Borsa di studio Master LUISS”;
–“Consorzio ELIS (CONSEL);
–“Federazione Nazionale Cavalieri del Lavoro”.
Telecom Italia entered into agreements with Italian universities giving graduates/students the
opportunity to develop their skills within the Group with specific training programs and trainingon the job. In 2002, ninety-five people were hosted by Telecom Italia organizations and four ofthem were employed.As part of the Telecom Italia/Universities project, a series of Job Meetings are held with face-to-face sessions between young academics and businesses within the universities.
Health and social solidarity
During 2002, Telecom Italia Learning Services launched a project for ICT educators for the
visually impaired. The initiative, funded by the Province of Rome, in partnership with the Italian
2002 sustainability report 411Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityUnion of the Blind and with the direct involvement of the Training Institute IRIFOR, was realized
with a total commitment of 680 hours, 488 of which in classroom learning and 192 in onlinelearning. The purpose of the project was to train twelve learners, who in turn formed a group oftrainers of new resources.Another project, in which Telecom Italia participated, was “Jonad”. Also this initiative was fundedby the Lazio Region and the European Community, which directly invested I.R.F.I. (Regional
Institute of Business Educators) with the operation. The aforementioned institute asked Telecom Italia and the former Secondary School “Guglielmo Reiss Romoli” to develop and
implement the project. To carry out the obligations that were undertaken meant customizing abranch of the E-Learning platform. The project actually involved creating a web portal for women,where applications for employment and offers of employment are matched, and information isprovided on Business Management and ICT .
Mobile
Education
The TIM Fellowship Program, designed to create a preferential channel for identifying the best
candidates, through promoting lifelong learning and professional development of universitystudents in the new economy, mobile business and ICT , was started.The following initiatives included in the TIM Fellowship Program are highlighted:–sponsoring of the Euro-Mediterranean Master in International Business and student work
places in the Sant’Anna Institute in Pisa;
–funding a chair as part of the doctorate in Economy and Management at the University of 
Tor Vergata in Rome;
–funding the Master in “Economy of Competition and Regulation of Public Utilities” at the
Marconi Radioelectric Center;
–sponsoring three scholarships for the Master in Radiocommunications at the University
Federico II of Naples;
–participation in the consortium “Alta Formazione” at the Politecnico in Milan;
–partnership for management and development of the content of the (blacked out) TFP site at
Isufi in Lecce.
Health and social solidarity
–In anticipation of the inauguration of the European Year of the Disabled (2003), TIM worked
alongside observers of the internet sites of the UIC (Italian Union of the Blind) and ANPVI(National Association of the Blind and Visually Impaired) to develop an accessible version ofthe TIM portal www.tim.it. The accessible site is intended for people with serious sightproblems or motor control problems, besides internet users who log on with connections thatare not particularly fast or with Browser versions that are not very up-to-date.
–As a result of collaboration between TIM and Venis, a company belonging to the Telecom Italia
Group and technology partner of the City of Venice, all TIM customers can send an SMS withthe text “marea” (tide) to the number 41041 and receive a mobile message with the latestflood level forecast.In the first trial month, 1,500 SMS were sent to forty organizations and over one thousandrequests for the service were received. The next step will be enablement in WAP Push, to datereserved for only a number of institutions, but which will shortly be extended, on request, tobusinesses, shopkeepers and residents in tidal areas, or even tourists who may be planning atrip to Venice.
Internet and Media
Education
SEAT S.p.A. increased relations with the leading Italian universities, awarding eleven scholarships
and providing several student work places.
2002 sustainability report 421Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityHealth and social solidarity
–SEAT S.p.A. helped the Children’s Hospital “Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù” in Rome with
a research project to set up human endothelial cell banks to treat diseases and pathologicalinjuries resistant to pharmacological treatment.
–Promotion of the World Aids Day on MTV’s live programs with an awareness campaign (one
spot produced in Italy and seven by MTV Europe); planning for a month of the pro-socialcampaign “Lila Cedius”, mini site on mtv.it with a link to Lila Cedius; special programming for1 December with information crawls, SMS donations and a charity auction of assorted articleswith artists; agreements with Radio 101 for cross promotion and live broadcasting.
–MTV broadcast pro-social campaigns with an average duration of one month (4 spots a day)
supporting: Emergency, Whispering Freedom (Burma), Tolerance, Drink & Drive, Pause.
Other companies
Information Technology Market
Insiel provided collaboration in projects aimed at teaching the techniques characteristic of
industrial production of software and support in the form of sponsorship of master degrees,scholarships and student work places with the aim of facilitating young people’s first approach toindustry and the world of work.
Latin America Operations
Entel Chile supported the project “Desarrollo Académico” (oncology) of the faculty of Medicine of
the Pontificia Universidad Catòlica (PUC).Entel Bolivia helped various hospitals ranging from pediatric to geriatric hospitals and burns units.
Other Activities
The “Ten Telecom” project, run by Loquendo, aims to increase European market penetration of
devices that support vocal navigation and access to web contents. Studies conducted on theproject enabled users with serious sight problems to use telephone access vocal services.
/L50123Social initiatives
In 2002, the Telecom Italia Group participated in the 13th edition of the television marathon
Telethon, providing Group facilities and technology to raise awareness for and most successfully
support fundraising for muscular dystrophy and other genetic diseases. The Group also providedsupport in the form of an important press campaign in the leading national and regionalnewspapers to maximize circulation of the message of the appeal. Commencing from 4 December2002, over fifty full color pages were published in the leading national and local newspapers.
Domestic Wireline
Throughout the television fundraising marathon, Telethon, (from 14.00 on 13 December to 
02.00 on 15 December) Telecom Italia Wireline provided the “187” call center and around 5,000telephonists to take calls.
Mobile
–TIM S.p.A. was the sole sponsor for production and staging of the musical “The Ten
Commandments”.
–Presence in the Scala Theatre with a message on the correct use of mobile phones in the
theater and visualization of the opera text on a display.
–Contribution to the “Giffoni Film Festival”.
–Contribution to “Experimenta 2002”, an exhibition on the brain’s powers of perception,
memory, thought and emotions.
–Support for the 19th edition of “ViviCittà”, a social and sports event:
Sponsored by UISP (Italian Union for Sport for Everyone) and with the collaboration of“Libera”, an association committed to the fight against mafia, ViviCittà 2002 is a running race
2002 sustainability report 431Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Communityfor professionals and amateurs, which is held annually and on the global stage allowing it to be
present and active on many issues: from solidarity (child labor, war, famine, disease) toenvironmental issues (indiscriminate building, poor quality of life, pollution), to human rightsand respect for the individual. ViviCittà 2002 was organized with stages in 60 cities in Italy(and 30 prisons and juvenile detention centers) and 50 cities worldwide, covering a totaldistance of 14,535 km and involving around one million runners. Africa was chosen as thetestimonial for this latest edition, subtitled “Run for rights”, while a similar initiative joininggroups and associations cooperating to develop awareness actions supporting Africa was“Chiama l’Africa” (Call Africa).
–TIM’s Maxitel funded the Bread Project, an educational program for alternative nutrition in the
poor regions in Brazil aimed at eliminating infantile malnutrition through health education for10,000 people.
Internet and Media
Seat S.p.A. supported the “Teatro Regio di Torino” (Royal Theater of T urin) and Seat Tin.it
supported Gruppo Edo S.p.A. for the concert held on 1 May in Piazza S. Giovanni in Rome.
Other companies
Information Technology Market
Insiel gave donations to institutions such as the “Fondazione del Teatro Verdi di Trieste”, for
printing the playbills and programs of the theaters “Teatro Stabile di Prosa” and “Teatro StabileLa Contrada”, to popular musical festivals such as “Il festival della canzone triestina”, to musicgroups such as the “Cameristi Triestini” and “Note del Timavo”, to culture groups such as “MusiciArtis” and for the exhibition “Pulcherrimae Strade”.In November 2002, Banksiel sponsored the concert marking the beginning of the academic yearat the Giuseppe Verdi Conservatory in Milan.
Information Technology Group
For the third consecutive year Webegg organized an exhibition in its own premises of the works
of Micol, inspired by classical music: large oil paintings and corroded ink studies. The exhibitionincluded a collection of black and white work.
Latin America Operations
Entel Chile and Entel Bolivia sponsored several culture, arts and sports events in their respective
countries.
/L50123Innovative services for social growth
In 2002, research and development within the Telecom Italia Group was predominantly carried
out by TILAB, also in joint projects with Pirelli Lab, with 1,081 resources and aggregate researchand development costs of euro 121 million. Investment grants and subsidized loans supportingresearch and development costs, collected or pending collection by TILAB, amount to around euro 12 million.Research and development activities consisted of studies and testing concerning fixed, mobileand internet telecommunications.As far as regards internet and mobile applications, research was focused on:–testing integrated technological and applications solutions for multimedia services;
–definition of the modes of access to broadband content and of broadband service
management;
–realization and evaluation of advanced user environment solutions (terminals, domestic wiring,
application platforms).
Switching and networking activities were applied to evolving IP networks, developing Content
Delivery Network architectures for an efficient distribution of multimedia content. 
2002 sustainability report 441Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The CommunityParticular attention was also dedicated to Wireless LAN and to innovative solutions for packet
network telephony.Research on network infrastructures concerned:–the metropolitan transport network, testing new automatic switching optical network
architectures;
–the access network, proposing innovative solutions based on copper and optical fiber
connections.
These research activities led to 45 patents being registered in 2002, a 13% increase from theprevious year.
Domestic Wireline/Corporate
The E_Learning platform, begun in 2001 by TI Learning Services, was completed. 
This service has made it possible to deliver online learning and mixed learning (traditionalclassroom teaching supported by and/or replaced by online learning). The Application ServiceProvider facility (interactivity with the customer’s IT structure or setting up the learning packageon the customer’s premises) proved the most effective in the online learning field.The Content Delivery Network, an infrastructural network that will interactively connect thetraditional Learning Centers with satellite connections for the T utor function, is expected to be set up in 2003.
Mobile
TIM contributed to the study on the transversal nature of public transport in relation to society,
health and the environment.The Stet Hellas Group took part in a project with the National Greek University and the EuropeanCommission concerning emerging services in the mobile telephony business.
Internet and Media
The Seat Group is considerably engaged in development of new products and services which are
offered to the public through its various platforms; this is considered an integral part of theproduction process and delivery of services and is therefore not specifically identified astraditional research and development but included in production costs. The Group did notcapitalize costs related to this specific activity.The projects carried out by Tin.it were all focused on internet end-users (Virgilio and Tin.it users)and were:–a radio listening service on internet;
–a videochat and video mail service;
–advanced electronic mail services (Anti spamming - Antivirus).
Other companies
Information Technology Market
In collaboration with the Telecom research centers, Banksiel promoted a project to adapt
internet/intranet solutions to make them accessible to the visually impaired and to users withmotor control problems. It is not confined to simply adopting the W3C (World Wide WebConsortium) WAI (Web Accessibility Initiative) project regulations for internet sites (suitable forpredominantly text type sites) but takes into account the spirit of the European Community’s“eEurope program” and sets the target of:–re-examining presentation/navigation in order to make it easily usable by the visually impaired
while maintaining the characteristic features of a public internet banking site;
–extending the usability of home banking services by natural language and vocal interface.
Information Technology Group
Sodalia is a member of the European Community’s IST (Information Society Technologies)
Organization and takes part in the program which develops projects such as:
2002 sustainability report 451Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community–Angelo, targeted at creating innovative technologies for automation of Call Center work.
–Cadenus, which concerns development of innovative methods for managing Service Level
Agreements in Premium IP networks.
–ESERNET (Experimental Software EngineeRing NET work), which has the main objective of
establishing a world-leading network of excellence in Experimental Software Engineering withthe aim of improving software products and processes.
–WISE (Wireless Internet Service Engineering), which has the objective of establishing a
business model (specifying roles and skills of involved parties), a development process(methodologies, observations, guidelines) and a high level architecture to produce applicationswhich can provide internet/intranet value-added services extended to wireless customers(WAP , PDA, etc.).
–EURESCOM P1103, with the objective of studying and validating a framework for management
of QoS (quality of service) for end-to-end services crossing the domains of several operators.
Latin America Operations
Entel Chile participated in the Dibam Project (digitized network of libraries covering the whole of
Chile); Entel Bolivia supported the creation of educational Telecenters in rural areas incoordination with the competent municipalities.
2002 sustainability report 461Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders >>
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information13 Customers
19 Suppliers21 Competitors
23 The State and institutions25 Future generations39 The Community
On 21 January 2003, “PROGETTO ITALIA” was launched programming community
investment initiatives.
The objective of the Project is to promote the growth of the country through improving the
spread of culture and culture values.
With an initial annual budget of euro 30 million, the Project is split into over 30 initiatives.
Each of them is conceived and realized directly by Telecom Italia, either independently or inpartnership, allowing the Group to actively participate with ideas and technologies.1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 Shareholders
2002 sustainability report 47EMPLOYEES
/L50123TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
Employees at Employees at Change Hired Terminated Group
December 31, 2001 December 31, 2002 employment reshaping
109,956 101,713 (8,243) 7,207 (12,567) (2,883)
At 31 December 2002, Telecom Italia Group employed 101,713 people, 8,243 less than at 
year-end 2001. This reduction was the result of Group reshaping (-2,883 people) and employee
turnover (-5,360 people). The more significant movements in the Group were: disposal of9Telecom Group (-1,003 people), sale of Telespazio (-1,168 people), disposal of Sogei and Consiel (in total -1,538 people) and other minor movements (-711), as well as acquisition of BLU (+618 people), Webegg Group (+719 people), Netesi and Epiclink (in total +168 people) and other minor acquisitions (+32 people).With regard to employee turnover, during the year a total of 12,567 people left the Group (5,413 from the parent company) and 7,207 people joined the workforce./L50123INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
/L50296Employees cost
euro 3,562 million
/L50296(*) Percentage of
the Group total(Italy andInternational)Italy 82.1%International 17.9%
South Italy
20.0%(*)
Italy 88.3%International 11.7%
South Italy
21.8%(*)Telecom Italia Group employees 
Breakdown by geographic areaTelecom Italia Group cost of labour 
Breakdown by geographic area1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 Shareholders
2002 sustainability report 48/L50296(*) Percentage of
the Group total(Italy andInternational)
/L50296(**) 49.4% (3,562
people) of thetotal hiring  was inLatin America
International 60.1%(**)Italy 39.9%
South Italy
16.6%(*)
from 33 to 45 50%under 32 17%
over 45
33%Telecom Italia Group hiring
Breakdown by geographic areaTelecom Italia Group employees (in Italy) 
Breakdown by age group (years)
Clerical 84.8%High school
graduated 63%Senior management 2.2%Middle management 5.8%Workers 7.2%University graduated 9%
Other 28%Telecom Italia Group employees (in Italy) 
Breakdown by professional categoryTelecom Italia Group employees (in Italy) 
Breakdown by academic qualifications/L50123Gender balance
The percentage breakdown of men and women employees in the Telecom Italia Group and
Telecom Italia S.p.A. is shown in the following charts:
In 2002, the percentage of senior management positions in the Group (in Italy) held by womenwas around 11%, rising to 23% at middle management level.Equal opportunity is one of the principles of the Charter of Values and Code of Ethics of theTelecom Italia Group. The Group adheres to the United Nations Global Compact principles which
include no discrimination. A balance between work and personal life is facilitated, where possible,by flexible working hours (TIM operates a scheme for working mothers, called TIM Mamma). In
Italy, the Group companies guarantee up to ten months’ maternity leave and adopt local bestpractices in other countries.
/L50123Employee satisfaction
In the first six months of 2002, the quantitative phase of the survey on employee attitude across
the Group, known as the “Group Photo”, was carried out via intranet. A total of 33,919questionnaires were completed.The results were communicated through the Group intranet portal and focus group meetings.In October 2002, the qualitative phase of the survey was run with 19 focus groups, countingaround one hundred participants including senior and middle managers, clerical staff andworkers.
Based on feedback from both phases, the general picture of employee satisfaction and motivationshows steady improvement.
/L50123Internal communication
In 2002, Internal Communication implemented a number of initiatives for Telecom Italia Group
employees:–the process of implementing the Group intranet was continued and at year-end 2002 75% ofthe Group companies were connected;
–live and recorded audiostreaming transmissions of the major presentations to the financialcommunity were organized for around 2,000 senior managers of the Group;
2002 sustainability report 491Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 Shareholders
Telecom Italia S.p.A. men and women 
employees in 2002 and 2001
2001 20020.027.555.082.5110.0
■Women
■Men20.3
79.7
7921Telecom Italia Group - 2002  
men and women employees in Italy
20020.027.555.082.5110.0
■Women
■Men27.8
72.2–a convention was organized and transmitted by satellite business TV to the 35 offices in Italy
and worldwide, during which the Chairman, Marco Tronchetti Provera, illustrated the industrial
plan to the Group’s management;
–a convention was held involving the 130 Human Resources managers; a video was made with
the participation of around thirty employees from across the Group. The take-aways werecascaded to the Human Resources professional group by a specially made CD Rom;
–a calendar was made, entitled “noi” (us), featuring 12 employees from different companies
belonging to the Group, with the objective of developing a sense of belonging and integrationbetween different cultures and businesses;
–a newsletter was produced and e-mailed to all Group employees on the occasion of Telethon,
the fundraising marathon broadcast on the RAI networks.
/L50123Training
Training activities (classroom and online learning and on-the-job coaching for employees in Italy)
in 2002 registered an aggregate value of around 2 million hours and around euro 35 million in
actual costs (excluding the cost of labor and logistic expenses). These activities were largelydelivered by Telecom Italia Learning Services, the Group company appointed with developmentand marketing of learning programs. They mainly concerned:–specialist issues to meet the needs of specific businesses, with particular attention todevelopment of customer focus and to training for front-end personnel (eg, Info 12, CustomerRelationship Management, “Progetto Coaching”, “Progetto Concorde”, “Progetto CuORE”,“Progetto Fish”);
–management development initiatives for the Group’s senior management, targeted both forChange Management according to the managerial model defined for the Group and forenhancement of skills and behaviors essential to creating value (eg, “Progetto Economics”aimed at rapidly sharing knowledge of business economics);
–institutional induction for newly appointed managers.
–learning packages for professional groups, to integrate and develop activity-specific knowledgeand skills (eg, Human Resources, Investor Relations).
/L50123Industrial relations
During the year, negotiations in the Group were predominantly concerned with:
–Employment
On 27 May, the Group framework agreement was signed with the labor unions to guarantee
correct sizing of the workforce in relation to the 2002-2004 industrial plan. In implementationof the understanding, a union agreement was signed on 30 July downsizing the Telecom Italiaworkforce by 3,803. Similar agreements were signed in following months for other Group
companies for a further reduction in force of 380.Under the same framework agreement, on 8 October Telecontact Center signed a unionagreement for 350 new entrants and on 13 November an understanding was signed betweenTelecom Italia and the labor unions to recruit 110 young people in Domestic Wireline.
Lastly, on 12 December the procedure transferring Blu employees to TIM was completed.
–Performance bonus
On 3 June, Telecom Italia and the labor unions reached agreement over the Performance
Bonus for 2002, calculated in relation to 2001’s Gross Operating Profit. For the years 2003-2005 the bonus will be determined also considering a Customer Loyalty rating.
–Corporate reorganization
Procedures were carried out for transfer of business lines of Telecom Italia responsible 
for management and development of corporate real estate to the companies Pirelli &C.
Commercial Agency, Pirelli &C. Project Management, Pirelli &C. Property Management, Tiglio II.Procedures were also completed for assigning organization units within the Group according to the missions of the various companies.
2002 sustainability report 501Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 Shareholders/L50123Remuneration policy
To economically enhance the performance of managerial and professional resources, the Group
offers benefits that vary according to the professional category and type of performance: MBO
(management-by-objectives), one-off services and special awards.Long Term Incentive Plans and Stock Option Plans, for a more selected target of resources, areused in the Group as loyalty and retention systems.An additional benefits package is provided for employees posted outside Europe. These additionalbenefits include:–medical health cover extended to family members;
–industrial and personal accidental permanent invalidity or death insurance (includingaccidental bodily injury resulting from flying, war, invasion, or act of foreign enemy, hostilities,insurrection, rebellion, terrorism, tropical diseases, reptile bites, insect stings, poisoning),extended also to family members for personal accidental bodily injury;
–language courses for family members and contributions to educational expenses foremployees’ children.
/L50123EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
ASSILT
The Association for Supplementary Health Care for Telecom Italia Group workers reimburses the
cost of health care supplementary to the National Health Service. In association with the publichealth service, and with its own mobile diagnostic units, it also carries out preventive medicineand health education campaigns.At 31 December 2002 the association had more than 223,000 members (71,000 employees,38,000 retirees, 114,000 family members).In 2002, 521,000 reimbursements were made.
In the context of preventive medicine and health education, the ophthalmological examination
initiative which has involved more than 40,000 employees over the years was completed in 2002.
The oncological prevention program (breast cancer and skin cancer screening) continued in 2002.
A total of around 15,000 members were examined.
A campaign for the prevention of respiratory allergic reactions was experimentally launched in the
Umbria region and will be conducted in 2003 in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Liguria and Lazio.
CRALT
The Company Recreational Group for Telecommunications Workers organizes tourism, sport,
culture, recreation and solidarity initiatives for employees and retired employees of the GroupCompanies. It also arranges special conditions with shops, theaters, and sports centers.
At year-end 2002, membership totaled around 63,000 employees and 9,000 retirees.National events organized in 2002:
•summer and winter holidays, with the participation of around 36,000 members and theirfamilies;
•(summer and winter) sports meetings, with the participation of more than 2,700 athletes andtheir families;
•organized holidays for senior citizens for 1,800 retirees;
•celebrations to mark the twenty-fifth year of CRALT , in which 1,500 members and their familiestook part.
2002 sustainability report 511Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 ShareholdersCRALT also participated in humanitarian initiatives (Support-a-Child campaigns) promoted by
ARCI and AVSI, to which it donated more than euro 150,000, and sponsored projects to helpchildren in stricken areas in Molise.
Telemaco
The National Complementary Pension Fund for Telecommunications Companies Workers has
approximately 56,000 members. In 2002, the financial managers were selected and the articles of
association were amended.
Company loans
The new regulations governing company loans for Telecom Italia S.p.A. workers granted as 
from 2003 were drawn up. Loans are granted for renovation or purchase of first home property(amounts from euro 2,500 to euro 17,500) or for other purposes (up to a maximum of euro 2,500).
Summer camp for employees’ children
The summer camp holidays offer children between the ages of 6 and 12 a recreational and
formative opportunity of community life, based on an educational project which is continuously
updated with the contribution of experts, university lecturers and operators in the field.In 2002, 4,766 children stayed in 8 mountain centers and 4 seaside centers.Overall, job opportunities were created for around 1,400 young people under term contracts withthe organizations which manage the summer camps.
Study support for employees’ families
In 2002, first-year university fees were reimbursed to 300 students and 60 youngsters received a
4-week stay abroad to study English.
Award ceremonies
In 2002, around 1,000 employees completed 25 years of service in Group companies. The awards
will take place in 2003.
ALATEL
The Association of Senior Workers of the Telecom Italia Group joins retirees and workers with at
least 20 years’ of service. It promotes solidarity and cultural activities and counts around 28,000members, 38% of whom are employees in service.
2002 sustainability report 521Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 ShareholdersThe composition of the holdings in Telecom Italia S.p.A., as results from the Shareholders
Register at 31 December 2002 (ordinary shares), is reported.
Application of the principles of Corporate Governance is a fundamental commitment for the
Telecom Italia Group, underpinned by a process of progressive improvement. The majority of the
documents relating to the instruments of Corporate Governance, outlined herebelow, are available
for consultation on the internet site www .telecomitalia.it .
/L50123Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
Telecom Italia’s Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee already fully complies
with the provisions of the Code of Self-Discipline adopted by Borsa Italiana in July 2002 as far as
regards the composition and activities of the Committee.In fact, the Committee comprises solely independent, non-executive directors, in the persons ofthe Directors Roberto Ulissi (Chairman), Guido Ferrarini and Natalino Irti. The Committee meteight times during the 2002 financial year, and the meetings were attended by the Chairman ofthe Board of Statutory Auditors or by all members of the Board of Statutory auditors whenever ajoint meeting was considered appropriate.In accordance with the provisions of Telecom Italia’s Code of Self-Discipline, the Internal Controland Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for: (i) evaluating the adequacy of theinternal control system; (ii) evaluating the work plan prepared by the owner of internal control,who sends it regular reports; (iii) evaluating the proposals formulated by the independentauditors in order to be appointed, as well as the audit work plan and the results expressed in theletter of recommendations; (iv) informing the Board, at least every six months, on approval of theannual financial statements and six-monthly report, about the work carried out and the adequacyof the system of internal control, and (v) monitoring application and periodic reviewing of therules of corporate governance.
/L50123Directors’ Remuneration Committee
On 7 November 2001, the Board of Directors established a Remuneration Committee with
investigative and advisory functions. During the 2002 financial year no changes were made to thecomposition or responsibilities of the Committee. Specifically, the Directors’ RemunerationCommittee’s role is to make proposals to the Board of Directors for the remuneration of the ChiefExecutive Officers and executives holding particular appointments. As directed by the ChiefExecutive Officers, the Committee also makes proposals to determine the criteria for theremuneration of the top management of the Company. The Committee members are independentdirectors and were Luigi Fausti (Chairman), Umberto Colombo and Pier Francesco Saviotti.
/L50123Rules for the Board of Directors
Members of the Board of Directors may deal in company shares. There is, however, under the
provisions of Telecom Italia’s Code of Conduct for Insider Dealing, which was adopted by theBoard of Directors on 7 November 2002, a so-called black-out period, during which executivedirectors are allowed to carry out transactions (defined as any action that creates, modifies orextinguishes rights with respect to financial instruments, listed in Italy or internationally, issuedby Telecom Italia S.p.A., by the companies it controls and the companies it is controlled by, even
if done under a contract for the management of a portfolio of investments or on an individualbasis) only from the day after the release of the final or preliminary periodic reports for eachquarter (or half year or financial year) until the closing day of the next quarter. For non-executivedirectors and members of the Board of Statutory Auditors the obligation to abstain from carryingout transactions is less extensive and applies from the day on which the board meeting toexamine the abovementioned reports is convened, or on which they learn of their contents ifearlier, until the day after release. In the event of exceptional circumstances of personal
2002 sustainability report 531Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 Shareholders
SHAREHOLDERS
/L50296Dividends in
2002 were worth
euro 4,945million
OLIVETTI
S.p.A.
54.94%InstitutionalShareholdersItaly
10.55%
Institutional
ShareholdersInternational
22.42%Juridical
Italy
0.65%Composizione Azionariato Telecom Ita
come da Libro Soci al 31/12/2002 (az
Juridical
International
2.81%
Others8.63%necessity, adequately justified by the concerned party, provision is made for a possibility of
exception for the sale of shares.These limitations do not apply to the exercise of stock options or pre-emption rights, or to salescarried out at the same time as the exercise of the rights.
/L50123Financial communication
Since year-end 2001, and throughout 2002, the Telecom Italia Group has been committed to
improving financial communication in terms of detail, continuity and timing with the aim of givingboth the business performance and the corporate governance of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and itsaffiliated and associated companies greater transparency and dependability, in full compliancewith investors’ requirements and the guidelines set by the regulatory authorities.This effort was also recognized by the financial market, which ranked Telecom Italia as the leadingEuropean telecommunications company for compliance with corporate governance principles,following a survey conducted by Deutsche Bank in collaboration with DWS Investment.
Investor Relations was entrusted to an independent Central Function reporting to the ChiefExecutive Officer, with key accounts dedicated to the various categories of internal and externalstakeholders to ensure that communication is more immediate, more complete and moreeffective.To this end, detailed and prompt disclosure of information was ensured through press releases
and publication of institutional documentation (regulatory and voluntary periodic reports such asthe Sustainability Report, and information about shareholders’ meetings and specific markettransactions), which are available to shareholders in print or on the internet.In fact, the internet site www
.telecomitalia.it was restructured creating a specific section entirely
dedicated to investor relations and retail. In addition to enriching and updating the content,particular attention has been placed on information regarding share performance and companyevents. During 2002, the Company organized more than twenty-five formal meetings with themarket (analysts, institutional investors and national and international specialist press). They included quarter conference calls, road shows, meetings, press conferences, plus the day-to-day relations with all the financial analysts and investors either through meetings or bytelephone to provide them with the details they need for their work.Additionally, the annual meeting was held in Milan on 14 and 15 February to present theguidelines of the Group’s industrial and financial plan for the 2002-2004 three-year period and forthe first time an event entitled “Technology Day” was organized in Rome, on 18 and 19 July, toillustrate Telecom Italia Group’s development of technologies and innovative services to thefinancial community.
Finally, as part of the activities undertaken to implement the rules of Corporate Governance, on13 February 2003, the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia also approved the “Procedure forcommunication of share price sensitive information to the market”. The document establishesguidelines for disclosure of such information to the market, identifies the Functions andStructures involved in the process, setting also the procedure to be followed in the event ofrumors or of requests for information from market watchdog or management bodies. Theguidelines also discipline the activities to put in place when the Company meets with the financialcommunity and press so as to ensure non-selective use of Company information.
/L50123Legal proceedings
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Legal proceedings are pending for compensation for damages amounting to euro 18.9 million,
filed against Olivetti, Telecom Italia, and the Chairman and pro tem. Deputy Chairman, based on
the alleged non-fulfillment of the commitments undertaken in the Offer Document relating to thetakeover and exchange bid by Olivetti and Tecnost for Telecom Italia in 1999, and also for theresolutions passed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on 14 January 2000 in connection with thepurchase of Treasury savings shares.
2002 sustainability report 541Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 ShareholdersTIM S.p.A.
No lawsuits are in progress.
SEAT S.p.A.
Only two litigation cases are reported: the first filed by the shareholder Carlo Fabris, who has
asked the Court of Milan to pronounce the resolution of the Shareholders’ Meeting on 20November 2000, by which SEAT approved the proposal to increase the share capital reserved toDe Agostini Invest S.A., excluding the Shareholders’ pre-emption right, null and of no effect.According to the plaintiff, the resolution was made in infringement of art. 2441, paragraph 5, ofthe Civil Code, which stipulates that in the event of an increase in capital with exclusion of theshareholders’ pre-emption right “the number of votes for the resolution must represent morethan half the share capital”. The case, currently pending before the VIII Section, should goforward for judgment after the memorials and replications have been lodged, the former by 29
March 2003 and the latter by 18 April 2003.The second legal proceeding was filed by the shareholder Franco Porta, before the Court of Milan,to contest the resolution of the Extraordinary Meeting of the Shareholders of SEAT on 30 July2001 regarding the extension of the deadline for execution of the resolution to increase thecapital reserved for Vertico. According to the shareholder, the aforementioned resolution hasbecome unnecessary as a result of the fact that Telecom Italia has bought control of the companyVertico, which holds 33,3% of Matrix. The case is pending before the VIII Section and the
summing-up session has been set for 1 October 2003.
2002 sustainability report 551Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders >>
56 Other Information47 Employees
53 Shareholders2002 sustainability report 56
1Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information >>56 Selected financial data
58 Auditors’ Report
/L50123SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
/L50123Telecom Italia Group - Selected financial data
2002 2001 Changes (a) - (b)
(millions of euro) (a) (b) absolute percentage
Sales and service revenues 30,400 30,818 (418) (1.4%)
Gross operating profit (GOP)
% of sales and service revenues 13,964 13,619 345 2.5%
Operating profit
% of sales and service revenues 7,381 6,674 707 10.6%
Net income (loss) before minority interest 297 (1,658) 1,955 –
% of sales and service revenues
Net income (loss) - Parent Company (322) (2,068) 1,746 (84.4%)
Net invested capital at 31 December 30,941 41,250 (10,309) –
Shareholders’ equity at 31 December (1)12,823 19,308 (6,485) –
Net borrowing at 31 December 18,118 21,942 (3,824) –
Capital investments 6,919 11,257 (4,338) –
Employees at year end 101,713 109,956 (8,243) (7.5%)
In 2002, investments amounted to euro 6,919 million, a 38.5% decrease from 2001.
Industrial investments amounted to euro 5,211 million (euro 8,164 million in 2001) and
comprised the goodwill (euro 369 million) arising from acquisition of Blu by TIM and from TIMInternational’s increased investments in Stet Hellas and Digitel.
The gross value added of the Telecom Italia Group is calculated in the following table and the
distribution among the principal stakeholders is shown.
/L50123Gross value added and stakeholders
2002 2001 Changes %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Sales and service revenues 30,400 30,818 (1.4%)
Standard production value 31,054 31,308 (0.8%)
Raw materials and outside services (12,558) (13,042) (3.7%)
Value added 18,496 18,266 1.3%
Telecommunications license fee 431 524 (17.7%)
Other entries(*) (45) 838 –
Gross value added 18,882 19,628 (3.8%)/L50296(1) Net of
“Receivables fromShareholders forcapitalcontributions”.
(*) Other entries
are the balancebetween thefollowing items in
the Statement ofIncome: otherincome/expense,extraordinaryincome/expense,dividendsdistributed for theyear 2001, TLClicense fee,adjustments invalue of financialassets, netinvestmentincome, financialincome, and netincome beforeminority 
/L50296interest.2002 sustainability report 571Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information >>56 Selected financial data
58 Auditors’ Report
/L50123Distribution of gross value added among stakeholders and other parties
2002 2001 Changes %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Employees 3,562 3,654 (2.5%)
State 1,090 2,855 (61.8%)
of which:
•Social security costs 1,199 1,225 (2.1%)
•Taxes (601) 1,045 –
• Direct taxes (716) 925 –
• Indirect taxes 115 120 (4.2%)
•TLC license fee 431 524 (17.7%)
•Dividends (Ministry of Economy and Finance) 61 61 –
Minority shareholders (excluding the Ministry 
of Economy and Finance) 4,884 3,036 60.9
Financiers 2,717 3,075 (11.6%)Business (depreciation and amortization, provisions to 
reserves for risks and charges, other valuation adjustments) 6,629 7,008 (5.4%)
The data for 2001 have been restated to take account of the Telecom Italia Group aggregate
contribution to the State stakeholder in Italy and internationally (the 2001 Sustainability Reportstated only the contribution to the Italian Public Administrations) thus resulting in a slight changein the gross value added. As far as regards employees, the euro 68 million change with respect tothe 2001 figure published in the previous year’s report is offset by an equivalent increase in socialsecurity costs.The aggregate contribution of the Telecom Italia Group to internal and external stakeholders for2002 was euro 27,623 million (including financiers).
The reduction in direct taxes was commented in the paragraph relating to the State. The increase
in dividends in relation to 2001 reflects the exceptional distribution of reserves resolved andeffected by Telecom Italia (euro 987 million) and TIM (for the part for minority shareholders, ofeuro 711 million) in December 2002.
/L50123Contribution to stakeholders in 2002
(euro)
SUPPLIERS
15,370 million Raw materials and outside services, industrial investments (*)
STATE
1,090 million Social security costs, taxes and dividendsEMPLOYEES
3,562 millionSHAREHOLDERS
4,884 million Dividends distributed (excluding the Ministry of Economy and Finance, already included 
under State)
FINANCIERS
2,717 million/L50296(*) External costs,
net of license fee,includingindustrialinvestments, net ofincreases incapitalizedinternalconstruction costs,net of associatedamounts for costsand investments.2002 sustainability report 581Preliminary Information
7Charters and Codes
13 External Stakeholders
47 Internal Stakeholders
56 Other Information >>56 Selected financial data
58 Auditors’ Report
Special thanks to
•All colleagues who have taken an active part in gathering the data necessary for preparing this
document.
•SODALITAS - “Associazione per lo Sviluppo dell’Imprenditoria nel Sociale” 
(formed by Assolombarda) for its support and guidance on the path to sustainability reporting.
•C.S.R. Europe for providing information on Corporate Social Responsibility issues and
programs in Europe.
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Corso d’Italia, 4100198 Roma
Tel.: +39.06.3688.2840
Fax: +39.06.3688.2803e-mail: GroupSustainability@telecomitalia.it
Translation and editing
Teach In - Language and Training Workshop srl
2002 sustainability report 59Designed and produced by CRM S.r.l. - www.crm.it
Printed by Lucini, Milanon ecological paperin May 2003