>>Sustainability way
Report on activities 2005
sustainabilityway2005>>Sustainability Section » Summary 1Summary
Context Acknowledgements 3
Results 4
Objectives 2006-2008 5
References 6
Charters, Codes and Values 8
Reporting and planning 9
Hot Topics 10
Financial data and added value 11
External Customers 12
Stakeholders Suppliers 19
Competitors 22
Institutions 28
The Environment 31
The Community 42
Internal Human Resources 51
Stakeholders Shareholders 63
Auditors’ report Auditors’ report (Ernst & Young) 77Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Sustainability Section » from the Chairman’s letter to the Shareholders - Annual report 2005 2…we have invented a strategy that relies on five pillars. Firstly, we must exploit the
synergies which have resulted from integration by allocating a large proportion of the
resources which have thus been released for researching and developing innovative
technologies, for strengthening our position on the market and for implementing new
projects to improve customer care.
Then we shall proceed with the continuous development of the network, giving priority to
the development of a single transport infrastructure based on the Internet Protocol, to
bring new technologies to the market and improve the quality of service. As a result, weshall be able to concentrate our energy and initiative on the importance of the customer,
by providing channels, structures and systems capable of ensuring a rapid, effective,
adequate response to the new technological context. Through the new network and bygiving greater attention to customer satisfaction, we are confident that we shall be able
to maintain the market leadership in all areas: in fixed services, in mobile services and in
convergence based on broadband. The effectiveness of such plans relies, of course, onthe quality of our employees, quality which will be tailored to reflect the new technological
competitive dimension towards which we are heading. It will involve large investments to
enhance and raise the level of their professional skills. Over the next three years, this
commitment, which will focus on training, the development of new jobs and recruitment,will involve at least 80% of our employees.
In so doing, we intend to augment our level of productivity, which has already risen by
26%since 2001.
This is the basis on which we intend to build the future growth of Telecom Italia, so that
it will become one of the great protagonists of the new world of digital communications:the most advanced operator from a technological point of view, and the most attractivefrom the point of profits.We intend to pursue this objective while maintaining our firm commitment to respect theprinciples of correct conduct, transparency of corporate decisions and responsibility with
regard to the various stakeholders which regulates the governance of the Group.
We intend to reinforce these principles, in keeping with our Code of Ethics and with the
commitments made at a national and international level.
(from the Chairman’s letter to the Shareholders - Annual report 2005)
“To Telecom Italia Group Sustainability is a business value, a tool for planning,
management and control”.
For the past nine years Telecom Italia Group has been publishing a special report about itsperformance towards stakeholders on which the Group depends and, at the same time,influences by its own activities: Customers, Suppliers, Competitors, Institutions, the
Environment, the Community, Human Resources, Shareholders.
The Sustainability Section is included in the Annual Report, thus confirming the intention of
the Group to present its financial performance together with the non-financial one.Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe inclusion of Telecom Italia S.p.A. in both the categories of indexes managed by
Dow Jones has been confirmed:
– The Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes (DJSI World), including 317 companies 
from 24 Countries, Sustainability leaders at World level;
– The Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indexes (DJSI STOXX), including 156 companies 
from 12 Countries, Sustainability leaders at European level.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. has also been confirmed as a component of all the significant indexes(tradable and non tradable) of the FTSE4Good:–FTSE4Good Global (740 companies): the first 100 companies by market capitalization are
included in the FTSE4Good Global 100 - tradable index;
– FTSE4Good Europe (290 companies): the first 50 companies by market capitalization are
included in the FTSE4Good Europe 50 - tradable index.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. is also included the following indexes:
–ESI (Ethibel Sustainability Index): the Global index includes 180 securities, while the Europe
index includes 84 securities;
–E.Capital Partners - the Global index consists of 300 securities while the Europe indexconsists of 150 securities;
– ASPI (Advanced Sustainable Performance Index) Eurozone includes 120 companies
selected by the Vigeo agency;
– Axia: the Italian Corporate Social Responsibility index includes 30 companies while the
European index consists of 40 companies.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. has been ranked among the best 100 companies at world level withreference to the quality of its Sustainability reports in the “The Global Reporters 2004 Survey”
conducted by the specialised agency SustainAbility in collaboration with UNEP (United NationsEnvironment Programme) and the rating agency Standard & Poor’s.
The Corporate Governance of the Telecom Italia Group has earned a 7+ score (on a 10-point
scale) by Standard & Poor’s Governance Services. This very positive rating achieved in 2005
reflects in particular the improvements in terms of transparency and quality of internal controls.
3 Context » AcknowledgementsAcknowledgements
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportResults
•Telecom Italia Group has presented to the Financial Community its Sustainability Model,
meeting in London the representatives of some Investors specifically focused on Socially
Responsible Investment (SRI). The meeting was based on a presentation by the Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) of the Group, followed by a session of “Q & A” and by some one toone meetings. The financial analysts expressed their appreciation for the Group
Sustainability Model and offered some useful suggestions for future improvements.
•Two significant events have been organised by CSR Europe, an European organisationpromoting corporate responsibility, of which Telecom Italia S.p.A. is a member:
– the launch of the “European Roadmap of Businesses towards a Sustainable and
Competitive Enterprise”. The Group took part in the drawing of the document, of whichChairman M. Tronchetti Provera has been “Sponsor Ambassador” together with fiveother leaders of large multinational companies. The Roadmap outlines objectives and
strategies aimed at consolidating the commitment of European companies on
Sustainability and appeals to EU in order to integrate Corporate Responsibility into theLisbon Strategy on competitiveness as well as to define a European Strategy on
Corporate Responsibility;
– the “European MarketPlace” on Corporate Responsibility, during which European
companies presented 100 projects particularly significant in terms of application of 
the Corporate Responsibility concepts to business. The Group presented the projects“The intangible assets of Telecom Italia Group” coordinated by the Group SustainabilityDepartment and “Dream Mission” coordinated by Progetto Italia.
•The Group took part in the meeting “Business Contribution to the Millennium Development
Goals”, the objectives identified by the United Nations (UN) to achieve equity and solidarityat world level.
During the round table on Public Governance the representatives of the Group illustrated
two proposals:
– to create an Authority USA/EU committed to the definition of projects, to the control 
of consistency with respect to targets and to the control of investments;
– to assess the convergence between EU and USA accounting principles, in order to
integrate the financial and non financial performance in an equitable and sustainablebusiness context.
• Telecom Italia S.p.A. took part in the consultations of European Commissioners Verheugen
(Commission Vice President, Commissioner for Enterprise and Industry) and Spidla(Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities) to launch an
“Alliance” between the European Commission and the European companies committed to
Sustainability, in order to make Europe a pole of excellence on CSR. Such Alliance shouldbe formalised in the first months of 2006 and involves the following activities:
– raising awareness and improving the knowledge of CSR;
– developing cooperation on the CSR issues;– ensuring a favourable environment for the development of CSR in Europe.
•With the aim of improving awareness on the Sustainability model adopted by the Group 
atraining plan has been launched. The initiative also aims at favouring the dialogue among
people operating on this issue and to standardise common knowledge.
The following initiatives have been organised:–publication of a 40-page booklet intended for the about 1,400 managers operating in Italy;
– publication on the Intranet portal of an e-learning multimedia product initially intended 
for managers operating in Italy and subsequently for all the Group staff;
–realisation of classroom courses intended for staff responsible of Sustainability and the
relevant data (data owners) to be held at all the central departments and Business Units of the Group.
•The guidelines relative to an “Antitrust Compliance Program” are being defined. 
The program consists of multilevel information and training initiatives and aims at spreadingwithin the Group the correct cultural approach to the antitrust regulation, as well asawareness that competition is not a threat but on the contrary an essential asset forbusiness activities.
4 Context » ResultsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportObjectives 2006 - 2008
Inorder to improve support to customers as far as the two main supply processes of the 
fixed telephone service, that is line connection (both traditional and high speed ADSL) and
technical service, the “Evolution” project has been launched, described in detail in the
“Customers” section.The following environmental targets have been defined:
•Energy: optimising consumption.
• Waste: promoting the differentiated collection.
• Paper: promoting the reduction of consumptions and the use of recycled paper.
• Emission of carbon dioxide: reducing emissions by the corporate car fleet and by heating systems.
•Electromagnetic emissions:
–promoting the SAR qualification (Specific Absorption Rate) for mobile terminals;
– optimising the management of the electromagnetic field intensity for Base Transceiver
Stations.
Dedicated work teams will be organised in 2006 to make sure that business management isoriented to the respect of targets.
During the year a policy concerning human rights and labour standards will be defined and
applied to all subsidiaries, thus assuring adequate protection in the various countries wherethe Group operates.
The year 2006 will also see the definition of another policy concerning the methods adopted
by Telecom Italia Group in its relationships with suppliers, to safeguard ethical, environmental
and social values, consistently with the principles of the Code of Ethics of the Group. 
Such policy will be published on the website http://suppliers.telecomitalia.it/ to enable
consultation and sharing by all suppliers.To ensure the respect of such policy special control procedures will be applied to the entiresupply chain.
The section dedicated to Sustainability of the Group website is being reorganised in order 
to provide the best information service to analysts, investors and other stakeholders.
The Group is currently working to the definition of an evaluation model for intangible assets,
that generally are not represented by the traditional accounting reports. The ability to innovate,human resources, the quality of service, the respect for the environment and local
Communities all concur to non-financial performance, considered with increasing interest 
by the market. The results achieved will be presented in a convention at the BocconiUniversity of Milan.
Telecom Italia takes part in the drafting of guidelines aimed at minimising energy
consumptions for broadband technology. The initiative has been promoted by the European
Union through the Joint Research Centre and involves the most important players of the 
sector in the drafting of a Code of Conduct defining power management methods andtechnical solutions to contain energy consumptions, both by customers and providers.
5 Context » Objectives 2006-2008Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportContext » References 6References
The strategy and programs for Sustainability have been defined and implemented by Telecom
Italia Group considering the guidelines issued by the most important organisations operating
at world level for the orientation and standardisation of Corporate Responsibility.
Since 2002 Telecom Italia has adhered to the principles set out by Global Compact, the 
most important initiative at world level, launched in 2000 by the United Nations, to promote
the environment conservation, the respect of human rights and labour standards, and 
anti-corruption practices.
The following table shows the paragraphs and the pages whose contents directly or indirectly
refer to the Global Compact’s principles and GRI’s indicators.
GCPrinciples GRI Indicators Paragraph Pages
related to the GC 
Principle
01 Businesses should HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4 Results, 4, 5, 6-7, 19-21, 
support and respect Objectives 2006-2008, 44-46, 61-62
the protection of References, Suppliers, internationally proclaimed The Community, 
human rights; and Human Resources
02 make sure that they are HR2, HR3 Objectives 2006-2008, 5, 19-21, 61-62
not complicit in human Suppliers,
rights abuses. Human Resources
03Businesses should uphold HR5, LA3, LA4 Human Resources 57-58, 61-62
the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining;
04 the elimination of all HR7 Objectives 2006-2008, 5, 19-21, 61-62
forms of forced and Suppliers,
compulsory labour; Human Resources
05 the effective abolition HR6 Objectives 2006-2008, 5, 19-21, 61-62
of child labour; Suppliers,
Human Resources
06 the elimination of HR4, LA10, LA11 Objectives 2006-2008, 5, 19, 53, 61-62
discrimination in respect Suppliers, 
of employment and Human Resources
occupation.
07Businesses should support 3.13 Objectives 2006-2008, 5, 19-21, 31-41
aprecautionary approach Suppliers,
to environmental challenges; The Environment
08 undertake initiatives to EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, Results,  4, 5, 19-21, 31-41
promote greater EN5, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, Objectives 2006-2008,environmental EN10, EN11, EN12, EN13, Suppliers, 
responsibility; and EN14, EN15, EN16, 1.1 The Environment
09encourage the development EN17 The Environment, 31-41, 48-50
and diffusion of The Communityenvironmentally
friendly technologies.
10 Businesses should work SO2 Objectives 2006-2008, 5, 8, 19-21, 65,
against all forms of Charters, Codes and 70-76corruption, including Values, Suppliers, 
extortion and bribery. ShareholdersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe management system for Sustainability also takes into account the main international
standards specifically concerning the various stakeholders:
– the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 certifications for Quality and Environment Management
Systems, ensuring the quality of service to customers and the safeguard of the Environment;
– the Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000) standard, aimed at favouring the respect of
human rights and labour standards by companies and by their suppliers;
– the methods suggested by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) for measuring
investments in the Community;
– the principles stated in the Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) for
the respect of the fundamental rights of workers.
The Group Corporate Governance system, aimed at protecting Shareholders and conforming 
to the Code of Ethics, reflects the highest national and international standards. 
The basic principles are the central role of the Board of Directors and of independentDirectors, the transparency of management choices, the effectiveness of the internal control
system and the strict control of potential conflicts of interest. The internal control system
integrates the Organizational Model, ex Legislative Decree dated June 8, 2001, No. 231,
aimed at preventing offences listed in the same and including corruption, extortion andcorporate crimes. Further information is included in the “Corporate Governance” section 
of this report.
7 Context » ReferencesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportCharters, Codes and Values
The Charters of Services describe the principles of conduct with regard to customers and the
commitments undertaken by the main companies of the Group in terms of quality of the
service. The Charter of Services and the General Subscription Conditions of Telecom Italia are
available on the company’s website (www.187.it).
Codes, procedures and principles supporting the governance system are available in the
appropriate section of the www.telecomitalia.it website and on the Group Intranet, providing
easy access to all the staff.
Thepillar of the system is the Code of Ethics, representing the primary component of the
organisational model and of the overall internal control system of Telecom Italia Group,
founded on the belief that ethics in the conduct of business is a requirement for business
success. The respect of the Code of Ethics is a requirement for governing bodies,management and employees of all the Companies of the Group, within the boundaries of their
competences, functions and responsibilities.
The commitment of the Group to ethics issues is confirmed by the fact that also for the
triennium 2006-2008 Sustainability is included among the Group objectives established byCEOs Carlo Buora and Riccardo Ruggiero. The objectives identified are the basis of the risk
management system CRSA (Control and Risk Self Assessment), described in detail in thesection “Shareholders”.
The System of Values adopted by Telecom Italia is a constant benchmark of conduct for all
the Group’s employees, creating a sense of belonging to a single organisation.
Concerning executive staff, the Group System of Values involves the adoption of a Managerial
Model, that is a synthesis of the standards of conduct to which the Group managers areexpected to conform in their dealings with the business objectives.
Values Managerial Model
Customer focus Central importance of the customer
Taking responsibility Creation of value
Innovation Investing in people
Pro-action Management of change
Efficiency Networking and integration
Integration
Transparency
Professional excellence
The year 2005 has seen the realisation of the Project for Values, known through the brand
“Values in Progress”, an initiative promoted by the Company’s top management and aimed 
at improving the spread of values with special reference to transparency, customer focus,integration. During the year the Project has involved about 3,000 people in workshops,
laboratories, training.
8 Context » Charters, Codes and ValuesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportContext » Reporting and planning 9Reporting and planning
The analysis of the performance and the relevant reporting are based on a multi-stakeholder
approach and on a set of approximately 300 KPI (Key Performance Indicators) developed
taking into account the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) indicators, based on the principles of
Global Compact, the Social Statement indicators, developed by the Ministry of Labour andSocial Politics within the framework of the project CSR-SC and the questionnaires sent by themain rating agencies (SAM for Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, EIRIS for FTSE4Good, SIRI)
for the purpose of admission to the Sustainability stock-exchange indexes.
The KPIs are grouped in macro areas relevant to the main themes being analysed. 
The KPIs are managed through the centralised software platform “Everest”, also used to
manage other Company’s applications governing accounting, financial and control processes.
This also allows data sharing among the various platforms, thus ensuring the maximum
integration of Sustainability in the other Company’s processes.
ASustainability Evaluation Form has to be filled in for all the investment projects exceeding 
adefined amount that have to be submitted to the Investment Committee for approval. 
The Evaluation Form has to report the impact in terms of Sustainability of the investment: the
project managers are required to indicate whether the project submitted for approval is going
to have a positive, negative or neutral impact in terms of Sustainability on some relevant
areas identified for each stakeholder.
The evaluations reported on the investment forms, together with other projects reported by theSustainability key persons for each Corporate department, are included in the Sustainability
Plan, that covers 3 years.
DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes): equity indexes including companies meeting defined Sustainability
parameters, managed by Dow Jones in co-operation with SAM (Sustainable Asset Management).
FTSE4Good (Financial Times Stock Exchange): equity indexes including companies respecting defined
standards of responsibility, managed by FTSE in co-operation with EIRIS (Ethical Investment ResearchService).
SIRI (Sustainable Investment Research International Company): company operating in the SRI (Socially
Responsible Investment) sector providing research and consultancy services.Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportHot Topics
Telecommunications may substantially contribute to the improvement of the quality of life 
and of the environment. Audio and videoconference systems, telework, e-goverment and e-
learning decrease transfer needs and consequently atmospheric emissions, increasing at the
same time the potential access to tools and contents that until recently were available to aminority of people.
Distance among people is thus decreased and human relationships are generally made 
easier, but only if the new technologies are available to everybody. It is important that the 
ICT (Information and Communication Technology) operators ensure access without exclusion 
to their services, favouring the so-called “digital inclusion”.
The diffusion of innovative technologies, allowing the exchange of ever increasing volumes of
data, involves possible data confidentiality problems and therefore the safeguarding of privacy.
The multiplicity of contents easily accessible on the web involves the problem of protectingsubjects potentially at risk, such as minors. For several years electromagnetism has been thesubject of much debate within the scientific community and public opinion and is a relevant
topic for the operators of the sector. Also significant is the attention to the respect of human
rights and of labour conditions, most of all in developing Countries.
The sections describing the position of the Group on Sustainability hot topics are listed
below:
–
Digital inclusion
•Training interventions in schools (section “The Community” - p. 46).
• Services specifically devoted to elderly and disabled people (section “Customers” -
p. 18; and section “The Community” - p. 46).
• Future Centre and Science Festival (section “The Community” - p. 44).• Special initiatives with reference to competent international organisations such as
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) (section “Competitors” - p. 23).
–
Electromagnetism and impact on local communities
• Technologies applied and control of emissions (section “The Environment” - p. 36 and
following).
–E-security
•Scientific research and protection measures applied (section “Customers” - p. 16).
–Privacy
• Measures for the safeguarding and protection of data (section “Shareholders” - p. 63).
–Protection of minors with respect to on-line contents
• Codes of conducts endorsed and protection measures applied (section “Customers” - p. 16).
–Labour and human rights in Latin America
• Specific actions implemented in subsidiaries located in Brazil and Bolivia (section
“Human Resources” - p. 61).
Further information is available from the Sustainability section of the Group website.
10 Context » Hot TopicsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportFinancial data and added value
The following tables show the added value of Telecom Italia Group, calculated on the basis of
accounting data, its distribution among stakeholders and the related contribution (the values
for 2004 have been recalculated on the basis of the IFRS principles applied in 2005).
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
2005 2004 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Sales and services revenues 29,919 28,292 5.75%
Total revenues and operation income 30,597 29,391 4.10%
Gross operating profit (GOP) 12,517 12,864 – 2.70%
Operating profit 7,499 7,603 – 1.37%
Net income (loss) before minority interest 3,690 2,834 30.20%
Net income (loss) - Parent Company 3,216 1,815 77.19%
Shareholders’ equity at December 31
(Parent Company + minority interests) 26,985 20,798 29.75%
Net borrowing at December 31 39,858 32,862 21.29%
Investments 20,107 5,870 242.54%
Employees at year end 85,484 82,620 3.47%
ADDED VALUE
12.31.2005 12.31.2004 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Standard production value (1)30,409 29,010 4.8%
Raw materials and external services (12,937) (11,812) 9.5%
Gross added value 17,472 17,198 1.6%
Other items (2)1,913 1,311 45.9%
Added value 19,385 18,509 4.7%
(1) Includes profits, work in progress change, inventory change, costs for internal works capitalised, contributions for
operating expenses.
(2)Represent the balance between the following items of the income statement: other operating costs/other operating
income, dividends distributed, value adjustments to financial assets, net income from equity investments, financial
income, loss and profit from actualisation, loss and profit on exchange rates, end of year result owing to ParentCompany or third parties, Discontinued Operations.
DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE AMONG STAKEHOLDERS AND OTHER PARTIES
12.31.2005 12.31.2004 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Employees 2,868 2,840 1.0%
Institutions 3,524 3,724 (5.4%)
of which:
•Social security costs 807 803 0.5%
•Income taxes 2,395 2,654 (9.8%)
•Indirect taxes 141 153 (7.8%)
• TLC license fees 181 114 58.8%
Shareholders 2,342 2,780 (15.8%)
Financers 5,113 4,093 24.9%
Business (depreciation and amortization, reserve funds 
for risks and fees, other accruals and adjustments) 5,538 5,072 9.2%
Added value distributed to stakeholders 19,385 18,509 4.7%
CONTRIBUTION TO THE STAKEHOLDERS
(millions of euro)
Suppliers (1)16,509 Consumption of raw materials and external services, industrial investments
Institutions (2)3,524 Expenses, taxes and state contributions
Employees 2,868 Cost of labour net of compulsory contributions
Shareholders 2,342 Dividends deliberated
Financers 5,113 Interest and other financial costs
(1)The breakdown of the contribution to this stakeholder is described at the section “Suppliers”.
(2) The breakdown of the contribution to this stakeholder is described at the section “Institutions”.
11 Context » Financial data and added valueContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Fixed-mobile integration
The Group is currently implementing the integration between fixed and mobile telephony, in
order to get the best out of the opportunities arising from the growing convergence among
technological platforms and from market development.
The evolving technological trends favour interaction both among the various infrastructures forvoice/data transfer, and among offers of telecommunications and related sectors, such asinformation technology, media and consumer electronics, thus offering to operators theopportunity to develop new services and to improve the management and development ofnetwork infrastructures.The spreading of the IP protocol for voice, data and video transfer, the availability of new
broadband technologies for wireless access to the fixed network, the growing usage of
advanced multistandard terminals, are just some among the many factors that motivate thefixed-mobile convergence.Thanks to its ongoing integration process, the Group is able to offer top innovative servicesand to meet the increasingly complex communications needs of its customers, wherever theyare and whichever technological media they use.
/L50298Focus on customers
The initiatives launched by the Group in view of improving customer satisfaction are describedbelow:
• Within the framework of performance related compensation, Telecom Italia S.p.A. has a
target relative to customer satisfaction. In fact, besides the income indicator (Gross
Operating Profit), a Customer Loyalty indicator has a 30% incidence on performance related
compensation. The latter indicator is an average of customer satisfaction with regard to
services, of Customer Relationship Management, image and technical quality.
•Aproject, called “Evolution”, has been launched in order to meet needs and expectations
of Telecom Italia’s customers concerning the two main features of the fixed telephoneservice provision, that is, access (both traditional and high speed ADSL) and maintenance.“Evolution” represents Telecom Italia’s commitment, and it spreads along a three-year
span. The relevant activities are due to start in January 2006, involving over 20,000 people
working in call centers or in technical departments. Over 100,000 man-hours will bedevoted to developing new IT tools, over 20,000 people will be trained, and investments
amounting to over euro 300 million will be added in a three-year span. The most important
innovations concern on the one hand, the capability of estimating the required time forproblem-solution and, on the other, transparency towards customers concerning theprocess of problem solution, thanks to a telephone service number, 187 or 191, fromwhich the customer will obtain professional answers and precise commitments.
• Telecom Italia S.p.A. makes use of an “Integrated Feedback System”, through which
customer’s opinions can reach strategic and managerial levels. Customers’ needs are
taken in consideration when developing new services or improving existing ones.
12 External Stakeholders » CustomersCustomers
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportExternal Stakeholders » Customers 13• In order to provide an independent assurance on the safety of its services, TIM has signed a
Protocol with Legambiente, promising its full availability to Legambiente technicians during
their controls relative to the Radio Base Stations safety. Further information is available in the
paragraph “Electromagnetic emissions”, section “Environment” of present report.
• Since July 1, 2004 Italian Mobile operators provide access to C.E.I.R., the Central Equipment
Identity Register of the GSM Association. The system enables customers, in the event of theftor loss of their mobile, to contact the operator free of charge and communicate their IMEI
code (the terminal identification serial number) asking to bar the handset. From July 1, 2004to December 31, 2005 TIM Italia has barred – following requests from customers – 110,000
mobile phones (including those running on other mobile operators’ networks, in accordance
with the relative agreement) which had been stolen or lost; 2,600 of such phones have
subsequently been reactivated after being found by the customers.
• The “VAS (Value Added Services) network” project was launched in 2005 for mobile phones
and expanded to fixed telephone services in 2006. A network of the Group’s employeeshas the task of testing added value services, thus providing feedback for the fine-tuning of
new commercial offers and gaining information on customer behaviour.
/L50298Effectiveness of CRM
The Group has adopted a multi-channel approach to CRM (Customer Relationship
Management), providing customers with technical support centres, toll-free numbers andwebsites, each devoted to some particular kind of service and country.The Group’s CRM systems:• provide information and technical support;• manage customer calls either directly (One Call Solution) or activating the proper
departments in charge of solving the detected problem;
• update customer profiles, keeping track of calls received by call centers;•manage commercial contacts, sell and activate contracts.
The CRM staff is adequately trained from the technical and behavioural viewpoints and issupported by a portal providing guidelines for solving problems, in a One Call/On Line Solutionperspective.
Customer Satisfaction is monitored on a monthly basis, through external telephone surveys on
the quality of Customer Care. Feedback is focused in particular on customers’ perception of
the main components of service (access, courtesy and competence of the CRM Front End),
besides Overall Satisfaction.Asystematic analysis of results is conducted in order to identify points of strength as well as
areas for improvement, in order to plan and implement the appropriate corrective actionsshould critical issues be identified.
Customer satisfaction on customer care
Customer Overall Courtesy Competence 
segment satisfaction of operator of operator
Fixed Telephony Consumer(1)69.5% 93.6% 84.4%
Business(2)59.7% 91.9% 78%
Mobile Telephony Consumer(3)86.3% –(5)–(5)
Business(4)78.5% –(5)–(5)
(1) Satisfaction with customer service provided by 187; 2005 average.
(2)Satisfaction with customer service provided by 191; 2005 average.
(3)Satisfaction with customer service provided by 119; 2005 average.
(4) Satisfaction with customer service provided by business toll-free numbers; 2005 average.(5) Not detected.Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Innovation
Some among the most significant innovations introduced by the Group are detailed below:
Main innovations introduced on the Italian market in 2005
Wireline Telephony • Introduction of videophones with innovative features, such as remote upgrade
and SIM card reader.
Internet • Launch of the new high speed profile “Alice 4 Mega”; to expedite usage of
multimedia services on the web the launch was preceded by a speed upgrade
from 640 Kbit/s to 1.2 Megabytes and subsequently from 1.2 to 4 Megabytes
for Flat-rate plan offers, without increase of the monthly subscription fee paid bythe customer.
• The “Alice Mia” offer has been enhanced adding the option “Alice Mia Dect”, the
VoIp offer by Telecom, which uses the Dect/Gap telephones currently beingmarketed, such as the innovative Aladino telephones.
• The “Alice Business” offer has been enhanced by two new options: “Alice
business Voce”, the VoIp offer for SOHO businesses (Small Office Home Office)
allowing unlimited calls towards the fixed network against a flat rate, and “AliceBusiness Mobile”, allowing access to broadband services also through a TIM
Windows mobile palmtop.
IPTV • A trial of the IPTV (Internet Protocol TV) service has been launched in July
involving over a thousand families: through an ADSL connection the serviceallows access to several programs and video content with high quality images.The commercial launch of the service will involve 21 towns, that is over 4
millions of families.
VAS •The new “Teleassistenza” service is available since June. A tele-assistance
centre is operating over the 24 hours and may be called in case of need.
• The offer relative to the management of business Desktops has been enhanced
adding palmtop devices.
• The “LAN Management” offer has been enhanced by a Governance Room for
remote hardware and software service to customers.
• The “ICT Security” offer has been enhanced adding the Real Time Security
Monitoring services.
Mobile Network upgrade •The development of “TIM Turbo” in terms of coverage and data transmission
speed is continuing. TIM Turbo, thanks to the EDGE and UMTS integration,
allows access to the advantages offered by third generation services (3G) to theentire population covered by the GSM network, including residents of remoteareas, thus contributing to the decrease of the Digital Divide.
• TIM completed the upgrade of the GSM platform in support of the EDGE service
through the related microcellular network coverage.
• The development of UMTS continues according to a faster schedule than
required by licence restrictions, aiming at increasing population coverage. UMTS coverage of 80% of the population (outdoor coverage) is planned to be achieved by 2007 through the implementation of about 11,000 Radio
Stations.
3G services •“Turbo Call” allows two users to share and exchange in real time, anytime during
avocal call, multimedia content such as images, photos, videos.
•The “Videochiamata TIM” from WEB service allows TIM customers to start or 
to receive videocalls from other TIM customers equipped with a videophone,directly on their home computer. This service only requires a computer equipped with the videocall software customised by TIM and an Internetconnection.
• The fixed-mobile videocall service allows TIM customers to start or to receive
videocalls from a fixed network videophone.
Other services • The “TIM Talk” service is a “Voice over IP” application, based on the 
“Push to Talk over Cellular (PoC)” technology; it allows business customers to use the Walkie Talkie functions directly on their mobile phone, offering a one to one (between two customers) and one to many (between a sender andseveral recipients at the same time) communication mode.
•The handset portfolio and the offer for TIM Mobile Office were enhanced 
thanks to the introduction of the Treo 650 EDGE terminal, the first smartphonewith the Palm One operating system. The Treo is a particularly usefulsmartphone for the management of mobile emails, it integrates a wireless email service, a compact GSM/GPRS/EDGE mobile phone and a Palm OS
organizer.
14 External Stakeholders » CustomersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• “I.Music Store” is TIM’s music service. TIM customers have access, directly 
from their WAP terminal or from their home computer, to a wide selection of
music, ringtones, sound tracks. Tracks are protected by digital rights and may be unloaded on the mobile phone or computer and enjoyed anytime.
• “FleetNET Easy” is a service for the localisation and monitoring of vehicle fleets,
simplified thanks to the innovative NIMBLE platform (Non Intrusive MobileLocation Environment) owned by TIM. The localisation occurs by means of radio-mobile network cells: simple terminals may be localised (provided they areequipped with 128k SIM), thus there is no need of the installation of 
adhoc
terminals on the fleet.
• The “Telepay ATAC” service allows TIM customers to avail themselves, seven
days a week and 24 hours a day, of the offer by the Rome City public transportcompany, for the paperless purchase of tickets through SMS with payment by
credit card.
Media Television • The trial phase concerning Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT) was concluded 
in 2004 and the first few months of 2005 saw the launch of the Pay Per View (PPV) on DTT trial. The sale to the public of PPV service started in thesummer 2005.
• Interactive applications usable via decoder have been launched in 2005 
as well as the trial phase for DVB-H technology (enabling DTT on 
mobile phones).
/L50298Care for the quality of service
The main policies through which the Group states its commitment to the quality of service are
its Charters of Services and the General Subscription Conditions, both available on theCompany websites (www.187.it; http://www.azienda.tim.it/az_hpcanale/0,,39,00.html;http://www.la7.it/cartapiu/pagedettaglio.shtml?40).
The quality of service, as perceived by customers, is constantly monitored. Some parameters
are listed below, out of the several being analysed:
– BU Mobile: customer satisfaction relative to the quality of the Italian network was positive
for 90.5% of consumer customers and for 89% of business customers (2005 average);
–in December 2005 73% of customers was satisfied with ADSL services in Italy (overall
satisfaction about the service);
– BU Olivetti: the quality of services and products is positively perceived by 80% of consumer
customers (weighted average of 95% relative to services and 75% relative to products) andby 77.4% of business customers (weighted average of 75% relative to services and 88%
relative to products).
In 2005 the Group’s Quality Systems achieved the following certifications:
Certification Company/certified activities
Wireline ISO 9001/2000 Departments: Network, Sales, Marketing & Customer Care, Innovation & 
Engineering Services, ICT Operations
Subsidiaries: TI Sparkle, Elettra, Pathnet, Loquendo
ISO 14001 Departments: Network, Innovation & Engineering Services
Subsidiaries: TI Sparkle, Elettra
Audiweb Matrix
BS 7799 Provisioning, Assurance and Accounting of the Housing and Hosting services
Mobile ISO 9001 Departments: Network, Sales, Marketing, LAN Planning, Billing
ISO 14001 Department: Network
QWEB Websites: www.azienda.tim.it; www.company.tim.it
OHSAS BSI 18001 Various TIM territorial departments
BS 7799 Activities related to information security (management of requests by judicial 
authorities)
Olivetti ISO 9001 Business & Market Development, Product & Technology Development, 
Industrial operations, Market Communication
ISO 14001 Olivetti Plant at Arnad
15 External Stakeholders » CustomersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Service security
Telecom Italia has set up a specific research group exclusively focused on the security of
information and of networks. Over the last three years more than 20 patent applications have
been filed to protect innovations achieved in this field.
Concerning the design and implementation of security measures Telecom Italia stands outthanks to the implementation of the most advanced standards. The approach to security dealswith all the physical and logical aspects of networks and services, as well as with
organisational aspects. Operatively, the management of security on network and service
platforms is based on the integration of security activities with the activities required by thetraditional processes of infrastructure development, provision of service to final customers and
consistency of service quality.
Security activities consist of a cyclic process articulated in three distinct phases: risk analysis
and design of security measures; operational management of measures adopted; assessment
and review of planned actions.
/L50298Protection of minors
The Group’s companies implement measures for the protection of minors with respect to
online content:
• TIM has contributed to the drafting of the “Code of conduct for premium services and
protection of minors” and is asking its service suppliers to endorse it.
• Telecom Italia is a member of FEDERCOMIN, which has undersigned the “Code of self-
regulation concerning Internet and minors”.
• The Group’s television companies, MTV and La7, are signatories of the “Code of self-
regulation concerning TV and minors”.
In compliance with the organisational model 231 adopted by Telecom Italia Group, the 
BU Mobile has implemented a procedure aimed at controlling and preventing the diffusion of juvenile pornography.
An “Abuse Desk” has been set up by TIM Italia and an organisational procedure has been
adopted, defining roles and responsibilities concerning activities of prevention, reporting and management of occurrences involving the diffusion and advertisement of juvenile
pornography through mobile services such as chats, iblogs, MMS application to person, 
links and banners displayed on institutional sites.
The Security department has the role of “Company officer” with respect to the Post and
Communications Police Service. The procedure involves the institution of a “moderator” 
of chat and iblog services who is required to take immediate action through termination orsuspension of any account identified as the author of the diffusion of illicit contents. 
The moderator is required to take appropriate measures so that the illicit contents detected
are made inaccessible to the public. The support and collaboration of external companiesproviding the above services on behalf of TIM Italia, is also requested. The process to extend
such procedure to the entire Group is currently ongoing.
/L50298Incident Handling and Crisis Management(1)
The protection of the Group’s processes and resources is managed through activities ofprevention, incident handling and crisis management. Concerning prevention activities, a
methodology has been developed in 2005 for Business Operational Continuity, currentlyapplied by two Business Units, Media and Olivetti, as well as by TIM Brazil and some sites 
of the Italian fixed telephony network. The methodology involves three phases:
• Business Impact Analysis;• Risk Analysis;•Operational Continuity Planning.
(1) Considering their impact on the Community stakeholder the activities relative to Crisis Management are included at
level 3 of the London Benchmarking Group scheme (see section “The Community”).
16 External Stakeholders » CustomersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe Incident Handling activities led to:
• the development of the Incident and Crisis Center for the collection, analysis and
management of reports coming from all the Group’s Companies;
• the definition of a detailed Group procedure for the management and assessment of
incidents, also from the economic viewpoint.
The Crisis Management activities have been aimed at completing the Group Regulatory
System, with the publication of the organisational procedure for emergencies and crises
involving staff and physical assets.
In the month of February 2005 a test was carried out based on the simulation of a sudden
computer attack. The test involved all the components of the Group and allowed to identify
possible improvement areas.
/L50298Relationships with consumers’ associations
The company started its collaboration with consumers’ Associations in 1983, when it was 
still named “SIP”. After several agreement protocols, Telecom Italia Group signed in 1997 aFramework Agreement with 12 among the main Associations. The company continued to
collaborate with the Associations in 2005, with meetings aimed at safeguarding theconsumers’ rights with regard to the Group’s products and services.
CEO Riccardo Ruggiero has personally presented to the Associations the main projects of
organisational development possibly affecting customers, as for instance the reorganisation of Customer Care services (“Evolution Project”).
In general, collaboration with Associations involves informative meetings on the launch of new
services and on the relevant contractual terms. A positive outcome of the collaboration withAssociations is constituted by the “parity”
(1)conciliation procedures, both traditional or
innovative (on-line), that since 1991 have allowed the resolution of about 35,000 disputeswith customers.
The Group takes part, as a founder member, in the Consumers’ Forum, which brings together
Consumers’ Associations, companies and research institutes. The Forum deals with
consumerism themes. Within this framework the Group attends – from the organisationalviewpoint – to the initiatives of joint training between Companies and Associations with regard to Conciliation. Projects and initiatives have been developed in order to promote a
“collaborative consumerism” and to provide strategic feedback to the appropriate Group
departments. In particular the “Consumers’ Week” initiative has been planned and 
organised.The initiative involved a week of meetings between companies and Associations and aimed 
at focusing and discussing the most significant issues concerning consumers and users. 
From November 28 to December 3, 2005 conventions were held in several Italian cities, 
with attendance of the Group’s managers, sparking intense interest in the public andmedia.
The Group’s commitment with regard to consumers’ rights is also shown by activities aimed at communicating special contractual conditions for disadvantaged customers and bycollaboration with the Associations when defining, as best as possible from the customer
viewpoint, the General Subscription Conditions concerning the Digital Terrestrial TV of 
“La7-Cartapiù”.


(1)‘Parity’ or ‘equivalent’ conciliation is a kind of mediation involving two parties on a paritary level without there being a
third judging party. In Telecom Italia’s procedure the parties are a representative of Telecom Italia and arepresentative of the customer (chosen by one of the consumer’s Associations).
17 External Stakeholders » CustomersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Services for disabled and elderly customers
Inorder to improve the quality of life of people with special communication needs the Group
has developed innovative services in the field of fixed and mobile telephony:
•Atele-assistance service, “Big Angel”, has been activated: using a simple two-key cordless
phone the customer may contact the Telbios Care Centre, where an operator is available to
start support actions, either using the telephone numbers previously agreed with thecustomer or calling emergency services. Throughout, the operator maintains contact withthe customer keeping the situation under control. An automatic free of charge monitoring
system periodically checks that the device works properly.
• TIM has been awarded a special mention during the 2005 edition of the Sodalitas Social
Award for its software (“Talks”) allowing blind and sight-impaired people to use mobilephones thanks to vocal technologies capable of reading the information shown on display
(further information is available in section “The Community”).
• TIM has continued its activity of development and implementation of services and products
accessible through the web in compliance with the WAI (Web Accessibility Initiatives) andW3C (World Wide Web Consortium) accessibility requirements. The innovations introducedchiefly concern the conversion into an accessible format:
• of the Home Page of the institutional site www.tim.it;
• of the web area TIMXTE containing the conciliation procedure for extra-judicial resolution
of disputes with customers.
• Families having some definite social and economical features are granted a 50% reduction
of the subscription fee, which is also completely waived for the hearing/speech impaired.
18 External Stakeholders » CustomersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe contribution of the Group to the stakeholder “Suppliers” is reported below (the figures for
2004 have been recalculated on the basis of the IFRS principles applied in 2005).
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
(millions of euro) Financial year 2005 Financial year 2004
Expenditure for raw materials and external services 
(net of TLC licence fee) 12,756 11,698
•of which correlated entities 414 552
Industrial investments 5,173 5,002
• of which correlated entities and internal capitalization 1,006 1,132
Total contribution 17,929 16,700
• Correlated entities and internal capitalization (1,420) (1,684)
Total net contribution 16,509 15,016
The qualitative level of suppliers is monitored along the entire purchasing process throughspecific procedures applicable at Group level:
–Qualification
– Incoming Quality
– Vendor Rating
These procedures provide guidelines for the definition of control methodologies by commoditycategories; operational activities are planned and carried out on the basis of a specific modelfor risk assessment.
Compliance with procedures is guaranteed by a new assessment process carried out by the
Purchasing department and by a set of internal checks for the purpose of correct applicationof company rules.
/L50298Qualification
Qualification is carried out by homogenous categories of product/service and is based oncontrols of various depths, graduated on the basis of the risk level of the commodity category
and even turnover thresholds.
The qualification process, for which supplier access the information through an appropriate
Internet site, is divided in several phases:
1) Basic qualification: assesses the general and corporate structure of the candidate,
possession of the legal requisites (for instance with regard to social security, safety and
the environment) and the correctness of administrative position. In this phase the supplieris requested to adhere to the principles of the Code of Ethics of Telecom Italia Group,inspired to the Global Compact principles, in order to ensure the ethical suitability ofsuppliers.
2) Economic/financial qualification: takes place through the evaluation of the last two financial
statements, by means of an algorithm that exams the income statements and balance
sheets for the purpose of verifying the solidity of the business, with specific acceptancethresholds per sector.
19 External Stakeholders » SuppliersSuppliers
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report3) Technical/organisational qualification: ascertains the possession of means, knowledge and
the supplier’s specific experience in the category. Qualification is carried out with the
support of evaluation diagrams based on algorithms and audits of the supplier that also
allow verification of the veracity of the data shown in the qualification questionnaires.
Asregard to certain commodity sectors (for instance “battery supply” and “waste disposal”)
special attention is paid to safety and environment issues through more accurate checks and
stricter requirements as compared to standard.
Apositive result from the qualification process allows the supplier to be included into the
Suppliers List, which is a required condition for commercial activities with the Group. For lower
risk product categories inclusion into the Suppliers Register takes place subject to self-
certification of the certification of the basic requisites and signing of the commitment to
comply with the principles of the Group’s Code of Ethics. As far as foreign subsidiariessuppliers a simplified qualification process is applied, which however takes into account the
level of commodity category.
In 2005 the control procedures on sub-suppliers have been extended. Besides control
activities on fixed network works and on supply/commutation/transmission works, alreadyscheduled in the preceding years, the Group has implemented a systematic verification
process of sub-suppliers with reference to building and technological works for Base
Transceiver Stations of the mobile network and for outsourcing activities (for instanceMaintenance and Environmental Services). Such process involves technical-economic
adequacy assessments equivalent to those of the qualification procedure, even if with lessstringent thresholds and criteria. Qualification criteria for sub-suppliers are disclosed and
agreed with the suppliers. The latter are also aware of the outcome of the controls carried out.
On the national territory 1,193 product categories have undergone qualification controls in
approximately 650 companies. Controls yielded a negative outcome in 55 cases and determinedafixed-term qualification in 173 cases, requiring a new qualification test within a year.
/L50298Incoming quality
This is recorded by product/service category and is based on evaluations of the suppliers’conformity to the specific reference techniques.In the initial phase of the supply or in the case of new suppliers, checks prevalently regard the
products, whereas, they are mainly focused on the production process for the suppliers with
whom there exists, or for whom it is wished to develop an enduring commercial relationship.The objective is the growth of a co-making relationship with the suppliers that permit
achievement of greater operating efficiency and advantages for both parties. The application of
penalties on the supplier is provided for in the case of a delay, attributable to the supplier, inachieving the co-making status.
The Incoming Quality assessments carried out on the basis of “check lists” ensuring unbiased
verifications, are shared with suppliers, thus providing them with full visibility on the level ofsatisfaction perceived by the Group and making them aware of any required improvement or
corrective action later to be requested.
The achievement of high qualitative standards enables suppliers to avoid regular IncomingQuality controls on batches supplied.
At the end of 2005 a new company reorganization provided for the assignation to the
Purchasing department of the responsibility for the incoming quality audits of all the Groups’companies at central level.
The new reorganization will favour an increase of the number of audits performed and an
improvement of the qualitative level.During 2005 over 500 Incoming Quality controls have been performed on approximately 1,000
product batches, delivered by more than 100 suppliers. About ten audits have been performedat foreign manufacturing sites (of which seven in territories outside the European Community).Approximately 10% of the controlled batched showed nonconformity problems with referenceto the relevant specifications.Furthermore, 7,900 audits on the execution of technical works were carried out, mainly focusedon the installation phases of new plants and on the phase of provision of services and works.The decreased number of audits as compared to last year is due to the outsourcing of somefacility management activities.
20 External Stakeholders » SuppliersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportOut of more than 4,000 controls performed in the first six months of 2005, 200 yielded a
negative outcome with respect to requirements stated on specifications and technical rules.
The results of such audits, besides affecting the Vendor Rating indicator, led to:
• inclusion in or exclusion from the Group’s Suppliers Register;
• possible authorisation to subcontract activities to third-party companies;• inclusion in or exclusion from tender lists;
• acceptance or refusal of supplies;
• eventual effects arising from contractual clauses, such as, for example, the application of
penalties.
/L50298Vendor Rating
This is an indicator calculated on the basis of evaluation of the technical, commercial and
administrative performance of the suppliers. This is recorded half-yearly by product-service
categories and is directed at monitoring the supplier’s overall performance, linking supply
volumes to purchase prices through specific contractual clauses, implementing additional
quality checks and evaluating the suppliers permanency in the Suppliers Register.
The Vendor Rating system was defined through the following phases:
• definition of supplier evaluation methodology with reference to each commodity category;
•identification of the suitable relevant indicators, for measuring the administrative,
commercial and technical quality, and appropriate recording instruments (questionnaires,
data recorded on the field, evaluations of Incoming Quality, etc.);
• attribution of the relative weighting to each indicator leading to the construction of the 
so-called “Vendor Rating tree structure”;
• definition of the entity of the valuation sample;
•definition of the responsibility matrix and of the evaluation recording mode;
• tests on the field to verify the correctness of results, on the basis of which appropriate
adjustments have to be carried out together with the company departments involved;
•disclosure of methodology to suppliers and start up of the monitoring and reporting phase;
• disclosure of the attributed vendor rating to suppliers and company departments involved,
both in Italy and abroad;
•eventual application of contractual measures (penalties, bonuses, change of purchase
volumes and of contract duration).
In 2005 the Vendor Rating monitoring activities increased by 40% as compared to last year.
In particular:
•new procedures were defined and tested to evaluate outsourcers’ performances related to
the planning and management of the real estate activity, management of internal andexternal correspondence and of the vehicle fleet;
• monitoring has been extended to the marketing products sector;
•evaluation indicators relative to waste management have been introduced, mainly in the
fields of maintenance and transmission network expansion.
/L50298Ongoing projects
The Guidelines to be applied in the analysis of the “life cycle” of products purchased by theGroup were defined. Such guidelines are aimed at lowering the environmental impact of the
products along their entire life cycle, from design to disposal, verifying for instance issuessuch as “design for environment”, ecological labelling, end of life options.
Telecom Italia takes part, together with other important service and manufacturing companies
operating in Italy, in the SIRF project, a Strategic Orientation working group on Sustainabilityand Integrity in the Relationship with Suppliers. The project defines conduct rules andimplementation criteria concerning the Purchasing process through specific guidelines.
21 External Stakeholders » SuppliersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report22 External Stakeholders » CompetitorsCompetitors
/L50298Relations
In collaboration with the fixed network operators, Telecom Italia S.p.A. has set up a unique
database containing all the numbers and elements necessary for the identification of the
subscribers of the fixed network operators operating domestically. The objective is to provide
consumers with an information service based on a single list that contains the names ofsubscribers of all the operators active in Italy. The unique database has become operativeduring 2005.
Telecom Italia is a signatory of the “Sanremo Pact” of March 2, 2005 aimed at the
development of network content and the struggle against on-line piracy. The Pact foresees the
involvement of the public and private sectors committed to the diffusion of on-line culture: 
the Government, suppliers of connectivity, owners of rights, music production,cinematographic, television, publishing, and entertainment houses, as well as the operators of distribution platforms.The Pact is aimed at creating a digital environment that, while guaranteeing legal compliance,will favour the circulation of content by encouraging owners to make it available on thetelematic networks.
/L50298Organizations and associations
Collaboration with competitors at national level
The participation in the activities of DGTVì, the Association for the development of theTerrestrial Digital in Italy founded by Rai, Mediaset, Bordoni Foundation, Radio TelevisionAssociation and 
D-free ,assured the two Group’s television broadcasters – La7 and 
MTV Italia – full visibility on the evolution of dynamics concerning the Terrestrial Digital. In thesecond half of the year the objectives set out by the Association for 2005 have been achieved:
• the irreversible start up of the digitalisation process, also thanks to the strong boost given
by the Association to joint activities among all the parties involved (broadcasters,
producers, distributors, content providers, advertising investors, etc.);
• creation of the conditions for the realization of the so-called “all digital” areas (Sardinia and
Aosta Valley). In concert with the Institutions and all the founders of the Association the
deadlines for the conversion to the Terrestrial Digital in the identified regions have been
fixed: March 15, 2006 for digital coverage of province chief towns and July 31, 2006 forthe rest of the territory. Moreover, two working groups focusing on the various activitiesnecessary to the Terrestrial Digital project have started, again at regional level;
• exceeding 3 millions decoders: at the end of December 2005 the figure is 3,500,000.
Telecom Italia is a member of the Radio and Television Federation (FRT) as a member of the
Chairing Committee. Besides the national and satellitar broadcasters, FRT gathers 150 localTV and radio broadcasters.Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportTogether with other operators of the sector, Telecom Italia Group participates in the Ugo Bordoni
foundation, which among other things carries out research, study and consultancy in the
sectors of Communications and Information Technologies, with particular reference to the
Digital Television sector. The Ugo Bordoni foundation has been legally entitled to the technical
supervision of experimental activities relating to Terrestrial Digital transmissions andinteractive services.
The contributions of Telecom Italia and TIM to the Ugo Bordoni foundation are included in the
calculation of the contribution to the “Community” stakeholder, at level 3 of the LondonBenchmarking Group (LBG) model (see section “The Community”).
The Group participates in the activities of Ambiente Digitale (Digital Environment), an Association
promoted by the Ugo Bordoni foundation, gathering all the ICT players in the Terrestrial Digital
sector. The primary objective of the Association is the identification of appropriate solutions to
harmonise the interactivity development of Digital TV in terms of user services and applications.Telecom Italia S.p.A. is involved in the management of association relationship and co-
ordination of lobbying and representation activities with Confindustria and the Associations
belonging to the latter.
These initiatives, at national and local level, which in some cases involve concerted actionwith competitors, consist of actions and meetings relative to the development of the business
and safeguarding the corporate interests on the economic, legislative, trade unions and 
labour themes.The Group is a member of 97 territorial Associations and of the following category
Federations/Associations: Federmeccanica, Federcomin, Aitech, Asstel, Assoelettrica and Assografici.
Collaboration with competitors at European Community level
•The Brussels Round Table (BRT), which unites various European TLC and manufacturing
companies, is established to maintain a constant dialogue with European Institutions on
significant themes concerning the ICT sector at Community level. The CEOs of the membercompanies attend the BRT and the top representatives of the European Institutions areinvited;
• ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association) is the largest
association in the sector on the Continent and has the development of a competitive andefficient European telecommunication market amongst its objectives, to be achievedthrough the co-ordination among the operators and dialogue with the Institutions. TelecomItalia is a member of the Executive Board and chairs the Sustainability working group;
•The EIF (European Internet Foundation) unites TLC manufacturers and operators, software
providers, ISPs and content providers. The Association aims at creating, within theEuropean Parliament and among the various communications operators represented in
Brussels, a favourable environment for fast development of the Internet, broadband,convergence and multimedia technologies and services, benefiting the final consumer;
•ERT (European Round Table of Industrialists) is a forum gathering about 45 leaders of
European industry for the purpose of promoting competitiveness and European economygrowth;
• The ESF (European Service Forum) includes the European operators in the services sector
and aims at promoting the interests of the European services industry and liberalization of
the services sector worldwide in the framework of the GATS 2000 negotiations;
•ITU (International Telecommunications Union) is part of the United Nation System and aims
at promoting the development of the sector internationally through cooperation between thepublic and private sectors. Within the sector “Development” of ITU (ITU-D Sector) Telecom
Italia chairs the “Project Group Question 10/1 - Impact of the convergence ofTelecommunications, Broadcasting and Information Technology”, whose task is the
diffusion of regulatory matters and rules on convergence in developing countries;
• BRUEGEL (Brussels European and Global Economic Laboratory) is the new European
Studies Center constituted on January 18, 2005, on the basis of joint collaboration among
the Governments of the European Union and the principal businesses of the continent,dedicated to the analysis of the international economy and the main important industrialsectors;
• ETP (European Telecommunication Platform) unites European TLC and manufacturing
companies for the purpose of promoting and discussing common issues relative to TLC.
23 External Stakeholders » CompetitorsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Antitrust activities
“Antitrust Compliance Program” guidelines are being defined. The program consists of
multilevel information and training initiatives and aims at spreading within the Group the
correct cultural approach to the antitrust regulation, as well as awareness that competition is
notathreat but on the contrary an essential asset for business activities.
As regard to the status of the procedures started by the Antitrust Authority (AGCM) and of therelated administrative litigations, please make reference to the Note 24 of the Annual Report.
/L50298Regulatory framework
The regulatory framework of the telecommunications sector is now consolidated with:
– the coming into force, from September 16, 2003, of the “Electronic Communications Code”
which adopted into the national regulations the EC directives of the “’99 Review” on
networks and electronic communication services (“Access”, “Authorisation”, “Framework”
and “Universal service” directives);
– the coming into force, from September 8, 2005 of the “Consolidating act on 
radio-television”, which, among other things, contains the principles for convergence
between radio-television and other sectors of interpersonal communications.
Asummary of the principal legislative/regulatory acts adopted in 2005 is given below:
Charters of Services/Pay TV
With Resolution no. 278/04/CSP of December 10, 2004, published in the Official Journal of
the Italian Republic on January 20, 2005, the Italian Communication Authority (AGCOM) fixed
the minimum reference standards for the adoption of the Charters of Services for the
suppliers of pay television services. The general criteria relative to the quality of services wasalso established.
Universal Service 1999 - Renewal of the procedure
With Resolution no. 2/05/CIR of March 9, 2005, AGCOM has started the process finalized atthe renewal of the procedure for the eligibility of financial support to the net cost for the year1999 in order to comply with Council of State ruling of July 8, 2003, following the appeal
lodged by Vodafone-Omnitel. The procedure aims at ascertaining whether the contribution
obligation may be extended also to mobile network operators. With resolution no. 67/05/CIRof October 5, 2005, AGCOM has concluded the renewal of the procedure defining the
applicability of the mechanism to both fixed and mobile network operators. Vodafone-Omnitel
lodged an appeal with TAR Lazio also against this last resolution.
Universal Service 2002
With Resolution no. 16/04/CIR, published in the no. 31 of the Official Journal of the ItalianRepublic of February 8, 2005, AGCOM defined the applicability of the mechanism to distribute
and to evaluate the net cost for the year 2002.
AGCOM calculated a net cost equal to about euro 37 million, with a financial support of abouteuro 24 million in Telecom Italia’s favour (of which 12 from TIM, 8 from Vodafone and 4
million from WIND). Vodafone didn’t make the payment having lodged an appeal with TAR
Lazio against this AGCOM resolution.
Universal Service 2003 and 2004
In compliance with the Electronic Communication Code provisions, Telecom Italia sentAGCOM an evaluation of the net cost of the Universal Service for the years 2003-2004;respectively on March 30, 2004 and March 31, 2005. On November 17, 2004 and November
7, 2005, AGCOM has published a notice on the start of the related proceedings.Pursuant to art. 11 of the Electronic Communication Code and by a notice published in theOfficial Journal of the Italian Republic of March 8, 2005 the Ministry of Communicationslaunched a public consultation on networks and electronic communication services, to verifyand re-examine the regulation related to public pay telephones.By a notice published in the Official Journal of the Italian Republic of November 17, 2005,AGCOM has started the procedure to define the Universal Service quality objectives for theyear 2006.
24 External Stakeholders » CompetitorsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportInterconnection and unbundled access to the local network
With Resolution no. 1/05/CIR of March 9, 2005, AGCOM has approved the reference offer for
2005 that Telecom Italia published on October 29, 2004. AGCOM provided, for some services
in particular, the reformulation of the supply conditions (interconnection capacity,
supplementary services to the interface, internal telephone exchange links) and financialconditions (Carrier-Preselection collection, invoicing for access to services on non-geographic
numbering of other operators).
AGCOM has published in the Official Journal of the Italian Republic of December 7, 2005 anotice on the start of the proceeding for the evaluation of the reference offer for the year
2006, published by Telecom Italia on October 31, 2005.
Price cap
In the framework of the revision of prices of retail services subject to “price cap” regulations,
applying as from January 1, 2005 the monthly subscription fee for business customers wasincreased by 7.6% (from euro 17 to 18.30). A variation of price for local calls has been in
force since January 23 (increase of the call set up price and decrease of the tariff per second)
which, however, does not affect the customer’s average telephone bill. As from March 1,
2005 a reduction of about 10% of the one-off fee for the activation of new ISDN lines forbusiness customers was applied.
As from September 1, 2005 the termination fees of vocal calls on mobile network operators
were reduced. Finally, as from January 1, 2006 the monthly subscription fee for businesscustomers has been increased by approximately 5% (from euro 18.30 to 19.20).
Contribution referred to in article 20 of law no. 448/98
With the ruling of the European Court of Justice of September 18, 2003 the non-conformity to
the European Law of the licence fee required by law no. 448/98, art. 20 was sanctioned. With
reference to this law, the Regional Administrative Court (TAR) in Lazio upheld the appeal
lodged by Telecom Italia with ruling no. 47/2005, published on January 4, 2005. On the basisof this ruling, the ministerial decree of March 21, 2000 regarding the “Measures for thepayment of the fee established by law no. 448 of December 23, 1998, under the secondparagraph of the art. 20,” has been declared invalid for illegitimacy arising from such law.
Market analyses relative to electronic communications
In compliance with Recommendation EC no. 2003/497 and with Electronic CommunicationsCode (Legislative Decree no. 259 dated August 1, 2003), with the Resolution 
no. 118/04/CONS of May 19, 2004, AGCOM started the preliminary consultations concerningthe analyses of the 18 markets mentioned in the Recommendation and in the articles 18 
and 19 of the Electronic Communication Code. The procedures’ objective is “market analysis,evaluation of competitiveness, identification of possible predominant operators, and creation
of a proposal regarding the cancellation, maintenance and modification of the existing
requirements, that is the introduction of new requirements”.
AGCOM has launched public consultations on the following markets:
•Resolution no. 410/04/CONS (Official Journal of the Italian Republic of December 24,
2004), regarding local, national and fixed/mobile telephone services markets available tothe public and supplied through fixed line for residential and non residential customers
(markets no. 3 and 5).
•Resolution no. 411/04/CONS (Official Journal of the Italian Republic of January 3, 2005),
regarding retail leased lines (market no. 7).
• Resolution no. 414/04/CONS (Official Journal of the Italian Republic of January 4, 2005),
regarding the international telephone services available to the public and supplied throughfixed line to residential and non residential customers (markets no. 4 and 6).
•Resolution no. 415/04/CONS (Official Journal of the Italian Republic of January 19, 2005)regarding the market of unbundled access (including shared access) to copper network andsub-network for vocal and broadband services (market no. 11).
• Resolution no. 465/04/CONS of February 11, 2005, regarding the market of termination of
vocal calls on different mobile networks (market no. 16).
• Resolution no. 30/05/CONS of February 18, 2005, relative to the markets of wholesale
services for the collection, termination and transit of calls on the fixed public telephone
network (markets no. 8, 9 and 10).
• Resolution no. 69/05/CONS of March 2, 2005, relative to the markets of retail service for
access to the public telephone network from telephone booths for residential (market 1)and non-residential customers (market no. 2).
25 External Stakeholders » CompetitorsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• Resolution no. 117/05/CONS of March 15, 2005, relative to the market of wholesale
services for broadband access (market no. 12).
• Resolution no. 153/05/CONS of March 23, 2005, relative to the market of wholesale
services for terminal segments of rented lines (market no. 13) and segments of rented
lines on trunk circuits (market no. 14).
• Resolution no. 306/05/CONS of July 27, 2005, relative to the market for access and
collection of calls on mobile public telephone networks (market no. 15).
The subsequent phases of the above-mentioned procedures provide for the new regulation
drafts, modified on the basis of the results of the public consultations, to be dispatched to
the Anti-Trust Authority, for a non-binding consultative opinion, and to the European
Commission for a binding opinion on the definition of the significant markets and identification
of the dominant operators in these markets. Following these two institutional steps, AGCOM
will publish the final versions of the resolutions.
Digital TV
The Ministry of Communications, by a directive of June 20, 2005, established the methods of
sending requests for prolonging the length of validity of the licences and authorisations for thetransmissions of private television using the analogical technique, both nationally and locally,
up to the expiry of the term (December 31, 2006) for the definitive conversion of the
transmissions to the digital technique.In December 2005 two distinct public consultations, started respectively by AGCOM and by
the Ministry of Communications, were concluded. The purpose was the realization of a surveyon the possible development of the DVB-H services market.
By Decree of December 29, 2005 the Ministry of Communications established a contribution
equal to euro 3 million (euro 2 million for Sardinia and euro 1 million for Aosta Valley), for the
purpose of realizing and broadcasting interactive services of public utility.
“12” subscribers information service
Following the coming into force of the Electronic Communications Code, the “12” subscribers
information service is no longer a requirement of Universal Service supply as it can be offeredin free competition among Operators.With Resolution no. 15/04/CIR “Attribution of the usage rights for numbering of subscribers
information services”, published on the Official Journal of the Italian Republic of December 9,
2004, AGCOM provided for the attribution by the Ministry of Communications of the usage
rights of subscribers numbers for the information services (12xy) to the operators thatrequested it. The operators have been authorized to begin the service from July 1, 2005, 
with the simultaneous ending of the offer of subscriber information on the Telecom Italia 12numbering.
With Resolution 12/05/CIR of May 19, 2005 AGCOM, taking into account the accumulateddelays in the procedure of assigning the numbering and the request from operators, fixedOctober 1, 2005 for the release of the new 12xy numbering and the simultaneous ending of
the offer of subscriber information on the Telecom Italia 12 numbering.
WiMax
In October 2004 the Ministry of Communications sent operators a questionnaire regarding the
broadband wireless systems (WiMax). The frequency band identified in the greater part ofEuropean countries for the development of WiMax is 3.4 - 3.8 Ghz. In Italy such frequencies
are assigned to the Ministry of Defence.
At the beginning of June 2005 the Ministry of Defence has freed up a first lot of frequencies inthe 3.5 Ghz band. At present these frequencies are the object of a technical experiment in the
cities of Rome, Milan, Arezzo and Parma, as well as in large areas of Piedmont, Sardinia,
Sicily, Aosta Valley and Abruzzo.
Public pay telephones localisation
With the Decree dated July 4, 2005, the Ministry of Communications identified the localisation
of public pay telephones to which the Universal Service provision obligations may not beapplied considering the wide availability in terms of operator and similar services. Theidentified localisations concern the central railway stations areas of 11 regional chief towns.
26 External Stakeholders » CompetitorsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportQuality and Charters of Services/Mobile
With Resolution no. 104/05/CSP, of July 14, 2005, AGCOM issued a directive regarding
Quality and Charters of Services for mobile and personal communication services offered to
the public on electronic communication terrestrial radio mobile networks. Such directive
provides, among other things, the use of special quality indicators and their publication on theoperators website, as well as the communication to subscribers and the publication in the
national newspapers of the objectives and results achieved in terms of quality of the services.
Quality and Charters of Services/Internet
AGCOM published in the Official Journal of the Italian Republic of December 28, 2005 the notice
relative to the start of the proceeding on the directive dealing with quality and charters of services
for Internet access services from fixed line. The proceeding will end on September 2006.
AGCOM contribution 2005
With the Decree of July 22, 2005 the Ministry of Economics and Finance defined fees and
conditions of payment for the annual contribution due by operators to AGCOM for its activity.
Compared to the previous year, the Decree provided for an increase of the rates from 0.50 
to 0.65 per thousand of revenues related to the financial year 2004. The Group paid euro 10.4 million, of which euro 6.5 million by Telecom Italia and euro 3.9 million by TIM.
Wi-Fi
With Decree dated October 4, 2005 the Ministry of Communications extended the Wi-Fi
regulation to the entire national territory. As a matter of fact, besides parks, railway stationsand shopping malls it is now possible to cover the entire territory, offering fast web access
services to homes and offices.
27 External Stakeholders » CompetitorsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe contribution of the Group to the stakeholder “Institutions” is reported below (the figures
for 2004 have been recalculated on the basis of the IFRS principles applied in 2005).
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
Financial Year 2005 Financial Year 2004
(millions of euro) Total Italy Abroad Total Italy Abroad
Social security and pensions 807 750 57 803 763 40
Income taxes 2,395 2,395 0 2,654 2,549 105
Indirect taxes 141 93 48 153 111 42
TLC license fee 181 39 142 114 29 85
Total 3,524 3,277 247 3,724 3,452 272
/L50298Relations
The legislation activities of Central National Institutions (Parliament, Government) and local
Institutions (Regions, Local Entities and independent sector Authorities) is constantly
monitored by Telecom Italia Group. A constant and transparent relationship was established
with these institutions with to the object of representing the Group’s position in the areas ofspecific interest and monitoring the approval procedure of the main related legislation.
Constant support is supplied to the competent institutions (Parliamentary Commissions,
Ministry of Communications and other Ministries, local Authorities) in drafting the legislationfor the relative areas of interest.
The relations with Authorities in the countries in which subsidiaries and/or associated
companies operate are also the object of particular attention; similar support is supplied for
drafting of the main legislation in their areas of interest.
For the purpose of monitoring the activities with a significant impact on the Group, Telecom
Italia interacts with the European Commission and its Regulatory Committees (for example 
the Communication Committee and Radio Spectrum Policy Group regarding spectrummanagement), the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and ERG (European 
Regulators Group).
/L50298National legislation
The legislative provisions of interest to the Group, both approved or under examination, 
for 2005, are reported below:
Approved laws
• Law no. 43 of March 31, 2005, which modifies the Law no. 128 of May 21, 2004 (“Urbani
law”), covers the interventions to counteract telematic diffusion of pirate audiovisual
material, as well as in support of the cinematographic activities and entertainment.
28 External Stakeholders » InstitutionsInstitutions
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• Law of June 24, 2005, converting Decree Law no. 63 of 2005, which introduces 
measures for co-ordination of the policies on intellectual rights, redefining some
competences of the Ministry of Culture and Presidency of the Counsel of Ministers.
• Legislative decree no. 177 of July 31, 2005, (Consolidating act of legislation on radio and
television) issued by the Government as provided in art. 16 of law no. 112 of May 3, 2004,
“Gasparri law”. The legislative text integrates and modifies the existing regulation for 
the purpose of guaranteeing the best co-ordination and application of the rules, 
respecting both national laws and obligations arising from the membership to the European Union.
• Constitutional Bill to change the second part of the Constitution. The Bill establishes a
Federal Senate to which it entrusts the examination of the fundamental principles ofconcurrent legislation matter (regulations regarding communications were included, too intheoriginal version of the Bill) leaving the Regions to establish the regulation in details.
Telecom Italia has supported the modification proposal approved in the text approved by
the Parliament on November 16, 2005, that brought telecommunication regulations back
within the sphere of exclusive competence of State, assigned to the Chamber of Deputies.
The Bill will undergo a confirmative referendum.
• Law no. 155, July 31, 2005 (converting Decree-Law no. 144/2005) on reinforcement
measures to prevent and combat international terrorism. To this purpose the Law containsaprovision concerning the prohibition to erase telephony and telematic traffic data, even if
not stored for billing purposes, up to December 31, 2007, as well as methods to identify
mobile prepaid telephony customers. Moreover, as far as business licence granting for
public communications services (telephony or Internet), the law provides for the preventive
recording of identity data of subjects using unsupervised public posts for telematiccommunications or wireless access points. With Decree dated August 16, 2005 theMinistry of Interior has established the operational monitoring and identification proceduresby such provision.
•Law no. 266 of December 23, 2005, (2006 Financial Act), has confirmed for the current
year a contribution of euro 10 million for the purchase of Digital Terrestrial Television
decoder, a contribution however limited to the “all digital” areas (Sardinia, Aosta Valley and
4more areas to be identified by a decree of the Ministry of Communications). The Financial
Act also states that the operative cost of some Authorities and Commissions, among whichAGCOM, must be supported by the relevant market. For the year 2006 the law decrees for
electronic communication operators a contribution to AGCOM equal to 1.5 per thousand ofrevenues resulting from the last financial statements. In the subsequent years AGCOM maypossibly deliberate variations to such contributions up to a maximum of 2 per thousand.Provided the operational procedures concerning the calculation are unchanged, in 2006 the
Group will pay AGCOM a contribution equal to approximately euro 24 million instead of euro
10.4 million paid in 2005.Acompulsory annual contribution for businesses has been introduced to cover the costs
regarding the control of concentration activities carried out by AGCM. The contribution isapplied at the maximum rate of 1.2% of the implemented transaction, establishingminimum and maximum contribution thresholds. AGCM has issued a determination
establishing for 2006 the rate of 1%, with minimum and maximum threshold equal to euro
3,000 and euro 50,000 respectively.
Legislative provisions under examination
•The Bill on the fight against paedophilia. The Bill imposes the obligation on suppliers of
electronic communication services to communicate to a central institute at the Ministry of
the Interior to counteract this phenomenon, all information relative to companies orpersons spreading paedophiliac material.
•Bill on telephone and environmental interceptions, aimed at introducing innovative
regulation on telephone interceptions, forbidding more stringently the publication of recordsand reinforcing the guarantees of impartiality and transparency on this issue.
• Bill converting Decree-Law no. 273/2005 concerning the definition and extension of terms
related to preceding legislative provisions; among other things it includes the extension
from 2006 to 2008 of the deadline for the complete switchover of the television system onterrestrial frequencies from analogical to digital broadcasting.
29 External Stakeholders » InstitutionsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• Bill on ownership of television transmission rights in a codified form that recognizes
ownership of rights by organizers of national A and B series national championships and
other sporting competitions provided for by federal regulations.
• Bill giving directives for the introduction of group action protecting consumers’ and users’
rights (class action).
/L50298International legislation
The Group activity focused on the following issues:
•analysis and benchmarking of the transposition into the national legislation of the
2002/95/EC Directive on the restriction of harmful components from electrical and
electronic equipment and 2002/96/EC Directive on electrical and electronic equipmentwaste (RAEE) and subsequent amendment included in Directive 2003/108/EC;
• participation in the consultation launched by EC on the European strategy for sustainable
development, which generated a proposal for revision of the strategy itself [COM(2005)37final] and a draft of Declaration on the Guidelines Principles for sustainable development
[COM(2005)218 final], which the Sustainability working group of ETNO is evaluating;
• examination of the draft proposal for a Code of Conduct on Energy Consumption of
Broadband Equipment proposed by the Joint Research Center (JRC) within the initiative on
the evaluation of energy efficiency of network equipment (on this issue see also section“The Environment”);
• review of the “Television Without Frontier” Directive through a Directive proposal adopted by
the European Commission, currently under parliamentary discussion, that distinguishesbetween linear (traditional television) and non linear (on demand audiovisual contents)services extending some television provisions to on demand services;
• adoption of EU recommendations on collecting societies;
• adoption by the European Commission of the proposal of a community directive on
retention of data processed through electronic communication services;
•adoption of the EU directive on service market;
•adoption and approval procedure of the EU Directive on penalties for intellectual property
rights infringement.
30 External Stakeholders » InstitutionsContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Environmental performance indicators
The environmental performance data shown below refer to:
• waste
• water
• energy
•emissions
Data reported were obtained by processing appropriately reclassified operational data.
/L50298Waste
Data shown in the table below refer to the quantity of waste handed over (1)to a carrier and
booked in compliance with the relevant law (2).
WASTE HANDED OVER
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 (*) vs 2004 vs 2003
Hazardous waste handed over Kg 2,129,081 –46.31% –41.67%
Non hazardous waste handed over Kg 8,081,367 14.05% 22.37%
Total quantity of waste handed over Kg 10,210,448 –7.61% –0.42%
Waste handed over for recycling/recuperation purposes Kg 8,635,396 –2.77% 6.44%
Ratio between recycled/recuperated waste and total waste 84.57% 5.23% 6.90%
(*) In the Environment section, tables referring to Telecom Italia S.p.A. include TI Wireline and Corporate Department.
Data pertaining to the preceding years have been recalculated for homogeneous comparison purposes. Data do not
include removed telephone poles, which are reported in the table at page 32.
The decrease of hazardous waste is essentially due to the lower quantity of batteries, 
of waste containing asbestos and equipment containing hazardous materials disposed of by 
TI S.p.A.. Both batteries and equipment are mainly intended for recycling/recuperation. 
The increased production of non hazardous waste is due to the higher quantity of equipmentnot containing hazardous components disposed of in 2005.
The table below and the relevant graph show the total quantity of Group’s waste handed over
to carriers for recuperation, recycling or disposal and the percent incidence of Business Units.
WASTE HANDED OVER
BUs’ contribution as percentage of the Group total (*)
Group Wireline and other Mobile Media Olivetti
2005 activities (**)
kg17,083,869 76.47% 17.15% 0.13% 6.25%
(*) In the Environment Section, tables referring to the BU do not include sold/destined to be sold activities 
(disc. 
operations). 
(**) In the Environment Section, tables referring to “Wireline and other activities” include: TI Wireline and all the 
other companies belonging to the BU Wireline, Corporate Department, TI Learning Services, IT Telecom, Entel Bolivia.
(1) The term “handed over” refers to waste delivered to carriers and destined to be recuperated, recycled or destroyed.(2) Slight variances as compared to statements at December 31 might occur up to March 30 as data are derived from
waste accounting books that are only consolidated once the real weight has been verified at destination. Suchinformation is provided to the waste producer within three months from delivery, hence possible data variances.
31 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentWaste handed over f or recycling/recuperation purposesHazardous waste handed over
Total quantity of waste handed overNon hazardous waste handed overWasteProduc ed (Kg)
2,000,0004,000,0006,000,0008,000,00010,000,00012,000,000The Environment
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Waste management
Several operation tools have been implemented over the years in order to assure the correct
management of Telecom Italia waste. In compliance with current legislation computerised
waste accounting books have been adopted by the main companies of the Group, in order tomake waste production control easier. Appropriate provisions have been included in the
agreements entered to in 2005 with recuperation and recycling service providers, in order to
assure an actual recuperation of materials not lower than a pre-set per cent threshold.
Contractors collaborating with the Group are subject to periodical audits on their authorisationsto operate environmental services, thus ensuring continued control on compliance to the law.
Asfar as the European Directive, effective from August 2006, on Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment (2002/96/EC) is concerned, special Group guidelines are being set out
to launch the recuperation of materials deriving from equipment disposal, in collaboration with
the relevant collection consortiums. The Group processes as a hardware product manufacturer
are also being analysed. Olivetti is ahead of schedule on this subject as it has launched,
together with 16 other companies of prime importance, the pilot project “ecoRit” aimed at therealization of a Collective System for the collection and treatment of electrical/electronic
waste of domestic and professional users.
/L50298Recuperation of wooden telephone poles
In compliance with the Agreement Program on wooden telephone poles, signed in 2003 with
the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Production Activities, the Conference of State
and Regions and recuperation companies, in 2005 the Group continued the recovery of the
poles. Details are shown in the table below.
TELEPHONE POLES REMOVED
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 vs 2004 vs 2003
Kg 9,180,761 –2.08% 31.17% (1)
(1)As the agreement was signed in 2003, recuperation activities started late in the year.
/L50298Paper
Paper consumption results are reported for each Business Unit together with single incidence
values on the total volume used by the Group. As compared to 2004, a marked reduction of
paper consumption is observed, which is mainly due to the optimization of purchasingprocedures on one side and to the effort to raise employee awareness for a more responsibleuse on the other.
PAPER
BUs’ contribution as percentage of the Group total
Group Wireline and Mobile Media Olivetti
2005 other activities
Non recycled paper purchased kg 994,253 80.39% 15.58% 2.14% 1.89%
Recycled paper purchased kg 126,265 8.79% 91.20% – 0.01%
Total paper purchased kg 1,120,518 72.33% 24.10% 1.90% 1.67%
An online management system for incoming/outgoing paper mail (SIGEC) has been
experimentally launched in Turin. The system scans documents, classifies and sends images 
to addressees for consultation. The application involves many advantages, among which the optimization of paper mail transfer and the rationalization of document filing processes. 
Once concluded the trial phase, the system will be progressively applied to the rest of 
the Group.The Group’s targets, set out in the Context, also include the commitment to promote the use of recycled paper by all the Group Business Units.
32 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentOLIVETTIMEDIA
MOBILE
WIRELINE
AND OTHER ACTIVITIESNon-recycl ed pap er pu rchased (%)
MOBILEOLIVETTI WIRELINE AND
OTHER ACTIVITIESRecycl ed paper pur chased (%)Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Water
Water consumption data relative to Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Business Units are shown below:
WATER CONSUMPTION
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 vs 2004 vs 2003
m34,441,661 –15.17% 2.04%
WATER CONSUMPTION
BUs’ contribution as percentage of the Group total
Group Wireline and Mobile Media Olivetti
2005 other activities
m35,610,854 85.04% 8.51% 0.24% 6.21%
/L50298Energy
Electricity consumption data relative to Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Business Units are shown below:
/L50298Electricity
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ENERGY
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 vs 2004 (*) vs 2003
Electricity from non-renewable or mixed energy sources kWh 1,615,000,000 4.10% 7.92%
Electricity from renewable energy sources kWh 56,000,000 –50.73% –66.21%
Total purchased or produced electricity kWh 1,671,000,000 0.36% 0.53%
(*) Considering aggregate variances occurred in the year 2005 in some corporate branches with high energy
consumption, IT Telecom has also been included in Telecom Italia S.p.A. aggregate data for a correct comparison of
energy consumption during the years.
The total purchased or produced energy for 2005 is consistent with data relative to 2003 
and 2004, notwithstanding the progressive increase of TLC consumptions due to the increase
of services offered to customers and to interconnected operators. The decrease of energyfrom renewable sources is due to lower import band (energy imports from abroad) acquisitions
in 2005 following the increase of customers on the free market in Italy.
Thanks to the implementation of rationalization and optimization projects concerning supplyand conditioning plants, together with other energy saving initiatives, Wireline BU achieved a
reduction of electricity net consumption equal to 25.4 GWh.
According to estimates, 30% of the energy consumed comes from renewable hydroelectric 
and geothermic sources, solar energy plants and wind-farms, totalling approximately
500,000,000 kWh.
The table below shows data relative to purchased or produced energy at Group level with per
cent distribution by Business Unit.
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ENERGY
BUs’ contribution as percentage of the Group total
Group Wireline and Mobile Media Olivetti
2005 other activities
Total electric energy kWh 2,443,238,241 73.02% 24.66% 1.33% 0.98%
Experiments with alternative sources of electrical energy to supply Base Transceiver 
Stations continue through photovoltaic plant technology (further details in the following box).
33 External Stakeholders » The Environment20%40%60%80%100%Waterconsumption
Wireline and other activities MediaOlivetti Mobile
2005
vs20032005
vs20040.1%0.2%0.3%0.4%0.5%0.6%Purchased o rproduced
electrical ener gy
Purcha sed or prod uced en ergy (%)
OLIVETTIMEDIA
MOBILE
WIRELINE
AND OTHER ACTIVITIESContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportPhotovoltaic plants
Telecom Italia has submitted to the national company for Electrical Energy System
Management (GRTN) four applications for the incentives concerning energy produced by
photovoltaic plants. The plants designed by Telecom Italia for its locations (Lazio,Campania and Sicily) have a 30 kWp nominal power (peak power) and should produce
approximately 38,000 kWh each (energy production has been estimated assuming
approximately 1,300 hours of operation) with electrical yield varying from 10 to 16%.Following a positive outcome by GRTN and approval by the Investment Committee of
Telecom Italia the plants should be installed within the end of 2007.
The commitment of Telecom Italia for energy consumption containment is also substantiatedby initiatives at European level in agreement with other telecommunication operators. Among
these initiatives is the Code of Conduct on Energy Consumption of Broad Band Equipment
promoted by the European Union through the Joint Research Centre and involving the mostimportant players of the sector in the drafting of guidelines aimed at minimising energy
consumption for broadband technology. The Code of Conduct (CoC) will define power
management methods and technical solutions for the containment of energy consumptionconcerning both customers and providers. Adhesion to CoC is voluntary and energy savings
should be achieved without compromising the technological development and the quality of
services provided to customers. The document should be finalized in this current year 2006.
/L50298Heating fuels
Consumption of methane, replacing heating oil, is continuously increasing against an
approximately 8% lower consumption of more polluting fuel as compared to 2004.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING SYSTEMS
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 vs 2004 vs 2003
Energy consumed - heating fuel Mj 159,673,768 –8.10% –16.93%
Energy consumed - methane heating Mj 676,930,733 0.49% 9.81%
Total energy consumed for heating Mj 836,604,501 –1.27% 3.46%
Atmospheric emissions are dealt with in the next paragraph, including a joint assessment of
emissions from heating systems, vehicles and electrical energy.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING SYSTEMS
BUs’ contribution as percentage of the Group total
Group Wireline and Mobile Media Olivetti
2005 other activities
Mj1,071,268,829 86.58% 8.58% 0.19% 4.64%
/L50298Vehicle fuel
VEHICLE FUEL CONSUMPTION
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 vs 2004 vs 2003
Unleaded petrol consumption l 17,432,191 –2.95% –16.62%
Diesel oil consumption l 6,731,847 –15.14% 34.94%
Total consumption l 24,164,038 –6.68% –6.68%
Adecreasing trend for vehicle fuel consumption is confirmed for 2005. The increased consumption
of diesel oil, as compared to 2003, is mainly due to a higher number of diesel vehicles.
As compared to 2004 and 2003, Telecom Italia has reduced the corporate vehicle fleet in 2005 as well as the overall distance travelled. The disposal of the most polluting vehicles has continued.
34 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentTelecom Ital ia S.p.A.: breakdown of ener gy
for heatin gdivided by type
Energy consumed – methane heatin g(Mj)Energy consumed – heatin gfuel (Mj)
20%40%60%80%100%Telecom Italia Group: breakdown of
energy for heatin gby BU
Wireline and other activities MediaOlivetti Mobile
Vehicle fue lconsumpt ion
(liters)
5,000,00010,000,00015,000,00020,000,000
Diesel oil consumptionUnleaded fuel consumptionContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportNUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED(1)
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 vs 2004 vs 2003
Total number of vehicles no. 20,559 –1.21% –4.93%
Number of low-emitting vehicles (2)no. 20,459 –0.86% –3.48%
Overall distance travelled by vehicles km 297,199,047 –2.31% –3.53%
(1) Data reported are relative to all vehicles (including ship consumption) used within the company (industrial,
commercial, assigned to executives/middle management). These vehicles may be leased or owned.
(2) Unleaded petrol vehicles, catalytic, eco-diesel, bludiesel, EUROX (for Europe, with X ≥4),GPL, electrical or vehicles
using other fuels with comparable or lower emissions.
TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED
BUs’ contribution as percentage of the Group total
Group Wireline and Mobile Media Olivetti
2005 other activities
Total number of vehicles no. 24,327 86.86% 11.57% 0.47% 1.09%
Overall distance travelled by vehicles km 370,395,634 83.59% 13.84% 0.77% 1.79%
/L50298Atmospheric emissions
The only significant concern of Telecom Italia Group as to atmospheric emissions is carbon
dioxide (CO 2), deriving from the consumption of energy purchased from suppliers and from fuel
consumption used for heating and motor propulsion purposes. In 2005, notwithstanding the
confirmed downward trend of emissions coming from vehicles consumption and heating, the increased use of energy from non-renewable sources has caused an increased of CO
2
emissions as compared to 2004 (in the comparison with 2003, CO 2emissions show a
decreasing trend).CO
2emissions have been calculated according to UNEP (The GHG Indicator: United Nations
Environment Programme Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Businessesand Non-Commercial Organisations) and ETNO indications (European TelecommunicationsNetwork Operators’ Association) within the framework of the “Climate Change” project.
Data pertaining to emissions from electrical energy consumption have been derived from
parameters published by Enel in 2004 (2004 Environmental Report).
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2005 2005
2005 vs 2004 vs 2003
CO2emissions from consumption of electrical energy 
produced by mixed sources kg 679,699,680 10.56% –19.93%
CO2emissions due to heating systems kg 55,768,912 –1.49% 2.70%
CO2emissions due to vehicle consumption kg 56,740,814 –7.19% –5.09%
Total CO 2emissions kg 792,209,406 8.15% –17.73%
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
BUs’ contribution as percentage of the Group total
Group Wireline and Mobile Media Olivetti
2005 other activities
CO2emissions from consumption 
of electrical energy produced by 
mixed sources kg 945,277,904 80.46% 17.70% 1.52% 0.33%
Total CO 2emissions due to 
heating systems kg 71,338,799 86.50% 8.43% 0.19% 4.88%
Total CO 2emissions due to 
vehicle consumption kg 93,242,374 85.32% 12.34% 0.75% 1.59%
Total CO 2emissions kg 1,109,859,077 81.26% 16.65% 1.37% 0.73%
35 External Stakeholders » The Environment-4.0%-3.0%-2.0%-1.0%
2005
vs20032005
vs2004Overall distance t ravelled by
vehicles of the corporate fleet
Emissi on change
2005
vs20032005
vs2004
CO2emissions due to heating systemsCO2emissions due to vehicle consumption
CO2emissions from consumption of electrical
energy produced by mixed sources-35%-25%-15%-5%5%15%Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe Group supports the initiative launched by ETNO and by WWF “Saving the climate at the
speed of light - information & communication technology for CO 2reductions (1)”. The initiative is
setout in two proposals:
• to assess the reduction of emissions achievable through the application of ICT solutions
andservices on the basis of the energy consumption of 17 European telecommunication
operators;
• to promote with the European Commission the implementation of such services for the
reduction of greenhouse gases.
The initiative aims at including ICT among the solutions supporting sustainable mobility and inparticular among the tools for greenhouse gases reduction through a decreased use of
combustion-powered vehicles.
/L50298Electromagnetic emissions
The commitment of Telecom Italia Group to the electromagnetic emission issue is
substantiated by the following:
1. careful and accurate management of plants along their whole life cycle, also in compliance
with internal standards of efficiency and security;
2.use and continuous research of advanced technological tools for control and 
monitoring.
As to the Group position on the interaction between electromagnetic fields and biological
systems, as well as on studies and researches carried out, please see reports on website:http://www.azienda.tim.it/az_elenco/0,,15071_15167_15171,00.html
The most significant Group activities concerning the management of electromagnetic
emissions are detailed below.
Controls
Italian legislation is particularly strict on electromagnetic emission issues. 
The corporate procedures adopted by TIM involve a careful management of designs, choice of
locations and plant installation. The procedure authorizing the implementation of sites
requires the observance of provisions included in the Electronic Communications Code as wellas of rules set forth by Regions and local authorities. Each transmitting antenna is protectedin order to avoid public access in the areas where exposure levels might be exceeded(“exclusion zones”).
TIM also fully collaborated to the implementation of the National Monitoring Network carried
out by the Ministry of Communications through the Ugo Bordoni Foundation. The activity isaimed at controlling and supervising plants. Controls are pursued by the Regional EnvironmentProtection Agencies (ARPA) collaborating with the Ministry of Communications to the projectrealisation on the basis of appropriate protocols.
The monitoring of sites continued in 2005 in compliance with the Legambiente/TIM Protocol.
The Protocol, signed in 2003, endorses TIM commitment to provide full support toLegambiente technicians while verifying the safety of Base Transceiver Stations, particularlyconcerning electromagnetic emissions.
The supervision of network structures continued in 2005 in compliance with the ISO 14000
certifications setting stricter parameters than current legislation. The network territorialstructures have identified objectives related to instrument measurements, power performance controls and simulations on real models, concerning both the new plants and theexisting ones. In 2005 all the targets have been achieved, also thanks to measurementstaken on 4,200 plants.
(1)For further information see the Sustainability Section on the website: www.etno.be
36 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportAs to the control of the electromagnetic field produced by energy transformation substations,
servicing the energy stations for TLC plants, measurements have been carried out on 19 testsubstations. Such sample is considered significant for the assessment of emissions.
Tilting
Wherever necessary TIM Italia has carried out the appropriate modification of the radiantposition (tilting) in order to optimise the signal propagation. To facilitate tilting and operate in real time, in 2005 TIM continued the updating of equipment already installed on the UMTSBase Transceiver Stations, allowing the remote electrical tilting variation of radiant systems.The planimetric surveys of Base Transceiver Stations and of radiant systems have been added to the network database and are used to survey and optimise the electromagneticemission parameters.Quality measurements have been carried out on all the new UMTS sites (i.e. drops,surroundings), in order to decrease interferences and optimise electromagnetic 
emissions.
An improvement project for the 2G service has been implemented in 2005, aimed at
expanding coverage and increasing power of some Base Transceiver Stations. Whereverpossible an antenna equipment has been installed instead of a new Base Transceiver Station,thus reducing energy consumption and environmental impact.
Specific procedures and software
In 2005 TIM Italia continued to make use of the APOGEO procedure and of StereoSpace,
GUARDIAN and TIMPLAN tool software to design the radio access network and to identifyoptimal solutions from the viewpoints of the environmental and electromagnetic impact.
– APOGEO
The APOGEO (Antennas Procedures On Geographic Enhanced Orientation) procedure’s
purpose is the calculation of radio electrical parameters relative to the three-dimensionalpositioning of GSM and UMTS antennas.The accurate measurement of radio electrical parameters is essential to optimize themobile planning process and reduce interferences on TIM Italia networks, as well as toassess the exclusion zones for environmental protection purposes. TIM can certify its owninstallation data assuring transparency and observance of current legislation.The calculation is performed through geo-referred topographic surveys made by the GPS
satellite system; the precision is increased thanks to the differential correction technique
provided by GEOTIM (network of permanent GPS reference stations).
– PREVISIONAL SYSTEMS
The Guardian software calculates the exclusion zones related to sites hosting BaseTransceiver Stations and assures the observance of limits established by law. The software can optimize site positioning and antenna orientation with respect to thesurrounding context (housing, streets, meeting places) and provides objective data for the required controls (ARPA, population).The Guardian software functions have been extended in 2005 to the calculation of fieldsgenerated by the Digital Video Broadcasting-Handheld (DVB-H) antennas, to be added to the network in the next future.
The TIMPLAN system has been used to design the EDGE and UMTS radio access network,
aiming at the rational exploitation of radio resources and at minimization of interferenceand of unnecessary power emission.
– STEREOSPACE
The StereoSpace software allows the stereoscopic visualisation directly on the computermonitor of digital georeferred aerial image pairs used to perform measurements,comparisons and updating. The tool identifies the exact position of transmitting plants,providing accurate data for frequency planning as well as for the calculation andvisualization of exclusion zones.
37 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportCo-Siting
The coordinated management of issues related to population exposure to electromagnetic
fields and the observance of limits established by the law involves the definition of commonrules, committing the Group Companies/Business Units to play a promoting and stimulatingrole also towards other operators and external organizations 
(1).
Among other things the document defines specific contractual provisions such as:
• the cumulative electromagnetic field levels produced by all the operators sharing a site
should not exceed the limits established by current legislation;
• should these limits be exceeded immediate action is required, i.e. adjustment, deactivation
or removal of plants;
•the hosted provider/organization should adopt technologies and design procedures for
transmitting systems aimed at minimizing the visual impact.
–TIM ITALIA-MUNICIPALITIES AGREEMENTS
In 2004 mobile telephony operators signed with the Municipality of Rome an 
agreement protocol committing themselves to providing 60 local exchanges for thecontinuous monitoring of electromagnetic fields emitted by Base Transceiver Stations within the municipality area. In 2005 on the basis of the same protocol TIM provided theMunicipality of Rome with 15 additional local exchanges monitoring electromagnetic fields.
On January 18, 2005 an agreement protocol has been signed by TIM Italia, other mobile
telephony operators and the Municipality of Catania concerning the installation, monitoring,control and rationalisation of Base Transceiver Stations. The protocol is part of theAgreement signed on December 17, 2003 between ANCI (National Association of ItalianMunicipalities) and the Ministry of Communications, which set out the development ofrelations between telecommunication operators and municipalities on the basis of dialogueand mutual collaboration.
–EMISSION MAPPINGTelecom Italia Media Broadcasting s.r.l. (TIMB), the company in charge of the maintenanceand operation of the high-frequency plants of La7 and MTV, using both analogical anddigital technologies, has carried out the appropriate controls on electromagnetic emissions also in 2005. The measurements have involved 80 television stations of La7,
40 of MTV and one of TIMB (main location) and were carried out in collaboration with the
Department of Occupational Medicine of the University of Turin. The measurements haveconcerned specific stations where significant emission levels could be foreseen due to theconcentration of radio-television broadcasters. Emissions by La7 and MTV were within the limits established by law, as in preceding surveys, with significantly lower values for the stations on which La7 has started to experiment with digital technology fortelevision broadcasting 
(2).
/L50298Environmental Management Systems
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) ensure the sustainable management of productive
andsupport processes and stimulate a continuous improvement of the environmental
performance.
In view of creating a single EMS for Telecom Italia Group by matching the existing different
EMS and by providing consistent guidelines for new EMS, the “Guidelines for the development
of Environmental Management Systems for Telecom Italia Group” have been issued in 2005.
The guidelines have been drawn in collaboration with Det Norske Veritas (DNV).
38 External Stakeholders » The Environment(1) In 2005 the hosting of H3G plants on TIM sites has continued and the first UMTS TIM plants have been implemented
on H3G sites. A frame agreement for mutual site hosting is being formalised also with Vodafone and Wind.
(2) Digital technologies allow a 75% reduction of electromagnetic emissions as compared to traditional analogical
techniques.Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportDetails related to certified systems of Group’s business units and departments are reported
below:
Fixed network
The Certification Board IMQ-CSQ conducted three audits with positive outcome, with reference
to the new edition of the ISO 14001 certification. The audits concerned:
– the central departments of Rome headquarters;
– the premises of Florence and Genoa;
– the premises of Turin, Asti, Alessandria and Pavia.Fifty internal audits have also been conducted to verify the implementation and application of
the Environmental Management System in observance of the ISO 14001 standards and of the
requirements established by corporate procedures regulating activities with environmentalimpact.
Mobile Network
At the end of 2004 TIM Italia has completed the project of Certification of the integratedManagement System for Quality and Environment of the relevant structures. The Management
System, developed in compliance with the UNI EN ISO 9001 and UNI EN ISO 14001standards, is related to the activities of “Planning, realization and supervision of territorial
mobile telecommunication networks”. In 2005 the Group continued to monitor the
consumptions of natural resources and energy as well as plans for the reduction and
containment of waste production, particularly concerning lead accumulators. The Group alsocontinued to monitor and control electromagnetic emissions through appropriate measurementand optimisation plans. During the year 2005 all the network structures underwent internalaudits while five local structures successfully underwent external audits conducted accordingto the programs of the certification board.
Other structures
The ISO 14001 Certifications of TILab and Olivetti I-Jet have been confirmed for 2005.TI Sparkle completed the ISO 14001 certification of the system in 2005.
/L50298Other environmental activities
Conventions and training
In September 2005 a convention on “Responsibility for Environment” involved about 200executives and managers of the Group as well as important representatives of institutions andbusiness. The convention is a step in the framework of a wide project of involvement
of the whole staff of Telecom Italia Group on environmental issues and succeeded in raising
awareness in the management representatives whose activities may have a major impact onenvironmental issues. The convention offered a chance to confirm the validity of environmental
investments not only out of compliance to the law, but for creating value as well.
As to training activities on the Health and Safety issues please see the dedicated paragraphin the Human Resources section.
Environmental Managers
Three Environmental Managers have been appointed within the Group and are in charge of
improving supervision on the management of environmental issues, thus assuring further
control on these activities. Data provided by departments and Group companies are collectedinto appropriate centralised databases and processed to achieve the environmental indicators
used to monitor and improve Telecom Italia performance as well as for information such as
Sustainability reports.
Management of environmental emergencies
Environmental emergencies, if any, are dealt with on the basis of procedures included in the
Environmental Management Systems of each single department and company of the Group.Environmental risks are assessed in terms of probability of happening and of consequenceswithin the framework of the CRSA system (Control and Risk Self Assessment) as reported indetail in the “Shareholders” section.
39 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportProgetto ambiente
The project aims at issuing Guidelines on the most significant environmental issues for
the Group. It involves ten project groups and should complete its tasks within three years,
i.e. 2004-2006.
The Guidelines issued so far concern:
– the monitoring of suppliers and the drafting/management of contracts related to waste
management;
– the definition of environmental acoustic requirements related to the Group’s plants;
–control and mapping of the condition of asbestos-containing materials;
– decontamination of asbestos-containing materials;
– collection and computerised storage of data concerning tanks of the
companies/Business Units of the Group;
– mapping and monitoring of polluted areas following leakage from storage tanks;– definition of procedures to monitor and decontaminate all the Group’s tanks;– controls on the management of waste produced by Business Units;
– collaboration among operators for electromagnetic emission optimization;
– development of Group Environmental Management Systems.These last two guidelines have been implemented in 2005.
/L50298Environmental research
Besides the GUARDIAN and TIMPLAN studies already mentioned in the “Electromagnetic
emissions” paragraph, the most significant environmental projects undertaken by the Groupare described below.
Low visual impact antennas
The difficulty of finding appropriate sites to host Base Transceiver Stations for mobile
telephony is often due to antenna invasiveness. Two small size antenna prototypes have been
realised using innovative materials and the tests conducted proved the validity of such
technology.
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) & Infomobility Services
The primary objective of this project, carried out within the framework of Turin Wireless, is the
identification and development of technologies and synergies between the world of
transportation and that of wireless TLC, with significant contributions to the realisation of the
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) of the future. Among the innovative solutions studied inview of the development and management of a “more sustainable” mobility are car pooling,
park & ride, bus on demand and collective taxis.
Quality control and qualification of mobile terminals
The activities of this ongoing project aim at:
– qualification of mobile phones through radio test;–test of protocols and test of exposure to electromagnetic field (SAR, Specific Absorption
Rate);
– test on software for the management of terminal self-configuration and of the correct
operation for MMS messages receipt.
Test results are studied to better understand terminal performance in terms of quality,
reliability and safety in relation to human exposure to electromagnetic fields.
40 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Environmental targets
/L502982005 Targets
The environmental targets for 2005, reported in the 2004 Sustainability Section, were
specifically focused on the transmission network. Actions undertaken and work in progress are
commented below.
Atmospheric pollution (generator sets)
Generator sets are used as back-up only in case of primary energy blackout from public
networks. According to current legislation no emission limits have been established forgenerators, however Telecom Italia has conducted a survey on 48 generator sets to measurethe relevant atmospheric emission levels, using as reference more stringent limits as
established for continuous operation equipment. Test units have been chosen by selecting 
the 10% of plants located in residential areas with > 20,000 residents. 
Considering the results of analyses and the generator running procedures the environmental
impact appears scarcely significant.
Electromagnetic emissions (operator co-siting)
Rules regarding operator co-siting have been established as reported in the “ElectromagneticEmissions” paragraph.
Acoustic pollution
In order to monitor the acoustic impact of plants, the Group continued its survey involving
noise measurements in approximately 1,300 premises.Concerning TIM the interventions to reduce acoustic impact are usually conducted at Base Transceiver Stations located inside or near to residential ares. 
The procedure for reduction of acoustic impact involves in sequence: phonometric
measurements, intervention planning, realization of project. In 2005, consistently with the
program for acoustic monitoring of Base Transceiver Stations – essentially due to the
presence of air conditioners and energy stations – TIM conducted 1,090 phonometricmeasurements followed by some corrective interventions.
Fuel consumption
The total fuel consumption for vehicles of Telecom Italia S.p.A. shows a 6.68% reduction ascompared to 2004.
Visual impact
Please see paragraphs: “Electromagnetic emissions” and “Environmental research”.
Soil pollution
In order to prevent possible leakages from fuel tanks servicing generator sets the Groupcontinued the seal test survey, monitoring 1,150 underground tanks.The last 37 transformers still in use containing PCB/PCT have been replaced and disposed of.
Still ongoing is the disposal of 10 asbestos-containing containers and the asbestos
decontamination operations on generator sets. These activities will be concluded in 2006.
/L50298Targets 2006-2008
The Group’s environmental targets for the three years 2006-2008 have been set as reportedin the “Objectives 2006-2008” paragraph of “Context”. Dedicated project groups will be
appointed to ensure that business choices are consistent with such targets.
41 External Stakeholders » The EnvironmentContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportIn 2005 the contribution of Telecom Italia Group companies to the Community, calculated
taking into account the guidelines of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG), is equal to euro193 million. The amount, net of costs and investments undertaken for activities more strictly
linked to the core business, the so-called business basics, is equal to euro 41.8 million.
Contributions have been calculated on the basis of management data appropriately
reclassified and partly based on estimates 
(1).
/L50298Classification of the contribution according to the LBG model
Founded in 1994 the LBG is an association comprising over 100 large internationalcompanies and represents a worldwide reference standard.To measure and report corporate commitment to the “Community”, LBG has devised apyramid model that reclassifies contributions according to four different categories:–activities directly linked to core business are grouped at the base;
– at the top are activities mainly characterised by the Group’s sense of moral responsibility.
The criteria adopted for the allocation of contributions to the various levels of the pyramid,
partially modified as compared to last year, are reported below.
42 External Stakeholders » The CommunityCharity
Support to a wide range of
“social” issues in response to theneeds and appeals of communityorganisations, increasinglythrough partnerships between thecompany, its employees,customers and suppliers.Contributions to national/international organisations not based on aspecific medium/long term program
Sponsorship of causes or events, not part of a marketing strategy
Company matching of employee giving and fundraising
Costs of supporting and promoting employee involvement
Costs of facilitating giving by customers and suppliers
Community investments
Long-term strategic involvement of
the company to address a limitedrange of “social” issues chosenin order to enhance the companyreputation.Memberships and subscriptions
Grants and donations based on a specific medium/long term program
Initiatives in the Community
Activities in the Community usually
by commercial departments tosupport directly the success of thecompany, promoting corporatebrand and policies, also inpartnership with charities andcommunity-based organisationsSponsorship of events, publications and activities promoting brand orcorporate identity
Civil protection activitiesSupport for Universities, research and other charitable institutionsCommunity-based care for consumers with special needs
Business basics
Core business activities for the
production of socially usefulgoods and services in a mannerwhich is ethically, socially andenvironmentally acceptable.Research activities
Electromagnetism
Reduction of Digital Divide
Energy saving activitiesReduction of the visual/acoustic impact of telephony equipment
Services and products for disabled people and the elderly151.1
Business basics3.9
Charity
23.5 
Initiatives in theComm unity 14.4
Comm unity
investmentsLBG model (millions euro)
C
Breakdown of contribution to the
Community by Telecom Italia Group (%)L
Charity 2%
Business basics 79% Initiatives in theComm unity 12%Communi ty investments7%
(1)Activities performed by sold/destined to be sold companies (discontinued operations) have not been considered in
the calculation of the contribution.The Community
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Progetto Italia
The commitment of Telecom Italia Group to the Community has been supported in the last years
bythe Brand Enrichment Department, meant to promote and valorise the image of Telecom Italia
Group with respect to institutions, society, public and private bodies, besides single citizens,
both Italian and foreign, contributing to the cultural and social growth of our Country.
Atthe beginning of 2005, to reinforce the determination and continuity of its activity, the
Group has established an ad hoc company, the Progetto Italia S.p.A., with a Board of Directors
including Top Managers of the Group and an Advisory Board made up of important
personalities from the world of culture and international solidarity: Susanna Agnelli, Franco
Debenedetti, Tara Gandhi Bhattacharjee, Enrique V. Iglesias, Paolo Mieli, Sergio Romano,Peter Sutherland and Umberto Veronesi.
During the year the company organized in 80 Italian towns about 100 initiatives, which saw
the participation of nearly 500 prominent protagonists of the world of culture, solidarity,
education, show and sport.
For these initiatives, directly participated by over a million people, Progetto Italia has
integrated the partners’ competence with its own abilities in the field of organisation,promotion and communication.
Starting from 2006 some initiatives will be broadcasted live at no charge through the Internet
on Rosso Alice and free-to-air on television through the digital channels of La7.
The year 2006 will also see the start in Brazil of activities mainly consisting of music
teachings for 15,000 youngsters living in the favelas of seven towns. The activities will take
place at San Paolo, in the Ibirapuera Auditorium, entirely realized by our Group thanks to aproject by architect Oscar Niemeyer: music without frontiers also as a contribution to thedevelopment of the country.
The most significant areas of intervention for 2005 and the relevant initiatives, whose costs
are included in the first 3 levels of the LBG pyramid, are detailed below.
The complete list of initiatives with the relevant description is available at website
www.telecomprogettoitalia.it.
/L50298Culture
Progetto Italia is meant to reach out to the greater public and spread the knowledge of ourartistic and literary heritage through the organisation of events involving important protagonists
of the Italian and worldwide culture. Among the projects realised within this framework:“The narration of the Classics”, “The rediscovery of our Country”, “The contemporary”.
The narration of the Classics
The rediscovery of the classics is a traditional point of strength of the cultural proposal of
Progetto Italia which also in 2005 renewed its commitment finalized at drawing the greater
public up to the classic culture. Among other initiatives the Project includes: “Lectura Dantis”by Vittorio Sermonti in Florence and Milan, “Reading the Odissea” and “FAI (Italian
Environment Fund) - behind the curtains of your city”.
Therediscovery of our Country
The general public is often unaware of the incredibly rich Italian heritage: splendid historical
and artistic places not open to visitors, secrete places hidden in cities, without mentioning the many initiatives and cultural projects which never come to the fore. In any case a 
non-communicated value is a diminished value and the intention of Progetto Italia is to make
these places and events known through differentiated projects and initiatives. Among these:“Telecom Italia Journey”, “Telecom Italia Award”, “Discovering masterpieces”.
The contemporary
Progetto Italia contributed in 2005 to valorise the contemporary through the creation of
spaces, itineraries, ad hoc events stimulating discussion on authors and works of our time,with a multifaceted approach mixing literature, art and music. Among the various initiatives ofthe project: the “Strega” and “Campiello” literary awards, the “Telecomcert”, the “Writers’League”, the “Storytellers” in Bologna.
43 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Solidarity
Telecom Italia Group’s social responsibility is shown by Progetto Italia’s significant
contributions to training, teaching methods and improvement in the living conditions of the
less fortunate.Within this framework these projects have been realized: “On the side of minors”, 
“Social recovering initiatives”, “Contribution to medical research”, “Solidarity and sport”,
“Peace Paths”.
On the side of minors
Children represent the future of a Country and Progetto Italia sees the need to assure 
atangible help to destitute minors, victims of family violence or disease. 
To enhance the hope of a better future Progetto Italia offers Telecom Italia technologies forthe realisation of projects supporting children, among which the initiatives “Dream Mission” and “114 - Childhood emergency”.
Social recovering initiatives
Progetto Italia’s care for social issues led to the design of alternative social recovering
initiatives involving music, art and new technologies as creative tools offering on one side atangible help to the less fortunate and on the other an unusual opportunity to promote
culture in our Country.Among the various initiatives: “Music in San Vittore Prison”, “Down with grey!”,
”Charity Home”.
Contributions to medical research
Telecom Italia - Progetto Italia continues its support to two among the most significant fund
raising initiatives in Italy: “Cancer Research Day” (organized by AIRC) and “Telethon”.
Solidarity and Sport
Progetto Italia has always been committed to promote sport as a rehabilitation tool fordisadvantaged people. The experience “Crazy about sailing” is continuing and the new one
“Sailing Together” has been launched. More initiatives are being designed concerning AndreaStella and his catamaran, with a contest for ideas that brings the experience of the disabledsailor into schools and among architects and transfers the “for everyone” approach from theworld of sailing into everyday life. Among the various initiatives of the project: “The spirit ofStella”, the contest “Design and realization for everyone”, “Niky’s boat”.
Peace Paths
The non-profit humanitarian organization founded by surgeon Gino Strada, offering medical 
and surgical assistance to victim of wars and of the relevant social consequences, is building
in Khartoum, capital of Sudan, a specialised heart surgery centre to assist the population ofSudan and of the nine bordering countries. Progetto Italia continues to ensure its support 
for the building of the centre, that was started in October 2004 and should be completed
within 2006.
/L50298Training
In its effort towards training Progetto Italia favours new opportunities for spreading thetechnologies supporting the Group services, paying special attention to sectors of the
population having fewer updating chances and thus contributing to the reduction of digital
divide. The post-lauream preparation of young people is also considered most important,particularly in the fields of design and application of new technologies.
The projects realized to this purpose are: “Science” and “The world of school and University”.
Science
Science is one of the matters for which Telecom Italia confirmed and renewed its commitment
also in 2005, as indicated by the choice of scientific themes to which one of the stops of theTelecom Italia Journey is devoted. Other initiatives favour a deeper consideration of theseissues, aiming at arousing interest on issues too often forgotten in everyday life, whilecontributing to stimulate discussion on subjects which are of crucial importance for thedevelopment and innovation of the Country.Among the initiatives included in the project are “Dial me”, “Telecom Italia Future Centre”,“Festival of the Science” held in Genoa and “Rome Museums”.
44 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe world of school and University
New initiatives arose from the commitment of Progetto Italia to the school world, projects that
are meant to contribute to the valorisation and re-discovery of places of the utmost
importance both for the education of young generations and the development of our cultural
identity. Among the various initiatives: “Domus Academy” and “Interaction Design Institute”.
/L50298Sport
Sport activities promote positive values such as loyalty, teamwork and respect for opponents.Progetto Italia is committed to the spreading of sport values at the higher level, from
competitions to schools, from clubs to town squares. Among projects realized on this issue:
“Sport and values”, “Sailing as a school for life”, “Tennis and Golf, a sport for everyone”.
Sport and values
Since its very beginning Progetto Italia has supported sport to promote its positive values, that
is teamwork, will-power, correctness. To favour the diffusion and development of these values
Progetto Italia is consolidating its commitment in schools and squares with initiatives such as:
“Telecom Italia Let’s Train for Life”, “Athletics - live”.
Sailing as a school of life
Passion for challenges, teamwork, respect for the environment: these are characteristics of
the world of sailing that can easily be applied to the everyday life. In a country endowed with7,375 km of coast Progetto Italia wishes to contribute to the development of sailing from a
cultural viewpoint, favouring the interest for this sport both of the general public and younggenerations. Among the initiatives: “The week of the three gulfs”, “Telecom Italia onethousand sails”.
Tennis and Golf, a sport for everyone
The initiatives of Progetto Italia in the field of sport are aimed at favouring a wider access,besides promoting positive values. The commitment to golf, in particular, is meant to the
spreading of a discipline that involves significant educational benefits most of all for young
peoples, thanks to its rules, its philosophy and the places where it is practiced.
Other initiatives of Telecom Italia Group for the Community are described below, indicating the
relevant category with reference to the LBG model.
/L50298Charity
Giving back the sight
The G.B. Bietti Foundation is a non-profit organisation established in 1984, legally recognised by the Presidency of the Republic for its research activities in the field of
ophthalmology.
The Foundation has created an innovative treatment, not yet marketed, based on the use of eye-drops containing the NGF (Nerve Growth Factor) protein, discovered in 1986 by 
Rita Levi Montalcini, that can be used to treat patients suffering from corneal neutrophic
ulcers, until recently considered incurable and cause of blindness. The treatment is very expensive and the shortage of funds prevents the adequate treatment of
all those who need it. TIM has contributed to the project, also involving its employees who
continued to donate for 4 consecutive months. The total amount collected has been doubledby the company.
Coração Amigo Program
Through the “Best friend program”, supported by the local NGO “Recife Volontario”, 
TIM Participaçoes encourages and provides financial support to voluntary activities among its
employees in favour of projects promoting youth entrepreneurship, through complementarytraining activities and professional qualification of youth living in social conditions that placethem at risk.
45 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Investments in the Community
Safe learning
The “Safe learning” campaign launched by TIM in collaboration with Cittadinanzattiva 
ONLUS (Non-profit Public Organisation) under the distinguished patronage of the Presidency 
ofthe Republic, aims at raising awareness in students on the issue of safety for themselves
and for others.The project involves several schools nationwide and is based on a direct easy language foryoung people. Issues dealt with are personal safety, the responsible and correct use of new
technologies, the safety of buildings and eco-sustainable behaviours.The framework of the project includes training courses intended for teachers and organized by the Territorial Management Department of the Ministry of Education (MIUR - Ministry ofEducation, University and Research). Moreover a campaign has been launched through the
diffusion of educational contents with the aim of raising parent and citizen awareness.
Music in the schools
Now in its third edition, the project “TIM Music in the schools”, stems from the partnershipamong Brazilian government, TIM Celular, TIM Maxitel and TIM Participaçoes.For 2005 the objective established is social recovery, through musical education, of 12,500children and teenagers living in conditions that place them at risk. The teachings involved 34 public schools and about 500 teachers and were based on an innovative learning method:during the weekly music courses notions of civics and peaceful coexistence are imparted tostudents. Teachers use novels, poetry, films, comedies, as hints for their lessons, in theattempt to attract young people to studies.The project also includes shows organized by students in hospitals and other healthcarecentres, contributing to improve the self-esteem of participants and to help their integration in society as Little Ambassadors of Peace. The project covers six towns (Saõ Paulo, Recife,Salvador, Porto Alegre, Belem and Rio de Janeiro, added in 2005).
Responsible TV
MTV has reinforced its reputation as a TV strongly committed on the social front by realizingnumerous television spots and campaigns among which:•
No Excuse 2015 :acampaign conducted in collaboration with UN, aimed at reducing
extreme poverty in the world making it more equitable and safer. The campaign isarticulated on air, through the Action Idents spot, during which famous Italian andinternational artists tell youths about concrete actions they may perform to free the worldfrom poverty, and on-line, through the www.mtv.it/noexcuse website.
•
Don’t Drink And Drive :aspot against drink-driving.
•Tolerance :acampaign whose purpose is the spread of the concept of diversity as a
positive component of social life.
/L50298Initiatives in the Community
Talks
In 2004 TIM launched the “Talks” software, a revolutionary application allowing blind 
and sight-impaired people as well as the elderly to independently use all the functions of 
the mobile, thanks to an electronic voice reading the display. A personalised free-of-chargeassistance service network is available to “Talks” users at customer care facilities 
and company shops.
In 2005 “Talks” has received a special mention from the Sodalitas Social Award, in the category devoted to service innovation of significant products from a social and environmental
point of view.
ASPHI
ASPHI (Launch and Development of Projects to reduce Handicap through ICT) is a non-profit
association of businesses and organizations aimed at promoting the integration of peopleafflicted by disabilities in the community through the use of ICT technology (Information andCommunication Technology).In 2005 TIM become a member of ASPHI thus reinforcing its collaboration, started in 2003, inthe professional training of young disabled on the use of information and communicationtechnologies. Every year TIM takes part in “HANDImatica”, organized by ASPHI and presents inits stand innovative and socially useful products.
46 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportRelations with Universities
The Group continues the support, both in Italy and abroad, in favour of the University world
and of training centres for young graduates, sponsoring scholarship and masters.
Thanks to a stage mechanism the Group supports the technical training of approximately 300young people every year with a financial commitment equal to about euro 800,000.
The time dedicated by many Group managers to internship workers and University lessons,enriches the panorama of the Group’s contribution to training of youths.
/L50298Business Basics
Loquendo technologies
Loquendo is a company of Telecom Italia Group and develops innovative vocal technologies for automatic applications. The Loquendo platform allows the user to access information andtransactional data with a simple telephone call, supporting sight and speech impairments.
Thanks to the continuous improvements of voice recognition technology services are 
now available in 17 languages, with the use of “voice prints” as a biometric feature to check individual identity and even recognising whether the caller is a man or a 
woman. The platform also allows call centre automation, the introduction of voice services 
for Customer Relationship Management applications and the telephone access to Web
applications.
Telemedicine and Teleassistance
Telecom Italia continues to participate in the activities of Telbios, an Italian companydeveloping Telemedicine services and networks devoted to healthcare facilities and homecare
medical assistance.
Telemedicine initiatives are as follows:
–Safe Network for National Transplant Centre, allowing the management and control of data
and imaging relative to explanted organs, for optimal and immediate reimplant.
– Telecardiology and Telemonitoring, allowing to monitor the patient’s vital parameters at
home and then to transmit these data to the Telbios Telemedicine Service Centre - CSTthrough a simple phone call or using a GSM mobile. The data are verified in real time by
cardiologists operating at CST or are sent to specialists of other healthcare facilities takingcare of the patient.
Acall centre with operators specialised in the management of healthcare issues is operating
24 hours a day.
Area coverage
TIM continued its activity on coverage and improvement of the quality of service in remoteareas in order to reduce the Digital Divide:
– following the agreement signed at the end of 2004 with the Piemonte Region 
(Department for Mountain, Forests and Environmental assets) TIM Italia has started the
installation of low environmental impact plants in mountain areas, supporting tourism and
improving safety;
– following the protocol of understanding signed on November 25, 2005 with the Province of
Reggio Calabria, TIM Italia has started a GSM/EDGE coverage project concerning some
remote areas of the National Park of Aspromonte.
/L50298Research, development and innovation
The Italian market of telecommunications is considered among the most advanced, both from
the technological viewpoint and evolution of customer attitudes as well as customerconsumption profiles.
To Telecom Italia Group technological innovation is therefore an essential and differentiating
issue to develop a competitive advantage and maintain leadership in an increasinglycompetitive market.
47 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe wealth of technological and innovative competences of the Group has allowed in these
years the design, development and adoption on the field of state-of-the-art networks, terminals
and services, a wealth to be used also in foreign countries where the Group operates through
subsidiaries.
Technological innovation activities are carried out also by the operational and business units(Network, Market, Information Technology, Web & Media and Security) as well as by Olivetti,
besides the “Innovation & Engineering Services” department (ex Telecom Italia Lab) of
Operations where lie all the activities and competences concerning basic research, theassessment of developing technologies and the “intra-moenia” development.
The technological innovation of Telecom Italia Group arises moreover from the strategic
partnerships with the most important manufacturers of telecommunication equipment and
systems and with research centres of excellence in the most qualified academic institutionsboth at national and international level.
Technological innovation activities range from reviews of basic technologies, aimed atincreasing network and system efficiency, to complex activities involving the radical review of
platforms, services and architectures; the effort concentrated on the field by business unit
operational departments is therefore essential to assure the compliance of new services to
customer needs and the continuous improvement of service quality.
During the financial year 2005 the investments of Telecom Italia Group for tangible and
intangible assets related to development and innovation totalled approximately euro 3,700
million. Internal resources devoted to these activities as well as to research, in Italy andBrazil, are about 5,600, with an overall commitment equal to about euro 350 million (of whichabout euro 121 million already included in the investments).
In 2005 the research and development centres of Telecom Italia carried out in particular the
activities detailed below:
/L50298Innovation & Engineering Ser vices
Inthe new organisational structure of Telecom Italia Group, launched on October 5, 2005,
innovation and research activities are a responsibility of the “Innovation & EngineeringServices” department of Operations.“Innovation & Engineering Services” inherits the experience, the resources and the know-howof the TILab research centre, supported by the resources and competences of development
engineering of the network, both fixed and mobile.
Its 1,600 technicians operate to develop and engineer innovation, to make it rapidly andeconomically accessible to the Group customers.Innovation is designed, created and tested in the laboratories of Turin and Rome, analysing
both the fixed and mobile access network, striving to improve the transport network,
developing services and platforms; all this requiring a careful analysis of the needs of bothfinal customers and businesses, for whom the future telecommunication network is thequalifying issue enabling their competitiveness on the market at worldwide level. Among the
ongoing activities, that in the next few years will be significantly perceived by the general
public, the following should be mentioned: the development of mobile communications and thespreading of broadband in a perspective of evolution of the network and services projected up
to 2015, with the identification of the relevant transition strategies.
Thanks to the “Innovation & Engineering Services” department, operating in strict collaborationwith the Pirelli Labs, Universities, Research Centres and Industry, the future is nearer and
offers advanced services in many sectors, ranging from mobile to multimedia, from home to
business, ensuring quality and security.As for the past, the opportunity to generate competitive advantages and to create value for
Telecom Italia Group has been pursued also through a strategic management of relations
among research, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and business, aimed at developing thecorporate patent portfolio; within this framework 82 new patents have been registered in 2005(86 in 2004), 3 of which following joint research projects with Pirelli Labs.
The most important results achieved in 2005, nearly all relative to activities of the pre-existing
TILab, are consistent with the strategy aimed at pursuing innovations leading, on one side, tooutline the technological and architectural course of the network and of user terminals, and onthe other side, to open perspectives involving new services and revenues for the Group as wellas favouring at the same time operational improvement.
48 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportConcerning the Innovation of Services ,some contributions to the development and
improvement of the Group offer of services are worth mentioning:
– release of the Phase II Video telephony service, completely based on the IP protocol and
the interoperability of the same with mobile video communication: a step forward towards
Convergence, using on the fixed network the same architecture used for the mobile network(IP Multimedia Subsystem with standard 3GPP);
– release of the Mobile Instant Messaging (MIM) Blah service on the south-American market:
the TILab contribution concerned the expansion of the TIMCafè platform (implemented byTILab and already providing the MIM service, leader on the national market) with a
community/chatting SMS solution successfully launched by TIM Brazil and subsequently by
other TIM subsidiaries;
– improvement of the Telecom Italia Alice Mia service, thanks to the expansion to Personal
Computers of functions currently available on the phone: in particular TILab has designedand released the client software that, once installed on the PC, allows the workstation tobe integrated within the network and service architecture of Telecom Italia, thus enabling
customers to make voice calls on IP and to take advantage of additional services such as
supplementary telephone services and service quality management;
– spreading of TV contents on mobile terminals, both through the UMTS technology and 
DVB-H broadcasting: TILab contributed in terms of design and development of an InteractiveMobile TV platform then integrated in the DVB-H distribution chain, with some prototype
characteristics that make it a world’s first standard, such as the contemporary DTT andDVB-H transmission, live contents transcodification in advanced MPEG-4 format;
– spreading of charged musical content on mobile terminal: TILab contributed during the year
to the realisation and installation at TIM partners’ and TIM Service Centre of the i-MusicStore service platform;
–contribution to the launch of the Alice Home TV service, through laboratory testing ofnetwork equipment (DSLAM-IP and Service Platform) and of the user Set Top Box as well as
through a service trial with friendly users.
Concerning the 
Innovation of terminals two important initiatives should be mentioned, both
aimed at increasing services available to customers and assuring at the same time adequatesecurity levels:– the first is related to the integration on the SIM of a mobile terminal with ZigBee proximity
technology: thanks to these radiofrequency low-cost readers, easily integrable inside mobileterminals, these are enabled to interact with external devices using an analogous ZigBee
technology. New services, such as tele-ticketing or automatic payment are thus enabled onthe terminal;
– the second refers to the development of prototype solutions based on the use of biometric
facial recognition technologies, improving the security of “sensitive” services when usedthrough a camera-equipped mobile terminal: in this case the client face image, partly stored
on the server, partly on the SIM, is compared with the real time image provided by thephone, thus ensuring a high degree of protection from illicit intrusion.
As far as the 
Innovation of the Home Network ,TILab:
– has boosted to the establishment of the Home Gateway Initiative (HGI), the new Forum in
which the leader vendors of the sector, including Pirelli Broadband Solutions, areparticipating;
–has defined, consistently with international standards, the updating specifications for 
the Home Network management system, thus enabling the integrated management of
home network equipment. This will bring considerable advantages both to Telecom Italia as a service provider and to final customers perceiving the quality of the end-to-end 
service used.
In the 
Innovation of the Geographic Network ,consistently with the Group strategic lines,
significant contributions have been provided regarding both architectures and specific
technological network junctions, as detailed below:–during the first half of 2005 a long-term perspective has been outlined concerning a fixed-
mobile network that, besides pursuing technological synergy objectives, pictures scenariosof services accessible through fixed lines, mobiles and multimodal applications within thenext ten years. In this context and in collaboration with the sector vendors thespecifications of collection junctions and of the IP service junctions for the target networkhave been developed;
49 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report– consistently with the Group’s strategy to enable a Quadruple Play offer (fixed telephony,
broadband Internet access, services on TV + mobile communication) TILab also made 
asignificant step forward by completing – in advance with respect to the Vendor’s
roadmaps and thus influencing them – the technical specifications of the network element
(QoS-Server) that will assure to the single customer the “Quality of Service” required foroptimal service, and starting the first laboratory tests with commercial products;
– TILab also contributed, in the second half of 2005, to the drafting of the Group
Technological Plan with regard to network architectural vision issues for the future, withparticular reference to the technological drivers that will direct the development and the
management of the network, to the standardisation and regulatory scenarios that are
emerging and to benchmarking of other telecommunication operators;
– TILab has designed, consolidated and activated in the month of November 2005 the first
version of a multi-vendor management system for the activation of innovative DSLAM-IPservices, based on proprietary techniques and platform. This solution is the first functionaland systematic element of the mediation layer between the network and the management
systems; named Neutral Element Management and identified as one of the evolutive 
key solutions of the convergent management platform of Telecom Italia;
– TILab has completed within the end of 2005 (release on January 23, 2006) the 
co-development with Italtel of the IMS/IP Multimedia Subsystem platform, enabled to dealwith advanced telecommunication services based on the SIP/Session Initiation Protocol.
In the framework of Progetto Italia, TILab has contributed to spread the image of TelecomItalia as an innovative company through a series of events held in Venice (“Robot”, “TheEvolution of communication beyond current horizon”, “4 steps in the future”), in Genoa
(Science Festival) and several other events both in Italy and abroad.
/L50298Olivetti S.p.A.
The Olivetti Business Unit devotes to the technological Research and Development sector 
asignificant share of its resources. Over 300 employees work in the five research poles 
(Agliè, Arnad, Carsoli and Scarmagno in Italy; Yverdon in Switzerland), that means 17% of theentire staff.In particular the ink-jet technology, of which Olivetti is the only proprietary European company,together with other five companies in the world, has been created and developed in the Arnad(AO) plant, where over 200 resources are involved in the complete manufacturing cycle of thethermal inkjet technology: from silicon processing to the assembling of print cartridges. During 2005 the Olivetti research centres have been deeply committed to the development andimprovement of the new generation of multifunctional printers launched in the months of 
August and September 2005.
50 External Stakeholders » The CommunityContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportHeadcount at December 31, 2005 is 86,531, including 1,047 employees related to
sold/destined to be sold activities (discontinued operations). Excluding these activities
Group’s headcount is 85,484.
The reduction of 7,491 employees as compared to December 31, 2004 is due to:
• the sale of Entel Cile Group (– 4,166 employees), Finsiel Group (– 3,972 employees),
TIM Hellas (– 1,495 employees) and TIM Peru (– 653 employees);
• the entry of 7,735 employees (of which 514 related to the activities sold/destined to be
sold “discontinued operations”) and the termination of 5,603 employees (of which 576relative to discontinued operations), plus an increase of 732 employees of temporary staff;
•
the changes in the area of consolidation linked to the acquisition of Liberty Surf (+ 614employees), the establishment of TIS France (+ 24 employees), the sales of Televoice 
(– 169 employees), Innovis (– 222 employees), Cell-Tel (– 112 employees), Databank 
(– 86 employees) and Med 1IC-1 (– 14 employees), as well as to the transfer of the business
branch Territorial Centres of Surveillance by Telecom Italia (– 104 employees) to Tecnosis S.p.A. .
51 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesEMPLOYEES AND TEMPORARY STAFF
Changes in the period
Staff at Recruited Terminated Increase Changes Total Staff at
12.31.2004 oftemporary in the area of 12.31.2005
(*) staff consolidation
94,022 7,735 (5,603) 732 (10,355) (7,491) 86,531
(*) includes staff on temporary contract, equal to 2,650 in 2004 and 3,382 in 2005./L50298Headcount and changes in Telecom Italia Group
Changes in the period
Staff Incorporated companies Break up of business branches Staff
atTIM TI Data Recruited Terminated Decrease Transfers Territorial TIM Totalat
12.31.20041.1.2005 Center of temporary among Group’s Centres Italia S.p.A.12.31.2005
(*)12.31.2005 staff companies of 2.28.2005(*)
Surveillance
53,034 10,424 596 521 (1,494) (177) 339 (104) (10,399) (294) 52,740
(*)includes staff on temporary contract, equal to 186 employees in 2004 and to 9 employees in 2005./L50298Headcount and changes in Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Headcount of Telecom Italia S.p.A. at December 31, 2005 is 52,740. As compared to
December 31, 2004 an overall decrease of 294 employees is observed.
The merger by incorporation of TIM S.p.A. into Telecom Italia S.p.A. went into effect on June
30, 2005 with accounting and fiscal effects as from January 1, 2005. On February 24, 2005TIM S.p.A. went ahead with the transfer of the business unit relative to mobile communicationHuman Resources
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportin Italy in favour of TIM Italia S.p.A., a company 100% controlled by TIM itself; the break up
was performed through the increase in kind of TIM Italia’s share capital freed with the award
of the whole company with effect from March 1, 2005.
OnDecember 31, 2005 the merger by incorporation of Telecom Italia Data Center s.r.l. into
Telecom Italia S.p.A. (+ 596 employees) went into effect. On December 30, 2005 the former
benefited from the partial transfer of the business unites constituted by the infra-structural
assets related to the management of data centres of IT Telecom s.r.l. (540 employees) and ofTIM Italia S.p.A. (56 employees) as well as of basic services (mail, office automation,
management of workstations) of IT Telecom s.r.l..
In Italy the Group’s payroll headcount is equal to 84.5% with the following 
characteristics:
52 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesTelec om Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by pr ofessio nal cat egory
MIDDLE MANAGERS 6.0%EXECUTIV ES 2.0% WORKERS
1.0%
OFFICESTAFF
91.0%Telecom Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by ag egroup
OVER 45 YEARS
35.2%UP TO 32 YEARS
13.1%
FROM 33 TO
45 YEARS
51.7%
Telec om Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by acad emic q ualification
HIGH
SCHOOLGRADUATES63.6%OTHER
20.4%
UNIVERSITY
DEGREES
16.0%Telecom Italia Gro up: employ eebreak down
bygeographic area
SOUTHERN
ITALY21.6%ABROAD
15.5%
ITALY
84.5%Telecom Italia Gro up: recru itment
breakdown by ge ographic area
ABROAD
68.2%ITALY
31.8%
SOUTHERN
ITALY
2.3%
HIGH
SCHOOLGRADUATES55.2%
UNIVERSITY
DEGREES
44.0%Latin America :emplo yee br eakdown
byacademic qualification
OTHER
0.8%Latin America :emplo yee br eakdown
byprofessi onal categ ory
EXECUTIVES 0.5%
MIDDL EMANAG ERS4.9%WORKERS
0.2%
OFFICE ST AFF
94.4%Latin America :emplo yee br eakdown
byage group
UP TO 32 YEARS
70.3%OVER 45 YEARS
4.9%
FROM 33 TO
45 YEARS
24.8%/L50298Focus on Latin AmericaContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportIn 2005 the percentage of women holding senior management positions in the Group (in Italy)
was approximately 13%; at middle management level it was about 24%.
Equal opportunities
Woman Project is an integrated program launched on July 1, 2003 in the framework of
corporate Welfare initiatives aimed at identifying interventions favouring women professional
growth and fostering equal opportunities within Telecom Italia Group. During 2005 the projectpromoted and carried out the following activities:
– a web portal devoted to the project, updated with all the activities promoted in favour of
employees and providing a wealth of information on maternity/paternity and raising children;
– loans for mothers: designed for employees mothers of children aged 0-3 years. The
maximum amount granted is euro 2,500 for each child, to be repaid in 18-24-36 monthly
instalments. Loans granted in 2005: no. 158;
– Children’s Day: half-days during which employee’s children may access corporate offices
and visit their parents’ work place. The initiative includes entertainment, play, snacks and
gadget distribution;
– development of management policies (training, mentoring, coaching, intervention on
flexibility, etc.) to help employees resume their jobs after maternity leave.
/L50298Development
In keeping with an action plan started last year and aimed at supporting business evolutionthrough appropriate identification and valorization of key know-how, during 2005 the
assessment of employees’ competence portfolio (specialized knowledge and personal ability)
carried out within the Group’s companies in Italy was completed. The census involvedapproximately 66,000 employees and their managers.
The Assessment allows the company to estimate the patrimonial value of the know-how
present in the Group, to evaluate the best allocation/valorization of the resources in terms ofbusiness needs and to set up measures of retention and development of key competences.
Again on the issue of the valorization of competences existing in the Group: during the year
special attention has been paid to 
Infragroup Mobility with the aim of resorting to internal
professionalism to cover personnel requirements, thus favouring the development ofresources. During 2005 about 80 announces have been posted on the Group 
Job Posting
(as compared to 34 in 2004) and about 500 curricula have been collected (as compared to259 in 2004).
53 Internal Stakeholders » Human Resources/L50298Gender balance
Distrib ution of men a nd women
(2004 -2005) Teleco mItalia S .p.A. (%)
MenWomen27.5%55.0%82.5%110.0%
2005 200422.5
77.522.7
77.3Distrib ution of men a nd women
(2004-2005) TI Group ( in Italy) (%) 
MenWomen27.5%55.0%82.5%110.0%
2005 200428.5
71.528.7
71.3Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportAnother specific course of action followed in 2005 was keeping on in harmonizing policies and
systems of developing resources atinternational level inthe various companies of the Group
abroad. In this framework several initiatives were launched to spread in these areas the
development procedures already in use in the Italian Business Units, for example by extending
to the companies in Latin America the experience of the Knowledge Review which allowed the
identification of those resources who, thanks to their know-how, represent a professional
reference point.
The Management Review has allowed also in 2005 to analyze the qualitative profiles of 
all the Group’s managers, both in Italy and abroad, by assessing about 1,500 executives 
andmanagers, and to build a tableau of excellence managerial profiles, shared at 
top level.
Recruiting
The Project “University Tour” has been launched in 2005 with the aim of presenting the
company in the most important Italian Universities. The program to recruit and select 
high-potential new graduates, mainly in engineering and economics, has been continued. 
The positive placement within the company has been verified through individual interviews tomake a first assessment of the experience, to monitor satisfaction with regard to the
activities, as well as to acquire a first assessment of the profile and of the correct job
allocation in the Group.
/L50298Training
Training activities for the Italian staff of Telecom Italia Group in 2005 have involved
approximately 2 million hours (classroom, on-line, training on the job) and about 
euro 32 million of outlay costs (excluding the cost of labour and logistic expenses). 
Around 30,000 employees took part in classroom training events .Over 72,000 hours have
been devoted to health and safety issues and more than 31,000 to environmental issues.Training activities, largely carried out by Telecom Italia Learning Services, occur within twowide frameworks: a first one related to overall Group projects, the second to the safeguard of business know-how.
Overall Group Projects
• Two editions of the Learning Tour, designed for high-potential managers: the first was
meant to analyze the Corporate Identity issue through visits to companies renown for
business excellence in London and Paris (16 participants), while the other dealt with the
role of Human Resources as strategic partner of business in European companies (22 participants).
• Training project “Public and Media Speaking” designed for 27 managers allocated 
to various corporate departments, aimed at developing effective media communicationskills.
• Training activities devoted to Professional Families, Security, Human Resources, 
to the Advertisement and Promotion Professional framework and to the Buyer role(Purchasing Professional Family).
• Launch of the Project “Mastering IT”, devoted to the Professional Family Information
Technology, involving about 50 managers of the Family itself.
•E-learning project “Sailing Master” devoted to Group executives and aimed to consolidate
the competences related to the managerial model; about 50% of the overall value of the
project has been funded by Fondirigenti.
• Two editions of the seminar designed for new executives, one edition of the placement
course for new graduates and one for professional resources.
•Institutional training activities related to the projects “Sarbanes Oxley (404)”,
“Sustainability” and “Convergence and integration”.
Business training
Training activities both in Operations and other Business Units have been implemented as following.
54 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportOperations Wireline
Continuation of the projects aimed at safeguarding the competences of staff operating 
within Customer Operations (employees, supervisors, and managers in charge of Call Center,
Invoicing and Credit), meant to improve relation skills with customers and develop 
leadership and effective management of groups. This population has also been involved in training activities related to the updating and consolidation of technical specialist 
know-how, with special focus on the knowledge of new products/services (ADSL, 
video-telephone, etc.).
Concerning 
Sales ,training activities have been devoted to resources operating in the Large
Business Customers facilities, focusing on the development of “advisory” skills in dealing 
with customers, on management of complex sales, on integration within Account Teams as
well as on the consolidation of managerial role competences (Area Managers, 
Large Business Customers Managers and Territorial Area Managers).Again concerning Sales, but in the Consumer segment, training activities were related to
motivation issues and role adjustment of Accounts.
Innovative training projects have been designed for 
Marketing in order to reinforce the
managerial skills of high-potential resources.Concerning the BU Wireline 
Network training was mainly focused on the development of
business competences and to technological evolution (particularly on ADSL issues) as well 
as on the development of competences related to the Cisco certification plans. The role adjustment sessions designed for assurance and delivery front end resources have
also been completed.
Updating interventions on the ICT market evolution have been designed with regard 
to the specific needs of the various reference targets (as for instance Network and Sales).
Special attention has been paid to the improvement of language skills also through the
spreading of specific on-line applications.
TIM Operations
Training activities were mainly focused on issues such as “Employee enhancement”,
“Customer Care” and “Customer orientation”. In the first case post assessment and postperformance training plans have been made to fill specific gaps of single resources focusing
on macro areas of ability. As far as the last issues two specific projects have beenimplemented: a project designed for customer agents aimed at spreading empowerment
concepts and behaviors through an innovative methodology (reality training); the second one
involved in a single event both TIM resources belonging to different departments, thoughoperating on the same service, and business customers, and was focused on the
improvement of customer orientation ability, on the effective and direct knowledge of the
customer and on teamwork.
Media
Training initiatives concerned the continuation of the Business Unit overall project on “People enhancement”, designed for executives and middle management and meant to
stimulate integration and teamwork. Concerning the single business areas actions focused on
the development of specific competences, such as the updating on Terrestrial Digital issuesfor technicians and journalists of La7, and the improvement of relational capabilities 
with customers for the Sales and Marketing departments and of Customer Care in MTV 
and Tin.it.
Olivetti
Amanagerial training project, designed for a population of selected middle management, has
been implemented at the conclusion of an Assessment Centre phase. The project was
focused on the soft skills required for business and management processes, with specialattention to issues such as Management of Change and Team Building.Special attention has also been paid to the updating of professional competence andreinforcement of language skills for Research and Development resources.
55 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportAprofessional re-qualification program has been launched for CIGS staff for the purpose of
outplacement of redundant resources in the TLC equipment repair, contact management and
customer service sectors.
As far as training activities concerning Telecom Italia Group staff abroad ,the monitoring refers
to Operations Mobile and South-America (Bolivia), i.e. approximately 83% of the Group’s staff
abroad, totaling 760,000 hours.
/L50298Internal Communication
During 2005 several Internal Communication initiatives have been launched in order to favourthe integration and promotion of corporate culture.
Within this framework 
Conventions and Meeting play a significant role.
Some events among the most important:
• 2005 Group Convention - with the participation of about 6,000 executives and middle
managers of Telecom Italia Group both in Italy and South America. 5,000 more employees
attended all sessions by connecting their workstation to the Intranet portal;
• Meeting of Chairman Marco Tronchetti Provera with 124 new graduates recruited by the
Group in 2004;
•Convention of the Purchasing Professional Family, involving 300 executives and middle
managers;
• Workshop “Create today to innovate tomorrow”, with the participation of 150 Marketing
executives and middle managers;
•Human Resources Meeting, with the participation of 130 employees of the HumanResources Professional Family.
The 1 0
thanniversary of the creation of TIM occurred in 2005 and it has been celebrated with
aTIM Birthday Party and the participation of 10,000 people in main corporate offices and
premises.
In order to present the new organization based on the One Company model the “Meeting top
executives” event was organized, with streaming transmission to the entire corporate staff. 
At the end of the year the “Operations meeting: targets for 2006” involved about 4,500
executives and middle managers of Operations and Central Departments in order to present
results and strategies; 3,000 more employee followed the event through streaming.
Corporate Press contributed most significantly to the communication of experience and
information within the Group. Main publications are: noi.magazine; TIM TAM TAM; @tilab; il Notiziario Tecnico (Technical Bulletin).
The Group Intranet portal platform with profiled and restricted access to all the Group’s
companies, has been improved. Over one million visits to the portal have been recorded in the year.
Internal Communication Department also organized the following 
Special initiatives :
• organization of the First Literary Competition of Telecom Italia Group, with prize-giving
ceremony in Turin for 150 employees, among which winners, finalists and participants, and
realization of a volume including the 40 best stories selected by the jury;
• participation of employees in “Telecomcert” with Elton John in Rome.
The Values Project identified by the brand “Values in progress” has been launched with a
view to emphasize the significance of the Group’s Values. 3,000 resources of the Group took
an active part in the project.
/L50298Remuneration policies
In 2005 fixed-compensation policy was based on a selective management of interventions
correlated both to role and competences and aimed at improving internal equity.
56 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe “variable” component of compensation, correlated to company/individual performance, is
confirmed as the distinctive element of the compensation package. In this respect, formalised
systems take on particular significance as shown by the consolidated use of the managerial
incentive system MBO and of the Performance Bonus Program (PBP), introduced in 2004 
and meant for resources holding relevant business positions with more of a professional than a managerial content.
In a perspective of valorization of the compensation package the commitment to 
harmonise policies on benefits continued, as well as that to expand the population receiving
benefits.
/L50298Stock options
Stock options have been used over the years by Telecom Italia Group for retention purposes and as a long-term incentive for managers.
At the end of 2005 the stock option plans existing in the Group are related to options entitling 
to the subscription of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Telecom Italia Media S.p.A. shares.
Following the merger by incorporation of Telecom Italia Mobile into Telecom Italia, the latter took
over all the Stock Option Plans previously effective in Telecom Italia Mobile: stock option holdersmaintained their right to subscribe, when exercising the option and at the subscription price, anumber of Telecom Italia ordinary shares equal to the number of options multiplied by the
exercise ratio of ordinary shares (ratio 1 to 1.73).
In 2005 a new stock option plan has been launched in Telecom Italia Media S.p.A., approved by
the Company Board of Directors on February 23, 2005 (“2005 Plan”).
The Plan is reserved for employees on duty at Telecom Italia Media and its Subsidiaries, holding
special responsibilities and/or competences and is offered against the voluntary renunciation to
options of preceding plans formerly assigned by Seat Pagine Gialle S.p.A. (2000-2002 Plan and2002 Key People Plan).
The essential characteristics of Telecom Italia (including those formerly assigned by Tim S.p.A.)
and of Telecom Italia Media Stock Option Plans are summarized in the Note “Other information -Stock option Plans of Telecom Italia Group” of the annual report.
/L50298Industrial relations
During the period collective Group bargaining mainly concerned:
Company re-organization
The Group’s initiatives to focus on core business activities were carried out in accordance 
to legal procedures governing the transfer of the business branch Territorial Centers of
Surveillance of Telecom Italia S.p.A. to Tecnosis S.p.A., effective as of July 1, 2005.
The operations described below were also carried out during Group reorganization:–transfer of the business branch Divisione Tin.it from Telecom Italia Media S.p.A. to 
Società Nuova Tin.it s.r.l.;
– transfer of mobile telephony Business Unit of Telecom Italia Mobile S.p.A. to TIM 
Italia S.p.A.;
–transfer of the business branch Immobili e Servizi of TIM Italia S.p.A. to Telecom Italia S.p.A.;
–transfer of business branches Infrastructure Operations 1 and Infrastructure Operations 2
of TIM Italia S.p.A. and contextual transfer of the Business Unit IT Telecom s.r.l. (excluding the Certification Authority organization) to Telecom Italia Data Center S.p.A. and subsequentmerger by incorporation into Telecom Italia S.p.A..
57 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportOn January 29, 2005, Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Trade Union Organizations, SLC-Cgil,
FISTel-Cisl and UILCom-Uil signed an agreement concerning the statutory reform of the
Association for Integrative Healthcare for Telecom Italia workers (ASSILT) and of the 
Telecom Italia Workers Recreational Club (CRALT).
Concerning ASSILT, the reform involves the confluence of the technical and operational
activities of the Association in a specific department for Welfare in Telecom Italia, the
rationalization and simplification of the member bodies of the Association, the possibility tojoin the Association for all the Group’s companies, even with a CCNL (collective agreement)
different from that of Telecommunications sector.
For CRALT the reform involves the reduction of the number of Area Councils from 22 
to 12 and the confluence of Service Centers in the Welfare department of Telecom Italia.
Aspecific Code of Ethics has been agreed with Trade Unions to be adopted by both
Associations and valid with respect to members, associates and components of associative
Bodies and Offices.
OnMay 2, 2005 agreements have been signed with Trade Unions in order to redefine the
entire internal corporate participatory and representative system.
In the first place the Industrial Relations Protocol has been updated consistently with the newcorporate policies aimed at reconciling economic, social and environmental targets.
The principle of the participatory model has been confirmed as the tool to reconcile objectivesaimed at safeguarding workers as well as the company’s competitiveness.
Furthermore, agreements have been signed to redefine the concept of Productive Unit with
respect to Trade Union representation; as a consequence the number of Trade Union Unitary
Representatives and the total amount of hours granted to these organisms for their activitieshave been reduced, matching them to the current corporate organizational model.
Also redefined are the prerogatives granted to workers representatives participating in the
organisms of the Associations ASSILT and CRALT.The tasks of the Environmental Joint Committees, comprising internal company members and
union members operating inside the company also underwent redefinition and adjustment
adapting them to the new corporate requirements.
After a few months of negotiation, on November 7, 2005, an agreement has been reached
with Trade Unions on the development and reorganization plan for the three-year span 2005-2007. The agreement signed by the parties is based on the industrial project for the
integration of the fixed and mobile telephony businesses.
The agreement with Trade Unions also identifies some tools aimed at ensuring the correctoccupational dimension and the necessary professional remix, such as the targeted
introduction of new resources, the professional and intercompany mobility and mobility 
ex lege no. 223/91.
Consistently with the Development and Reorganization Plan on December 20, 2005
agreements have been signed with Trade Unions concerning mobility of 3,403 Telecom Italia S.p.A. workers. On the same day similar agreements have been signed with other Group
companies (TIM Italia S.p.A., Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A., IT Telecom s.r.l., Telecom Italia 
Learning Services S.p.A.), over a total of 97 resources.
On December 3, 2005, after nearly a year of negotiations, a draft agreement has been 
signed between ASSTEL (Assotelecomunicazioni) and Trade Unions on renewal of the National Collective Labour Agreement for telecommunication service businesses. 
The regulation section of CCNL relative to tlc, effective up to December 31, 2008, has been
adapted to the most significant new concepts introduced by Legislative Decree no. 276/03concerning the labour market, and those introduced by specific legislation on working hours; the economic section of the agreement, on the contrary, will be effective up toDecember 31, 2006.
58 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Health and safety
Atthe end of 2005 the state of the art relative to some important projects launched the
preceding year was the following:
– The research into wellbeing in call-centres, managed by a Scientific Committee composed
of Italian university professors specialized in Psychology, Ergonometry and Medicine in the
Workplace was concluded.
– The assessment of concentration levels of radon gas in some workplaces, by means of
scientific collaboration with the Istituto Superior Health Institutecontinued, in order to develop a working methodology and an accredited laboratory.
–An assessment of the biological risk occurring in underground plants, operated by TelecomItalia technical staff, is in progress.
Furthermore, in order to ensure and promote health and safety on the job, the following
significant activities were carried out:
• controls and monitoring on buildings and plants;
• evacuation tests to verify the efficiency of the Emergency Plans;•first-aid operational plans;
• health surveillance and inspections of video terminal workstations carried out with
competent physicians;
•control and maintenance of TIM Safety Management System;
• training on the subject of health and safety in the workplace – about 60,000 hours by 
SPPA – devoted in particular to employees in charge of emergency management (over 300
employees), to first-aid (about 1,500 employees) and to workers exposed to specific risks;
•aspecific training session on “safe driving” dedicated to about 200 TIM technicians.
/L50298Accidents
Data on accidents occurred in Telecom Italia S.p.A. and TIM S.p.A. are shown below:
Telecom Italia S.p.A. TIM S.p.A.
Total accidents  873                         70
Accident severity index (*)                                                                                                    0.38                    0.05
Frequency rate (*)                                                                                                                   10.25                     4.4
Average duration                                                                                                                     110.1                   90.2
Unproductiveness rate (*)                                                                                                     1.13                        0.4
%workers on total                                                                                                                    1.68                      0.7
(*) The severity, frequency and unproductiveness indexes represent respectively:
– the number of conventional days lost per year per thousand hours worked;
–the number of accidents per million hours worked;
– the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked.
Against a marked increase in absolute terms of the number of events as compared to 2004
(attributable to normal statistical oscillation of phenomena), a significant reduction of averageduration and unproductiveness index has been observed in 2005.
/L50298Initiatives for employees
Welfare
In the second half of 2005 the service department Welfare was established, meant to 
ensure the operation of the Group Recreational and Welfare Organisations ,the provision of
social services for the improvement of employees wellbeing, the implementation of health
assistance /prevention and medicine in the workplace initiatives, and solutions for leisure
time.
59 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThis framework includes projects and initiatives dedicated to all employees:
• Personal affairs service: management of errands (post office payments, fines, road tax,
etc.), thanks to a permanent counter inside five corporate premises;
• Conventions with Hotel chains, tourist packages and car rent at reduced cost;
• Conventions for entertainment events: discounted tickets for employees;• Renovation of some company canteens, now turned into pleasant dining rooms;
• Company loans:
– Estate: to buy house up to a maximum of euro 17,500, to renovate up to a maximum 
of euro 12,500. Granted in 2005: no. 76 for the first type and no. 104 for the second;
– Other reasons: up to a maximum of euro 2,500. Granted in 2005: no. 267.
• Prize-giving ceremonies: for employees with 25-30-35 years seniority. Awarded in 2005:
5,300;
• Intranet website: a portal for information, training and access to services favouring balance
between life and work;
• Internet website: devoted to information/provision of Social Services;• Health information: dedicated interactive section via Intranet.
Moreover, projects and initiatives for employee’s children
:
•Childcare centres: Telecom Italia S.p.A. has inaugurated two new childcare centres, one in
Rome (Parco de’ Medici) and the other, created to meet the special needs of call centreemployees, in Naples (Telecontact - CDR). These structures follow those of Tim in Rivoli
(Turin), Rome and Palermo;
• Local summer day centres: conventions with two summer day centres in Naples and Bari
located near to the workplace and encouraging participation in sports; the initiatives arededicated to employees’ children aged 7-15. Participants in 2005: 71 children;
• Traditional summer holiday camps: 16-day holidays for Group company employees’ children,
aged 6-12. Activities in the camp are organised around an educational project which is
periodically updated with input from university professors and experts in the sector.
Participants in 2005: 4,705 children;
•Thematic summer holidays: 15-day holidays devoted to learning English and sport practice,
for Group company employees’ children, aged 11-14 in the first case and 7-15 in the
second. Participants in 2005: 427 children;
• Scholarships: periods abroad to study English, thus favouring intercultural communication
between young people and families all over the world. Four weeks for boys and girls aged
15-16 and/or one year if aged 16-17. Participants in 2005: 60 for the 4-week period
(Ireland and Finland); 20 for one-year period (Europe, United States and Canada);
•Refund of university fees: refund of first-year enrolment fee for employees’ children with
marks at least 90/100.
ALATEL
Association for the Elderly (ALATEL and Gold Pins)
The Senior Worker’s Association of Telecom Italia Group (over 26,000 members, of which athird are working employees) continued the realisation of its institutional activities, confirming
the collaboration with the Olivetti Gold Pins Association (about 6,400 members).
ASSIL T
AtDecember 31, 2005 more than 215,000 were enrolled in the Association for Integrative
Healthcare for Telecom Italia Group workers: 67,300 employees, 41,350 retirees, 107,300family members.
As well as reimbursing healthcare expenses to integrate the National Healthcare Service
(660,000 cases in 2005), Assilt conducts campaigns for preventive medicine and healthcare
education, using its mobile diagnostic units and support from public healthcare facilities.
Also in 2005 the programs for multidisciplinary Oncological Prevention to discover breast 
and skin pathologies continued (Puglia, Lombardia, Veneto, Campania and Emilia Romagna), as did the program for respiratory allergies, started in 2003 (Lazio, Tuscany and Sicily).
60 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportFurthermore Assilt, in collaboration with OSSFAD, supported Telecom Italia’s “No Smoking”
initiative for the benefit of its employees.
CRALT
The Telecommunications Workers Recreational Club of Telecom Italia Group organises tourist,
sport, cultural and recreational activities for employees and retired employees from the
companies of the Group.
At December 31, 2005 about 49,000 employees and 8,000 retirees had joined the Club.
/L50298Labour and human rights in Latin America
The following shows the main actions undertaken by the Group in Latin American countries –
Brazil and Bolivia – to implement the principles of the Global Compact regarding human rights
and safeguards for labour standards.
Human Rights
Specific regulations against race, religion and gender discrimination are effective in Brazil,
both in the Federal Constitution (respecting the International Labour Organisation andUniversal Declaration of Rights for Man principles) and in national legislation. 
The Human Resources Department of TIM Brazil is in charge of monitoring the observance of
these rules in the basic processes relating to human resources (recruitment, management 
and development), making use of its own holding and territorial organisations. The first corporate Code of Ethics, distributed to all employees, includes the general principles
stated in the Group Code (consistent with Global Compact principles), with appropriate
adjustments based on local needs.
At Entel Bolivia the Collective Labour Contract, in force between the parties, sanctions the
respect for dignity and human rights of employees and foster equal opportunities for men andwomen, promoting in particular female participation in company activities.
The Contract includes a Code of Ethics stating principles of conduct and of respect of human
dignity and relations.
The instruments provided by the Collective Contract enabled the application of innovative
policies related to industrial relations, training and internal communication, such as to arouse
the interest not only of national businesses and Trade Unions but of the International LabourOrganisation (ILO) as well.
Concerning juvenile labour Entel Bolivia respects the international ILO rules.
Safeguards for labour
Freedom to associate is ensured by legislation in force both in Brazil and Bolivia.The Collective Contracts of all the operating TIM companies in Brazil have been renewed in
2005 and involve new economic wage advantages and benefits.
Entel Bolivia recognizes and actively cooperates with Trade Unions. In compliance with local
labour laws freedom to associate is ensured. According to the country’s Constitution no-onemay be forced to perform any job without proper remuneration and Entel monitors observance
of this provision.
Some data concerning unions:
– TIM Brazil: approximately 5.2% of workers are members of Trade Unions Organizations.
– Entel Bolivia: 52% of workers are members of Union Associations.In both countries the results of negotiations affect all employees, including non members.
61 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportIn case of company re-organization, the company’s obligations to employees and Trade Unions
differ from one country to another:
– TIM Brazil: no special formality is provided by legislation however trade unions are involved
inre-organisation processes. Duties exist towards institutional bodies such as ANATEL
(regulatory) and CADE (antitrust).
– Entel Bolivia has developed tools to prevent potential conflicts, by means of widespread
information on corporate plans and policies.
–These tools are:
• Foro Estratégico (Strategic Forum): meets every six months to discuss industrial policies
and strategies, financial and legislative scenarios, market trends, technological
innovation and investments.
• Observatorio (Observatory): involves representatives of the company and of the workers
and aims at analysing and discussing issues of general interest such as market andcompetition, improvement of working conditions as well as improvement and
preservation of corporate profits.
• Sistema de Informaciones (Information system): ENTEL reports information every four
months to CEN of FESENTEL (executive committee of the Federation Labour Union), onthe following issues:• developing scenarios of the sector;
• evolution of internal occupational levels;•trend of main economic indicators of the sector;
• evolution of production and investment perspectives;•evolution of technological and organisational aspects and their impact on work
organisation;
• significant training and professional updating programs.
On the subject of regulations protecting child labour all Group companies conform to the
principles in national and international regulations.
To create a shared-values base and raise employee involvement on corporate management
issues, the Group launched initiatives to spread shared values and to communicate corporate
strategic plans.
Talent enhancement programs are active in TIM Brazil such as the enrolment of employees 
to post-graduate masters with company contributions to expenses. An internal job-postingsystem allows to fill vacancies through intranet or posting on company notice boards.
During the last eight years employees training activities at Entel Bolivia amounted to 
578,000 hours/man and this has involved a deep change in the workers mix: in 1996 
only 46% of employees consisted of professionals and skilled technicians, while in 2005 
the 96% of workers has achieved a certificate, of which 15% postgrade, 56% graduation and 25% school-leaving certificate.
62 Internal Stakeholders » Human ResourcesContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Financial communication
Consistently with preceding years also in 2005 Telecom Italia Group financial communication
is accurate and immediate as well as focused on fundamental values of the ICT sector.
Investor Relations activities continue to be managed by a Central Department directly respondingto the Chairman so as to ensure the fastest and most efficient communication possible.The www.telecomitalia.it Group website provides comprehensive and accurate informationthrough the spreading of institutional documents such as financial statements and theSustainability Reports, 
communiqués on corporate issues and salient operations on the
market, along with on line quotations of the Group’s shares. At year-end 2005 a project hasbeen undertaken for the redefinition of the website Investor Relations section to make it moreappropriate with respect to investor requirements.During 2005 the company organized over 100 formal encounters with the market (sell sideanalysts, institutional investors and both national and international specialized press) involving
quarterly conference calls, road shows, attendance at conventions and press conferences, as
well as daily contacts with financial analysts and investors both direct and by telephone.On April 12, 2005 the yearly meeting with the financial community has been held in Milan topresent the Group’s targets for the three-years 2005-2007.The industrial plan to integrate the Group’s fixed and mobile communication was concludedwith the merger by incorporation of TIM Italia S.p.A. into Telecom Italia S.p.A. effective as of
March 1, 2006. A comprehensive and timely information campaign was provided to the
market, also including a conference call to institutional investors, with the requireddocumentation available on Telecom Italia S.p.A. website.
/L50298Safeguarding privacy and protecting data
Great significance is attached by Telecom Italia Group to issues related to personal datahandling, particularly for interacting subjects (customers, employees, suppliers, etc.); the Grouphas therefore developed an internal organizational and regulatory system to ensure that allhandling complies with legislative provisions and with the correctness principles outlined in theGroup’s Code of Ethics.
Within this framework also in 2005 significant initiatives were launched to ensure the
observance of the laws in force concerning the protection of personal data (Legislative Decree
196/03, the so-called “Privacy Code”). The coordination of these activities is a responsibilityof the “Privacy” Department, established within the Corporate and Legal Affairs Departmentwhich is in charge of controlling the correct application of sector regulations at Group level.The actual application of these rules is monitored by Telecom Italia through an audit 
system based on periodic self-evaluation procedures undertaken by managers responsible 
for data handling and on random test audits applied by the competent central departments. In particular, during 2005, audits were conducted at thirteen central and local facilities toensure the observance of privacy rules relative to the management of Telecom Italia’semployees, relations with customers and implementation of measures for data protection.Actions plans are programmed for continued improvement of the operational issuesassociated with rule observance.At Group level nineteen subsidiaries underwent audits on implementation of privacy rules, with the aim of ensuring the correct application of the rules as well as receiving usefulindications to update and improve – through a bottom-up approach – the Group’s regulationsystem on personal data handling.
63 Internal Stakeholders » ShareholdersShareholders
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportAmong other initiatives undertaken:
– Drafting of the Group normative “Regulation system for data handling”, based on current
laws and on the Privacy Authority “case laws” and defining for each case treated provisionsand operational indications for Group companies, in order to ensure the correct andhomogeneous application of the Privacy Code;
–realization of a computerized system allowing employees in charge of handling data toaccess, through the company intranet, the updated list of handlings performed in theirdepartments, for improved observance of Privacy Code provisions;
– spreading of privacy culture, through constant updating of the dedicated site in the
company intranet, the organization of meetings and encounters in Telecom Italia Groupcompanies, and the drafting and diffusion of informative materials as for instance the“Summary of privacy normative” for employees dealing with data handling, the brochure“Privacy in Pills” for persons in charge, and the on-line course on privacy available to all theGroup’s employees.
Lastly, in compliance with provision 26 of attachment B (Technical Manual on MinimalRequired Security Measures) of the Privacy Code, Telecom Italia confirms of having drawn upthe Personal Data Security document (DPS) for 2005, reviewed and updated with respect topreceding editions to make it even more compliant to Privacy Authority requirements. This
document describes the technical and organizational criteria adopted to protect common,
sensitive and legal personal data handled with information technology tools, as well as thetraining plan designed for people responsible of handling personal data.
/L50298Risk Management
CRSA (Control & Risk Self Assessment) is a system aiming at the systematic identification,assessment and management of operative risks, that has been included in Telecom ItaliaGroup’s governance system more than two years ago. The system is based on a self-evaluation of risks made by the management, followed by the existing audit system andproposals, if any, for improvement. The cycle of identification and management of risksthrough CRSA, performed each year, involves the following operations steps:– definition of Group’s targets by Chief Executive Officers. For 2006 the following have been
defined: Market Leadership and Competitiveness, Integration, Cash generation andOperative efficiency, Focus on customers, Reliability and Transparency of Information,Sustainable Management;
– definition of targets for each Business Unit and Corporate Department by the relevant
persons in charge consistently with Group’s targets;
– identification and consolidation of risks which may compromise the achievement of the
established targets;
– assessment of identified risks in terms of impact and probability of occurrence and
“weighing” of the same through the assignment of a coefficient of relevance;
– overall assessment of “weighed” risks within the Group’s internal control system and
identification of risks considered acceptable and of those requiring instead appropriateprotection measures;
–development of action plans involving special protective measures for risks that areconsidered “not acceptable” and their approval by Management Committee;
– adjustment of the internal control system, if required.
The CRSA cycle for 2005 has been concluded in September 2005 with the approval of the
action plans related to the Group Risk Portfolio (30 actions against 15 identified risks) and the
definition of 313 actions with respect to the Central Department and Business Unit Risk
Portfolios (436 consolidated risks).
The implementation of the mentioned action plans is being monitored by the Compliance
Managers operating in the various organizations and coordinated by a Group ComplianceOfficer; they provide assistance and methodological support to operative management duringthe CRSA cycle steps.
The practical management of the cycle steps is supported by a web-based application started
in September 2005 that integrates the CRSA and APM (Action Plan Monitoring) systems andallows the automatic management and monitoring of Action Plans deadlines defined by CRSA,as done for action plans deriving from audits. All employee involved in the various CRSAsteps, both in Italy and abroad, underwent specific training.
64 Internal Stakeholders » ShareholdersContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportCorporate Governance 
/L50298Introduction
Telecom Italia has adopted the self-regulatory Code of Conduct drawn up by the Committee for
the Corporate Governance of Listed Companies in the ways and within the limits set out here.
In fact this section describes the Company’s system of corporate governance, which consists
of a series of principles, rules and procedures that are constantly updated and, wherenecessary, adapted to legislative and regulatory developments and changes in international
best practice.
Telecom Italia’s system of corporate governance hinges on the central role of the Board of
Directors in providing strategic guidance, the complete transparency of operational
decisions, both internal and in relation to the market, the efficiency and effectiveness of the
internal control system, the strict regulation of potential conflicts of interest and rigorousrules for transactions with related parties.
In what follows the system is analyzed in the light of the important decisions taken during the
year, which saw the completion of the convergence of the Wireline and Mobile
telecommunications businesses.The present section is an excerpt from the section “Annual Report on Corporate Governance”contained in the Annual Report 2005, to which reference is made for the complete text(available, as well as all the other corporate governance documents mentioned herein –codes, principles, procedures, charts – at the website: www.telecomitalia.it, Investors,Governance).
/L50298Board of Directors
/L50298Role and tasks
Effective and correct corporate governance requires the Board to play an active role in thestrategic guidance of the Company and the control of operations, with powers to direct thebusiness as a whole and intervene in a series of decisions.In the first place Telecom Italia has embraced the principle that the Board of Directors 
has the
right (and the duty) to direct the Company’s activity and pursue the ultimate objective of
creating value for its shareholders .
To this end, among the tasks reserved exclusively to the Board under the Company’s Self-
Regulatory Code, the following are especially noteworthy:
• examining and approving strategic ,business and financial plans ;
• reviewing and approving the annual budget ;
• examining and approving transactions –including investments and disinvestments – with 
asignificant impact on the Company’s activity in view of their nature, strategic
importance or size ;
•verifying the adequacy of the general organizational and administrative structure of the
Company and the Group;
• preparing and adopting the Company’s corporate governance rules and the Group’s
governance guidelines;
• appointing the Supervisory Panel set up under Legislative Decree no. 231 of June 8, 2001;
•nominating the persons who are to hold the offices of Chairman and Managing Director 
in strategic subsidiaries ,as well as of General Manager ;
•assessing the overall performance of operations ,particularly as regards conflicts of
interest and with special account taken of the reports received from the Managing Directors
and the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee;
• examining and approving the periodic financial reports .
65 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Meetings
In 2005 the Board of Directors met eleven times. Board meetings were always well attended,
with more than 88%of the directors present on average (the independent directors recorded
anattendance rate above 94%).
When board meetings were to be held, documentation permitting effective participation in the
proceedings was normally provided well in advance.
In November 2005 the Company released a calendar providing for five meetings in 2006. Itshould also be noted that in 2006 Telecom Italia has again opted to publish its annual
financial statements and half-yearly report respectively within 90 days of the close of the fiscal
year and 75 days of the close of the half year (which allows it to benefit from the exemption
from the obligation to prepare the last quarterly report for 2005 and the second quarterly
report for 2006).
/L50298Appointment of directors
The members of the Board of Directors are elected using the slate system (Article 9 of the
bylaws).This solution, which means that the Company 
does not need to have a nominations
committee and that it also complies with the rules on the appointment of directors 
introduced by the recent law on the protection of savings, is intended to ensure the presence
on the Board of persons elected from slates submitted by minority shareholders (in fact 
slates may be submitted by shareholders who alone or together with other shareholders hold shares representing at least 1% of the share capital entitled to vote in the ordinaryshareholders’ meeting).The present Board of Directors was appointed by the shareholders’ meeting of May 6, 2004on the basis of two slates, one submitted by the majority shareholder of Olimpia S.p.A. andthe other by a group of Italian institutional investors.The slates were accompanied by the profiles of the individual candidates to enableshareholders to evaluate their personal and professional qualifications and, for somecandidates, by evidence of their satisfying the requirements laid down in Telecom Italia’s Self-Regulatory Code to qualify as independent directors. Also the résumés submitted when theslates were presented are available on the Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it.The composition of the Board changed during the year in connection with the merger ofTelecom Italia Mobile S.p.A. into Telecom Italia S.p.A. In fact on April 7, 2005, after approvingthe merger, the shareholders’ meeting 
voted to increase the membership of the Board from
19 to 21 and to appoint two new directors, Marco De Benedetti and Enzo Grilli, both of whomhad previously been on the board of Telecom Italia Mobile.These appointments were made without using the slate system, which the bylaws require onlywhen the entire Board has to be appointed. However, the candidacy of Enzo Grilli was putforward by the independent directors, coordinated by the Lead Independent Director, and thetwo candidates’ résumés were made available at the Company’s registered office and at themarket operating company fifteen days before the shareholders’ meeting Since Enzo Grilliqualifies as independent, Telecom Italia’s Board 
still has a majority of independent directors
(11 out of 21).
On July 26, 2005, as part of the process of integrating Telecom Italia and Tim, the Board of
Directors made Marco De Benedetti a managing director of Telecom Italia, with responsibilityfor the Mobile Business Unit.
In October the process of integrating fixed and mobile telecommunications was concluded, in
terms of corporate structure, with the start of the merger of Tim Italia into Telecom Italia and,from the organizational point of view, with the termination of the separation of operationsbetween the Wireline and Mobile Business Units and the adoption of the “
One Company
Model ”. This led to the entire business being placed under the management of one person ,
Mr. Ruggiero. Subsequently, Mr. De Benedetti resigned his directorship and gave up all hisoperational responsibilities within the Group.
66 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Composition
Telecom Italia’s bylaws provide for the Board of Directors to have not less than 7 and not
more than 23 members. The shareholders’ meeting of April 7, 2005 fixed the number of
directors at 21 but, following Marco De Benedetti’s resignation, at December 31, 2005 it had20 members.
Marco Tronchetti Provera Chairman
Gilberto Benetton Deputy Chairman
Carlo Buora Managing Director
Riccardo Ruggiero Managing Director and General Manager
Paolo Baratta Member of the Remuneration Committee
John Robert Sotheby Boas
Giovanni Consorte
Domenico De Sole Member of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
and of the Strategy Committee
Francesco Denozza Member of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
Luigi Fausti Chairman of the Remuneration CommitteeGuido Ferrarini Chairman of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
(Lead Independent Director)
Jean Paul Fitoussi
Enzo Grilli
Gianni Mion
Massimo MorattiMarco Onado Member of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
and of the Strategy Committee
Renato Pagliaro
Pasquale Pistorio Member of the Remuneration Committee and of the Strategy Committee
Carlo Alessandro Puri Negri
Luigi Roth
The composition of the Board changed again on January 23, 2006 following the resignation of
Giovanni Consorte and it now has 19 members, of whom 11 are independent.
The directors Francesco Denozza, Guido Ferrarini, Jean Paul Fitoussi and Pasquale Pistorio
were elected from the slate presented by the group of institutional investors and the othersfrom the slate presented by Olimpia S.p.A., which at present holds approximately 18% of theordinary share capital.
/L50298Board performance evaluation
In 2005, for the first time, the directors carried out a Board performance self-evaluation ,
in line with international best practice. The evaluation (carried out through the use of specificquestionnaires) permitted two objectives to be pursued: on the one hand to check the working of the Board as a whole and on the other to assess the contributions to its activityand the conduct of the executive directors, the non-executive directors and the independentdirectors.
The analysis of the responses to the questionnaires revealed a generally positive assessment
of the Board and its members but also some aspects susceptible to improvement. This permitted the identification of measures to make the organization of the Board more
efficient and enhance its effectiveness, basically by increasing the involvement of the Board
as a whole in issues addressed in a specialist manner by Board committees and organizingstructured meetings with the management, with a consequent heightening of individual
directors’ appreciation of the matters of interest to the Company.
/L50298Independent director s
In conformity with international best practice and the recommendations of the Italian 
corporate governance code, known as the Preda Code, Telecom Italia has laid down a set ofprinciples by means of which to establish directors’ independence. According to the Board of Directors’ annual assessment of the declarations submitted by the directors concerned, 
at present 11 of the 19 members of the Board qualify as independent ,
67 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportnamely: Paolo Baratta, John Robert Sotheby Boas, Domenico De Sole, Francesco Denozza,
Luigi Fausti, Guido Ferrarini, Jean Paul Fitoussi, Enzo Grilli, Marco Onado, Pasquale Pistorio
and Luigi Roth. The composition of the Board also complies with the recently adopted law onthe protection of savings, according to which at least one director must satisfy the
independence requirements for the members of the Board of Auditors laid down in Legislative
Decree 58/1998, as amended by the law on the protection of savings.Telecom Italia’s Self-Regulatory Code) defines independent directors 
as those who neither
have nor have recently had business dealings with Group companies or executive directorsormembers of their families on a scale able to influence their judgement and who are not in
aposition to exercise a significant influence over the Company
as a consequence of the
shares they hold or their participation in shareholders’ agreements. This requirement isinterpreted extensively, in order to assess “substantial” independence; accordingly, directorswho have material dealings with natural or legal persons who are parties to a shareholders’
agreement do not qualify as independent.
In addition, since 2004 the Company’s Board of Directors has also had a 
Lead Independent
Director ,whoisintended to provide a point of reference and coordination for the needs and
inputs of the independent directors. At present the position is held by Professor GuidoFerrarini, Chairman of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee.Among other things, the Lead Independent Director is authorized to call, at his own initiative orat the request of other directors, special meetings of the independent directors (Independent
Directors’ Executive Sessions) to discuss issues related to the working of the Board or the
management of the business.
FiveIndependent Directors’ Executive Sessions were held in 2005; the main extraordinary
corporate actions were examined as well as some issues concerning managementremuneration and incentives. In accordance with international best practice, the independentdirectors also carried out a management evaluation, the results of which were shared with theother non-executive directors in a special executive session of the Board. The overallassessment was positive: in a context marked by fast-changing strategic scenarios,technologies and markets, Telecom Italia’s management had shown itself to be aware of thescale and rapidity of the transformation under way and of the dangers (but also theopportunities) for the Group. In particular, it had identified the strategy of convergence as themeans of creating a long-term competitive advantage and achieving the growth and earningsobjectives, notwithstanding the increasing pressure on market shares and prices.
/L50298Executive directors
The authority to grant delegated powers to directors and revoke such mandates is reserved tothe Board of Directors, which also establishes their objects and limits, their duration and theintervals at which persons with delegated powers must report on their activity, the generalresults of operations, and the transactions of greatest economic, financial or balance sheetsignificance concluded by the Company or its subsidiaries.
In 2004 the Board of Directors appointed Marco Tronchetti Provera as Chairman and Carlo
Orazio Buora and Riccardo Ruggiero as Managing Directors; Gilberto Benetton was madeDeputy Chairman.Following the merger with Tim and until the adoption of the One Company Model, from July toOctober Marco De Benedetti was also a Managing Director.Despite the broad scope of the mandates granted to the executive directors, the power to
take decisions on transactions of particular significance continues to be exercised by the
Board as a whole, even when they are theoretically within the limits of the executive directors’
mandates. This is because 
delegating powers is not considered a way of attributing
exclusive competences but as a means of ensuring, from the standpoint of organizing the
management function, the greatest possible operational flexibility, both within the Companyand in relation to third parties. During the year this concept was taken a step further by
reclassifying what had originally been defined as substantial limits (in terms of eligibletransactions and amounts) as mere 
internal limits to the relationship of trust between the
Board that delegates powers and the persons who exercise them .In fact the Chairman and
the Managing Directors are all legal representatives of the Company and they are individually
authorized to carry out any transaction relating to the Company’s activity .
68 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportOn October 5, 2005, consistently with the adoption of the One Company Model, 
responsibility for the development of fixed, mobile and Internet services was assigned to 
thesame person .This provides for the unitary direction of the business inaddition to the
unitary direction of corporate affairs .
The consequent allocation of functions and related organizational responsibilities is set out below:
– Riccardo Ruggiero, 
Managing Director ,is responsible for operations from the standpoint of
the management and development of the business;
– Carlo Buora, Managing Director ,is responsible for the guidance and control of the
business and for matters of a transversal nature affecting the entire business;
– Marco Tronchetti Provera, Chairman ,is entrusted with coordinating the activity of the two
Managing Directors and with establishing, together with them, the strategic guidelines for
the Group and its development, with direct responsibility for the following areas:institutional affairs, communications and image, and investor relations.
Asregards 
the reports the Chairman and the Managing Directors are required to make to the
Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors, the Company has adopted proceduresformalizing the rules and methods for gathering and transmitting information on their activity,
transactions with major implications for the profitability, financial position and/or assets and
liabilities of the Company and the Group, transactions with related parties (including intra-
group business) and atypical or unusual transactions.
/L50298Directors’ remuneration
The shareholders’ meeting of April 7, 2005, after voting to increase the number of directors
on the Board from 19 to 21 and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 2389 of theCivil Code, augmented the maximum total annual remuneration of the Board for the secondand third years of its mandate, from euro 2,700,000 to euro 3,000,000. It left the method of
allocating this amount unchanged:
•euro 114,000 to be paid to each director in office;
• an additional euro 63,000 to be paid to each of the four members of the Internal Control
and Corporate Governance Committee (Guido Ferrarini, Francesco Denozza, Domenico 
De Sole and Marco Onado);
•an additional euro 52,000 to be paid to each of the three members of the Remuneration
Committee (Luigi Fausti, Paolo Baratta and Pasquale Pistorio);
• an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to each of the three members of the Strategy
Committee other than the Chairman of the Board and the Managing Director Carlo Buora(Domenico De Sole, Marco Onado and Pasquale Pistorio);
•an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to the director appointed to the Supervisory Panel set up under Legislative Decree 231/2001 (Guido Ferrarini).
Set up in 2000, the Board’s 
Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of independent
directors and is charged with fact-finding and advisory functions .Since May 6, 2004 
the membership has been as follows: Paolo Baratta, Pasquale Pistorio and Luigi Fausti,
chairman. In 2005 the Committee met three times; the average attendance rate was
approximately 90%.
The Committee is charged with putting forward proposals with regard to the remuneration of the directors who hold particular offices and the criteria for the remuneration of the
Company’s senior management. Last year it also made an assessment of the 
appropriateness and effectiveness of the compensation and incentive schemes for managersand executive directors.
The current remuneration system for 
executive directors provides for them to receive a 
fixed component and an additional payment subject to the achievement of the objective 
for consolidated EBIT with positive Delta EVA ,in other words when value is created for 
all investors.
There is no provision of stock options for directors .(1)
69 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate Governance(1)Managing Director Riccardo Ruggiero is an exception in this respect since, prior to his being co-opted to the Board of
Directors, as General Manager he was among the beneficiaries of a stock-option plan.Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportFurther information on the compensation paid to the executive directors can be found in the
relevant table in the Notes to the 2005 financial statements.
The remuneration system for management provides performance and loyalty incentives on top
of a basic salary. The incentives include both cash payments and stock options. Details on
the latter are contained in the “Human resources” section of the Report on Operations.
/L50298The internal control system
The internal control system is one of the aspects of corporate governance to which TelecomItalia has devoted the most attention. It has developed as 
aprocess intended to achieve
substantial and procedural fairness, transparency and accountability, corner-stones of the
Company’s entrepreneurial activity ,as laid down in the Group Code of Ethics. The aim of the
process is to ensure that the management of the business is efficient and can be known and
verified, that accounting and operational data are accurate, that applicable laws and
regulations are complied with, and that the assets of the business are safeguarded, not least
with a view to preventing fraud against the Company and financial markets.
The cardinal rules of the Company’s internal control system concern:•
the separation of roles in the performance of the principal activities involved in each
operating process;
•the traceability and constant visibility of decisions ;
•decision-making on an objective basis .
As the body responsible for the internal control system, the Board of Directors lays down the
guidelines for the system and verifies that it is adequate and works effectively, making sure
that the main corporate risks are appropriately identified and managed. To this end the Boarduses the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and an independent personsuitably appointed to be responsible for internal control and endowed with sufficient resources
to perform the function.
The Managing Director Carlo Buora is charged with the task of determining the mechanisms of
the system and the manner in which it is to be implemented in accordance with the guidelines
established by the Board; he is also responsible for ensuring the system’s overall adequacy,its effectiveness and its adaptation to changes in operating conditions and the legislative andregulatory framework.The basic functions assigned to the person responsible for internal control are to verify theadequacy and effectiveness of the system and, where anomalies are found, to proposeappropriate remedies.
The Board has appointed the Company’s internal auditor (Telecom Italia Audit), in the person
of the director assigned to the task, to be responsible for its internal control system. Theperson responsible for internal control reports on its activity to the Internal Control and
Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Auditors.
Any maintenance work on the internal control system is performed by the competent sectorsof the Company or Group companies. In order to ensure the implementation of improvements
to the internal control system and foster the dissemination of a methodology and culture of
governance and risk management, managers of particular standing and authority within theorganization are appointed as “
persons responsible for implementation ”. In order to improve
the deployment of the Group internal control system, in 2005 the position of GroupCompliance Officer was created to ensure the overall coordination of the variousimplementation plans and thus guarantee, with the assistance of Telecom Italia Audit,
methodological correctness in the management of risk. To further strengthen the system, the
persons responsible for implementation have been flanked by compliance managerscoordinated by the Group Compliance Officer.
As mentioned earlier, 
internal auditing has been entrusted to the consortium company
Telecom Italia Audit ,in which TI Media also holds an interest, with the aim of maximizing the
independence of the person responsible for internal control from Telecom Italia’s corporatestructures, with respect to which the audit function is completely autonomous.As regards compliance with the provisions implementing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, last year sawfurther progress in carrying out 
Project 404 ,which involves the whole Group and, under the
guidance of the related Steering Committee, is intended to equip the Company with the most
suitable instruments to ensure timely compliance with the attestation requirements introducedby Section 404 of the Act with regard to the 
internal control system and procedures for
financial reporting, requirements to which Telecom Italia will be subject as of its annual report
for 2006.
70 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe Company’s internal control system is completed by the so-called 231 Organizational
Model,which goes beyond the mere application of the provisions of Legislative Decree
231/2001, since it provides a paradigm for the conduct of all those who act in the Company’s
name and on its behalf.
More specifically, the model comprises “principles for dealings with governmental bodies”(elaborated as a set of rules for relations with representatives of such bodies) and “internal
control checklists” (i) listing the main stages of every process, (ii) the offences that may be
committed in relation to individual processes, and (iii) the control activities to prevent therelated risks from arising.
The organizational model is reviewed periodically in the light of experience in its application
and changes to the law subsequent to the initial framework created by Legislative Decree
231/2001, including the broadening of its scope to encompass other cases. In 2005 the
Company verified, in accordance with the discipline established by Legislative Decree
231/2001, the adequacy of the internal control system with respect to the new types ofoffence considered, with special reference to violations of company law. For the most part the
results of the checks were satisfactory; for cases that were not fully regulated the 231
Organizational Model was supplemented as necessary with the adoption of some new internal
control checklists for operational and instrumental processes exposed to the risk of offencesbeing committed. At present the model is being fine tuned to incorporate the risks associated
with the legislation on market abuse.
Monitoring of the functioning and compliance with the model is performed by a 
Supervisory
Panel made up of a member of the Board of Auditors (Ferdinando Superti Furga, chairman), an
independent director on the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee (Guido
Ferrarini) and the person responsible for the internal control system. This ensures that the
members of the Panel embody all the professional skills involved in the control of the
Company’s operations.
The Supervisory Panel will encourage the Board of Directors to adapt the model as needed to
changes in the legislative and regulatory framework, the nature of the Company’s businessactivities and the ways they are conducted. It reports to the Board of Directors, the InternalControl and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Auditors on the checksperformed and their results.The shareholders’ meeting of May 6, 2004 resolved that the member of the Board of Auditorsserving on the Supervisory Panel should be paid a gross annual fee of euro 20,000, the same
as that assigned by the Board of Directors to the member of the Internal Control and
Corporate Governance Committee serving on the Panel.
Lastly, it should be noted that a special unit (the 231 Support Group) has been created withinTelecom Italia Audit to provide operational support to the Supervisory Panels of Group
companies by handling reports of violations of the organizational model and conductingcompliance audits on the basis of the data received by way of the information flows that have
been put in place.
/L50298The Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
Since 2000 the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia has had an Internal Control and Corporate
Governance Committee, charged with advisory functions and the formulation of proposals .
In particular the Committee:
– evaluates the adequacy of the internal control system;– evaluates the work plan prepared by the person responsible for internal control, from whom
it receives periodic reports;
–assesses, together with the heads of the Company’s administrative departments and the
external auditors, whether the accounting policies have been correctly applied and are
homogeneous for the purpose of preparing the consolidated financial statements;
– evaluates the proposals made by the external auditors in order to be awarded the
appointment, the audit plan and the results set out in the letter of suggestions;
– reports to the Board of Directors on the activity performed and the adequacy of the internal
control system;
–performs the additional tasks that may be assigned to it by the Board of Directors,
particularly as regards relations with the external auditors; and
– monitors compliance with the rules of corporate governance and their periodic updating.
The Committee is composed entirely of independent directors ,in its meeting on May 6,
2004 the Board of Directors appointed Francesco Denozza, Domenico De Sole, Marco Onadoand Guido Ferrarini (Chairman).
71 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportIn 2005 the Committee met eleven times; attendance at the meetings was 100 per cent .
Committee meetings are also attended by the Chairman of the Board of Auditors or by the
auditor he designates.
Where it is deemed desirable in the light of the issues on the agenda, the Committee and the
Board of Auditors may hold joint meetings.During the year the Committee contributed to the 
implementation of the Company’s
instruments of corporate governance and participated in the process of analyzing, specifying
and updating them. It also played an active role in the integration of Telecom Italia and Tim,
verifying the procedural correctness of valuations and the fairness of the operation .
It examined the plan for the restructuring of the Group, with special reference to the merger ofTim into Telecom Italia and the concentration of the Group’s Internet operations in the parent
company. In addition, it analyzed the application of IAS/IFRS to the financial statements and
kept abreast of the progress made by Project 404.
As well as monitoring transactions that the Board deemed to be especially delicate, theCommittee examined and approved the basic elements of the internal audit plan for 2006 and
the quarterly plans of the person responsible for internal control. It periodically assessed the
work of Telecom Italia Audit, paying particular attention to the company’s report on internal
auditing activity in 2005 and the checks it performed, and the progress made by the Groupprojects known as Control Risk Self-Assessment and Check-Up of Administrative Systems.
Lastly, the Committee discussed the plan for the 2006 statutory audits with representatives of
the external auditors, Reconta Ernst & Young.
/L50298The Strategy Committee
Since 2004 the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia has had a Strategy Committee to
increase the involvement of the Board in the Company’s strategic decision-making ,
especially as regards guiding the evolutionary processes under way in the Group’s business in
the light of the rapid transformation of technologies and markets.
The Strategy Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board (who ensures the alignment 
and coordination of the activities of the Committee, the Board and management), the ManagingDirector charged with ensuring the guidance and control of the business (Carlo Buora), and three independent directors (Domenico De Sole, Marco Onado and Pasquale Pistorio)specialized in the fields of technology, organizational strategies and corporate finance.The Committee is entrusted with the task of 
assisting the Board of Directors in making
strategic choices in the light of competitive developments ,with special reference to
decisions concerning:
–the potential evolution of the structure of the telecommunications industry;
– the strategic positioning and business models of the Group;– the evolution of the Group’s organization in relation to its business models;– the evolution of the Group’s corporate and financial structure;–the monitoring of the stage reached in the process of change.
In addition to calling on the heads of units within the Company, the Committee may employ
consultants and external experts.The Committee met four times in 2005, generally at the same time as a meeting of the 
Board of Directors and with an attendance rate of 
95%.The meetings were attended by
managers of the Group, invited according to their specific expertise to provide inputs with
regard to the matters on the agenda. The Committee examined and produced
recommendations on the following subjects :
–Market scenarios :technological trends, evolution of consumption patterns, convergence
initiatives by the main telecommunications operators – analysis of regulatory frameworksand the strategy and positioning of the Group with regard to telecommunications and, 
more generally, to information and communication technology (ICT).
– Internet: plans for the integration of platforms and business models (Tin.it, Virgilio 
and Rosso Alice).
–Sharpening the focus of the business.
– Strategic projects and international positioning: Europe, Mediterranean basin, 
Latin America.
– Integrated organizational model: basic principles, business objectives and the 
One Company Model.
72 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Board of Auditors
The Company’s Board of Auditors took office in May 2003 and consists of five auditors:
Ferdinando Superti Furga (Chairman), Salvatore Spiniello and Gianfranco Zanda (elected from
the slate presented by Olimpia) and Rosalba Casiraghi and Paolo Golia (elected from the 
slate presented by institutional investors).
The Board of Auditors plays a key role in the Company’s system of corporate governance .
In addition to the fifteen meetings it held during the year (some jointly with the Internal Control
and Corporate Governance Committee and with an attendance rate of 96%),its members
participated in the eleven meetings of the Board of Directors and periodically received thereports submitted by the bodies with delegated powers, as provided for in the relevant
procedure.
The importance of the Board of Auditors is confirmed by the choices made with regard to US
company law. Specifically, under the applicable provisions, 
the existence of the Board of
Auditors makes it unnecessary for the Company to set up a separate Audit Committee .
In view of the requirement that the Audit Committee approve all the services the auditing firm(and associated persons) supply to the issuer and its directly and indirectly controlled
subsidiaries, in 2003 the Company has adopted a 
Group Procedure for the Appointment of
Auditors .In particular, this provides on a general basis for the centralized control of relations
with auditing firms to prevent engagements for non-audit services being granted that fail to
comply with the applicable Italian or US law and that ultimately could undermine auditorindependence. The procedure (which appears to be consistent with the requirements
introduced by the new law on the protection of savings) regulates the engagement of auditing
firms and persons associated with them on a continuous basis, distinguishing betweenengagements that must be individually authorized in advance by the Board of Auditors andthose falling within categories subject to a generic authorization. The procedure significantly
restricts the power of the Board of Directors (and the management) while enhancing the
independent control function performed by the Board of Auditors.The Company has also adopted the principle of employing the same auditing firm throughoutthe Group; in fact the appointment of other firms must be agreed in advance with the parentcompany following a reasoned request on which Telecom Italia’s Board of Auditors gives its
opinion on the basis of inquiries made by the person responsible for internal control.
In order to make available the broad range of information needed by the Board of Auditors to
perform its control function effectively, a procedure has been put in place, as mentioned
earlier, for the collection and transmission to the members of the Board of Auditors (and thedirectors) of information on: the activity carried out by the Company; the transactions of
greatest significance for the Company’s profitability, financial position and assets and
liabilities; transactions with related parties (including intra-group transactions); and atypicaland unusual transactions.
In view of its responsibilities under Italian law and the obligations deriving from US law, in
2005 the Board of Auditors adopted a procedure for receiving, retaining and treating the
reports it receives.
Such reports can be of the following kinds:
– statements of violations submitted by shareholders concerning matters deemed to be
censurable;
–complaints by any person, thus including non-shareholders, concerning alleged
irregularities, censurable facts or, more generally, any problem or issue deemed to meritinvestigation by the control body;
– complaints specifically regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing
matters;
– confidential, anonymous submissions of “concerns” by employees of the Company or the
Group regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
In addition to the tasks performed in its Audit Committee capacity, in 2005 the Board of
Auditors carried out 
supervisory functions provided for under Italian law: verifying that the
transactions of greatest significance for the Company’s profitability, financial position andassets and liabilities conformed with the law, the bylaws and the principles of correctmanagement; checking that transactions with related parties complied with the self-regulatoryprinciples and procedures adopted by the Company and that they were in its interest; and
73 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportchecking the adequacy of the organizational structure. The Board of Auditors also monitored
the adequacy of the internal control system and that of the administrative and accounting
system and the latter’s reliability in correctly representing transactions .
Lastly, it investigated the reports it received under Article 2408 of the Civil Code and the
complaints submitted to it during the year, as described in its report to the shareholders’meeting.
/L50298Shareholders’ meetings
Ordinary and extraordinary shareholders’ meetings were held on April 7, 2005. In theextraordinary meeting the shareholders approved the plan for the merger of Telecom Italia
Media S.p.A. into Telecom Italia S.p.A. and approved the consequent amendments to 
Article 5 of the bylaws (under the heading Share Capital - Shares - Bonds). In the ordinary
meeting, in addition to approving the annual report for 2004, the shareholders brought the
Board of the “new” Telecom Italia up to full strength following approval of the merger plan by
appointing Marco De Benedetti and Enzo Grilli as directors. At the same time, in accordance
with Article 2389 of the Civil Code, the meeting augmented the maximum total annualremuneration of the Board from euro 2.7 million to euro 3 million.
As usual, the Company sought to increase shareholders’ attendance at the meetings by
providing the documents needed for informed participation to all those who requested 
them and, as provided for in the bylaws, ordinary shareholders were able to vote by mail.
Furthermore, pursuant to the bylaws, the Company made special areas available to
associations of employee shareholders in which to provide information and collect proxy forms.
/L50298Code of Ethics
The Code of Ethics of the Telecom Italia Group can be considered as lying upstream from the whole system of corporate governance and as enshrining the set of fundamental values and principles that serve to ensure an ethically-oriented conduct of business. The Code, which has gradually been adopted by all the companies belonging to the Group,
specifies the objectives to be aimed at and the values to be fostered in relation to all the
main stakeholders Telecom Italia interacts with every day: shareholders, financial markets,customers, local communities and employees.
Like all the Company’s other instruments of corporate governance, the Group Code of Ethics 
is 
continuously reviewed in the light of developments in the applicable law and operational
and market practices, and with consideration also given to the results of the monitoring of
units’ compliance by the person responsible for internal control. The present version of the
Code takes account of the requirements of the US discipline, primarily as regards the 
Code of Ethics referred to in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Code of Conduct required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, which make it mandatory to 
have a code of conduct for certain categories of officers (executives and financial and
accounting officers).
The Company’s other governance documents are tied in with the Group Code of Ethics 
and thus increasingly enhance the importance of its role at the centre of the internal 
control system.
/L50298Rules of conduct for transactions with related parties
In 2002 the Company adopted guidelines for carrying out transactions with related parties.They are 
intended to ensure both procedural and substantial fairness and transparency 
by entrusting the related decisions to the Board of Directors.
In fact the Board of Directors is required to give advance approval to transactions with
related parties, including intra-group transactions, apart from those of a customary 
nature to be concluded at standard conditions .To this end, provision is made for the 
Board to be adequately informed of all the relevant aspects: the nature of the relationship, the manner of carrying out the transaction, the economic and other conditions, the 
74 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportevaluation procedures used, the rationale for the transaction, the Company’s 
interest in its implementation and the associated risks. Moreover, if the related party is 
adirector or a party related via a director, he or she may only provide clarifications and must
leave the meeting when the motion is examined and put to a vote. Depending on the nature, value and other aspects of related-party transactions, the Board may be assisted by outside experts in order to prevent contracts being concluded at inappropriate 
conditions.
The rules are consistent with the legal framework established by the reform of company law
known as the Vietti reform and in 2006, despite Consob not having issued the indications
provided for, were supplemented by a 
procedure designed to provide an objective basis for
the treatment of concrete situations. Before any transaction is carried out, it will be necessaryto consult an expert system (appropriately interfaced with a database that is being added to
as the system is deployed) that will automatically provide – on the basis of information
gathered using ad hoc checklists – indications concerning decision-making powers, internal
information flows for reporting purposes, and the need for an external opinion in evaluating thecongruousness of transactions.
It should be noted that on two occasions, during 2005, the Board of Directors exonerated
directors who were related to the counterparty of the transaction on the agenda from leavingthe meeting since a discussion was not considered necessary in light of the information
received in preparation for the meetings.
/L50298Management of information
Transparent relations with the market and the provision of accurate, clear and completeinformation are standards for the conduct of the members of the governing bodies, themanagement and all the employees of the Telecom Italia Group.
Confidential information is dealt with by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on the basis
of procedures for the internal processing and disclosure to third parties of documents andinformation concerning the Company. 
The procedure for disclosing price-sensitive 
information was replaced in 2006 by a more general procedure for the disclosure of insideinformation, which takes account of the legislation on market abuse and provides for thecreation, with effect from April 1, 2006, of a register of persons with access to insideinformation
.
The adoption of the new procedure is the most tangible result of the activity of the workinggroup the Company set up to evaluate the effects of the transposition into Italian law of the
Market Abuse Directive (Community Law 2004).
The decision to set up the working group was taken at the initiative of the Disclosure
Committee, a body made up of managers that provides assistance to the Board of Directors
and top management on the processing and handling of the data and news necessary forcorrect disclosure. The Committee is charged with assisting in the preparation and checking 
ofperiodic financial reports, prospectuses and corporate disclosures in general. 
The role and operating rules of the Disclosure Committee are likely to be revised in the
process of adapting the Company’s system of corporate governance to the requirements of
the recent law on the protection of savings (including the introduction of the “manager
responsible for preparing the Company’s financial reports”).
/L50298Code of Conduct on Insider Dealing
The Company’s Code of Conduct on Insider Dealing, adopted in December 2002 and laying
down the rules of conduct and the disclosure requirements applicable to transactions
involving financial instruments issued by Group companies carried out by persons who have
access to material information as a consequence of their positions will be superseded, as of
April 1, 2006, with the entry into force of a Consob regulation issued pursuant to Legislative
Decree 58/1998, as amended by the law on market abuse.The law imposes a disclosure obligation for so-called insider-dealing transactions on, amongothers, the directors and members of the board of auditors of a listed company and “personsperforming administrative, supervisory and management functions in a listed issuer andmanagers who have regular access to inside information and the power to make managerial
75 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportdecisions affecting the future development and prospects of the issuer”. Telecom Italia has
chosen to identify such persons in the key managers referred to in IAS/IFRS 24 and in
executive officers for the purposes of US applicable law.
In 2005 the Company made 10 filings in accordance with Article 2.6.4 of Borsa Italiana’s
Market Rules. 
/L50298Meeting regulations
As provided for in the bylaws, the shareholders’ meeting has approved a set of regulations forshareholders’ meetings.The document also contains the procedure for ordinary shareholders to vote by mail, as
provided for in the bylaws, so as to ensure the fullest possible 
guidance on the organizational
and procedural aspects ofthis important moment in shareholders’ participation in the life of
the Company.
/L50298Investor relations
Aspecial unit, headed by the Chairman, is responsible for handling relations with the financial
community in Italy and abroad. In 2006 the scope of the unit’s activity was extended toinclude retail investors.
/L50298Shareholders’ agreements
At December 31, 2005 the largest shareholder of Telecom Italia was still Olimpia S.p.A., 
with approximately 18% of the ordinary share capital (2,407 million ordinary shares).The shareholders of Olimpia S.p.A. have concluded a number of shareholders’ agreements;published (in the form of excerpts) in the Italian press and available, as mentioned in theIntroduction, in the Company website (Investors, Shareholders, Shareholders’ Structure).It should be noted that on February 14, 2006 a notice was published announcing thenotification to Hopa S.p.A. of the withdrawal from the agreement (concluded on February 21,
2003) of Pirelli & C. S.p.A., Banca Intesa S.p.A:, Unicredito Italiano S.p.A., Edizione 
Holding S.p.A. - Edizione Finance International S.A. and Olimpia S.p.A., effective May 8, 2006.The shareholders of Olimpia S.p.A. are currently Pirelli & C. S.p.A. (57.66%), Edizione Finance
International S.A. (8.4%), Edizione Holding S.p.A. (8.4%), Hopa S.p.A. (16%), Unicredito
Italiano S.p.A. (4.77%) and Banca Intesa S.p.A. (4.77%).
/L50298Assessment by Standard & Poor’s
Telecom Italia considered it desirable to have its corporate governance system assessed
independently by Standard & Poor’s .Upon completion of the analysis, the Company was
assigned an overall corporate governance score of 7+, the highest ever published by 
an Italian company.
The rating company recognized that Telecom Italia had progressively created a solid system ofgovernance and strengthened the 
independence and effectiveness of the Board of Directors ,
which, with a majority of independent directors, stands out with respect to the majority ofItalian listed companies by providing a forum for discussion and effective supervision ofmanagement. 
In its report Standard & Poor’s also noted that Telecom Italia’s corporate governance system
was marked by a high level of transparency and disclosure, combined with strong internalcontrols and effective supervision of the audit process provided by both the Board of Auditorsand the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee.
76 Internal Stakeholders » Corporate GovernanceContext External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report77 Auditors’ report » Auditors’ reportAuditors’ report
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report78 Auditors’ report » Auditors’ report
Context External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportSpecial thanks to:
• All colleagues who have taken an active part in gathering the data necessary for preparing this
document.
•SODALITAS -“Associazione per lo Sviluppo dell’Imprenditore nel Sociale” (formed by Assolombarda)
for its support and guidance on the path to Sustainability reporting.
•C.S.R. Europe for encouraging and supporting the debate on Corporate Responsibility issues in Europe.
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Corso d’Italia, 4100198 Rome
Tel.: +39.06.3688.2843
Fax: +39.06.3688.2803e-mail: GroupSustainability@telecomitalia.itDesigned and produced by CRM S.r.l. - www.crm.it
Printed by Lucini, Milanon ecological paperin June 2006