2009 SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
2009 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIntroduction References and Governance
Codes, Charters and ValuesHot TopicsPlacement in the indexesOther acknowledgementsReporting and Planning2009 Objectives and Results2010 ObjectivesThe Group Sustainability Department Stakeholder InvolvementEconomic value generated and distributed89
10121313172022232624Chairman’s Letter Executive Summary
External
stakeholdersCustomersSuppliersCompetitorsInstitutionsThe EnvironmentThe Community304549565979
Internal
stakeholders96
116Human ResourcesShareholders
Auditors’ report 144 Report of the 
Independent Auditors (Ernst & Young)2
CHAIRMAN’S LETTERCHAIRMAN’S LETTER
With its roots in the /f_inancial crisis and the excess-
es that caused it, the recession of 2009, one of the deepest and most prolonged ever experienced by the world economy, will for a long time be a reminder to us how fragile and at risk development can be unless it has an ethically sustainable foundation. There has been, and will continue to be, much dis-cussion about rules and control bodies. Certainly, effective improvements can be made in both /f_ields. Nevertheless, responsible behaviour cannot be im-posed by law: it depends on individuals and groups making independent, conscious choices. Business-es have a leading role to play in this. 
At Telecom Italia, we have already made this choice, 
/f_irmly based on our Code of Ethics, and we do our best to make this evident in our daily work, very con-scious that we must continue to strive for improve-ment. The reason we incorporate social responsibil-ity in our strategies and actions, along with respect, professional enhancement and care over safety at work, is because this is the most effective way to generate value over time, and to ensure the sustain-ability of our business. It is, therefore, entirely at one with our responsibility to be competitive, produc-tive and ef/f_icient. 
The sphere in which it is easiest to see the close 
correlation between sustainability and competi-tiveness is the environment. The greatest direct contribution that a telecommunications operator can make to safeguarding the environment lies in the ef/f_icient use of energy. A network that is being expanded to enable it to reach 24 million sites, en-compassing over 15,000 radio base stations and more than 10,000 telephone exchanges, feeding 12 data centres in the service of the company and its customers, consumes a great deal of energy and tends to consume ever greater amounts, register-ing an increase of around 5% every year. Yet by renovating the network architecture, by employing the most modern methods of air-conditioning and by using a combination of alternative, renewable energy sources in a clever way, our electricity consumption in 2009 remained substantially stable. These devel-opments – together with many other initiatives, such as sharing the radio base sites with other operators, the adoption of green procurement policies in our dealings with suppliers, the use of new technologies and more ef/f_icient ways of managing the heating of buildings, reductions in travel and, above all, the re-newal of the company’s /f_leet with vehicles that meet the highest standards – have meant that Telecom Italia’s carbon dioxide emissions have been reduced by more than 2%. 
It is important that we improve our eco-ef/f_iciency (in 
2009, as these pages report, further progress of 12% was achieved). But it is even more important that the entire economic and social system makes improvements. Notwithstanding the disappointing overall outcome of the global summit on climate at Copenhagen – another of the negative legacies of 2009 – the response to the challenge of energy ef-/f_iciency and the reduction of pollution simply cannot be put on hold. Digital technologies can do much to tackle this since they encourage the dematerialisa-tion of the economy, the reduction of the need to travel, the control of consumption and the integrated management of energy sources. Telecom Italia is also committed to incorporating environmental sus-tainability in its provision to customers. Alongside solutions that are now well-established, such as e-learning, infomobility, video conferencing, e-health, and networks of sensors for managing lighting, heat-ing and air-conditioning equipment, new provisions are being added, such as home automation, which turns homes into “smart” systems by taking advan-tage of the possibilities offered by broadband and mobiles, and communication among different tech-nological devices. This is not a vision of the future: it is happening today. 
Nevertheless, we are well aware that it is not suf-
/f_icient just to say that digital innovation exists and can be fully exploited. Two questions must be tack-led: on one hand, it is vital that it should be accessi-ble everywhere, even in the most far-/f_lung areas; on 3
CHAIRMAN’S LETTERthe other, the expansion of digital literacy must be 
accelerated so that everyone can play an effective part in the information society and share in its bene-/f_its. There are two faces to the problem of the digital divide, one concerning the infrastructure, the other regarding the cultural aspect. We are continuing to work on both. Across the territory, we are collaborat-ing with local institutions in designing and offering solutions that will allow broadband to be extended to areas where market demand alone cannot take it, and we remain ready to play our part. On the other front, the one related to culture, we have multiplied the initiatives aimed at schools, showing the very young and adults how to use the new technologies responsibly, and offering digital training for the older generations. 
Of course, our interventions at the social level are 
much broader than this. Telecom Italia pays a great deal of attention to the needs of the weaker mem-bers of society. No-one can forget, for example, the massive, immediate mobilisation of means, tech-nologies and company personnel during two major human tragedies, the earthquakes in Abruzzo in the spring of 2009, and in Haiti at the beginning of 2010. Interventions in support of the community, moreover, have been boosted by the rapid engage-ment of the Telecom Italia Foundation which, in its /f_irst year of life, has already launched a series of ini-tiatives, including one aimed at the early diagnosis and tackling of dyslexia. In addition, the Foundation conducted two very successful, well-subscribed com-petitions, one for a project aimed at /f_inding stable, quali/f_ied employment for unemployed, marginalised or disadvantaged people, and a second for the re-newal of teaching systems in schools through the use of the interactive multimedia whiteboard and new technologies. 
It is our personnel who make our company’s sus-
tainability real. They have been involved in signi/f_i-cant programmes in training and development, in the identi/f_ication and promotion of talent and they have been receiving support in achieving a healthy balance between working life and free time. We are aware that we must improve our policies on safety at work and, for the /f_irst time, we have set ourselves precise objectives in terms of reducing the number of accidents, and their severity. It should also be noted that, in 2009, Telecom Italia launched the company’s /f_irst initiative for voluntary work in sup-port of children suffering from serious illnesses.
We are not seeking recognition for all of this. We 
are simply following what we believe to be a sound and forward-looking business strategy. Nevertheless, the specialists in this /f_ield have shown that they ap-preciate our efforts. Telecom Italia is listed in all the main global sustainability indexes and is considered the best Italian company in reporting data regard-ing climate change. It was the only Italian company to be invited by the European Commission to take part, on a permanent basis, in the “Environmental, Social and Governance Workshops”, formed to dis-cuss how to improve reporting and communication on sustainability issues. These acknowledgements please and encourage us. They con/f_irm that our adherence to the principles promoted by the UN’s Global Compact for the protection of the environ-ment, the respect for human rights and work stand-ards, the /f_ight against corruption continues to be translated into behaviour and actions: the behaviour and actions of a company that /f_irmly believes in the economic and competitive value of sustainability. And, strong in this conviction, it will strive – with the maximum transparency and in a spirit of collabora-tion, with the human and professional energies of its personnel, with its extraordinary technological competence – to contribute to the wellbeing and a better quality of life for all the communities in which it operates. 
Gabriele Galateri di Genola
ChairmanHIGHLIGHTS(1)REFERENCE TO THE CHAP-
TERS IN THE REPORTIMPACT FOR  THE 
STAKEH OLDERS(2)
A reduction of around 3% in the energy consumed for heat-
ing The Environment/Environ-mental performance/Energy !
A reduction of around 5% in the energy consumed for trans-port, to which the replacement of 1,504 Euro3 vehicles with diesel Euro4 vehicles has contributed The Environment/Environ-mental performance/Energy
!
A slight increase in the consumption of electricity The Environment/Environ-mental performance/Energy #
An increase of 12% in the eco-ef/f_iciency indicator The Environment/Climate Change !
A reduction of around 2% in carbon dioxide emissions The Environment/Environ-mental performance/Atmos-pheric emissions !
A reduction of around 2% in the consumption of water The Environment/Environ-
mental performance/Water!
A reduction of around 4% in paper consumed for of/f_ice use The Environment/Environ-
mental performance/Paper!
The use of 100% FSC certi/f_ied paper for of/f_ice use and telephone bills The Environment/Environ-mental performance/Paper!
An increase in the percentage of the waste sent for recycling or recovery (more than 90%)The Environment/Environ-mental performance/Waste!
The failure to reach some sustainability targets in 2009 Introduction/2009 Objec-
tives and Results#
37,000 interventions carried out by the Solidarity ponies in support of elderly people facing dif/f_iculties The Community/Responses to the stakeholders!
The launch of 99 fund-raising campaigns and the collection of 27 million euros through SMS, telephone calls and click solidarityThe Community/Responses to the stakeholders
!
Support for the population hit by the earthquake in Abruzzo through numerous initiativesThe Community/Responses to the stakeholders!
The encouragement of 6,000 aspiring Web 2.0 entrepre-neurs through the Working Capital projectThe Community/Social Media and Digital Communi-cation!
6,700 people over 50 have taken basic Internet courses thanks to the Internet Saloon initiative The Community/Responses to the stakeholders!EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The main results achieved by Telecom Italian in 2009 are given 
below, with details of their impact on the stakeholders.HIGHLIGHTS(1)REFERENCE TO THE CHAP-
TERS IN THE REPORTIMPACT FOR  THE 
STAKEH OLDERS(2)
1 million individual users have followed AvoiComunicare in 
the course of the yearThe Community/Social Media and Digital Communi-cation !
An improvement in the majority of the customer satisfaction indicators Customers/Customer satis-faction!
The launch of innovative services to reduce the energy con-sumption of customers, including in partnership with other companies Customers/Innovative Services
!
Numerous initiatives adopted to combat potential abuses carried out through the Tlc networkCustomers/Protection of minors!
A reduction of more than 70% in the number of demands for conciliation waiting to be consideredCustomers/Relations with consumer associations!
The launch of initiatives to reduce the socio-cultural digital divideCustomers/Digital DivideThe Community/Responses to the stakeholders!
At the end of 2009, 96.5% of the total of Telecom Italia’s /f_ixed lines were covered by ADSL and 57.6% were covered by IPTVIntroduction/2009 Objec-tives and Results
!
At the end of 2009, the percentage of the residential popula-tion covered by UMTS and HSDPA technology was 83.3% Introduction/2009 Objec-tives and Results!
1.8 million hours of training for Italian personnel for direct costs of 19.8 million euros. In all, 80.1% of the Group’s per-sonnel participated in at least one training session in 2009Human Resources/Training 
!
Numerous people caring initiatives were carried out through the integrated reconciliation of the family-work balance, rec-ognised by awards from the Lombardy Region and ALTISHuman Resources/People Caring
!
Inclusion of the sustainability objectives in the variable pay scheme for managers Human Resources/Remu-neration policy !
The launch of the Green Procurement Policy Suppliers/Main sustainabil-ity initiatives !
Inclusion in all the principal global sustainability indexes Introduction/Placement in 
the indexes !
First place in Italy for the exposition of data regarding climate change, in accordance with the Carbon Disclosure Project Introduction/Other acknowl-edgements 
!
Road show conducted with investors in Frankfurt on sustain-ability issues Shareholders/Financial com-munication!
(1) The percentages of increase or reduction shown in the table are calculated based on 2008 data. All the data and information shown in the 
table, unless otherwise stated, refer to Telecom Italia S.p.A.
(2) The symbol ! represents positive impact on stakeholders while the symbol # represents negative impact.Introduction8
references and
governanceINTRODUCTIONFor 13 years, Telecom Italia Group has been analys-
ing its own performance with regard to those inter-ested parties with whom it interacts daily, that is, the stakeholders: Customers, Suppliers, Competi-tors, Institutions, the Environment, the Community, Human Resources and Shareholders. 
In demonstration of the importance that Telecom 
Italia attributes to sustainability, the information concerning activities that regard the stakeholders has, since 2003, formed part of the Report on Oper-ations, in con/f_irmation of the Group’s determination to integrate its /f_inancial and non-/f_inancial data. 
TGHGTGPEGUCPFIQXGTPCPEG
The Telecom Italia Group acts in the conviction that business activities should be conducted in consid-eration of the expectations of the stakeholders, in line with the principles established by internationally recognised standards. In de/f_ining and implement-ing the strategies and programmes of sustainability, the Group makes reference to the guidelines issued by the main global organisations of guidance and standardisation on the matter of Corporate Respon-sibility.
In 2002, Telecom Italia subscribed to the princi-ples of the main point of reference at the global lev-el, that is, the Global Compact, which was launched in 2000 by the UN to promote the protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corruption practices. 
The System of Sustainability Management also 
takes into account the principal reference regula-tions and international standards:
the Directives, Recommendations and Commu-r
nications of the European Commission; the OCSE guidelines directed at multinational r
enterprises;the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 certi/f_icates gov-r
erning Quality and Environmental Management Systems;the principles of the Conventions of the Inter-r
national Labour Organisation (ILO) on respect-ing the fundamental rights of workers;the Social AccountAbility 8000 standard r
(SA8000), aimed at promoting respect for hu-man rights and working conditions by compa-nies and their supply chains; AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard r
(APS 2008) drawn up by AccountAbility, an international organisation which promotes col-laboration between stakeholders, and lays out standards and guidelines on matters of sus-The priorities of Telecom Italia:
excellence in customer satisfaction,
technological innovation, ﬁnancial 
discipline and cash generation, 
sustainability.
INTRODUCTION
9
INTRODUCTIONtainability. The APS 2008 establishes the prin-
ciples that a company must respect in order to qualify itself “responsible” (accountable), which are covered in the paragraph “Reporting and Planning”. The Group, for the /f_irst year, ini-tiated the activities necessary to ensure con-formity with the standards on the part of the Independent Auditors, Reconta Ernst & Young (see Report of the Independent Auditors).
The Group’s Corporate Governance system is found-ed on the central role of the Board of Directors and the independent administrators, the transparency of management decisions, the effectiveness of the Internal Control System and on the the strict regula-tions on potential con/f_licts of interest. Within the Internal Control System is the Organisational Model of the Decree Law of June 8th, 2001, no. 231, de-signed to prevent the commission of certain infringe-ments, including corruption, extortion and corporate crimes. For further information, see § Shareholders/Corporate Governance. Sustainability issues are sub-ject to the supervision of the Committee for Internal Control and Corporate Governance, which carries out a check on sustainability activities in general, includ-ing projects conducted by the Telecom Italia Founda-tion, to ensure they are consistent with the Group’s ethical values.
EQFGUEJCTVGTUCPFXCNWGU
The commitments undertaken by the Group towards its stakeholders are expressed in a system of Char-ters and Codes, which are available on the Internet site www.telecomitalia.it (Corporate/Sustainability/Our approach/Policies). 
At the heart of the system is the Ethical Code, an 
expression of the conviction that a successful busi-ness cannot disregard ethics in the conduct of its affairs. The Code lays out the goals and guiding prin-ciples at the centre of the business activities in rela-tion to the main stakeholders with whom the Group interacts. Respecting the Code is a requirement for statutory bodies, managers and employees of all the companies of the Group, as well as for collaborators and third parties in business relationships with the Group, within the boundaries of their respective com-petence, functions and responsibilities.The Charters of Services lay down the principles 
of conduct and the commitments undertaken by Tel-ecom Italia on matters regarding services, as well as giving information about the channels through which customers can make contact and about the standard of quality of the services provided. These Charters are available on the websites of Telecom Italia (www.187.it, www.191.it, www.tim.it). 
Alongside Telecom Italia’s Charters of Serv-
ices, there are the General Conditions of Subscrip-tion which govern contractual matters concerning the service provided by Telecom Italia. The General Conditions of Subscription for /f_ixed telephone services are published in the /f_irst pages of the tel-ephone books, and on the websites www.187.it and www.191.it. 
The Charters of Services and the General Condi-
tions of Subscription are drawn up on the basis of the guidelines and requirements under the various resolutions of the Italian Communications Author-ity (AGCOM). In particular, on matters of quality, the goals set on yearly basis for the individual services (/f_ixed and mobile voice telephony, access to the In-ternet, pay TV on IP – IPTV technology) are published on the websites of reference. 
The other commitments undertaken by the Group 
are contained in the following documents, which are available in the sustainability section of the Internet site:
Social responsibility in the Telecom Italia r
Group on compliance with labour standards within the Group, with particular reference to child labour, forced labour, health and safety, freedom of association, discrimination, discipli-nary procedures, working hours and pay.Relations with suppliers in Telecom Italia r
Group’s procurement process which governs the negotiating ethic of the Group (transparen-cy, the separation of roles, fairness and trace-ability) and the requirements that Telecom Italia demands of its suppliers in the area of working and environmental standards.Green Procurement Policyr  which obliges the 
company to take environmental factors into consideration in the procurement speci/f_ica-tions. Codes covering the protection of minorsr  (Self-
regulation codes for the mobile services, Self-codes, charters 
and values10
INTRODUCTION
hot topicsregulation Code for TV and minors, Code of 
Conduct for premium services). In these mat-ters, the company subscribes to the European Regulatory Framework for the protection of mi-nors in the use of mobile telephones. Codes on information on sports and in rela-r
tion to the representation of judicial proceed-ings in radio and television programmes. Guidelines of the Telecom Italia Group on r
voluntary contributions to the Community, orienting the Group’s donations and voluntary interventions in support of the development of the community in which it operates. Self-regulation code on commercial communi-r
cation which regulates advertising.Codes guaranteeing propriety in relations r
with the OLO (Other Licensed Operators). 
The System of Values adopted by Telecom Italia is the benchmark for the conduct of all those who work for the Group, creating a sense of belonging to a sin-gle organisation. The various corporate processes and systems for development and rewards, and for the assessment and training of staff, are inspired by the Charter of Values, thereby orienting individual at-titudes in a common direction throughout the whole Group.
Focus on the customer
To consider the customer as the main employer, and customer satisfaction as the core value. To be ready to listen to both internal and external customers, and to take steps to anticipate and respond rapidly to emerging requirements. 
Taking responsibility
To participate in the achievement of tangible results and to accept delegation as an opportunity, without referring problems to management that are within the individual’s sphere of competence. 
Innovation
To ensure the development of innovative solutions and promote new ways to improve the existing proc-esses and systems in order to reinforce the posi-tioning of the company in the market.
Proactivity
To make things happen, rather than reacting to events. To seize and develop any opportunities, even if initially unpromising, that the individual may encounter within their sphere of activity, and to ad-vance proposals and initiatives that may be useful in achieving the goals of the company and the Group. 
Time management
To consider time as an important resource that im-pacts on the costs of the services provided and on the loyalty of both internal and external customers. To meet needs and problems and handle multiple, sketchy inputs, working out timely and practical solu-tions. 
Integration 
To work together with team spirit, minimising dis-putes and maximising the effectiveness of the exchange of information and professional contribu-tions, working towards a common goal for the com-pany and the Group. 
Transparency 
To ensure ethically-correct business conduct; to maintain internal and external relations that are cor-rect and honest, favouring the circulation of informa-tion. 
Professional excellence
To continuously improve one’s own abilities, taking responsibility for one’s own professional growth in order to contribute to the success of the company and the Group.
JQVVQRKEU
Sustainability concerns all the company processes but certain matters are of particular importance and are consequently given special consideration in implementing the model of Corporate Responsibility de/f_ined by the company. These are the “Hot Topics” of sustainability, which have been identi/f_ied by Tel-ecom Italia Group on the basis of:
requests made by the Sustainability rating r
agencies for admission to sustainability in-dexes, through questionnaires assessing the Group’s performance; requests from investors during the dedicated r
road shows or one-to-one contacts; 11
INTRODUCTION
hot topicsanalysis of the media and reports published by r
the specialist agencies; 
benchmarking of the sustainability activities r
carried out by other companies, in Italy and abroad. 
ISSUES STAKEHOLDER TELECOM ITALIA COMMITMENT REFERENCE
Relations with 
customersCustomers Attention to the needs of the customers and the improvement in the level of their satisfaction are among the main objectives of Telecom Italia and are the subject of numerous projects and initiatives. Customers/Focus on Custom-ers/Customer Satisfaction
Digital Divide Customers, 
Institutions, The CommunityThe dissemination of communications tech-nologies can create social and geographi-cal discrimination. The risk of exclusion is especially high for certain population bands, such as the elderly, the sick and the disabled. Telecom Italia has undertaken numerous initiatives to ensure the wide availability of the new technologies. Customers/Digital Divide The Community/Responses to the stakeholders
Climate change Customers, Sup-
pliers, Institutions, The Environment, The CommunityThe Group is committed to reduce its emissions of carbon dioxide and provide services which contribute to the reduction of the emissions of other sectors. The Environment/Climate Change
Relations with employeesHuman Resources Even at a dif/f_icult time for the global 
economy, the Group pays the maximum pos-sible attention to caring for employees and implementing plans to attract and retain the best talent. Human resources
Supply chain Suppliers, The 
Environment, The CommunityWith the globalisation of the markets and supply, the monitoring of the supply chain becomes a vital element in the sustainabil-ity of businesses. The Group is mounting a series of actions designed to protect the environment and the standards of work, including the promotion of the principles of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Suppliers/Main initiatives of sustainability The Environment/Product responsibility 
Privacy and data securityCustomers, Institu-tionsTelecom Italia has implemented a series of measures to protect data security and the privacy of those who use the networks and services. Customers/Research and in-novation in e-security/ Protec-tion of privacy and protection of personal data
Protection of minorsCustomers The spread of the Internet is a great oppor-tunity but it can also be a source of danger. Telecom Italia has carried out a series of measures for the protection of minors from content that could harm their psychological and physical development, and to prevent and detect any abuse carried out through the telecommunications networks. Customers/Protection of minors
Relations with shareholders/investorsShareholders The dialogue with the investors on /f_inancial 
and non-/f_inancial issues is of strategic importance for a major, quoted company. To improve the communication among the stakeholders on environmental, social and governance issues, Telecom Italia has sup-ported a European workshop on the evalua-tion of non-/f_inancial performance. Introduction/Other acknowl-edgementsShareholders/Financial com-municationThe Hot Topics identi/f_ied in this way, together with 
other aspects of the company’s activities, are taken into consideration in determining the materiality of the reporting, in accordance with the standard, AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS), re-ferred to in the paragraph “Reporting and Planning.” 
HOT TOPICS TABLE12
INTRODUCTION
placement in the
indexesRNCEGOGPVKPVJGKPFGZGU
The Sustainability indexes are stock indexes in 
which securities are selected not only on the basis of economic-/f_inancial parameters but also in the light of social and environmental criteria. The selec-tion process is carried out by specialised agencies that assess companies on the basis of publicly available information and/or questionnaires, taking account of opinions expressed by the media and stakeholders. The selection process is extremely rig-orous and only companies deemed worthy are given a place in the indexes.
Inclusion in these indexes is of strategic impor-
tance to companies, both for the positive repercus-sions for their reputation and for the fact that, in addition to the pension funds and ethical funds, an ever increasing number of investors favour sustain-able companies, considering them to be less risky and more promising in the medium to long term. Taking part in the process of evaluation is, moreover, a timely moment for re/f_lection within the company on the results achieved. The suggestions of the rat-ing agencies at the end of the process are very use-ful in planning improvement actions in the future. 
Telecom Italia has been con/f_irmed in both catego-
ries in the Dow Jones Sustainability indexes: 
Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes (DJSI r
World), which include 317 leading Sustainabil-ity companies at the worldwide level; Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indexes (DJSI r
STOXX): the Europe index, made up of 154 leading securities at the European level; the Euro index, made up of 84 listings in Euroland. 
On the basis of the assessments carried out for admission to the DJSI in 2009, Telecom Italia has been included in the prestigious Gold Class in the /f_ixed telecommunications sector of the “Sustainabil-ity Yearbook 2010”, published by the SAM (Sustain-able Asset Management) Group, which manages the DJSI, and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
The Sustainability Yearbook accepts only those 
companies with the highest score in terms of sus-tainability, divided into three categories: Gold Class, Silver Class and Bronze Class. Speci/f_ically, the /f_ixed telecommunications sector is composed of a group of 54 companies, while the Gold Class is composed of the 4 companies in the sector with the highest score. 
Telecom Italia has been included in all the important 
indexes of the Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good):
FTSE4Good Global (653 companies);r
FTSE4Good Europe (264 companies); r
FTSE4Good Environmental Leaders Europe, r
which includes 40 listings selected from the FTSE4Good Europe on the basis of the results achieved on matters of environmental protec-tion. 
Telecom Italia is also included in the following in-dexes: 
Advanced Sustainable Performance Index (ASPI) r
Eurozone, made up of 100
(1) companies;
Ethibel Sustainability Indexes (ESI): r
Excellence Europe, comprising 198 list- -
ings; Excellence Global, comprising 134 listings. -
KLD Sustainability Indexes: r
FTSE KLD Global (GSIN), comprising 630  -
listings;FTSE KLD Europe (EUSI), comprising 209  -
listings;FTSE KLD Global ex US Index (GSIXU),  -
comprising 452 listings;FTSE KLD Europe Asia Paci/f_ic (EAPSI),  -
comprising 401 listings.
E.Capital Partners Indexes (ECPI): r
Ethical Index Global, comprising 300 list- -
ings;Ethical Index Euro, comprising 150 listings; -
Ethical Index EMU, comprising 150 listings. -
Axia:r
Ethical, comprising 40 listings;  -
Euro Ethical, comprising 40 listings;  -
CSR, comprising 30 listings. -
Tim Participações, the stock market quoted holding of TIM Brasil Group, has been included in the ISE (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial) index, man-aged by Bovespa (the São Paolo stock exchange) to-
(1) To which may be added 20 in the “buffer” zone, that is listings not 
included directly in the index but which may /f_ind places should any of the 100 companies be excluded during the review processes held during the year.13
INTRODUCTION
other acknowledgementsgether with the Brazilian Environment Ministry, UNEP 
and other /f_inancial Sustainability organisations. The index is composed of the listings of 34 companies that have obtained the highest scores in terms of sustainability, selected on the basis of a question-naire submitted to the 137 most traded companies of the Bovespa.
QVJGTCEMPQYNGFIGOGPVU
Telecom Italia was again judged by the Carbon Dis-closure Project (CDP) to be the best Italian company in the “Global 500” index in the exposition of data regarding climate change in the 2009 edition (as happened in 2008). The CDP is an international initi-ative, now in its seventh year, which provides instruc-tions on how to measure and represent greenhouse gas emissions, encouraging companies to focus on risk management and the emerging opportunities in the /f_ield of climate change (for further information, see § The Environment/Climate Change).
AvoiComunicare, Telecom Italia’s integrated commu-
nication project on major social and environmental issues, won the “Aretê 2009” award, promoted by Pentapolis (Con/f_industria) for responsible communi-cation, in the Internet category (for further informa-tion, see § The Community/Social Media and Digital Communication).
Telecom Italia was awarded the “Family-Work 2009” 
Prize, devised and promoted by the Lombardy Re-gion in collaboration with ALTIS (Alta Scuola Impresa e Società, Catholic University) for creating the best integrated system for family-work balance in support of its employees and their families (for further infor-mation, see § Human Resources/People Caring).
Telecom Italia is in second place in Italy for web 
communication on sustainability in the Lundquist classi/f_ication (for further information, see § The Community/Traditional media).
By virtue of the experience gained through the co-
leadership of the laboratory “Sustainability and evaluation of the non-/f_inancial performance”, started within the Alliance launched by the European Com-mission in March, 2006, Telecom Italia was the only Italian company called on by the Directorate-General for Enterprise and Industry of the European Commis-sion to take part in the stable nucleus of stakehold-ers invited to the ESG (Environmental, Social, Gov-ernance) workshops. These are meetings aimed at discussing possible actions to improve the reporting and communication on sustainability issues which have involved businesses, investors, civil society, non-governmental organisations, consumer associa-tions, the media, trade unions and institutions in the second half of 2009 and in the /f_irst months of 2010.
TGRQTVKPICPFRNCPPKPI
Reporting 
200: this is the number of Key Performance Indica-
tors (KPI) used to analyse the performance and respective reporting of the multi-stakeholder ap-proach. These KPI are de/f_ined on the basis of: 
the analysis of the Global Reporting Initiative r
(GRI). Initiated in 1997, the GRI has developed universally applicable guidelines for drawing up the sustainability report, in order to facilitate comparisons between companies. Telecom Ita-lia Group, with the 2008 Sustainability,Report was ranked A+ by the GRI, the highest level of compliance with the principles of reporting and the GRI indicators; the demands of the stakeholders; r
the questionnaires sent out by the leading rat-r
ing agencies for the purpose of admission to the stock market indexes of sustainability. 
The KPI system allows the analysis of the sustain-ability performance and the ability of the company to respond to relevant issues, in addition to the periodic monitoring of the degree of attainment of the goals identi /f_ied. Thanks to the CPM system, 
a dedicated application, the management of the sustainability KPI is analogous to that for /f_i nancial 
reporting. 
With the integration of the sustainability data within 
the Group’s Annual Report, which has been car-ried out since the /f_inancial year 2003, the Group anticipated the application of European Directive 14
INTRODUCTION
reporting
and planning51/2003, adopted in Italy under the Decree Law of 
February 2nd, 2007, no. 32. The subsidiary com-panies included in the consolidated area are taken into consideration, unless otherwise indicated (see § The Environment and § The Community), exclud-ing discontinued operations/non-current assets held for sale. 
The Sustainability Report of this /f_inancial year 
adopts the principles of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS) shown below:
inclusivityr : identi/f_ication of the stakeholders 
and their expectations, and the development of strategies of involvement aimed at improv-ing the company’s sustainability performance;materialityr : identi/f_ication of the important is-
sues for the Company and its stakeholders;responsivenessr : a description of the initiatives 
carried out by the Company to meet the expec-tations of the stakeholders. 
In order to determine relevance, the Group has 
developed a process in which results are put into schematic form in the “materiality matrix” shown below. The relevant issues are identi/f_ied on the ba-sis of the expectations of the stakeholders and their in/f_luence on the Group. 
The process of determining relevance is in 
line with the Hot Topics of sustainability identi/f_ied through the analysis of the requests of the rating agencies and investors, including benchmarking with competitors (see § Hot Topics).
A methodology is being developed for the man-
agement of risk within the framework of the best practice of the “Enterprise Risk Management Frame-work”, under which social and environmental risks, and those arising from possible con/f_licts between stakeholders in general, will be taken more into ac-count (for further details, see § Shareholders/Risk Management).
The methodology followed in measuring the invest-
ments in the Community is that de/f_ined by the London Benchmarking Group – LBG – (see § The Community).
TGNCVKQPUYKVJEQORGVKVQT
TGNCVKQPUYKVJOGFKCRTQFWEVWUGTGNCVKQPUYKVJQPIRTQVGEVKQPQHOKPQTURTKXCE[CPFFCVCUGEWTKV[
HTGGFQOQHGZRTGUUKQPTGFWEKPIYCUVGCPFOCVGTKCNWUGTGNCVKQPUYKVJUWRRNKGTUUWRRN[EJCKPKORCEVU
TGNCVKQPUYKVJVJGEQOOWPKV[TGNCVKQPUYKVJGORNQ[GGUFKIKVCNFKXKFG
ENKOCVGEJCPIG
TGNCVKQPUYKVJKPUVKVWVKQPUTGNCVKQPUYKVJUJCTGJQNFGTU
GEQPQOKEFGXGNQROGPVTGNCVKQPUYKVJEWUVQOGTU
UVCMGJQNFGTGZRGEVCVKQPKPVGTGUVGPXKTQPOGPVCNUQEKCNKORCEVUQPVGNGEQOKVCNKC
JKIJ OGFKWO NQY
JKIJ OGFKWO NQYMATRIX OF MATERIALITY15
INTRODUCTION
reporting and
planningThe following table gives indications of the chap-
ters/paragraphs and pages which make direct or indirect reference to the principles of the Global Compact and the respective GRI indicators. 
GLOBAL COMPACT (GC)  
PRINCIPLESGRI INDICATORS WITH REFERENCE TO THE GC CHAPTERS/PARAGRAPHS REFERRING TO GC PRINCIPLES PAGE NUMBER
1. 
 Businesses should support 
and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the areas of the respective spheres of in/f_lu-ence. HR1-7, LA4, LA7-9, LA13, PR1, PR8Reference and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Re-porting and Planning, Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Com-munity, Human Resources 8, 9, 13, 23, 45, 79, 96
2. 
 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit, even indirectly, in human rights abuses. HR1-7 References and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Sup-pliers, Human Resources 8, 9, 45, 96
3. 
 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of workers and the effective recog-nition of the right to collective bargaining. HR1-3, HR5, LA4-5 Codes, Charters and Values, Re-
porting and Planning, Stakeholder Involvement, Human Resources9, 13, 23, 96
4. 
 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labourHR1-3, HR7 Codes, Charters and Values, Sup-pliers, Human Resources9, 45, 96
5. 
 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.HR1-3, HR6 Codes, Charters and Values, Sup-pliers, Human Resources9, 45, 96
6.
 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HR1-4, LA2, LA13 Codes, Charters and Values, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppli-ers, Human Resources9, 23, 45, 96
7. 
 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30 Hot Topics, Reporting and 
Planning, 2009 Objectives and Results, Objectives 2010, Stake-holder Involvement, Suppliers, The Environment10, 13, 17, 20, 23, 59
8. 
 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.EN1-5, EN8, EN16, EN17, EN20, EN22, EN23, EN26-27, EN30, PR32009 Objectives and Results, Objectives 2010, Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Environment 17, 20, 23, 45, 59
9. 
 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies EN5-7, EN18, EN26-27, EN30Hot Topics, Reporting and Planning, The Environment, The Community10, 13, 59, 79
10.
 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.SO2-4 References and Governance, Codes, Charters and Values, Sup-pliers, Shareholders 8, 9, 45, 116The Content Index regarding the GRI is available on 
the Internet site www.telecomitalia.it/Corporate/Sustainability . 16
INTRODUCTION
reporting
and planningPlanning
The Sustainability Plan is based on a procedure that 
is broken down into four phases: 
identi/f_ication of the areas for improvement in 1. 
sustainability performance; comparison between the areas for improve-2. 
ment and the projects the Group plans to carry out for the purposes of its business; de/f_inition of targeted management actions to 3. 
be taken in the areas for improvement where no projects have been conducted previously, or those where the planned projects have not had suf/f_i-cient, positive impact in terms of sustainability; monitoring those areas in need of supervision in 4. 
order to maintain the performance level attained. 
areas for improvementcommitments required 
by international 
organisations 
benchmarking with peersCommitments required by 
regulatory bodies, 
expressed within the Group 
in the Code of Ethics and 
the other charters and 
policies adoptedrequests of the 
stakeholders  
(conveyed through the 
associations, media, 
direct contacts)general issues for 
admission to the 
sustainability 
indexes  An important element used by the Group on matters 
of sustainability is the Assessment Schedule. All projects which involve signi/f_icant investment, and which are put forward for the approval of appropriate Committees, are covered by this schedule. Its func-tion is to illustrate the impact, in terms of sustaina-bility, of the investment. Each project manager must indicate the impact, positive, neutral or negative, of the project to be approved in the important areas identi/f_ied for each stakeholder. 
These reports are taken into account within the 
decision-making process that leads to the approval of investments, and they provide a useful summary for assessing the overall impact of the Group’s in-vestment choices in terms of sustainability.
IDENTIFICATION OF THE AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT17
INTRODUCTION
2009 objectives
and results2009QDLGEVKXGUCPFTGUWNVU
The results attained regarding the objectives pub-
lished in the Report on Sustainability 2008 are re-ported below. 
AREA OF  
REFERENCEINDICATORUNIT OF MEASURE-MENTTARGET 
2009FINAL  
RESULT 
2009TARGET
STATUS  
 2009
The Community Telecom Italia Foundation – Financial 
commitment envisaged with respect to 
the Group’s EBITDA % 0.05 0.05
Human Resources – TrainingTraining in health and safety issues Training 
hours90,000 94,437
Human Resources – TrainingTraining – Italian companies
(1) Training hours per head
(2)33 30.7
Human Resources – TrainingTraining – Italian companies
(1) coverage 
(percentage of employees from the total workforce who have taken part in at least one training intervention) % 71.5 80.1
The Environment – Eco-ef/f_iciencyEco-ef/f_iciency indicator
(3)Bit/Joule 1,410 1,317
The Environment – ElectromagnetismSAR quali/f_ication
(4)% 100 100
The Environment – ElectromagnetismNumber of cells of the UMTS Radio Stations on which a second carrier has been installed
 (5)Number of cells2,500 3,202
The Environment – Natural Resources FSC certi/f_ied paper procured for of/f_ice use
 (6)% 90 100
The Environment – Natural Resources Used paper sent for recycling Tons 13,540 21,263
The Environment – Atmospheric impact Reduction of CO
2 emissions deriving 
from the replacement of diesel-/f_ired heating systems with plants having less impact
(7)Tons 200 214
The Environment – Atmospheric impact Reduction of the quantity of ozone-harmful gas used in air-conditioning plants and cooling systems kg 6,400 8,151
The Environment – Atmospheric impact Reduction of CO
2 emissions deriving 
from the replacement of Euro3 vehicles with Euro4 vehicles
(8)Tons 1,630 2,169
Digital Inclusion ADSL coverage(9)% 96.5 96.5
Digital Inclusion IPTV coverage(9)% 54.8 57.6
Digital Inclusion UMTS and HSDPA coverage(10)% 82.4 83.3
Target:   reached 
   not reached
1. The data includes all the Group’s companies in Italy. 
2. The data includes classroom, on line and on the job training.
3. For more information on the eco-ef/f_iciency indicator, please refer 
to The Environment/Climate change. 
4. This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Spe-ci/f_ic Absorption Rate) quali/f_ication. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically innovative models of mobile handsets. 
5. Under high traf/f_ic conditions, by using two radio frequency carriers instead of one, the total power emitted by the station is less. 6. Measured against the total amount of paper procured for of/f_ice use. FSC = Forest Stewardship Council.
7. Most of the new plants are fuelled with gas. 
8. A reduction of around 30% in CO 2 emissions is achieved with 
the Euro4 vehicles compared to Euro3 vehicles. The target was calculated by considering the emissions of the models of vehicles effectively replaced. 
9. The percentage refers to /f_ixed telephone lines. 
10. The percentage refers to the residential population. TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.18
INTRODUCTION
1. The complete list of the quality targets of Telecom Italia for 2009 
is available on the Group’s Internet site. 
2. The /f_inal results for 2009 will be published in July, 2010, on the Group’s Internet site. TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A. – CUSTOMERS
AREA OF 
REFERENCEINDICATOR(1) UNIT OF MEASURE-MENTTARGET 
2009FINAL RESULT 
2009
(2)
Customers – 
MobileActivation time for voice service – Pre-paid service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract % 97 –
Customers – MobileActivation time for voice service – Post-paid service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract % 97 –
Customers – MobileCustomer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming calls Seconds 40 –
Customers – MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received during the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period (post-paid service)% 1.8 –
Customers – MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 5 –
Customers – InternetActivation time for services of broadband access – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines) % 90 –
Customers – InternetActivation time for services of broadband access – Average time of supply (active telephone lines) Days 11 –
Customers – InternetBroadband internet access service faults – Average repair timeHours 34 –
Customers – InternetCustomer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming calls Seconds 105 –
Customers – InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of dis-puted charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period % 1.5 –
Customers – IPTV Activation time of the IPTV service – Percentage of 
valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer % 78 –
Customers – IPTV Customer assistance response time – Average time of 
operator response to incoming calls Seconds 105 –
Customers – IPTV Disputed charges – Ratio between the number of 
disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.6 –
Customers – IPTV Availability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of 
the service Hours/Year 50 –
2009 objectives
and resultsTIM BRASIL
19
INTRODUCTIONAREA OF 
REFERENCEINDICATOR UNIT OF MEASURE-MENTTARGET 
2009FINAL  
RESULT 2009TARGET
STATUS 
2009
Human Resources Satisfaction of employees measured 
through the questionnaire “TI Group 
Photo”
(1)Average level of  satisfaction7.5 -
(2)
Human Resources Reduction in turn-over of employees % (monthly) 2.2 2.5
Human Resources Reduction in absenteeism % 3.2 4.3
Human Resources Training (total n° of hours: in class + 
on line + on the job)Hours of training715,000 456,606
Human Resources Training – Coverage (percentage of 
managers out of the total eligible who have taken part in at least one training session)% 95.2 98
Human Resources Training – sustainability (n° of manag-
ers out of the total eligible who have taken part in at least one training session on sustainability issues) % 47 73
The Environment Reduction of the total of paper pro-
cured (of/f_ice use only)% 2.1 11
The Environment Ratio between recycled waste and the 
total waste generated in the of/f_ices % 43 49
The Environment Mobile phones, batteries and accesso-
ries collected and sent for recycling Tons 11 18
The Environment SAR quali/f_ication Brazil(3)% 25 25
Suppliers Percentage of the main suppliers as-sessed under sustainability criteria % 30 90
Target:   reached 
   not reached
1. The data is calculated on a scale of 1 to 10.
2. The TI Group Photo questionnaire was not carried out in 2009. 
The survey will take place in the /f_irst months of 2010 and the /f_i-nal results will be included in the respective Sustainability Report. 
3. This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Spe-ci/f_ic Absorption Rate) quali/f_ication. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically innovative models of mobile phone handsets. 2009 objectives
and results20
INTRODUCTION
2010 objectivesQDLGEVKXGU
The sustainability objectives de/f_ined by the Group 
for 2010 are given below. 
AREA OF 
REFERENCEINDICATOR UNIT OF  MEASUREMENTFINAL 
RESULT 
2009TARGET
2010
The Community Telecom Italia Foundation – Financial commit-
ment provided with respect to the Group’s EBITDA % 0.05 0.05
Human Resources – 
TrainingTraining in Health, Safety and Environment issues
(1)Training hours 94,437 95,000
Human Resources – TrainingTraining – Italian companies
(2) Training hours per head
(3)30.7 33
Human Resources – TrainingTraining – Italian companies coverage (n° of employees from the entire population who have taken part in at least one training session) % 80.1 80
Human Resources –  AccidentsAccidents per 100 workers Number 1.97 <1.97
Human Resources –  AccidentsReduction in the index of severity
(4)Number 0.42 <0.42
The Environment –EnergyEco-ef/f_iciency indicator
(5)bit/Joule 1,317 1,410
The Environment – EnergySelf production of electrical energy from renew-able sources kWh 200,000 500,000
The Environment – EnergyTotal electrical energy procured or produced GWh 2,136 2,136
The Environment – EnergyNumber of fuel cell plants in replacement of lead batteries
(6)Number 100 80
The Environment – Atmospheric emissions Reduction of the quantity of ozone-harmful gas used in air-conditioning plants and cooling systemskg 8,151 5,970
The Environment – Atmospheric emissions Reduction of CO
2 emissions deriving from the 
replacement of Euro3 vehicles with Euro4 vehicles
(7)Tons 2,169 1,660
The Environment – PaperFSC certi/f_ied paper procured for of/f_ice use
(8)% 100 100
The Environment – PaperUsed paper sent for recycling Tons 21,263 20,000
The Environment – Electromagnetic emissionsSAR quali/f_ication
(9)% 100 100
 Digital Inclusion ADSL coverage(10)% 96.5 97.2
 Digital Inclusion IPTV coverage(10)% 57.6 59.3
 Digital Inclusion UMTS and HSDPA coverage(11)% 83.3 84.3
1. Training delivered directly by SPPA (Prevention, Protection and 
Environment Services). 
2. The data includes all the companies of the Group in Italy. 
3. The data includes training in class, on line and on the job.
4. The severity index shows the working days lost during the year for every thousand hours worked. 
5. For further information on the eco-ef/f_iciency indicator, please see The Environment/Energy.
6. The introduction of an additional 80 plants, laid down as a 2010 target, avoids the use (and subsequent disposal) of 240 tons of lead. An assessment of the total life cycle shows a bene/f_it in CO
2 not 
emitted equal to around 100 tons, compared to traditional batteries.7. A reduction of around 30% in CO2 emissions is achieved with 
Euro4 vehicles compared to Euro3 vehicles. The target has been calculated considering the emissions of the models that have been effectively replaced. 
8. Measured against the total paper procured for of/f_ice use. FSC = Forest Stewardship Council.
9. This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Spe-ci/f_ic Absorption Rate) quali/f_ication. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically innovative models of mobile phone handsets. 
10. The percentage refers to /f_ixed telephone lines.
11. The percentage refers to the residential population.TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.The targets of a qualitative nature for suppliers are 
included in the respective chapter. 21
INTRODUCTION
2010 objectivesAREA OF  
REFERENCEINDICATOR(1)UNIT OF  MEASUR EMENTTARGET 
2010
Customers – 
MobileActivation time for voice service – Pre-paid Service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract % 97
Customers – MobileActivation time for voice service – Post-paid Service – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract % 97
Customers – MobileCustomer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming calls Seconds 40
Customers – MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period (post-paid service)% 1.6
Customers – MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.3
Customers – InternetActivation time for services of broadband access – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines) % 92
Customers – InternetActivation time for services of broadband access – Average time of supply (active telephone lines) Days 10
Customers – InternetBroadband internet access service faults – Average repair time Hours 32
Customers – InternetCustomer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming calls Seconds 78
Customers – InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period % 1.4
Customers – IPTV Activation time of the IPTV service – Percentage of valid orders 
completed within the date agreed with the customer % 78
Customers – IPTV Customer assistance response time – Average time of operator 
response to incoming calls Seconds 80
Customers – IPTV Disputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges 
in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regard-ing this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.4
Customers – IPTV Availability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of the service Hours/Year 40
1. The complete list of the quality objectives that Telecom Italia has 
set out for 2010 is available on the Group’s Internet site, where the respective /f_inal totals will be published for 2009. TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A. – CUSTOMERS22
INTRODUCTION
the group sustainability
departmentAREA OF  
REFERENCEINDICATOR UNIT OF  MEASUREMENTFINAL 
RESULT 
2009TARGET 
2010
Human Resources Voluntary service work (percentage of employees 
who bene/f_it from at least 1 day’s leave in lieu for 
taking part in voluntary activities)% –
 (1)1
Human Resources Training (total n° of hours: in class + on line + on 
the job)Hours of training 456,606 715,000
Human Resources Training – Coverage (percentage of employees out 
of the total workforce who have taken part in at least one training session)% 98 97
Human Resources Training – sustainability (n° of employees out of the 
total workforce who have taken part in at least one training session on sustainability issues) % – 
(2)20
The Environment Ratio between recycled waste and the total waste 
generated in the of/f_ices% 49 51
The Environment Reduction of electricity consumption in the of/f_ices GWh(3)1
The Environment Reduction of water consumption in the of/f_ices m3 (4)2,400
The Environment Mobile phones, batteries and accessories collected 
and sent for recycling Tons 18 12
The Environment SAR quali/f_ication Brazil(5)% 25 25
Suppliers                  Number of the main suppliers assessed under 
sustainability criteria no. 29 70
1. In 2009, acknowledgement for days paid to employees for volun-
tary service work was not provided. 
2. In 2009, the objective “Training – sustainability” only concerned managers. 
3. In 2009, the objective of a reduction in the consumption of electrical energy was not provided. The reduction target for 2010 of 1 GWh comes from the difference between 2009 consumption, equal to 73 GWh, and that expected for 2010, equal to around 72 GWh.4. In 2009, the objective of a reduction in water consumption was not provided. The reduction target for 2010 of 2,400 m
3 
comes from the difference between 2009 consumption, equal to 173,000 m
3, and that expected for 2010, equal to 170,600 m3.
5. This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Spe-ci/f_ic Absorption Rate) quali/f_ication. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically innovative models of mobile phone handsets. TIM BRASIL
VJGITQWRUWUVCKPCDKNKV[FGRCTVOGPV
Mission and structure 
The management of sustainability in Telecom Italia is ensured by the Group Sustainability department which carries out the following activities:
promoting projects and initiatives at Group r
level with environmental and social impact, collaborating with the company departments which have operational responsibility for them; contributing to the dissemination of a correct r
approach to sustainability within the company, under the perspective of continuous improve-ment; ensuring the reporting to the outside of the ac-r
tivities of sustainability carried out;managing the relations with the specialised r
rating agencies;representing the Group in the national and r
international forums which are active on the issue.
From 2009, the department was passed to the Ex-ternal Relations Department to ensure a more struc-tured communication of the initiatives undertaken and the results achieved. 
The organisational structure is shown below.23
INTRODUCTION
stakeholder
involvementCHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICERCOMMITTEE FOR INTERNAL CONTROL
AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
EXTERNAL RELATIONS
DEPARTMENT
GROUP SUSTAINABILITY
REPORTING PLANNING RELATIONS WITH
RATING AGENCIESsupervision through checks on sustainability 
activities in general, including projects 
conducted by the telecom italia foundation
In each department, sustainability data owners are responsible for monitoring the activities and gathering data and information for sustainability reporting and questionnaires from rating agencies. 
con/f_irmation of the international commitments r
on matters of sustainability, including adher-
ence to the Global Compact;contribution to projects and initiatives on a na-r
tional and international basis, developed also within the sector organisations (see § Com-petitors/Relations with the stakeholders and § The Environment/Environmental performance); adherence to the main international stand-r
ards on matters of sustainability (see § Ref-erences and Governance and § Reporting and Planning); continuous improvement of its own perform-r
ance, including through benchmarking with peers;detailed communication to the stakeholders of r
the activities carried out. 
UVCMGJQNFGTKPXQNXGOGPV
The involvement of the stakeholders in the company processes takes place through a series of initia-tives, classi/f_ied in accordance with the guidelines recommended by AccountAbility 1000 (see § Report-ing and Planning).The guidelines The management of sustainability within the Telecom Italia Group is based on the following guidelines:
inclusion of a summary of the sustainability r
data within the Financial Statement, in con/f_ir-mation of the Group’s determination to present its /f_inancial performance jointly with non-/f_inan-cial information;evaluation of the impact in terms of sustain-r
ability of the business projects presented for approval by the Group’s Investment Commit-tee, through the compilation by the proposing project manager of the investments schedule (see § Reporting and Planning);collaboration with the stakeholders through r
projects and initiatives at various levels (see § Stakeholder Involvement);the de/f_inition of quantitative objectives in line r
with the most important issues of sustainabil-ity (see § Strategy/2010 Objectives);integration of sustainability and innovation: r
a speci/f_ic section is dedicated to issues of business responsibility within the technologi-cal plan, the document in which the company de/f_ines its strategy in terms of the evolution of the transmission network;ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY DEPARTMENTTOOLS
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIPSTAKEHOLDER
CUSTOMERSNoti/f_ication to the customers of 
offers and conditions through 
various methods (Customers/
Communication to customers)Customer satisfaction is surveyed 
systematically (Customers/Cus-
tomer Satisfaction)Collaboration with the consumer 
associations
(Customers/Relations with con-
sumer associations)Participation in national and 
international work groups, in 
partnership with UN agencies, 
non-governmental organisations, 
and organisations in the sector, 
on the issue of protecting minors 
from potential abuses carried out 
through the Internet (Customers/
Protection of minors)
Information on the rules for the 
safe use of the Internet and for 
combatting abuses through the 
Internet (Customers/Protection 
of the minors) Use of web instruments based on 
the social networks to conduct 
a dialogue with the call centre 
operators (Customers/The involve-
ment of the call centre operators)Partnership projects with other 
agencies for the testing and 
creation of innovative assistance 
services (Customers/Digital 
Divide – Customers/Innovative 
services)SUPPLIERSSeminar on the Green Economy 
(Suppliers/Principal initiatives 
of involvement)Third survey of satisfaction with 
the Purchasing Management, and 
more generally with TI, conducted 
with the Group’s main suppliers 
(Suppliers/Main initiatives of 
involvement) Updating the check list on sup-
pliers for the CSR assessment 
(Suppliers/Main initiatives of 
involvement) E-community of the main sup-
pliers through the “TelecHome,” 
accessible through the Suppliers’ 
Portal (Suppliers/Main initiatives 
of involvement)COMPETITORS Periodic qualitative-quantitative re-
searches to analyse the strength 
of the Telecom Italia and TIM 
brands, the image of the provid-
ers of Tlc services and mobile 
telephony, the reputation of the 
providers. (Competitors/Competi-
tive positioning compared to the 
competitors) Dialogue with the OLO on commer-
cial issues and those regarding 
the implementation of the Com-
mitments 
(Competitors/Services to the 
OLO – Competitors/Commitments 
regarding the access network) 
 
Constant dialogue with the 
Authorities (Competitors/AGCOM 
and competitors/AGCM)
The Group subscribes to 
numerous national and trade 
federations/associations and 
organisations at the national and 
international levels (Competitors/
Relations with the stakeholders) INSTITUTIONS Participation in the workshops 
organised by the Enterprise and 
Industry DG of the European Com-
mission on the issue of communi-cation and sustainability reporting 
(Introduction/Other acknowledge-
ments)Control of the process of abuse 
management by a key, in-house /f_ig-
ure with the Postal Police (NNCPO, 
National Centre for Combatting 
Child Pornography, CNAIPIC, etc.) 
and the competent Authorities
(Customers/Protection of minors)Telecom Italia participates in 
the work group on human rights 
of the Global Compact and 
supports the GC Italian Network 
(Institutions / Relations with the 
stakeholders)
  Dialogue with national and supra-
national Institutions on business 
issues of relevance to the Group 
(Institutions/Relations with the 
stakeholders)Numerous initiatives regarding 
the Community carried out in 
partnership with the Institutions 
(The Community/Our responses 
to the stakeholders)
  “Digital Divide Day” workshop 
organised within TI with the 
participation of the Marche Region 
and the Autonomous Province of 
Trento 
(Customers/Digital Divide) Agreement with the State Police 
to improve the prevention and 
suppression of crimes against 
the critical digital systems of the 
company 
(Customers/Research and in-
novation in e-security)
   Collaboration with the Postal Po-
lice for the suppression of abuses 
carried out through the transmis-
sion networks of the Group 
(Customers/Protection of minors)STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT TABLETOOLS
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIPSTAKEHOLDER
ENVIRONMENT“Carbon Meter” available on AVoi-
Comunicare
(The Environment/Information)  Collaboration with other European 
Tlc operators on issues of environ-
mental relevance within the ambit 
of the associations of the sector, 
including GeSI and ETNO
(The Environment/Climate change)Co-siting agreements with 
the other Italian Tlc opera-
tors 
(The Environment/Energy)
The Group’s television broadcast-
ers give ample visibility to environ-
mental issues 
(The Community/Traditional media) Contributions to the Working Groups 
promoted by the EU and ETNO in 
de/f_ining the Code of Conduct on 
broadband equipment and the data 
centres (The Environment/Energy)  
Internal communications on social 
and environmental issues 
(The Environment/Training and 
Internal communication – Human 
Resources – Internal communica-
tion) The integrated communication 
project AVoiComunicare encourages 
discussion on environmental issues 
(The Community/The Social Media 
and Digital Communication) THE COMMUNITYThe Group’s television broadcast-
ers ensure wide visibility to social 
issues
(The Community/Traditional Media) Working Capital was established 
to support Italian innovation and 
entrepreneurial initiatives in the /f_ield 
of web 2.0
(The Community/The Social Media 
and Digital Communication)Numerous projects carried 
out in partnership with non-
governmental organisations 
and civil society
(The Community/Our 
responses to the stakehold-
ers)
The integrated communication 
project AVoiComunicare encourages 
discussion on environmental issues 
(The Community/The Social Media 
and Digital Communication)
The Group’s Internet site gives wide 
visibility to social issues (The Com-
munity/Traditional Media)Venice Sessions is a platform for 
dialogue which involves stakehold-
ers of innovation on the national 
and global scale
(The Community/The Social Media 
and Digital Communication)HUMAN RESOURCESInternal communication activities 
(Human Resources /Internal com-
munication)“The Lighthouse” project
(Human Resources/Listening 
projects and activities)Electronic mailboxes, Intranet, 
blogs, virtual communities, climate 
analysis (Human Resources/Internal 
communication) 
Courses on health and safety 
matters
(Human resources/Protection of 
health and safety)“Archimede” project
(Human Resources/Listening 
projects and activities)Activation of a number of focus 
groups on the issues of disability 
and human diversity
(Human Resources/People Caring) 
 “Wellbeing in the call centres” 
project (Human Resources/Protec-
tion of health and safety)  SHAREHOLDERSThe shareholders’ club, “TI Alw@
ys ON” (www.telecomitaliaclub.it) 
supplies important information to individual investors and the general 
public
(Shareholders/Financial com-
munication)Direct meetings and daily tel-
ephone conversations (Sharehold-ers/Financial communications)Three monthly conference calls, 
meetings at institutional of/f_ices 
of the Group (reverse road shows), 
participation in sector conferences, 
making a total of around 300 inves-
tors meetings (Shareholders/Finan-
cial communication) 
The Individual Shareholder’s Guide 
is an in-depth document available 
on the website
(Shareholders/Financial com-
munication)Road shows abroad, also includ-
ing one speci/f_ically dedicated to sustainability issues (Shareholders/
Financial communication) 
On line /f_inancial communication
(Shareholders/Financial com-
munication)   26
INTRODUCTION
economic value
generated and distributedGEQPQOKEXCNWGIGPGTCVGFCPF
FKUVTKDWVGF
The business must be oriented towards the pursuit 
of /f_inancial results without losing sight of the envi-ronmental and social context in which it operates. 
According to the triple bottom line approach
(2), con-
cern over the environmental and social variables 
must not detract from the attention paid to the economic-/f_inancial performance of a company, which must ensure balance and its own medium to long term survival. 
(2) This approach was de/f_ined for the /f_irst time by John Elkington in 
1994 in the article “Towards the sustainable corporation: Win-win-win business strategies for sustainable development.” California Management Review 36, no. 2: 90-100.Some of Telecom Italia Group’s main economic, as-
sets and /f_inancial data are reported below as well as the economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders. In the following table, data regarding the previous /f_inancial year have been restated as re-ported in Note 3 of the TI Group Annual Report, and have been recalculated for purposes of comparison.
Since 2008, the method of presentation recom-
mended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has been adopted, with appropriate adaptation. 
2009 2008
Revenues 27,163 29,000
EBITDA 11,115 11,090
EBIT 5,493 5,437
Net pro/f_it for the year 1,596 2,178
Total net equity 27,120 26,328
attributable to the r
equity holders of the 
Parent25,952 25,598
attributable to the r
Minority interest1,168 730
Net /f_inancial debt 34,747 34,039
Investments:
Industrialr 4,543 5,040
Financialr 6 6
Headcount at year-end 71,384 75,3202009 2008
Direct economic  value generated
Revenues and other a) 
income27,445 29,336
Interest payable and b) 
dividends paid104 345
Capital grains (capital c) 
losses) from dispos-als on non-current activities(59) 35
Direct economic d) 
value generated (a+b+c)27,490 29,716
Economic value  distributed 
Operating costs e) 12,200 13,713
Employee costsf) 3,734 4,114
Shareholders and pro-g) 
viders of capital3,183 3,999
Taxes and dutiesh) 1,548 2,138
Economic value dis-i) 
tributed (e+f+g+h)20,665 23,964
Economic value retained (d-i) 6,825 5,752TELECOM ITALIA GROUP – MAIN CONSOLIDATED 
ECONOMIC, ASSETS AND FINANCIAL DATA   
(MILLION EUROS)TELECOM ITALIA GROUP – ADDED VALUE GENER-ATED AND DISTRIBUTED (MILLION EUROS)27
INTRODUCTION
economic value
generated and distributedOPERATING COSTS
2009 2008
Acquisition of external 
goods and services11,480 13,120
Other operating costs(1)1,220 1,212
Change in inventories 15 (113)
Internally generated assets (515) (506)
Operating costs 12,200 13,713
EMPLOYEE COSTS
2009 2008
Wages and salaries 2,570 2,597
Social security costs 942 944
Provisions for employees’ severance and retirement54 71
Other expenses 168 502
Employee costs 3,734 4,114
12,200
operating costs
3,734
employee
costs3,183
shareholders and providers of capital1,548
taxes and duties6,825economic value not distributed
FKUVTKDWVGFXCNWGSHAREHOLDERS AND PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL
2009 2008
Dividends distributed 1,053 1,667
Interest payable 2,130 2,332
Shareholders and  
providers of capital3,183 3,999
TAXES AND DUTIES
2009 2008
Income taxes 1,152 1,719
Indirect taxes and duties 396 419
Taxes and duties 1,548 2,138
regarding Italian  activities 1,232 1,781
regarding activities abroad316 357
(1) Mainly includes write-downs and charges connected to the man-
agement of non-/f_inancial credits for 565 million euros (687 million euros in 2008), accruals for risks equal to 164 million euros (70 million euros in 2008), and contributions and fees for the exercis-ing of Tlc activities for 318 million euros (315 million euros in 2008) net of “Other taxes and duties” for 396 million euros (419 million euros in 2008) included in the item “Taxes and duties”.
ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED IN 2009 (MILLION EUROS)ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED IN 2009 (MILLION EUROS)External
Stakeholders30
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
The companies of the Telecom Italia Group base the 
excellence of their products and services on their care of customers and their willingness to meet their requirements. The objective sought is to en-sure an immediate, effective response to custom-ers’ needs, modelling conduct on business propriety, transparency in dealings and contractual commit-ments, courtesy and collaboration, the underlying viewpoint being that the customer has a central role, in full compliance with the principles of conduct which are pursued through appropriate company procedures. In such a context, collaboration with Consumer Associations, through the stipulation of agreements in speci/f_ic areas, is highly prized.
UVCMGJQNFGTU
The relevant stakeholders are:
the consumer customers (residential), with r
particular attention to customers with special needs (the disabled, the elderly, minors etc.);business customers and top customers (major r
clients);the consumer associations.rHQEWUQPEWUVQOGTU
To improve the level of care of customers within the company and attain high levels of customer satisfac-tion, Telecom Italia has adopted a series of formal commitments, summarised in the Customer Promise published on the Group Intranet.
The Customer Promise, drawn up by listening to 
the views of important stakeholders (customers, employees, Institutions), is broken down into:
an all-round provision of high quality and reli-r
ability;services which improve the quality of life of r
customers and contribute to the development of the country;offers and communications in clear, simple r
and direct language to win and maintain the trust of customers;a company which is not remote but accessi-r
ble, grounded in human relations, easy to deal with in resolving any problems connected to the service;people who listen to and understand the r
needs of the customers, with whom they build a relationship of partnership. 
To increase the level of awareness of the Customer Focus on costumers.
CUSTOMERS31
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSPromise and make its application concrete within the 
organisation, the programme “Expressing quality” has been launched. The /f_irst phase of the programme 
involved 2,140 managers of territorial areas/units, and groups who are in contact with customers, in 71 sessions for a total of around 940 hours of training. The discussions, centred on the Customer Promise, covered the operational conduct and concrete ac-tions that can facilitate its application with regard to customers. “Expressing quality” is continuing with the involvement of the company’s entire management through inter-departmental discussion roundtables, with the participation of special guests.
To manage the main projects to improve the quality 
of the service, a speci/f_ic committee has been estab-lished, the Steering Committee of Quality Govern-ance (SCQG), which meets monthly, under the super-vision of the Chief Executive Of/f_icer, with the aim of: 
directing and supervising the initiatives and r
activities aimed at improving the quality of the processes “end-to-end”;monitoring the results in terms of the quality r
achieved, and analysing them also in relation to the quality requirements demanded by the Guarantor Authority, the most important/re-curring complaints by customers and, more generally, the feedback coming from all the stakeholders;supervising the process of quality certi/f_ica-r
tion and the launch of new products/services offered to the customers – in particular, those of greatest impact in terms of image and com-petitive positioning on the market. 
EQOOWPKECVKQPVQEWUVQOGTU
The general communication about tariff changes, new offers, new products and services to the customers is broken down according to the methods shown below.
According to the Code of the Electronic Com-
munications (article 70, paragraph 4), any change in the conditions of the provisions of Telecom Italia must be noti/f_ied to the customers 30 days before the date the commercial initiative comes into effect.
This noti/f_ication or “news” is published in the ap-
propriate section devoted to useful information for customers on the websites www.187.it , www.191.it and www.tim.it . In the event of tariff changes or initia-
tives in response to speci/f_ic regulations (for example, new services for disabling calls to certain numbers), noti/f_ication is published in the appropriate place (“On 
line with you” for those regarding /f_ixed network serv-ices and “Telecom Italia for you” for those regarding mobile services), in the main national daily newspa-pers and, if time permits, a message is inserted in the “Telecom News” section of the Telecom Italia bill, or attached to the mobile phone statement, or sent via SMS for customers using the prepaid service. 
For completeness of information, as a rule, the 
tariff schedules, products and services have one or more suitably dedicated pages on the website, in which the following are given:
the description of the service/product/offer;r
the prices;r
the operational characteristics;r
the contractual conditions.r
Depending on the commercial importance of the service/product/offer, the Company may decide to give noti /f_ication in a broader, more structured manner, 
carrying out an appropriate campaign through various channels, such as TV , press, radio and Internet, and by creating speci/f_ic materials for the sales outlets.
EWUVQOGTUCVKUHCEVKQP
Telecom Italia listens to its customers through a sys -
tem that encompasses both an overall assessment over time of all contacts with Telecom Italia, and a speci /f_ic evaluation of the most recent contacts (for 
example, the activation of an ADSL line, a request for information or the reporting of a fault). The contribu-tions received are used to improve the organisational procedures with the aim of supplying a service that is ever more responsive to the needs expressed.
The Customer Satisfaction surveys carried out by 
the company are of two kinds:
the “re/f_lective” surveyr  is based on the overall 
perceptions of the customer and is not con-nected to a moment in time when contact was made for some speci /f_ic reason. This method 
permits the analysis of the causal relation-ships that determine the customer’s level of satisfaction. On the basis of telephone surveys conducted by specialised agencies through 32
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSa speci /f_ic questionnaire, the CSI (Customer 
Satisfaction Index) is calculated. This survey, 
similar to the one used for the ACSI (American Customer Satisfaction Index), yields an indica-tor which is stable and has a predictive capac-ity, and that can be used to make comparisons between sectors and countries. This indicator furnishes important suggestions about the levers that can be employed to improve the lev-els of customer satisfaction. This type of sur-vey has been extended to cover all categories of customers, consumer and business;  
the “reactive” survey r is conducted immediately 
after the speci /f_ic event that is the object of the 
inquiry (for example a contact with the Call Cen-tre). Those interviewed are asked to express, with the experience of the call still fresh in their minds, an overall assessment of the service re-ceived (overall satisfaction) and an assessment of the individual aspects of the experience (for example, the time waiting to speak to an opera-tor, courtesy and competence). 
The data below refers to the last three months of the year and shows the overall CSI of Telecom Italia S.p.A.
CUSTOMER SEGMENT 2009 2008
Consumer 69.86 68.33
Business 63.42 60.63
Top Clients 70.30 70.74
Total 68.60 67.19
The information contained in the following table refers to the 2009 average considered progressive value revealed by the “re/f_lective” survey.The data given in the next page table refers to the 2009 average considered progressive value revealed by the “reactive” survey for Telecom Italia S.p.A.
Customer satisfaction within the managerial incen-
tives schemesTelecom Italia’s short term management incentives scheme provides, among the targets for all those with-in the scheme, one linked to customer satisfaction, in line with the Industrial Plan for the period. This target is measured through the Customer Satisfaction index-es monitored through periodical “re /f_lective” surveys 
(including CSI). In addition, there are further targets on parameters of quality measured by “reactive” surveys for the front end areas (caring, technological etc.).
Customer satisfaction within collective incentives 
schemesTelecom Italia’s collective incentives schemes also envisage an objective linked to customer satisfac-tion. In particular, performance-related pay for all Telecom Italia resources without a system of indi-vidual incentives incorporates both a total customer satisfaction target, across the whole company, and speci/f_ic targets for those parts of the organisational structure responsible for customer satisfaction.
The involvement of the call centre operators 
To support and help people who work in customer care, the Group employs certain web tools based on the “social networking” concept. These provide effective assistance both in the rapid dissemination and sharing of information among personnel and in bringing the customer’s voice within the Company.
Campus is an educational social network for the 
people who respond to 119 calls (for residential 
(*) Average satisfaction on a scale of 1-10, where 1 means “not at 
all satis/f_ied” and 10 means “completely satis/f_ied”.
(1) As for the consumer segment – /f_ixed telephony, starting from 2009 the satisfaction item “Ease of reading the bill” has been replacing the one used in 2008 “Transparency and accuracy of info in the bill”. For this reason data are not comparable.
 (2) As for consumer segment – mobile telephony, starting from 2009 the satisfaction item “Ease of reading the bill” has been replacing FIXED TELEPHONY
CUSTOMER 
SEGMENTSATISFACTION WITH ACCESS SERVICE
(*)SATISFACTION WITH BILLING
(*)
2009 2008 2009 2008
Consumer 8.18 7.98 7.27(1)7.14(1)
Business 7.80 7.59 6.73 6.56MOBILE TELEPHONY
CUSTOMER SEGMENTSATISFACTION WITH NETWORK COVERAGE
(*)SATISFACTION WITH BILLING
(*)
2009 2008 2009 2008
Consumer 8.36 8.34 7.79(2)7.60(2)
Business 8.15 8.10 6.83(3)6.97(3)
the one used in 2008 “Transparency and accuracy of operators 
and management of credit /bonus in the bill”. For this reason data are not comparable.
(3) As for business segment – mobile telephony, starting from 2009 the satisfaction item “Ease of reading the bill” has been replacing the one used in 2008 “Transparency of the bill”. For this reason data are not comparable.33
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSCUSTOMER SATISFACTION WITH CUSTOMER CARE
CUSTOMER SEGMENTOVERALL 
SATISFACTION(*)COURTESY AND  KINDNESS
(*) (**)ABILITY TO UNDER-STAND AND SATISFY NEEDS AND REQUESTS 
(*)(**)
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
FIXED TELEPHONY
Consumer(1)7.19 6.63 8.47 8.34 8.01 7.67
Business(2)6.39 6.07 8.14 8.13 7.47 7.23
MOBILE TELEPHONYConsumer
(3)7.81 7.50 8.81 8.74 8.46 8.16
Business(4)6.67 6.49 8.27 8.31 7.49 7.32
(*) Average satisfaction on a scale of 1-10, where 1 means “not at 
all satis/f_ied” and 10 means “completely satis/f_ied”.
(**) Starting from January, 2009, in the survey questionnaire, the 
operator item “Courtesy and kindness” replaced “Courtesy” and 
the operator item “Ability to understand and satisfy needs and 
requests” replaced “Competence of operator”.
(1) Assistance given by the 187 (commercial) service for information 
and commercial and administrative requests, reminders and complaints (excluding calls regarding faults).
(2) Assistance given by the 191 (commercial) service for information 
and commercial and administrative requests, reminders and 
complaints (excluding calls regarding faults).
(3) Assistance supplied by the 119 Service for information, changes 
and complaints.
(4) Assistance supplied by the Toll-free Business Number for informa-
tion, changes and complaints.
customers) and the Toll-free Number (for business 
customers). The project is characterised by the ex-tent of customisation that the system allows each participant. Operators manage their own pro/f_ile containing both company and personal information. These pro/f_iles are linked to and accessible from all other content produced on the same platform (in fo-rums, blogs etc.). A personalised virtual training sec-tion has also been set up that allows the individu-al’s learning programme to be automatically updated and checked. The outcome is a snapshot, updated in real time, of the person’s competence, immediate-ly available both to managers and other colleagues, without passing through an intermediary. Alongside the information entered by the operators, a system by “experts” directly chosen from the network, guar-antees ready answers to the various subjects that can arise in handling customers’ requests. 
Campus can be used both by internal person-
nel and by workers in outsourcing, creating synergy between the two groups thanks to the possibility of freely exchanging ideas and content. 
TUO (meaning “your”, an acronym for the Italian 
words for Find, Use and Organise) is web-based dig-ital platform supporting operators in the 187 and 191 call centres, the consumer contact administra-tive centre and the Toll-Free business mobile num-bers, in selecting the necessary information and better assisting the customer.
In developing this platform, customer care tel-
ephone operators in the various call centres were consulted. In particular, a new format has been devised for the guides in order to furnish prompt re-sponses to customers about all the various types of calls. Consultation about the contents is assisted by the use of the latest generation algorithms. 
TUO is not just for consultation: the system also 
offers operators the possibility of entering their own suggestions and those of customers. In addition to containing technical information, the platform al-lows operators to converse with colleagues, directly or through forums subdivided by subject, and share knowledge and solutions in order to create a col-laborative social network.
Thanks to suggestions from operators during 
2009, three new versions of the portal have been implemented. Adding together all the visits to all the operative environments, more than 27.5 million pages had been visited by the end of the year.
TUO was awarded the prize in the “Virtual Com-
munity Projects” category of the “Relations with Customers 2010” awards, promoted by Customer Management Multimedia Competence, an initiative that, since 1997, has brought together companies and organisations concerned with relations with cus-tomers and citizens through multimedia channels.34
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSEGTVKHKECVKQPU
Those departments of the company that have a sig-
ni/f_icant impact on the products and services offered and, more generally, on the community, are subject to certi/f_ication, in order to ensure the adoption of procedures and conduct in line with the expecta-tions of the relevant stakeholders. 
In particular, customer care and the quality of the 
products and services offered is recognised by the certi/f_icate UNI EN ISO 9001:2008, concern for en-
COMPANY CERTIFICATE DEPARTMENT
Telecom Italia ISO 9001 Departments: 
Domestic Market Operations
Businessr
Top Client Market & Networked IT Servicesr
Customer Operations (regarding the processes for the business r
customer)Consumer/Sales (Territorial Areas)r
Technology & OperationsTechnology & Operations/Open Access
(1)
PurchasingOperational units involved in the mobile invoicing process for business customersSubsidiary companies: TI Sparkle (retail services), Elettra Tlc, Path.Net, Loquendo, Telsy, Shared Service Centre
ISO 14001 Departments:Technology & OperationsPurchasing Infrastructure procurementService Centre FacilityOperational units involved in the Rome and Naples call centre processSubsidiary companies: TI Sparkle, Elettra Tlc 
ISO 27001 Departments:Technology & OperationsDomestic Market Operations 
Top Client Market & Networked IT Services/Project & Service Man-r
agement (Data Centre and Security Services for the market)
OHSAS 18001 Departments: Operational units involved in the Rome and Naples call centre process Subsidiary companies: TI Sparkle
CMMI-DEV Shared Service Center
ISO/IEC 20000-1 Shared Service Center
Olivetti ISO 9001 Processes: Business & Market Development, Product & Technology Development, Industrial operations, Market Communication
ISO 14001 Olivetti factory in Arnad (Aosta)
Tim Brasil ISO 9001 Companies: Tim Brasil s.a. (invoicing processes) and Time Nordests s.a. (network management)vironmental protection is the basis of the certi/f_icate 
UNI EN ISO 14001:2004, health and safety at work is certi/f_ied under the provisions of regulation BS OHSAS 18001:2007, data security is certi/f_ied under ISO 27001:2005, Information Technology servic-es are covered by the certi/f_icate ISO/IEC 20000-1:2005, and software production and digital solution processes are certi/f_ied under CMMI-DEV (Capability Maturity Model Integration – Development), a new generation standard. 
In the following table, the certi/f_icates obtained 
(1) The “Open access” structure, within the “Technology & 
Operations” department (fully certi/f_ied), has achieved its own certi/f_ication (by a different certifying body), also for the purpose of enhancing the independence of Telecom Italia’s processes, consistent with the company’s mission, which provides for equality of treatment of national operators. 35
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSby the various departments/companies of the Group 
for particularly important company procedures and activities are listed below. Detailed information is available at www.telecomitalia.it (Sustainability/Our Model/Certi/f_ications).
The attainment of the following certi/f_icates is 
planned in 2010:
UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 for the Open Access r
department;UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 and UNI EN ISO r
14001:2004 for Tim Brasil (Business Unit of Rio de Janeiro and São Paolo);CMMI-DEV (Maturity level 3) for the company r
Shared Service Centre;ISO/IEC 27001:2005 for the company Shared r
Service Centre, focused on the Security Assur-ance processes in the phases of Risk Analy-sis, Risk Assessment and Security Operations.
FKIKVCNFKXKFG
The spread of information and communication technology creates considerable opportunities for progress for the people. Telecom Italia is aware of the need to manage this development in the best way, taking on the responsibility for coordinating the actions of all the players in the broadband ecosys-tem, in order to avoid exposing the Community to the risk of a technological divide due to geographic and socio-cultural reasons. 
Geographical Digital Divide
In 2006, Telecom Italia launched an important Anti Digital Divide Plan, aimed at covering, at relatively-limited investment, the largest possible number of towns which generate low revenues and/or are not as yet equipped with optical infrastructure. 
The plan provides for the best combination of in-
novative, technological solutions and methods of rais-ing the necessary investments. By the end of 2009, 96.5% of the total of Telecom Italia’s /f_ixed lines were 
covered by ADSL and 57.6% were covered by IPTV .
As regards the accessibility of Broadband on mo-
biles, the percentage of residents covered by Telecom Italia through UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommuni-cation System) was 83.3% by the end of 2009. The same percentage was able to access another im-portant radio mobile technology, HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access), which allows speeds of 14.4 Mbp/s (megabits per second) to be reached.
From the point of view of local investment, co-
operation with the regional authorities takes place according to two principal means of intervention; the /f_irst is “contributive” (the so-called “claw back” model), based on direct /f_inancial incentives (in ac-cordance with the regulatory framework in matters of state aid), the second is “collaborative”, based on supporting potential demand. 
Speci/f_ically:
the claw-back model (already used in recent r
years in Tuscany and Sardinia and now applied in other areas) has been adopted by the EU to accelerate the dissemination of broadband in areas of market failure. The model envisages the allocation of contributions in compensa-tion for the lack of yield on investments, dis-tributed on the basis of public tender;the collaborative model includes some of the r
main agreements signed by Telecom Italia in the course of 2009, among which is the letter of intent with the Marche Region (now being worked out with other territories).
In 2009, the development and implementation has continued of the company’s data processing instru-ment for operational and decision-making support called the “Digital Divide Project” (DDP), which con-tains the complete coverage map for ADSL, ADSL2+, 20M/IPTV , and UMTS of Italian territory, taking into consideration the industrial districts, territo-rial initiatives and complaints. DDP is used not only for the daily handling of requests and complaints about Broadband but also to direct the technical network interventions in the districts exposed to the Digital Divide. In December, a “Digital Divide Day” was staged, an internal workshop attended by Telecom Italia’s Chairman and CEO and two speci/f_ic stakeholders in the Broadband ecosystem (Marche Region and the Autonomous Province of Trento). On this occasion, the /f_irst edition of the Yearbook on Digital Divide was presented, the document in which Telecom Italia illustrates to the stakeholders the quantitative data on the status of the Digital Divide in Italian regions. 
To enable those who live and work in areas not 
covered by ADSL to access the Internet, Telecom Ita-lia launched the offer “Alice without barriers” which, thanks to a special modem and a TIM Card, allows high speed navigation on the Internet.36
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSSocio-cultural Digital Divide
In a world in which technology enables contact be-tween people, Telecom Italia is contributing to the breaking down of the socio-cultural barriers which restrict the possibility of participation in the informa-tion society, allowing people to enjoy its bene/f_its.
Telecom Italia offers certain provisions and eco-
nomic assistance aimed at promoting the use of Tlc services and the Internet in favour of speci/f_ic social categories, and certain services of assist-ance aimed at customers with speci/f_ic needs (the elderly, the sick etc.) or to health organisations. For further information on Digital Inclusion, see § The Community .
Offers and special rates
Offers for customers with hearing impairment
In 2010, Telecom Italia will extend the two offers (compulsory and agreed with AGCOM) dedicated to customers with hearing impairment:
“50 SMS to all”. The offer, for the 30 days of r
its activation, allows the sending of 50 SMS messages a day at no charge to all mobile and /f_ixed numbers. For messages beyond the 50 limit, the cost is that provided by the tariff pro-/f_ile of the customer or by other supplementary, active offers;“MMS, Mail, Instant Messaging”. The pack-r
age includes, for the 30 days of activation with an activation/renewal charge, a daily pack-age of free MMS messages to TIM numbers (more than 100 MMS, at reduced cost, to the mobiles of other operators), 30 Mb free mail traf/f_ic independent of the APN (Access Point Name) and 9,000 free Instant Messages.
Financial facilities: the “Social Card”In addition to the facilities for /f_ixed network custom-ers, regulated by the speci/f_ic resolutions of AGCOM (314/00/CONS, 330/01/CONS and 514/07/CONS and 202/08/CONS), with regard to the variations in the line rental of February 1st, 2009, Telecom Italia introduced, from that date, the “Social Card” facility, which maintains the costs of line rental unchanged. The facility is aimed at all those customers who pos-sess the “Social Card” who have:
a basic line (the general analogue telephone r
network);the purchase card, or bene/f_iciaries of the pur-r
chase card (in cases in which the purchase card holder is a different person) appropriately delegated to bene/f_iciaries over 65, or pur-chase card holders in the event of bene/f_iciar-ies under 3.
The purchase card must already be activated at the moment in which the “Social Card” facility is requested. 
The facility lasts for a year and may be renewed, 
presenting once again the documents required.
Assistance servicesMYDoctor@HomeThanks to this service, patients suffering from chron-
ic illnesses, or in post-hospital care, may monitor their physiological parameters (body weight, blood pressure, heart rate, blood oxygen levels, glycae-mia, lung capacity, electrocardiography etc.) directly from their own homes or in properly equipped areas (health centres, chemists’, doctors’ surgeries etc.). The measurements are carried out by combining technologies developed by Telecom Italia with the standard medical electronic apparatus on sale. Telecom Italia and the University Hospital of San Giovanni Battista in Turin (Ospedale Molinette) have signed an agreement to run trials of this service. The objective is to assess the bene /f_its in terms of both 
the improvement of the patient’s quality of life and the optimisation of costs for the health organisation. 
The use of MyDoctor@Home is, moreover, under 
trial in Rio de Janeiro by Tim Brazil in a number of health centres across the territory, giving rise to a collaboration between the Brazilian authorities and the Telecom Italia Group in support of the dissemi-nation of technologies in the health /f_ield.
The e-health platform
The e-health platform allows the delivery of health services at the national, regional and local levels. The services, designed to improve the management of the Italian health service and increase the quality and effectiveness of health treatments, allow doc-tors, nurses and patients to carry out many activi-ties remotely. The main applications of the electron-ic health care and telemedicine of the platform are:37
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSthe creation of electronic health /f_iles and digit-r
al clinical records for the local health agencies 
and hospitals;centralised management of health records; r
portals aimed at the citizen, giving access to r
the platform’s various services, and at health workers, for publishing medical information of interest to the public;the management and transmission of data r
and bio-images in order to allow remote con-sultation.
Line@Medica DiabeteThis is an Impresa Semplice service for the manage-ment, on the move, of people with diabetes through the technological support of DominoMobile®. The service allows the visualisation of glycaemia data on a mobile phone and automatically updates the patient’s glycaemic diary, which is archived in elec-tronic form. The service is exclusively reserved to associations in the diabetes /f_ield which have signed a framework agreement with Telecom Italia. 
Big Angel
The dif/f_iculty in using electronic equipment with ever more functions can represent a form of social exclu-sion. Big Angel was created to tackle this dif/f_iculty.
It consists of an emergency device composed 
of two items of equipment: a telephone with a large keypad and highly visible display, compatible with acoustic equipment, and an additional cordless handset, speci/f_ically to request help. The latter, of a small size, can be carried on a belt or around the neck with a cord. It has only two buttons, of differ-ent sizes but much bigger than normal: the largest is for making emergency calls while the other can be customised to remember a number of the user’s choice. Moreover, the cordless is furnished with spe-ci/f_ic safety functions, such as automatically and pe-riodically sending a signal to the central exchange, automatic activation of hands-free operation in the event of calls and sending a signal to the central ex-change when the batteries are about to run out.
KPPQXCVKXGUGTXKEGU
Telecom Italia develops, in collaboration with re-search institutes and universities in Italy and abroad, numerous innovative services, some of which are still undergoing trials. These services de-liver an important contribution to the containment of CO
2 by reducing the need to travel across the 
territory and by helping to promote different, more sustainable lifestyles.
E-learning
The demand for evolved educational services has undergone a profound transformation in the course of recent years. From the simple electronic use of content, the focus has moved to the dissemination and sharing of knowledge through more engaging methods. As a consequence, solutions are more and more being sought that are able to deliver con-tent and check the progress of learning while, at the same time, providing management functions, the sharing of knowledge (e-knowledge) and the gaming business. 
Telecom Italia’s e-learning platform meets the 
demand for developed services based precisely on the collaboration, communication and active involve-ment of the /f_inal user.
An example of the use of the platform is the ex-
perience of the Campania Region, for which a portal of digital services has been created for the Region’s teachers in order to enable the exchange of knowl-edge and the use of training activities.
E-tourism
With the e-tourism platform, a system of content management has been created for Telecom Italia’s business clients, who require a multichannel dis-semination tool for their descriptive content, with certain security standards. The platform offers inter-active maps, multichannel portals, smart ticketing and a virtual tourist guide, available from mobile phones, with information about points of interest, be they artistic or practical (for example, consulates, tourist of/f_ices, police stations, means of transport).
An important example of its application was 
demonstrated by the Municipality of Venice dur-ing the carnival. Through Wi-Fi, users were able to “navigate” around the carnival events and receive information about sites and tourist routes in real time, as well as interacting with each other, publish-ing photos and comments on the artistic sites they were visiting on Telecom Italia’s e-tourism platform, by sending an MMS. 38
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSTeleworking
Important teleworking trials have been conducted in Telecom Italia involving around 80 colleagues in the area of the Testing Labs of Turin, for whom certain work activities were “remotised”. The principle ben-e/f_its were:
a growth in ef/f_iciency in most of the activities r
and, in some cases, an increase in effective-ness as well (for example, trials in the home);the optimal redistribution of time between r
work and personal needs;the recuperation of working hours in certain r
situations (transport strikes, adverse weather conditions etc.);the saving of space through new logistical solu-r
tions for workstation sharing between telework-ers, devised by those taking part in the trials. 
Telecom Italia has, in addition, launched the pro-gramme, “Next generation work place”, aimed at replacing, within the three years 2009-2011, several thousand workstations with ”slim” PCs, containing only basic network information that allows commu-nication with a central infrastructure hosted by the data centres, leading to savings in consumption and transmission capacity.
Infomobility
Telecom Italia and Magneti Marelli have put together a consortium for new infomobility services in order to create and market an open technological platform that guarantees a constant connection with infor-mation and entertainment services, which will help drivers make more intelligent choices (ecodriving). The system will permit integration between the au-tomotive and ICT environments, thanks to an in-car data transmission system that allows the vehicle to communicate with the software applications of vari-ous service providers. This platform can be used by public authorities to supply information on the road conditions, and by /f_irms with /f_leets of company cars to enable them to discover the location of the vehi-cles and put them in touch with each other.
Among the solutions and services enabled: 
information on the road network and traf/f_ic con-r
ditions, payment services, navigation services;electronic management of paid parking spaces r
(the location of the user of the service is moni-tored through their mobile terminals, so that the system can inform the user about the best parking spaces and the routes to get to them, identifying any parking permits and applying the correct tariff);dynamic management of the access of motor r
vehicles to regulated urban areas (controlled through personal mobile phone systems and devices placed in the vehicles). An example is the management of traf/f_ic on motorways, in partnership with the motorway company, Auto-strade S.p.A.
Mobile Ticketing/Fidelity/PaymentTelecom Italia has developed a series of Mobile Tick-eting and Mobile Fidelity solutions which allow the user, through mobile phone SIM cards, to validate tickets and subscriptions for public transport and collect loyalty points for the purchase of goods. 
In this /f_ield, Telecom Italia is conducting trials 
with public transport companies in Trento (Trentino Trasporti) and Milan (ATM), and with the Miroglio Group (through the Vestebene brand), in collabo-ration with Olivetti. In addition, Telecom Italia is preparing to launch, in 2010, remote mobile pay-ment systems for procuring a wide range of goods and services, through a special application on the mobile phone SIM card, in partnership with the Mov-incom consortium and the /f_inancial institutions that have signed up to the initiative. 
Green@Home
Telecom Italia’s Green@Home system is a proto-type of a domestic energy monitoring system that is designed to improve energy ef/f_iciency in the home. In addition to reducing stand-by consumption and monitoring the consumption of various household appliances and lights, it allows the user to identify virtuous behaviour. 
The system is based on intelligent sockets that 
allow the monitoring of energy consumption and remote control for feeding the electrical devices plugged into the sockets.
After the trials, Telecom Italia has signed an 
agreement with Electrolux, Enel and Indesit to re-search and develop innovative services based on communication between next generation domestic appliances and the electrical infrastructure (allowing the remote control and management of electricity consumption), thanks to Telecom Italia’s /f_ixed and 39
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSmobile broadband. The aim is to create a system in 
which “smart” domestic appliances are able to man-age themselves by regulating the consumption of energy in the entire home, avoiding network peaks and surges, without compromising the comfort of the users. 
The smart home
In December, 2009, Telecom Italia and BTicino launched a partnership for the “smart” management of the home, bringing together the solutions of Tele-com Italia’s /f_ixed and mobile broadband connectivity 
solutions and the automated devices of BTicino.
By accessing, via the web, the automated func-
tions of home management (lights, roller blinds, temperature and music control) and safety (interior and exterior video surveillance, anti-theft equipment, the reception of alarms and noti/f_ication about emer-gencies), the customers will be able to remotely manage all the functions. 
The system of control and management will be 
accessible through any Internet connection, even on the move, through the use of palm devices or evolved mobile phones which, thanks to software applications, become simple “remote controls” for the home. 
TGUGCTEJCPFKPPQXCVKQP
KPGUGEWTKV[
The activities of research and innovation in the sector 
of information security are mainly concentrated on:
devising logics and innovative models in order r
to implement automatic mechanisms of con-trol and protection that are able to automati-cally adapt to suit the context of the threat;the de/f_inition and development and new so-r
lutions in order to monitor and protect the network infrastructure and emerging services, with particular attention to the Next Genera-tion Network and the Next Generation Data Centre;the de/f_inition of innovative algorithms and r
frameworks to avoid security leaks caused by computer viruses;the de/f_inition of new algorithms for the treat-r
ment of sensitive information.The identi/f_ication of the issues subject to the re-search and innovation initiatives was done with consideration of the requirements of the various internal/external stakeholders and development trends in the risk and external threat scenarios. The methods of responding to the expectations of stakeholders have varied, according to the degree of novelty in the /f_ields investigated and the possibil-ity or otherwise of reaching the security objectives through the integration of solutions coming from the market rather than speci/f_ic, internal programmes of research and development.
On December 21st, 2009, the Chief of Police – Di-
rector General of Public Security – and the Chief Executive Of/f_icer of Telecom Italia S.p.A. signed an agreement to improve the prevention and suppres-sion of crimes that cause damage to critical digital systems, such as the main network telecommuni-cations infrastructure on Italian territory run by Tel-ecom Italia. 
The accord between the parties, which last three 
years and follows on from the agreement signed in 2004, has been stipulated in implementation of the decree of the Interior Minister of January 9th, 2008, which identi/f_ied critical national digital infrastruc-ture, that is, those infrastructures, public or private, that manage the sectors that are nerve centres for the operation of the country through digital and data transmission systems.
RTQVGEVKQPQHOKPQTU
The Group’s companies have undertaken numerous initiatives in order to protect minors from content that may harm their psychological and physical devel-opment (for example, content that is violent, racist, offensive to religious sentiment, pornography etc.). 
Guidelines have been issued for the classi/f_i-
cation and checking of content distributed by the Group. These guidelines cover not only content that is offered directly but also content owned by third parties offering their own services on space ac-quired within Telecom Italia’s portals.
Filtering systems and procedures have been 
de/f_ined for the provision by the Group of adult con-tent on the Internet, aimed at preventing access by minors to any such content available on the Group’s 40
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSportals.
Regarding premium voice services, Telecom Italia 
requires a PIN to access any services with obscene 
content, which, in any case, are not part of the serv-ices offered by the Group.
The Group’s television services do not transmit 
content that would require /f_iltering systems. The transmission methods are in accordance with the current regulations and conform with the TV and Minors Self-Regulation Code, subject to the supervi-sion of the designated Committee, to which TI Me-dia belongs.
The Italian legislative framework imposes precise 
obligations on matters of controlling abuse, the pro-tection of minors, and the prevention and suppres-sion of digital crime. With the passing of the law 48/2008, the latter have been brought within the range of the regulations laid down by Decree Law 231/2001, which attributes greater responsibility to the company in the prevention of these crimes.
From the organisational point of view, Telecom 
Italia has identi/f_ied, within the company structure, Security – Risk Prevention department – Protec-tion of Information, the role of the “Key contact for the Postal Police”. This professional /f_igure man-ages relations, and the /f_low of information, with the Postal Police (CNCPO – National Centre for the Fight against Child Pornography on line, CNAIPIC – Na-tional Centre against Digital Crime for the Protection of Critical Infrastructure etc.) and the competent authorities, and has the task of coordinating, within the Telecom Italia Group, the process of abuse control, in accordance with the relevant legislative framework.
In addition, the Telecom Italia Group has adopted an 
organisation model, in accordance with Decree Law 231/2001, in which instruments have been de/f_ined to safeguard against, and anticipate, the commis-sion of crimes, in particular the dissemination of child pornography, as well as the organisational/disciplinary management of illegal digital informa-tion. For this purpose, Telecom Italia has /f_ielded resources, technologies, processes and instruments for the prevention and combat of “abuse,” that is, any activity committed in violation of the rules of conduct and the legislation that governs the use of network services, digital systems or means of com-munication in general. 
In the light of this, information initiatives have 
been implemented, aimed at minors, parents and teachers, on the risks connected to the new technol-ogies and navigation on the Internet (chat lines, in-stant messaging, forums, communities etc.). These initiatives have required the involvement of certain important stakeholders, including various public and private organisations, selected, above all, on the ba-sis of the activities and commitment to safeguard-ing the rights of children (including, for example, the Postal and Communication Police, www.ilFiltro.it
(1), 
Save the Children, Adiconsum, GSMA, ITU etc.).
The commitment of Telecom Italia, alongside the 
aforementioned institutions, international bodies and associations, is evident in its participation in speci/f_ic work groups that have led to the implemen-tation of targeted services for users (minors, par-ents, teachers etc.), such as:
the “abuse” topic area on the company Intran-r
et, for the protection of minors and the preven-tion of computer crimes, to inform and make company staff aware of the activities conduct-ed and the tools in existence for preventing digital crimes and protecting minors who use the internet services provided;the “Protection of Minors” topic area on the r
portals telecomitalia.it and alice.it, dedicat-ed to the protection of minors, to inform and make end users, and all the other stakehold-ers, aware of the correct behaviour to adopt during navigation on the network, as well as the values and objectives that Telecom Italia pursues to combat digital abuse and protect minors. Multimedia content has been posted on the Alice portal to attract and actively in-volve minors who visit the site; the noti/f_ication form for customers/Internet r
users. This form, available on the Group’s institutional and commercial portals, can be used by Telecom Italia’s end customers, or by outsider users, to give noti/f_ication of any crimes involving child pornography that are encountered during navigation on the Internet. 
(1) The www.ilFiltro.it portal was launched on the initiative of Prof. 
Michele Crudele in 2001 in response to requests for information from parents and teachers on the issue of protecting the naviga-tion of minors on the Internet. 
 The ELIS Centre Association manages activities connected to the portal as part of its institutional mission, and in collaboration with other organisations that adhere to the ELIS Manifesto.41
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSThere is a guide to compilation, and noti/f_ica-
tion can also be made anonymously;the booklet “Born with the Network”, distrib-r
uted through company shops, dedicated to the adult-parent public for the purposes of:
illustrating the fundamental rules for the  -
safe use of the Internet;alerting people to the dangers that can be  -
hidden on the network;furnishing the tools to convey to children  -
the rules of conduct and to guide them in the selection of content to consult;
web /f_iltering: in line with the Implementing r
Decree of the law 28/2006 (Gentiloni Decree) which de/f_ines the technical prerequisites of the /f_iltering tools which providers of internet network connections must use to prevent ac-cess to sites identi/f_ied by the Postal Police through the CNCPO, Telecom Italia has also introduced a /f_iltering system on external web-sites with child pornography content;Alice Total Security – Magic Desktop: to allow r
minors to explore the web safely, Telecom Ita-lia provides the services “Alice Total Security” and “Magic Desktop”. Alice Total Security protects Internet navigation from any digital attacks or threats, thanks to anti-virus pro-grammes and a centralised /f_irewall. In addi-tion, it is equipped with parental controls that allow parents to decide which categories of sites can be displayed to their children.  Magic desktop is an operating system soft-ware that works in parallel with the standard one. Children learn to use the computer in a simple and entertaining way. Parents can select the sites to which the children have ac-cess and set up the management of emails so that they can only exchange emails with peo-ple known to them; the drawing up of “Guidelines for combatting r
child pornography on line” which facilitate the objective and uniform identi/f_ication of cases of child pornography to be noti/f_ied to the Postal Police. The aim is to minimise any interpreta-tion uncertainty in the minds of the subjects concerned (chat moderators and/or commu-nity services, the developers, the abuse desk operators etc.) and to ensure compliance with the current regulations. The guidelines are also modelled on those provided and imple-mented by the CNCPO and the major external organisations active in the area (Save The Chil-dren, Telefono Arcobaleno etc.);the management of the abuse desk; opera-r
tional groups who handle abuse differentiated by type of service (residential and business), formed in accordance with the national and community regulations on the protection of minors, the prevention of criminality and the /f_ight against sexual exploitation (juvenile por-nography). Their task is to receive alerts from outside users/customers on alleged digital crimes or the presence of child pornography material on the Group’s networks, and then di-rect them to the competent department, where necessary involving the competent authorities through the key contact of the Postal Police; participation in the work group “ITU Child On-r
line Protection: Guidelines for industry”, which is coordinated by ITU (International Telecom-munication Union). Telecom Italia is taking part in drawing up the Guidelines on “Child Online Protection – COP” aimed at companies in the sector of broadcasting, internet and mobile telephony. A document has been drawn up, “Guidelines for Industry”, which was pre-sented at the World Summit Information Soci-ety Forum 2009. On October 7th, in Geneva, the Secretary General of the ITU presented Telecom Italia with an award for its contribu-tion to the “Child Online Protection” initiative, which comes under the broader international project, “Global Cybersecurity Agenda” under the aegis of the United Nations. To /f_ind out more: www.itu.int/osg/csd/cybersecurity/gca/cop/index.htm;participation in the Work Group “GSMA – r
Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse Content”, within the GSM Association, for all technological and communications initiatives aimed at the protection of minors in the sec-tor of mobile phones. In particular, the web-site http://teachtoday.eu/ has been created, aimed at educating children and young people in the safe use of the Internet. The portal supplies a wide range of content, including practical suggestions for teachers in managing any problems connected to the use of mobile 42
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSphones;
participation in the European project under r
the Safer Internet Work Programme, 2009; Tel-ecom Italia has collaborated in the project pro-moted by Save the Children and Adiconsum, in response to the EU initiative “Safer Internet 2009 – 2013”, taking part in the permanent Round Table as part of the Italian group, Safer Internet. The priority is to protect minors in the wider European social context, supplying tools to safely use web services that enable socialising on the network, blogs and instant messaging;co-operation with Telefono Azzurro: Telecom r
Italia made available its own infrastructures and services for the Toll Free Number “114” Infancy Emergency (since 2003) and the Euro-pean Toll Free Number “116000” for missing children (since May, 2009).
TGNCVKQPUYKVJEQPUWOGT
CUUQEKCVKQPUCPFEQPEKNKCVKQP
Telecom Italia Group pays the utmost attention to 
the protection of consumers’ interests and its rela-tions with the associations that represent them, in the context of reciprocal collaboration and shared information.
Launched in 1991 in trials carried out in Sicily 
(Palermo) and Lombardy (Milan), collaboration with consumer associations was launched across the en-tire national territory in 1993. In 1995, the project was recognised by the EU as a “Pilot Project for the access of consumers to justice”.
In 2004, a new regulatory framework for concili-
ation was signed, followed, in July, by a protocol of understanding for the procedure of on line concilia-tion for mobile phones.
In the course of the years, an ever greater 
number of associations have signed the accord. By December 2009, the Telecom Italia Group was col-laborating with 20 of the leading associations. This collaboration includes meetings aimed both at guar-anteeing the protection of customers’ rights con-cerning new products and services supplied by the Group, as well as presenting the main organisational development projects that might impact on custom-ers (for example, the reorganisation of certain cus-tomer care procedures, or methods of keeping cus-tomers informed, the option of enabling/disabling non-geographic enumeration through an appropriate PIN number etc.).
Telecom Italia regularly brings the associations 
up to date regarding:
“Telecom News”, attached to the Telecom Ita-r
lia bill; information sent monthly to customers concerning price changes, the launch of new services and offers, institutional information and, in general, any news of interest to cus-tomers; “On line with You”, corporate information r
announcements generally concerning tariff matters and initiatives arising out of speci/f_ic regulations, published in the national daily newspapers. 
In addition, the Group is a founder member of the Consumers’ Forum, an independent association that brings together consumer associations, businesses, the academic and research worlds, and national and international public institutions in order to initiate forms of dialogue, shared endeavour and participa-tion in the development and diffusion of responsible consumption. In 2009, various conventions were or-ganised (“How we can change the consumption hab-its of Italians. First edition of the Consumers’ Forum observatory on consumption and consumers”, “Au-thority: between market development and protection of the consumer”, “Class Action. Swapping notes: universities, businesses and consumer associa-tions” etc.) which have attracted the attendance of several of the highest institutional /f_igures.
The conciliation procedures 
The Telecom Italia Group was the /f_irst major Italian company to successfully adopt the parity concilia-tion procedures
(2), based on the ADR (Alternative 
(2) Joint conciliation (in particular, the Telecom Italia – Consumer As-
sociations project) has received various of/f_icial recognitions over the years, both at the European and Italian levels:
mention in the Green Book for access of consumers to r
justice and the resolution of disputes in consumer matters within the single market (16/11/1993);recognition of the Telecom project as a pilot project of the r
European Union, with /f_inance agreed by the DG XXIV for four years, from 1994 to 1997;mention of the Telecom project on the DG SANCO site, in r
the list of ADR procedures meeting the criteria of the recom-mendation of March 30th, 1998;approval by the DG SANCO of the pilot project for the r
diffusion of the European joint conciliation procedure (1999-2000);mention of the Telecom project by Dr. A. La Torre, Attorney r
General of the Republic in the report on the administration 43
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSDispute Resolution) model. This procedure provides 
for the establishment of a commission of concilia-tion, formed by a member of the consumer associa-tions (representing the consumer) and a representa-tive of the business. There is no third party in the role of mediator or referee because the resolution arises solely from the discussions between the par-ties. Another particular feature is the presence of a regulatory framework, the so-called “rules of the game”, signed by the parties, which must be applied by the commissions. 
The system is simple: the person who has a 
problem lays a complaint. If within 30 days (as laid down in the Charter of Services) the customer does not obtain a satisfactory response, they can ask Tel-ecom Italia, or one of the associations that adhere to the accord, to activate the procedure. Conciliation applications are presented at appropriate of/f_ices hosted in Telecom Italia’s premises over the national territory. The application is discussed by the concili-ation commission, which identi/f_ies possible ways of resolving the dispute. At the end of each stage of the procedure, a conciliation report is drawn up. The procedure is free of charge and is concluded, on av-erage, within 45 days. 
At the end of 2008, on the basis of the conciliation 
case histories, it emerged that positive outcomes from conciliations under the ADR model were higher (more than 90%) than those of conciliations conduct-ed at the Co.Re.Com and the CCIAA (around 62%), which the customer can choose as an alternative. This fact can be mainly attributed to the different client targets (consumers for the /f_irst, businesses 
for the second) and the different methodological ap-proaches (technical-legal for Co.Re.Com and CCIAA, and caring in the case of the parity conciliation).
As part of the commitments made obligatory by 
AGCOM in December, 2008, under Resolution No. 718/08/CONS (see § Competitors), Telecom Italia, to reduce disputes with customers, undertook the simpli/f_ication of the procedures for avoiding legal ac-tions in 2009, by applying a single, uniform admin-istration to all the conciliation proceedings at the of/f_ices of Co.Re.Com and the Chambers of Com-
of justice in the year 1999 as “the most striking example of 
Italian coexistential justice.”;recognition by the Guarantor Authority for Communications r
of the Telecom Italia – Consumer Associations (2002) procedure.merce, pursuing the organisational model for parity 
conciliation. 
The objective was to move to a “one-stop shop,” 
based on an approach of caring and loyalty, inde-pendently of the procedure chosen by the customer, thereby improving the dialogue and relationship with them. In the light of this, Telecom Italia has:
strengthened its own Customer Operations r
structure, whose task is to assist in the han-dling of conciliation formalities, adding 100 people to the 200 already operational, which in the /f_irst six months of operation allowed the elimination of legal actions pending from 2008, and the attainment of a positive overall outcome in 87% of the cases (exceeding the 90% target for consumer customers);launched a series of training initiatives for r
“conciliators”, with the participation of mem-bers of AGCOM and Co.Re.Com;concluded a protocol of understanding with r
Unioncamera, which de/f_ines trial guidelines to propose to the CCIAA for conciliation in the electronic communications sector.
The initiatives undertaken have permitted a reduction of more than 70% in the number of demands for con-ciliation waiting to be dealt with, falling from 1,230 at December 31st, 2008, to 351 at the end of 2009. 
UCHGIWCTFKPIRTKXCE[CPFRGTUQPCN
FCVCRTQVGEVKQP
Telecom Italia Group is /f_irmly committed to ensuring 
compliance with the regulations on the protection of personal data (Decree Law 196/03, the so-called “Privacy Code”).
To this end, Telecom Italia’s organisation model 
is based on central departments that supervise, at Group level, the correct application of regulations in the sector.
The adoption of legal measures and the instruc-
tions of the Privacy Guarantor is assured by con-stantly updating the regulations and policies of the Group. In particular, in 2009, the complete revision and updating of the “System of rules for the treat-ment of personal data in the Telecom Italia Group” has been completed, which de/f_ines, for each com-mitment concerned, the respective measures and 44
customersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSoperational instructions. For the purposes of the cor-
rect application of the Privacy Code, therefore, a sig-ni/f_icant campaign of information and awareness has 
been mounted from December, 2009, for the manag-ers concerned and those responsible for the treat-ment, which will also continue in 2010 with a series of meetings, broken down according to the topics covered and the organisational structures involved. 
Regarding the treatment of the personal data of 
customers, the review and adaptation of the com-pany’s digital systems of customer pro/f_iling – carried out in previous years – have allowed the provision of all the information and documentation required by the Privacy Guarantor (Provision of 25/11/2009) to the providers of electronic communication services, in order to enable the prior checking of the conform-ity of the customer pro/f_iling activities with the provi-sions on matters of privacy.
In the matter of data security, an important 
project, launched in 2008, was continued in 2009 to further raise the level of information protection both for voice traf /f_ic and data transmissions, including 
with regard to the speci /f_ic instructions of the Privacy 
Guarantor for suppliers of electronic communications services (Provision of 17/01/2008). The new meas-ures have mainly regarded the introduction of strong authentication systems for digital access to systems which hold data traf/f_ic, including biometric recogni-tion for physical access and the use of dedicated systems for the judicial authorities. These measures required multiple interventions (adaptation of digital systems, de/f_inition of operational processes, activi-ties of communication, training and help desk).
In 2009, on the instructions of the Privacy Guarantor 
on matters of system administrators (Provision of 27/11/2008), measures were adopted to improve the security and control of the operations entrusted to internal personnel and outsourcers who run dig-ital systems for companies. The implementation of the project, with the involvement of the technical, legal, organisational and customer relations depart-ments, and the suppliers, allowed the realisation of the interventions required to conform with the instructions of the Guarantor, and raise the level of protection of personal data. In particular, a list of formally appointed system administrators has been established.
In addition, an assessment has been carried out 
on all aspects of privacy and security connected to the provision of services of “data centre solutions” (housing and hosting services, remote archiving and disaster recovery, outsource management of cus-tomers’ digital systems etc.) aimed, in particular, at business clients for the purposes of identifying the areas for improvement.
Training interventions have continued to spread 
the culture of privacy in the company which, in 2009, have regarded, in particular, the prerequisites of compliance in the treatment of the customers’ data in the commercial departments, including the external sales network, and customer care, with special reference to the structures which take care of the conciliation of disputes with the customers.
The effective application of the regulations is 
monitored through a control system based on regu-lar self-evaluation procedures by those responsible for the treatment of data, and on checks by sam-pling, carried out by the relevant central depart-ments, based on procedures and methodologies prepared with the contribution of the Group’s Audit-ing and Compliance /f_irm.
Finally, in accordance with rule 26 of attach-
ment B (Technical Regulations on Minimum Security Measures) of the Privacy Code, Telecom Italia de-clares it has drawn up the Data Security Planning Document (DPS) for 2009. This document lays out the technical and organisational criteria adopted for the protection of personal data, be it of a general, sensitive or judicial nature, that is processed by in-formation technology, as well as the training sched-ule for those responsible for the treatment of data.45
suppliersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
Within the Telecom Italia Group, the procurement 
process is aimed at the acquisition of products and services under the best possible market conditions, at the same time guaranteeing the prerequisites of quality, safety and respect for the environment. The procurement process is based on a competi-tive comparison of the technical/economic offerings of suppliers who are selected on the basis of well-founded company procedures at Group level and bearing the hallmark of ethical dealings.
The Group is committed to guaranteeing the 
quality of the procurement process and its continual improvement, in the light, too, of green procurement, by obtaining the respective certi/f_ication of quality. 
UVCMGJQNFGTU
The relevant stakeholders are the suppliers and sub-suppliers from which the Group acquires goods and/or services. IGPGTCNOCVVGTU
The process of selection, assessment and control of Telecom Italia Group’s suppliers is achieved, for high risk categories of commodities, through a pre-con-tractual phase of evaluation in which the economic//f_inancial and technical/organisational characteris-tics are assessed. The positive evaluation of these characteristics allows inclusion in the Group’s Reg-ister of Suppliers. The Group requires every supplier to make a commitment, on behalf of the company in question and any authorised sub-contractors, col-laborators and employees, to observe the principles of ethics and conduct contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics. 
Registered companies which have received pur-
chase orders are usually subject to controls through-out the course of the supply, which range from ven-dor rating monitoring (the systematic assessment of the supply) to incoming quality control (mandatory for the acceptance and use of the goods acquired).In the course of 2008, a Global vendor rating index was introduced experimentally, in order to assess the performance of the supplier in its entirety. The index takes into account aspects of the various supplies in which the sustainability criteria count for 20%. These criteria include indexes of accidents and contributory propriety, as well as possession of the environmental The procurement process takes account of 
the best market conditions and respect for 
the prerequisites of quality, safety and the 
protection of the environment.
SUPPLIERS46
suppliersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSand social certi /f_ication, the level of proactivity in the 
e-community and the adoption of initiatives to save 
energy and reduce environmental impact.
OCKPUWUVCKPCDKNKV[KPKVKCVKXGU
The Purchasing Department is organised in speci/f_ic divisions, in order to give the best responses to the requirements expressed by internal customers and external stakeholders. These expectations are con-stantly monitored through surveys of both the inter-nal customers and the suppliers to check the quality of the services delivered (see § Main initiatives of involvement). 
The following initiatives were undertaken during 2009:
the application continued of the “Guidelines r
for the Evaluation of the Life Cycle of the Prod-
ucts” (issued in 2007) regarding 23 prod-ucts. These guidelines allow the assessment, through an eco-compatibility index, of how far the acquired goods that are managed or mar-keted by the Group meet the prerequisites of the key environmental regulations, and that they are designed, realised, used and discard-ed in such a way as to facilitate the manage-ment of the entire life cycle, from the environ-mental and economic point of view.  
The product families to which the Guidelines are applied, de /f_ined on the basis of the volume 
acquired, their impact on the company’s reputa-tion, the economic and legal risks and dangers, are as follows:
products that are intended for marketing  -
(telephone terminals, switchboards, fax machines, modems);of/f_ice products (computers and peripher- -
als, photocopiers, paper, consumables such as toners, batteries etc.);network apparatus and materials (poles,  -
mobile phone antennas, cabinets, accumu-lators, exchanges).
For 52 suppliers, this evaluation has also r
been supplemented by checks on aspects of social and environmental sustainability, such as respect for the principles of ethical conduct in business, the adoption of procedures to ensure the health, safety and rights of workers and the protection of the environment. These checks are conducted through an appropriate check list, in the process of being updated, and have the objective of promoting a bet-ter application of the sustainability criteria throughout the entire supply chain. In November, 2009, the certi/f_ication of con-r
formity with the regulation, ISO 9001:2000, of the “Management System for Quality” for the Group’s Purchasing Department was con-/f_irmed, with speci/f_ic acknowledgement of the initiatives undertaken in the /f_ield of sustain-ability. This initiative has led to the mapping of 27 Department processes with the identi/f_ica-tion of 149 performance indicators that permit the monitoring and improvement of the admin-istration of services supplied to internal cli-ents and suppliers. Moreover, the ISO 14001 certi/f_ication has been con/f_irmed for the opera-tions of Service Centre Facility and Infrastruc-ture Acquisitions. In order to align Telecom Italia with the best r
practices in the sector and ensure conformity with the strategy of sustainability adopted, a Policy of Green Procurement was de /f_ined which 
furnished the guidelines to establish the envi-ronmental prerequisites for the products/serv-ices acquired.  
The Policy considers all the phases of the product life cycle: planning, production, use, end of life. The document, published on the supplier portal, in the sustainability channel of the corporate site (www.telecomitalia.it ) and on 
the company Intranet, contributes to directing acquisition policies in support of products and services with low environmental impact.Under the perspective of the continuous im-r
provement and greater involvement of the suppliers, questions on the Policy of Green Procurement and the adherence of the sup-pliers to the principles enunciated by it have been included in the usual satisfaction survey dedicated to them. The action plan for green procurement which has just been drawn up will bring a wider use of the LCCA (Life Cycle Cost Assessment) methodology in 2009, applied to the tenders for the procurement of products/services. 47
suppliersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSEQPVTQNU
In 2009, in the technical /f_ield, around 23,000 con-
trols were carried out on the execution of work, mainly on the installation of new equipment, on the delivery of services and works and on the mainte-nance of the network. The controls were focused on the network businesses division, made up of nine companies, divided between individual businesses and regional business groupings, which cover the entire country operating on the access network. 
Also in 2009, further controls were carried out on 
suppliers by the Purchasing Management. 
Supplier Evaluation: 960 evaluations were car-r
ried out on 511 suppliers, of which 100 pro-duced negative outcomes and 68 in which judge-ment was reserved for a speci/f_ied period of time.Subcontractor Evaluation: 345 evaluation checks r
were carried out, with 18 negative outcomes.Vendor rating monitoring: 29 six monthly re-r
ports were issued, concerning 198 suppliers and 36 categories of procurement.Technical-organisational audits were conducted r
at suppliers’ headquarters for Incoming Qual-ity controls regarding products and services. 402 product batches were checked, of which 75 were blocked due to non-conformity.Technical-organisational audits were conduct-r
ed at suppliers’ headquarters for evaluation procedures: 226 checks were carried out on 143 suppliers, of which 15 produced negative outcomes and 12 in which judgement was re-served for a speci/f_ied period of time.Technical/organisational audits were conduct-r
ed at the headquarters of high-risk subcon-tractors (equipment/operational activities) for evaluation procedures and authorisations of use on the part of supplying businesses: 213 checks on 150 suppliers were carried out, of which 10 produced negative outcomes and 2 in which judgement was reserved for a speci/f_ic period of time.
OCKPKPKVKCVKXGUQHKPXQNXGOGPV
For the third consecutive year, the Group’s r
main suppliers have been involved in surveys of satisfaction with the Purchasing Department and, more generally, with Telecom Italia. The on line questionnaire, made up of 33 ques-tions, remained active for two weeks and the analysis involved 1,022 suppliers with access to the Portal.  
The overall average outcome of the 328 ques-tionnaires compiled was 72/100 (69/100 in 2008 and 71/100 in 2007) with a percentage of participation of around 32%, compared to 43% in 2008 and 35% in 2007. Regarding the network works, the activities r
of the e-community (launched in 2008) have continued, aimed at improving communica-tions with and between suppliers, chie/f_ly on subjects regarding social and environmental sustainability. To this end, an appropriate Internet site was created called “TelecHome,” which can be reached through the Suppliers Portal using the correct access credentials. The site, devel-oped on the web 2.0 logic, contributes to the dialogue in the e-community in order to:
integrate the best operational practices  -
adopted in speci/f_ic subject areas;publish the results obtained, in terms of  -
the environmental and social certi/f_ication attained;support voting campaigns on various initia- -
tives, for their assessment. 
In 2009, discussions were held regarding the correct management of processing waste and the process of training personnel on health and safety in the workplace.In June, the /f_irst seminar on the “green econ-r
omy, sustainability and green procurement” was held. The seminar, which involved around a hundred people from various company man-agements (Purchasing, Group Sustainability, Open Access, TILab, Marketing and Services of Prevention and Environmental Protection), had the objective of disseminating the recent Policy of Green Procurement and, generally, to illustrate the issues connected to the green economy. Speakers from public organisations, other companies and Telecom Italia suppliers took part (see § The Environment/Product Re-sponsibility).A review of the check list used to assess the r48
suppliersEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSSUBJECT 2009 COMMITMENTS STATUS 2010 COMMITMENTS
ISO 9001 and 
ISO 14001 certi/f_icationsRetention of the ISO 9001 for the Group’s Purchasing Department and ISO 14001 for the service centre fa-cility and infrastructure procurement operations of the same Department. Achieved Retention of the ISO 9001 for the Group’s Purchasing Department and ISO 14001 for the service centre fa-cility and infrastructure procurement operations of the same Department.
E-community projectDevelopment and extension of the e-community to additional divisions and suppliers.Partially achieved
(1)Development and extension of the e-community to additional divisions and suppliers
Green procurementIntroduction of environmental criteria, with a weighting no less than 10%, in tenders for some of the main products for marketing.Achieved in the rede/f_ined version in the course of 2009
(2)Introduction of environmental criteria in the procurement speci/f_ications of additional products/services.
Controls on suppliersDe/f_inition of the new check list of ethics and sustainability, to be used during the 2010 audit to assess the socio-environmental sustainability of the suppliers.
Controls on suppliersExtension of the sustainability to production establishments in the Far East
(3). 
Green procurementThe continuation of the application of the “Guidelines for the evaluation of the life cycle of the products” to the product families already identi-/f_ied. 
Green procurementImplement the green procurement action plan and consequently increase the volume of “green” procurement through the use of the instrument of the life cycle cost analysis in carrying out procurement tenders.
(1) The development of the existing e-community has continued 
with the discussion of other issues, and agreements have been entered into with suppliers for the extension in 2010 to additional divisions. 
(2) The objective was achieved in the following version, rede/f_ined in the course of 2009: in the acquisition of certain products (corded, cordless, fax) obligatory procurement speci/f_ications were incor-porated for suppliers regarding eco-sustainability criteria covering energy consumption, packaging and materials (plastics, paints…). 
(3) It is planned to extend the sustainability audit to suppliers with production establishments in the Far East. A speci/f_ic check list will be de/f_ined including assessments on: child labour, health and safety, freedom of association, non-discrimination, disciplinary practices, working hours, remuneration, environment and ethics. The audits will be carried out by company personnel and third parties. social and environmental sustainability was 
launched with the aim of improving and ex-tending the audit of the suppliers on these issues. The changes led to an increase in the number of questions and their de/f_inition in three /f_ields of inquiry: ethics, environment and labour policies, with particular attention to the latter. The new check list has been ap-plied as an experiment to certain suppliers. Downstream of the observations that emerge, a de/f_initive check list will be drawn up in the /f_irst months of 2010 which will be used for subsequent audits. 
2009 RESULTS AND 2010 COMMITMENTS49
competitorsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
The Group’s companies are committed to promoting 
fair competition, a factor considered to be in the in-terests of the Group, of all those who operate in the market and customers and of stakeholders in gen-eral. They promote and participate in initiatives and projects, in collaboration with the competitors, con-cerning the management of technical round tables and the activities of the trade associations. 
UVCMGJQNFGTU
In this area, the Group interacts with certain stake-holders, including:
OLO (Other Licensed Operators) made up of r
150 Tlc operators, large and small, of /f_ixed networks and mobile networks;the Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM);r
the Competition and Market Authority (AGCM);r
the regional associations, federations/trade r
associations:
in Italy: Con/f_industria, CSIT (Con/f_industria  -
Innovative and Technological Services), As-stel, Assoelettrica, Assinform, Fondazione Ugo Bordoni, Audio and ICT District, Ra-dio and Television Federation, HD Forum, DGTVì, Auditel, CNID;in the world: ETNO (European Telecommu- -
nications Network Operators’ Association), EIF (European Internet Foundation), EABC (European-American Business Council), ITU (International Telecommunication Union), EITO (European Information Technology Observatory), BIAC (Business and Industry Advisory Committee), GII (Gruppo di Inizia-tiva Italiana).
TGNCVKQPUYKVJUVCMGJQNFGTU
Telecom Italia is involved in the management of association relations, coordinating lobbying and representation activities with Con/f_industria and its member associations.
The initiatives at the national and local levels 
consist of actions and meetings about business development and protecting the company’s interests in the /f_ields of economics, regulations, trade unions and labour. These initiatives are based on dialogue and on the comparison of the respective positions in order to identify, where possible, a common posi-tion of the sector to be represented in national and The importance of fair competition for all 
the stakeholders.
COMPETITORS50
competitorsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSEuropean Community institutions. 
The Group subscribes to 100 national associations 
and, in particular, to Con /f_industria – Innovative and 
Technological Ser vices, Asstel, Assoelettrica, and, from 2010, also Assinform, the national associa-tion of the main Information Technology companies operating in the market. The role of the latter is to act as a link between the main economic, political and institutional forces with regard to the objectives and problems connected to the development of Italy as a National System, also through recourse to in-novation and new technologies. 
Together with the other operators, Telecom Italia 
takes part in the Fondazione Ugo Bordoni (FUB), an institution of high culture which aims to carry out research and studies on matters of communication and digital technology in order to promote scien-ti/f_ic progress and technological innovation. FUB, which carries out consultancy activities in relation to Parliament, the Government and the independent administrative authorities, has a new bylaws since 2009, which assign control and management to the Public Administration. 
Telecom Italia participates in the Audiovisual and 
ICT District, a Consortium of around 60 enterprises that operate in the information technology, telecom-munications, networking and media sectors. Spon-sored by the Municipality of Rome, the Union of Industrialists and the Rome Chamber of Commerce, the objective of the District is to express and rep-resent, within its /f_ield, the industrial activities and services which operate in the new economic area, alternatively known as major convergence or multi-media. 
Telecom Italia and Telecom Italia Media are found -
ing members of the Forum on High De /f_inition (“HD 
Forum”) which pursues the objective of promoting 
and disseminating high de /f_inition technology in Italy. 
Membership of the Forum enables constant updates about the activities of competitors in the high de/f_ini-tion /f_ield (in particular, Sky, Mediaset and Fastweb) 
and the promotion of initiatives addressing questions of regulation and standardisation.
Furthermore, TI Media subscribes to the Radio and Television Federation (RTF) in its role as a member of 
the Presiding Committee. Besides the national and satellite broadcasters, RTI and Sky, RTF brings togeth-er 150 local radio stations. The general meeting of the Federation is held every six months; the ordinary activities are carried out by the internal structure, which takes part through its representative in various working discussions and publishes a monthly news-letter. 
TI Media is associated with DGTVì, the national as-
sociation for digital terrestrial broadcasting, together with RAI, Mediaset, D-Free and the associations which bring together the local television broadcast-ers, Aeranti-Corallo and FRT . In 2009, the activities of the Association have taken place through the task forces established for each region which, according to the ministerial calendar, has tackled the passage from analogue TV to digital: Valle d’Aosta, western Piemonte, Trentino-Alto Adige, Lazio and Campania. 
The activities and objectives of the Association are 
established by the Administrative Council, in which TI Media participates through its own representative. 
Telecom Italia Media is a partner in Auditel with a 
shareholding of 3.33% and has a representative on the Board of Directors and another on the Technical Committee. Auditel is the only body recognised in Italy for audience /f_igures, including by the advertising 
agencies, who put a value on the advertising slots on individual television channels on the bases of the “data” recorded by Auditel. 
TI Media takes part in the work of the CNID (Italian 
National Digital Committee), which brings together all the representatives of the value chain in the dig-ital market. The Committee is chaired by the deputy Minister of the Ministry of Economic Development with responsibility for Communications, alongside two deputy chairmen (an AGCOM Commissioner and the Chairman of DGTVi). It acts through four different operational groups covering the following areas: Net-works Technology and Development; Monitoring and Data; Communications and Customer Assistance; Speci/f_ic Problems in the Public Broadcasting Service.
In 2003, TI Media and MTV subscribed to the Self-
regulation Code for the protection of minors on TV , as 51
competitorsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSpart of which the TV and Minors Committee was es-
tablished with responsibility for control of the commit-ments under the Code. TI Media has been elected as the broadcasters’ representative and therefore has a privileged position as observer with regard to the institutions for the purpose of maintaining a construc-tive dialogue with the sector. 
In addition, on August 1st, 2009, the dissemination 
has begun of commercial services of unencoded pro-grammes on the “tivù” satellite platform, a company in which TI Media has a 3.5% holding with RAI and Mediaset owning the rest. Tivù promotes a unique platform of services in digital terrestrial and unen-coded satellite (tivùsat) television.
Finally, on November 10th, 2009, following the sign -
ing of the Self-regulation Code on matters of the rep-
resentation of judicial matters in radio and television transmissions, a Committee of implementation was established. In addition to TI Media, the Committee is formed of representatives of RAI, Mediaset, the local broadcasting associations, FRT and Aeranti Corallo, the National Press Federation and the National Order of Journalists. The Committee operates on the basis of a Charter, carrying out investigations on behalf of television audiences, ACGOM and the members of the Committee. 
As regards, /f_inally, the activities of collaboration at 
the international level, the Group collaborates with 
various organisations and/or trade associations in which it takes part, such as ETNO, EIF, EABC, EITO, GII, ITU, BIAC. 
EQORGVKVKXGRQUKVKQPKPI
Every year, a qualitative and quantitative survey is carried out to analyse the strength of the Telecom Italia and TIM brands, both in absolute terms and in comparison with competitors. 
For Telecom Italia, speci/f_ic focus has been di-
rected on the business targets (formerly SOHO and SMEs) in terms of the value of the brand and competitive positioning in comparison with the main competitors. 
Every three months, moreover, a quantitative 
survey is carried out on a representative sample of the Italian population to gauge the image of the telecommunications and mobile telephony service providers. 
Quantitative surveys are periodically carried out 
on a representative sample of the adult Italian popu-lation to measure the effectiveness of the advertis-ing for /f_ixed and mobile telephony and Tlc services. These reveal the renown of the individual providers, the spontaneous and solicited awareness of the advertisement, the memory and enjoyment of the advertising. 
UGTXKEGUVQQNQ
The commercial management of Telecom Italia – National Wholesale Service (NWS) – is the point of commercial reference for the other licensed opera-tors (OLO) for the provision of network infrastructure and/or services, aimed at the subsequent market-ing by the said OLO of electronic communication services to their own end customer. In this context, NWS takes care of the phases of planning, provi-sion, contract negotiation, sales, assistance and invoicing of the products/services provided. In rela-tions with Telecom Italia, and in particular with NWS, respect for the principles of equality of treatment and non-discrimination, sanctioned by the current regulatory framework and in particular by resolution 152/02/CONS, is ensured through the organisation-al and administrative separation between Telecom Italia’s Retail Department and NWS: this separation is certi/f_ied annually with technical veri/f_ications con-ducted by an outside organisation. 
NWS annually de/f_ines and proposes the offer of ref-
erence for the various wholesale markets. The proc-ess of approval of each offer of reference involves joint examinations and reviews designed to provide the clari/f_ications requested by AGCOM, which ap-proves its contents, checks the work of NWS to ensure the protection of competition, and identify macro issues open to examination by all the OLO. AGCOM is also the guarantor and the authority of reference in the causes promoted by the OLO and the end users on regulatory matters. 
Each OLO has direct relations with its own Account 
Manager of reference in the Sales department of 52
competitorsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSNWS, who receives the requests of the OLO for 
which they are responsible, customising the re-spective contractual instruments of the offer, with respect for the current regulatory obligations. These contracts include clauses which establish constant monitoring of the various phases of the supply of the service, ensuring that a number of the main indi-cators are subject to period noti/f_ication to AGCOM. The interests of the client are therefore safeguarded in a continuous manner, formalised through a proc-ess of conference calls, video call and meetings through which all the company departments con-cerned are involved. 
Telecom Italia, under the perspective of the improve-
ment of the company processes, has presented a complex, integrated series of “Commitments” de-signed to improve the performance of the delivery of services supplied to the OLO which, following the Procedure, 351/08/CONS, were approved by AG-COM and came into force on January 1st, 2009 (for more information, see § Commitments regarding the access network).
Telecom Italia, through NWS, has promoted ongo-
ing technical discussions to encourage dialogue with the OLO. With reference to the processes of provisioning and technical assistance (assurance), suitable National Assistance Centres have been cre-ated which work through operational and specialised support structures and which communicate with the internal departments of Telecom Italia to ensure the level of service and the implementation of the agreements with the OLO. 
Among the initiatives implemented in administrative 
areas to improve attention to the needs of the OLO are the following: 
tracing of complaints for greater transparency r
in the process of management and resolution;tracing all the communications exchanged;r
constant monitoring of the economic//f_inan-r
cial/assets management, thanks to the publi-cation on line of the statement of accounts. 
The dialogue with the OLO is further helped by the NWS portal, which contains the historic data, up-dated in real time. In order to measure the degree of satisfaction of the OLO, Telecom Italia (NWS) has recently conducted surveys of customer satisfaction aimed at all the op-erators with contractual relationships with NWS. 
The surveys, carried out through interviews pre-
ceded by an exploratory phase, have allowed the dis-closure of the items of greatest importance for the OLO. To make the internal personnel of Telecom Ita-lia aware of the caring of the customer-OLO, speci/f_ic training courses are regularly held. 
NWS, /f_inally, annually organises the “Wholesale Fo-
rum”, meetings with the OLO to explain news regard-ing Telecom Italia’s products, services and techno-logical developments for the wholesale world. On these occasions, any organisational changes carried out to ensure services remain in line with the needs of the market are communicated. Outside experts also take part in the Forums on economic, technical and regulatory issues that give rise to round table debates, together with representatives of the OLO and NWS, on issues of greatest interest. 
VJGKVCNKCPEQOOWPKECVKQPU
CWVJQTKV[
CIEQO
Telecom Italia interacts with AGCOM with the aim of 
contributing to the administration of the regulatory process on issues of relevance to the growth in val-ue of the Company, attempting to in/f_luence changes in the market over the medium to long term. In this light, Telecom Italia pursues a steadfast dialogue and a continuous discussion with the authorities and institutions with the aim of arriving at a simple, effective and symmetrical regulatory framework. Furthermore, the Group makes its own knowledge available by participating in public consultations, institutional hearings, conventions, public meetings and by presenting appropriate testimony and peti-tions. The constant discussions with AGCOM and the institutions ensure that Telecom Italia gathers opinions, supplying transparent, reliable responses, and anticipates events, creating and exploiting the best opportunities for the Company. 
The public consultations provided by the provision 
schedules of the authority, market analysis and fact-/f_inding inquiries into the regulatory framework 53
competitorsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSon matters of services and electronic communica-
tions network, transposed into national law through Decree Law August 1st, 2003, no. 259 (“Code of electronic communications”), are carried out ac-cording to the provisions contained in the resolu-tion 453/03/CONS. In carrying out these activities, the Authority pursues the principles of transparency, participation and debate established by the law of August 7th, 1990, no. 241. 
Furthermore, the resolution of disputes between 
electronic communication operators is regulated by the resolution 352/08/CONS, while the inquiry proceedings aimed at uncovering violations and ap-plying penalties by the Authority are regulated by the resolution 136/06/CONS, amended by the resolu-tion 173/07/CONS. With the approval of the resolu-tions 130/08/CONS and 131/08/CONS, the pen-alty procedures may end with a ruling of dismissal, when the Authority con/f_irms the correct and effective implementation of commitments presented by the operators for which a violation has been alleged on matters of network supply and electronic communi-cation services. 
Telecom Italia responds in accordance with the 
times and methods established by AGCOM for the various proceedings (for example, public consulta-tions, defensive testimony, the supply of data and in-formation of various nature, etc.) and always ensures the completeness and reliability of the contribution. 
In the case of violation proceedings, Telecom 
Italia presents testimony, expert reports and other defence documents, requesting a hearing by those responsible for the proceedings on the facts that are the subject of the dispute. Telecom Italia may decide to present a proposal, subject to the termi-nation of the disputed conduct, aimed at improving competitive conditions in the sector, removing the anticompetitive consequences through suitable, sta-ble measures.
VJGEQORGVKVKQPCPFCPVKVTWUV
OCTMGVIWCTCPVQTCWVJQTKV[
CIEO
As part of the protection of competition and the con-
sumer, Telecom Italia Group interacts with the Anti-trust authority both in a preventative way and during proceedings launched by it. 
As preventative action, the company’s depart-ments, in addition to responding to the Authority’s requests, conveyed regularly in carrying out the tasks assigned by the law 287/90 and the Consum-er Code, periodically organise meetings for the ex-change of information. The objective is to facilitate, under the perspective of transparency, the under-standing of the development of the market and the effects on the area of responsibility of the Authority. 
Among the objects of preventative information are 
the development of the Group’s provision, the com-pany’s position on strategic issues such as the devel-opment of the access network and Net Neutrality, the development of the criteria adopted for the pricing in the markets in which the Company is in a dominant position, and the technical and economic characteris-tics of certain offers disputed by competitors. 
In the event dispute proceedings are begun, the 
Group presents its case in the appropriate forums, in some cases presenting to the Authority undertak-ings which reduce the alleged anti-competitive as-pects at the centre of the proceedings. The Author-ity, having assessed these undertakings, may make them compulsory and end the proceedings without imposing any /f_inancial penalty. The last two proceed-ings launched in 2008 were ended with the accept-ance of the undertakings. 
Within the Company, moreover, there are a series of 
preventative controls on processes with a potentially signi/f_icant impact in Antitrust terms such as, for example, the provision of marketing plans, the de-velopment of contractual matters, the conditions of the provision of Tlc services, the development of the company’s information systems. The controls are aimed at ensuring that the operational management of the processes take into consideration this poten-tial impact. To spread awareness and disseminate a correct approach to the issue, in the /f_irst months of 2010, a management training programme will be launched on the application of the regulations on competition. 
EQOOKVOGPVUTGICTFKPIVJGCEEGUU
PGVYQTM
In December, 2008, AGCOM approved the volun-
tary undertakings presented by Telecom Italia with resolution 718/08/CONS, subdivided into 14 main 54
competitorsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSgroups, plus three additional groups of a methodo-
logical nature (variation, expiry, modulation).
The impact of the commitments on the stakehold-
ers, both internal (shareholders) and external (cus-tomers, institutions, competitors and the Commu-nity in general) can be broken down into different aspects. Speci/f_ically:
greater satisfaction of the wholesale and retail r
customers, promoting innovation in internal processes, the qualitative development and improvement of the /f_ixed access network and respective services, the reduction of disputes;the development of fair competition with com-r
petitors, considering this to be in the interests of the Group, the market, the customers and stakeholders in general, promoting a more ef/f_i -
cient and effective equality of technical and eco-nomic treatment among the marketing depart-ments of Telecom Italia and the other operators; the maintenance of competitive conditions in r
the transition to new generation networks in order to ensure the creation of an open net-work able to offer the Community high quality services;more transparency in the evolution of Tel-r
ecom’s /f_ixed access network for competitors and institutions through the communication of the technical plans for quality and the develop-ment of the infrastructure;the acceptance of petitions from AGCOM, con-r
sumer associations and alternative operators, contributing to the development of a model for relations and solutions to problems through constructive relationships founded on a cli-mate of trust and continuous discussion.
At the centre of these commitments is the role of Open Access, the structure created in February, 2008, within the Technology & Operations Depart-ment, which acts in a logic of ef/f_iciency, quality and equality of treatment:
all activities of development and maintenance r
of the technological infrastructure of the ac-cess network; the process of the provision of the access r
services for the customers, both of Telecom Italia and the other operators, and the respec-tive technical assistance. The creation of Open Access is linked to the stra-tegic role of Telecom Italia’s /f_ixed access network, with its potential for development and connected investments. Open Access is a fundamental infra-structure, not only for the Group but for the entire country, through which all the alternative players in the market have constructed their own infrastruc-ture, and provided new services to the Community. 
In particular, Open Access provides access serv-
ices to the Retail Marketing Department of Telecom Italia and the alternative operators through the Na-tional Wholesale Services Department (for further information,  see § Services to the OLO). The activi-
ties of Open Access and NWS for the production of access services are separate, and independently managed, from the other commercial departments of Telecom Italia Group. 
In addition to the creation of Open Access, the 
implementation of the commitments, with their com-plexity and signi/f_icant impact on the system of exter-nal stakeholders, requires the provision of appropri-ate governance in which each organisation plays its own role. 
Speci/f_ically, AGCOM has established:
the Monitoring Group which supervises the r
proper execution of the commitments;the OTA (Of/f_ice of Telecommunications Ad-r
judicator) which gives notice of and settles disputes between operators and improves the /f_low of information and associated processes;the Next Generation Network Committee which r
draws up solutions regarding questions con-cerning technical, organisational and economic aspects connected to the transition to new generation networks. 
Telecom Italia has established:
the Supervisory Body, a committee with guar-r
anteed independence established in 2008, which veri/f_ies the proper execution of the com-mitments, ensuring equality of access for the other operators to the /f_ixed network infrastruc-ture through the Open Access department and the attainment of the objectives of quality of the service;the Commitments Coordination Commit-r
tee, set up by the departmental managers of Telecom Italia, reporting directly to the Chief Executive Of/f_ice, which monthly supervises 55
competitorsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSthe whole process, monitors the progress and 
de/f_ines the position of Telecom Italia in the various work groups;Telecom Italia’s Equivalence department, dedi-r
cated to guaranteeing the implementation of the commitments on competition, which meets regularly in technical work groups with compet-itors, providing the results achieved and exam-ining the issues of interest raised with AGCOM and other institutions;the department of Operations Governance – r
Equality, Ef/f_iciency and Quality of Open Access which ensures the supervision of the plans arising from the regulatory issues in line with the commitments, including the reporting and monitoring of the data regarding the equality of treatment of Tlc operators. A year from their establishment, the state of progress of the commitments is extremely positive, both in terms of ful/f_ilment and in terms of innovative solutions in the internal company processes.
The work groups have absorbed the spirit of in-
novation and improvement set forth by the commit-ments, developing them in terms of ef/f_iciency and quality of the service offered to the end customers, and allowing the attainment of the preestablished formal objectives, above all in the technical work groups on access services conducted with the other operators.
Telecom Italia has substantially achieved not 
only the identi/f_ication of innovative solutions shared among the operators but has launched a new model of relations based on continuous discussion and cooperation. 56
institutionsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
Telecom Italia Group is determined to continue its 
collaborative and transparent relations with national and supranational institutions in order to facilitate dialogue on matters of mutual interest and to en-sure the Group’s viewpoint is faithfully represented.
UVCMGJQNFGTU
The key stakeholders of the Telecom Italia Group are:
the central national institutions: Parliament, r
Government, Ministries, central and local pub-lic administration;the local institutions: Regions, Provinces, Mu-r
nicipalities;  the Italian Communications Authority (AGCOM) r
and the Guarantor Authority for Competition and the Market (AGCM) (see § Competitors);the European and international institutions: r
the European Commission and the Regulatory Committee under its supervision, the Council, the European parliament and the ERG (Euro-pean Regulators Group);the United Nations Organisation (UN): Global r
Compact, Programmes (United Nations En-vironment Programme – UNEP), specialised agencies (International Telecommunication Un-ion – ITU) and Convention Secretariats (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change – UNFCCC).
TGNCVKQPUYKVJUVCMGJQNFGTU
Telecom Italia constantly keeps abreast of legislative activity by monitoring the /f_low of policy-making (sum-maries of parliamentary proceedings and the activi-ties of the Council of Ministers) with the aim of:
understanding the expectations of the nation-r
al, central institutions and the evolving trends in parliamentary and governmental regulatory initiatives;identifying potential impact on the strategy r
and business activities of the Group;adopting strategies to protect the company’s r
position.
The reporting activities are principally conducted with the parliamentary members of the Commis-sions of the Chamber and Senate concerned with issues that could impact on the company such as, for example, those of an economic-/f_inancial nature Conducting a dialogue with the institutions 
in order to improve the life of citizens and 
safeguard the interests of the Group.
INSTITUTIONS57
institutionsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSor concerning privacy, telecommunications, Internet 
and television. Participation in parliamentary hear-ings (called by the parliamentary commissions) are also important to examine speci/f_ic issues, which represent opportunities to discuss matters of inter-est such as, for example, the recent fact-/f_inding inquiry into the digitalisation of the public adminis-tration carried out by the Chamber. In this case, the electronic communications operators, Telecom Italia among them, were called to report on the state of implementation of the instruments to enable e-gov-ernment, such as broadband.
As a consequence, the dialogue with the institu-
tions is followed in certain cases by dispositions and presentations of proposals for amendments to individual measures. 
Moreover, Telecom Italia provides information to 
ministers (mainly the Minister for Economic Devel-opment) concerning the activities of the inspec-tion body (parliamentary questions) directed at the Group. Projects and Protocols of Understanding have been de/f_ined with the national institutions aimed at the dissemination of ICT , broadband con-nections and the digitalisation of the country. For example, the Protocol of Understanding, signed with Minister Gelmini for the diffusion of ICT tools for teaching in schools, forms part of this activity. 
At the local level, Telecom Italia maintains a con-
stant dialogue with the institutions on subjects of a general nature regarding the electronical communi-cations sector and on issues of local interest with signi/f_icance for the company’s business, from the perspective of problem solving and promoting the Group’s image. The monitoring and constant interac-tion with the decision-making centres of local institu-tions occurs by means of hearings, participation in workshops, the work of regional Commissions and ministerial and specialist work groups. Furthermore, Telecom Italia regularly organises communication ini-tiatives on speci/f_ic issues of local interest.
Coordination with the company departments 
operating at the territorial level is fundamental in acquiring information regarding the approaches and expectations of local institutions and providing suit-able solutions. 
Relations with European and international institu-tions are also of the collaborative kind and are 
broadly carried out according to the logic previously described with, in many cases, the involvement of the other ICT operators. The actions carried out are both of the institutional kind (for example, participa-tion in public consultations, workshops, meetings of parliamentary Commissions) and the collabora-tive type, with other operators (meetings with the EU Commission). Among the issues tackled at the Euro-pean level, the subjects of the main regulatory/leg-islative documents of interest to the Group, are the revision of the Community Directives, the Recom-mendation on termination, the Recommendation on regulated access to the Next Generation Networking (NGN), the roaming Regulation and the review of the Universal Service.
In most cases, the response to the expectations 
of the institutional stakeholders and the identi/f_ica-tion of the actions to be undertaken on individual regulations in the interests of the Group cannot be planned in advance. Therefore the reaction times, determined by the process of legislative approval, must be fairly rapid. This means that the internal dialogue in the company on these institutional is-sues, aimed at informing the competent internal departments on the regulations of interest and receiving feedback on important aspects, must be continuous. 
Telecom Italia Media also maintains a constant dia-
logue with the institutions on subjects of interest to the company and has carried out a series of actions with regard to regulatory acts, public consultations, positioning requests by AGCOM, including: 
the request for the partial postponement of r
the obligations for scheduling and investment in support of European works established by the Regulation approved by AGCOM under 66/09/CONS. The decision to take advantage of the possibility for postponement, estab-lished by the said Regulation, for the stations of the TI Media Group, and in particular for La7, MTV , QOOB and for the satellite channels of MTV , was dictated by the needs of balance and scheduling;public consultation (launched under the resolu-r
tion 526/09/CONS of September 30th, 2009) concerning the identi/f_ication of the emerging 58
institutionsEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSplatforms for the marketing of broadcasting 
rights for sports, which was concluded on Oc-tober 30th, in which TI Media, in concert with the other companies of the Group, gave notice of the necessity of incorporating among the emerging platforms IPTV , DVB and the mobile platforms such as GSM, GPRS and UMTS. 
Regarding the regulatory activity carried through by the Ministry for Economic Development – Communi-cations Department – 2009 featured the switch-off of analogue television, replaced by digital terrestrial broadcasting in Valle d’Aosta, western Piemonte, Trentino Alto Adige, Lazio and Campania in accord -
ance with the ministerial calendar of September 10th, 2008, and April 10th, 2009. For each region, the Communications Department has established a spe-ci/f_ic task force, in which TI Media also participates. 
Regarding relations with the UN, the activities car-ried out as part of the Global Compact were of particular importance, taking the form of participa-tion in the work group on human rights and the Net-work Italia. Telecom Italia and Telecom Italia Media, the two companies of the Group which adhered to the Global Compact, compile the “Communication on Progress” annually, the document in which the progress achieved in the promotion and actual ap-plication of the 10 principles on which the Global Compact is founded is reported.59
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
The environmental strategy of the companies of the 
Group is founded on the following principles:
optimising the use of energy sources and natu-r
ral resources;minimising negative environmental impact and r
maximising positive impact;pursuing the improvement of the environmen-r
tal performance; adopting procurement policies that take ac-r
count of environmental issues; disseminating a culture promoting the correct r
approach to environmental issues.
UVCMGJQNFGTU
The representative /f_igure of the stakeholder “The Environment” can be identi/f_ied in future generations, in the sense of a subject who has the right to an environment that has not been compromised by the impact of the current generation. More speci/f_ically, the holders of interest include:
the Community in general, with particular refer-r
ence to the territorial areas in which Telecom Italia operates; the local institutions r (see § Institutions);
associations active on the issue and the initia-r
tives in which Telecom Italia participates: EU Corporate Leaders Group, Global e-Sustainabil-ity Initiative (GeSI), European Telecommunica-tions Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), European Telecommunications Standards In-stitute (ETSI), CSR Europe, European Academy for Business in Society (EABIS), Carbon Disclo-sure Project (CDP);the environmental associations active on the r
issue: WWF, Legambiente, Greenpeace, etc.
Telecom Italia pays close attention to the needs expressed by stakeholders concerned with the pro-tection of the environment, keeping abreast of their expectations by maintaining multiple active channels of communication and dialogue such as AVoiComu-nicare, the Festival of Science, the Future Centre of Venice and the Group’s Intranet site. In addition, it promotes, and in some cases coordinates, projects at the national and international levels on the issue.
GPXKTQPOGPVCNRGTHQTOCPEG
The information on the environmental performance How the Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT) sector can contribute to 
building a better future. 
THE ENVIRONMENT60
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERShas been drawn from management data. In accord-
ance with the principle of materiality, only those subsidiary companies have been included in the consolidated accounts that have revenue greater than 300,000 euros and more than 40 employees, excluding discontinued operations/non-current as-sets held for sale.
The environmental performance data given below 
cover energy, atmospheric emissions, water, paper, waste and electromagnetic and noise emissions.
Energy
The energy consumption of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Group is shown below, calculated according to the accounting procedures established by the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI G3 Guidelines. Direct con-sumption for heating and transport (Scope 1) and indirect consumption through the acquisition and consumption of electricity (Scope 2) are given.
In the following tables, under the heading Do-
mestic/Brazil/Other activities, the domestic opera-tions of /f_ixed and mobile telecommunications are 
included, as well as the respective support activi-ties, the Netherlands broadband services and the activities of the TIM Brasil Group.
The data in the table regarding Telecom Italia S.p.A. 
shows an overall reduction of consumption for heat-ing systems and, in particular, the consumption of diesel. The change in the composition of the en-ergy mix of diesel and methane fuel is due to the modernisation of the plants, which has favoured 
CHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A. 20092009 
vs 20082009 
vs 2007
Energy consumed in diesel fuel MJ 112,979,718 (20.80%) (24.45%)
Energy consumed in methane fuel MJ 689,048,720 0.67% (4.48%)
Total energy for heating MJ 802,028,438 (3.03%) (7.86%)HEATING SYSTEMS – TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.
TI GROUP BREAKDOWN BY BU (%)
Telecom Italia 
Group 2009Domestic/
Brazil/Other 
activitiesMedia Olivetti
Total energy for heating MJ 919,813,181 92.05% 0.35% 7.60%HEATING SYSTEMS – TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
EQPUWOQFKGPGTIKCRGTTKUECNFCOGPVQ

ITWRRQVGNGEQOKVCNKCEQPUWOQFKGPGTIKCRGTTKUECNFCOGPVQ
ITWRRQVGNGEQOKVCNKC85.91%14.09%
methanediesel
92.05%Domestic/
Brazil/Other activities0.35%Media 7.60%OlivettiENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING (%) 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING (%) TELECOM ITALIA GROUP61
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSsolutions of reduced environmental impact. A spe-
ci/f_ic environmental objective has been de/f_ined and 
VEHICLES
CHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
 S.p.A. 20092009  
vs 20082009  
vs 2007
Consumption of unleaded petrol l 5,335,302 (47.51%) (62.02%)
Diesel consumption l 17,678,505 21.84% 63.98%
Total energy consumption(*)MJ 802,128,520 (5.02%) (4.11%)
 (*) Represents conversion into MegaJoules of the consumption of 
unleaded petrol and diesel expressed in litres.
NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED
CHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A. 20092009 
 vs 20082009 
 vs 2007
Total number of company vehicles no. 21,068 (1.77%) (2.27%)
Number of low-emission vehicles(*)no. 20,787 (1.47%) (1.98%)
Total distance travelled km 308,682,237 (1.68%) (1.05%)
(*) Vehicles fuelled by unleaded petrol, eco-diesel, bludiesel, GPL (meeting the Euro4 standard or higher), electricity or fuelled by other combustibles with comparable or lower emissions.reached in this area (see § Introduction/2009 Ob-
jectives and Results).
In Telecom Italia S.p.A., the reduction of energy con-sumption for vehicles is due, as well as to the reduc-tion of the overall distance travelled by the vehicles, to the gradual change in the composition of the /f_leet in favour of vehicles meeting high environmental standards (Euro4 or higher) with diesel engines that are more ef/f_icient compared to petrol engines. This change has also led to an increase in the consump-tion of diesel and a fall in that of petrol.
2009 vs 2008
2009 vs 20082009 vs 2007
2009 vs 2007
98.10%1.12% 0.78%
Domestic/
Brazil/Other activitiesMedia76.82% 23.18%
green petrol consumptiondiesel consumption
Olivetti
GPGTIKCCESWKUVCVCQRTQFQVVC
ITWRRQVGNGEQOKVCNKC GPGTIKCCESWKUVCVCQRTQFQVVCVGNGEQOKVCNKCURCEQODWUVKDKNKRGTCWVQVTC\KQPG
VGNGEQOKVCNKCURCRGTEQTTGP\CVQVCNGXGKEQNKC\KGPFCNKVGNGEQOKVCNKCURC
FOSSIL FUELS FOR VEHICLES (%) 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.TOTAL DISTANCE TRAVELLED TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.62
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSTI GROUP BREAKDOWN BY BU %
Telecom Italia 
Group 2009Domestic/
Brazil/Other 
activitiesMedia Olivetti
Total number of vehicles no. 22,703 98.82% 0.43% 0.75%
Total energy consumed MJ 1,263,639,200 98.29% 0.69% 1.01%
Total distance travelled km 340,392,214 97.67% 0.96% 1.37%NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED(*)
(*) The data shown refer to the number of all vehicles (including 
ships, for which the number of kilometres travelled is not shown) of the Group (industrial, commercial, used by senior and middle management and the sales force), both owned and hired. Only where usage is signi/f_icant and continuous, the vehicles, consump-tion and travel distances of vehicles owned or in use by the sales force of Tim Participações have been included. 
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ENERGY
(*) Electrical energy acquired from mixed sources is equal to around 2,067 GWh. Self-produced electrical energy from mixed sources is equal to around 26 GWh and is supplied by a co-generation plant which has allowed a saving in purchased energy of more than 5GWh with an associated consumption equal to 6.925 million m
3 
of methane gas. The production of electrical energy from continu-ous generators (not shown in the table) is estimated to be around 4 GWh.CHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A. 20092009 
 vs 20082009 
 vs 2007
Electrical energy from mixed sources(*)kWh 2,093,375,618 0.00% (1.34%)
Electrical energy from renewable sources kWh 42,955,444 15.41% 34.24%
Total electrical energy kWh 2,136,331,062 0.27% (0.81%)Consumption of electrical energy for the operation of transmission and civil/industrial plants. 
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ENERGY
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ENERGY 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ENERGY (%) TELECOM ITALIA GROUPTI GROUP BREAKDOWN BY BU %
Telecom Italia 
Group 2009Domestic/
Brazil/Other 
activitiesMedia Olivetti
Total electrical energy kWh 2,517,799,605 98.10% 1.12% 0.78%
2009 vs 2008
2009 vs 20082009 vs 2007
2009 vs 2007
98.10%1.12% 0.78%
Domestic/
Brazil/Other activitiesMedia76.82% 23.18%
green petrol consumptiondiesel consumption
Olivetti
GPGTIKCCESWKUVCVCQRTQFQVVC
ITWRRQVGNGEQOKVCNKC GPGTIKCCESWKUVCVCQRTQFQVVCVGNGEQOKVCNKCURCEQODWUVKDKNKRGTCWVQVTC\KQPG
VGNGEQOKVCNKCURCRGTEQTTGP\CVQVCNGXGKEQNKC\KGPFCNKVGNGEQOKVCNKCURC
63
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSThe increase in the consumption of energy is con-
nected to the greater volumes of telephony/data traf/f_ic on the transmission networks. This increase has been mainly met through recourse to the ac-quisition of renewable sources. In future, Telecom Italia S.p.A. will achieve a signi/f_icant increase in internal production from these sources (see § Introduction/2010 Objectives). 
The initiatives to optimise energy consumption 
already undertaken in preceding years have con-tinued and interventions during 2009 have mainly regarded: 
the technological improvement of air condition-r
ing equipment and interventions to reduce elec-tricity consumption through the segregation of environments with different temperature needs; the modernising of AC/DC conversion equip-r
ment through the introduction of technological solutions that guarantee a better performance;the maintenance of the ef/f_iciency of the /f_ixed r
traditional switching network and the data networks; the technological upgrading of mobile network r
equipment in order to improve the performance in terms of transmission capacity, the need for air conditioning and energy consumption;the adoption of ef/f_icient technological solu-r
tions for the Data Centre servers, thanks to the concentration and virtualisation of the machines and the consequent reduction of the respective energy consumption; remote control and measurement of energy of r
the centres’ premises; the installation of time switches to turn off the r
lighting equipment;the sharing of technological sites and Radio r
Base Stations (RBS), thanks to co-siting agree-ments; the raising of the average operating tempera-r
ture of the exchanges, servers and RBS;the introduction of free cooling equipment and r
other low environmental impact air condition-ing systems
On the question of promoting non-traditional/alter-native energy sources and experimentation with new technologies, the following initiatives have been completed or are underway:
three cogeneration (trigeneration) plants are rbeing installed in as many Data Centres. The energy needs will be met through a system that can produce electricity, heating and cool-ing, though not independently and therefore alongside the usual power distribution bodies, with an energy saving of around 30%;twelve small cogeneration plants (less than r
500 kW) have been created; for 13 RBS, a supplementary mixed supply of r
wind and photovoltaic power (wind turbines from 3 to 6 kW and solar panels of 5 kWp) has been created;an innovative system of natural gas (propane) r
air conditioning has been tested;100 back-up plants of hydrogen fuel en-r
ergy cells have been created in place of the traditional systems with lead batteries. The introduction of this type of plant avoids the procurement and later disposal of traditional batteries containing 300 tons of lead. The as-sessment of the life cycle reveals an environ-mental bene/f_it with about 125 tons of CO
2 no 
longer being emitted. In 2010, the replace-ments will involve another 80 plants (see Tar-get 2010).
More speci /f_ically, regarding the initiatives adopted by 
the Company to contain energy consumption thanks to the new free cooling plants, systems of remote energy management and control and the co-siting agreements with other operators, this is what the Group has done:
Extraction Full Free Cooling (EFFC) 
This cooling system meets the need to reduce consumption and not use greenhouse gases. EFFC is based on the principle of Free Cooling (forced ventilation without the use of air-conditioning), as-sociated with an extraction system for the hot air produced by the equipment and, if necessary, a further cooling of the incoming air achieved by using an area with a high concentration of vaporised wa-ter. With an experimental system of this type, it has been possible, in the hottest period of the year, to reduce by more than 80% the energy consumption for air conditioning compared to traditional systems. The outcome of the trials has led to the extension of the system, in 2009, to 400 exchanges. 64
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSKaleidos
This is an innovative system of monitoring and re-ducing the energy consumption of the equipment, installed in 90 exchanges. It takes advantage of wireless devices with ZigBee technology (a low en-ergy consumption mobile communication standard) which allow the acquisition and processing in real time of information on the electricity power used by the equipment being monitored. The information collected is analysed through mathematical models that allow the monitoring of the level of energy con-sumption of the plants and actions to be taken to improve the ef/f_iciency. Kaleidos will be extended to another 100 exchanges.
Codes of Conduct (CoC)
The commitment to contain energy consumption is also manifest in the collaboration with the work groups that de/f_ine the Codes of Conduct (CoC) on energy consumption of Broadband equipment and the Data Centres. These work groups, supported by the EU through the Joint Research Centre (JRC) and ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association), draw up the guidelines and consumption targets for equipment, minimising the energy consumption without interfering with techno-logical development and the quality of the services. Telecom Italia is among the /f_irst Tlc operators to have signed up to the Code of Conduct for broad-band equipment (version 3); the adoption of devices that conform to the CoC allows a reduction of ex-penditure on energy of up to 40%.
Co-siting
With respect to the Code for Electronic Communi-cations to encourage a more ef/f_icient use of the network infrastructure and optimise the coverage of the mobile network in urban and rural areas, the agreements with Vodafone for sharing access sites are continuing. In 2009, Telecom Italia and 3 Italia signed a three year co-siting agreement which cov-ers both existing sites and those that will be built in the future (at least 2,000 sites). Each operator retains ownership of their passive infrastructure (poles and pylons, electricity and air conditioning plants and civil infrastructure) and hosts the other, with a saving in energy consumption estimated to be in the order of 30%. TiLab initiatives to contain environmental impactIn the development of new /f_ixed access technolo-gies (FTTx), analyses are underway targeted speci/f_i-cally at the containment of electricity consumption of new equipment and, where present, of the respec-tive air conditioning. Telecom Italia is part of work groups for the standardisation of equipment and ar-chitecture at the Italian (CEI) and international (ETSI EE/ATTM, ITU-T , ETNO, GeSI, HGI) levels. At the end of 2008, Telecom Italia, in partnership with Huawei, established the Network Innovation Centre (NIC), aimed at synergic collaborations on issues connect-ed to energy saving. 
Atmospheric emissions
The emission of greenhouse gases by Telecom Italia and the Group can be attributed to the use of fossil fuels for heating, transport, production or procure-ment of electricity, as well as for travel (home-work and aeroplanes). In addition, the dispersal of hydro-chloro/f_luorocarbons and hydro/f_luorocarbons (HCFC and HFC) used in the air conditioning plants is taken into account.
As with the classi/f_ication of energy consumed, the 
guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative – GRI G3 have been followed, which refer to the de/f_initions of the GHG Protocol
(1) distinguishing between direct 
emissions (Scope1: use of fossil fuels for heating, transport
(2) and electricity generation) and indirect 
emissions (Scope2: procurement of electricity for in-dustrial and civil use
(3)) and other indirect emissions 
(Scope3).
(1) The GHG Protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative), estab-
lished 1998 at the heart of the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, supports business on the issue of greenhouse gas emissions, through methodologies of calculation and studies aimed at promoting innovation and assuming responsibility on climate change
(2) Emissions of CO2 connected to the use of fossil fuels for power-
ing motor vehicles and heating systems have been calculated following the directions of the UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Businesses and Non-Commercial Organisations – www.unep-tie.org) and in the case of vehicles of Telecom Italia S.p.A. making reference to the speci/f_ic type of motor vehicle (for the years, 2007 and 2008, a single coef/f_icient was used, which took account of the different types of vehicles. For this reason data referring to these years have been recalculated for comparison purposes). 
(3) To calculate the emissions from the acquisition of electrical energy, the GHG Protocol method has been used. This takes into consideration the energy mix of individual countries. The national GHG coef/f_icient, expressed in grammes of CO
2/kWh, are as 
follows: Italy 405; the Netherlands 394. For Brazil, the coef/f_icient worked out by the local Ministry of Science and Technology has been used, which is equal to 25 grammes of CO
2/kWh, which is 
held to be more accurate. For comparison purposes, data refer-ring to 2007 and 2008 have been recalculated on the basis of these coef/f_icients.65
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSCHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A. 20092009 
su 20082009 
su 2007
Emissions of CO2 for vehicles kg 47,672,817 (4.35%) (9.76%)
Emissions of CO2 for heating kg 53,043,281 (3.52%) (8.31%)
Emissions of CO2 equivalents for HCFC/HFC 
dispersalkg 29,386,020 (27.78%) -
Emissions of CO2 from cogeneration kg 10,419,354 104.30% -
Emissions of CO2 for diesel generation kg 3,639,346 0.02% -
Total direct emissions of CO2 – under Scope1 
GRIkg 144,160,818 (6.54%) -
Emissions of CO2 from purchased electrical 
energy produced from mixed sourceskg 832,982,452 (0.60%) (2.59%)
Total indirect emissions of CO2 – under Scope2 
GRIkg 832,982,452 (0.60%) -
Emissions of CO2 for home-work commuting(*)kg 65,478,775 (4.26%) -
Emissions of CO2 for air travel(**) kg 11,855,978 (28.18%) -
Total of other indirect emissions of CO2 – under 
Scope3 GRI kg 77,334,753 (8.91%) -
Total emissions of CO2kg 1,054,478,023 (2.11%)(***)
(*) In determining the impact of home-work commuting, reference is 
made to personnel statistics. 
(**) The calculations of emissions for air travel are made on the basis of the coef/f_icient proposed by the GHG Protocol which depends on extent of the duration of individual trips.(***) Starting from 2008 the scope of measurement of CO2 emissions 
has included new issues. For this reason, data referring to 2007 is not comparable to the others.ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS – TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.
(*) The calculation of the Scope3 emissions refers to Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Tim Participações.TI GROUP BREAKDOWN BY BU (%)
Telecom Italia 
Group 2009Domestic/
Brazil/Other 
activitiesMedia Olivetti
Total emissions of CO2 under Scope1 GRI kg 187,513,764 96.58% 0.46% 2.96%
Total emissions of CO2 under Scope2 GRI kg 870,513,631 98.41% 1.31% 0.28%
Total of other emissions of CO2 under Scope3 
GRI(*)kg 86,586,321 100.00% - -
Total emissions of CO2 kg 1,144,613,716 98.23% 1.07% 0.70%ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS – TELECOM ITALIA GROUP66
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSNotwithstanding the disclosure of data regarding 
additional sources not considered previously (elec-tricity production from cogeneration and diesel gen-erators, dispersal of HCFC/HFCs, home-work com-muting and air travel), the atmospheric emissions of Telecom Italia S.p.A. overall have been reduced, for the following reasons:
lower consumption by vehicles;r
lower consumption for heating;r
reduction of the COr
2 equivalents emissions, 
with respect to the dispersal of HCFC and HFC used in air conditioning plants, through the adoption of more meticulous methods for preventing leaks and the replacement of these gases with solutions with low environmental impact (see § 2009 Objectives and Results, and 2010 Objectives);an increase in COr
2 emissions that can be 
ascribed to the cogeneration resulting from the company’s decision to invest more in this technology, which is characterized by prom-ising /f_inancial and environmental bene/f_its. The increase is compensated, however, by the reduced acquisition of electricity from the network, which overall has led on balance to fewer emissions; stable emissions from diesel electricity gen-r
erators in situations where the electricity distri-bution network is unavailable; reduction of the emissions from the acqui-rsition of electricity from mixed sources due to the increased production of energy from cogeneration plants and the acquisition and in-house production of energy from renewable sources;reduction of the impact from home-work com-r
muting, dependent on the number of employ-ees;reduction of the emissions for air travel by em-r
ployees due to the reduction of the number of trips following the greater use of video confer-ences (see § Climate Change).
HCFC gases, in addition to being classi/f_ied as green-houses gases with high global warming potential
(4), 
destroy the ozone layer. From 2010, the use of new HCFCs in maintenance will be forbidden, while their use in plants is allowed until 2014.
Telecom Italia has conducted experiments:
in collaboration with Naples University, with r
other gases that do not cause damage to the ozone layer for the adaptation and replace-ment of these substances (R22) in air condi-tioning plants;in collaboration with Turin University, with in-r
novative air conditioning systems of the Extrac-tion Full Free Cooling (EFFC) type and cooling systems using air condensed natural refriger-ating gas (propane) (see also preceding §).
(4) The Global Warming Potential (GWP) is the measurement of 
how much a speci/f_ic gas contributes to the greenhouse effect. This index is based on a relative scale which compares the gas considered with an equal mass of carbon dioxide whose GWP is by de/f_inition equal to 1. The GWP of the HCFC used is equal to 1,780.67
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSCHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A. 20092009 
 vs 20082009 
 vs 2007
Water consumption for non-sanitary use m/three.superior 85,225 – –
Water consumption for sanitary use m/three.superior 4,370,350 (3.80%) 5.38%
Total water consumption m/three.superior 4,455,575 (1.92%) 7.43%WATER CONSUMPTION – TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.
TI GROUP BREAKDOWN BY BU%
Telecom Italia 
Group 2009Domestic/
Brazil/Other 
activitiesMedia Olivetti
Water consumption for non-sanitary use m/three.superior 1,310,503 7.07% 0.00% 92.93%
Water consumption for sanitary use m/three.superior 4,727,734 99.02% 0.60% 0.38%
Total water consumption m/three.superior 6,038,237 79.06% 0.47% 20.47%WATER CONSUMPTION – TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
79.06%0.47%20.47%
Domestic/
Brazil/Other activitiesMediaOlivetti
ʄ YCVGTEQPUWORVKQPHQTUCPKVCT[RWTRQUGʄ VQVCNEQPUWORVKQPQHYCVGTʄ GOKUUKQPKFKTGVVGFKEQUEQRGFGNITK
ʄ GOKUUKQPKKPFKTGVVGFKEQUEQRGFGNITKʄ CNVTGGOKUUKQPKKPFKTGVVGFKEQUEQRGFGNITK
2009 vs 2008 2009 vs 2007
2009 vs 2008 2009 vs 2007

79.06%0.47%20.47%
Domestic/
Brazil/Other activitiesMediaOlivetti
ʄ YCVGTEQPUWORVKQPHQTUCPKVCT[RWTRQUGʄ VQVCNEQPUWORVKQPQHYCVGTʄ GOKUUKQPKFKTGVVGFKEQUEQRGFGNITK
ʄ GOKUUKQPKKPFKTGVVGFKEQUEQRGFGNITKʄ CNVTGGOKUUKQPKKPFKTGVVGFKEQUEQRGFGNITK
2009 vs 2008 2009 vs 2007
2009 vs 2008 2009 vs 2007
Water
The total consumption of water by the Group reveals signi/f_icant impact by Olivetti due to withdrawal from artesian wells for the industrial component.
WATER CONSUMPTION (%) 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.WATER CONSUMPTION (%) TELECOM ITALIA GROUP68
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSPaper
To reduce the environmental impact connected to the use of paper, three areas for intervention have been identi/f_ied: procurement, rationalisation of use and recycling.
In 2009, for paper procurement for of/f_ice use 
and telephone bills, Telecom Italia S.p.A. decided only to use paper from forests managed according to the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). 
As regards the use of paper, the activities aimed 
at the overall reduction of consumption have contin-ued. For this reason, Telecom Italia encourages the use of invoicing and statements in electronic form. In 2009, more than 11 million invoices referring to /f_ixed telephony overall have been sent on line. That corresponds to a saving of over 200 tons of paper, as well as limiting the impact of CO2 connected to the delivery material of the envelopes.
The process of printing in the of/f_ices is also con-
nected to the use of paper. In order to optimise this, the project Printing on Demand has been launched in 675 of/f_ices. Around 35,000 identi/f_ied printers 
TI GROUP BREAKDOWN BY BU (%)
Telecom Italia
 Group 2009Domestic/
Brazil/Other 
activitiesMedia O livetti
Non-recycled paper purchased kg 2,231 74.41% 0.00% 25.59%
Recycled paper purchased kg 90,768 100.00% 0.00% 0.00%
FSC certi/f_ied paper purchased kg 699,036 96.58% 2.53% 0.89%
Total paper purchased for of/f_ice use kg 792,035 96.91% 2.24% 0.85%PAPER FOR OFFICE USE – TELECOM ITALIA GROUPPAPER FOR OFFICE USE – TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.
CHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A. 20092009 
 vs 20082009 
 vs 2007
Non-recycled paper purchased kg 0 (100.00%) (100.00%)
Recycled paper purchased kg 0 (100.00%) (100.00%)
FSC certi/f_ied paper purchased kg 637,888 - -
Total paper purchased for of/f_ice use kg 637,888 (4.43%) (11.76%)have been replaced with little more than 4,000 high 
performance machines. All have a rapid system of stand by to reduce energy consumption and 12% have the Energy Star certi/f_icate, while 40% are able to print on both sides of the page. This project, in addition to reducing the consumption of energy and paper, allows more precise monitoring of the condi-tion of the printer, the consumption of toner and the management of maintenance, improving the overall quality of the service.
In the of/f_ices, the use of paper for press reviews 
has fallen thanks to restrictions on the number of pages, the reduction in the number of recipients and the encouragement of the method of on line use, with pronounced bene/f_its also in terms of archiving and information research. In 2010, a further reduc-tion of paper use for press reviews of around 5% is envisaged.
On the recycling front, the collection of differenti-
ated waste in of/f_ices, underway in nearly all compa-ny premises, has seen the recycling of 21,262 tons of used paper during the year. 69
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERS2009 vs 2008 2009 vs 2007
VQVCNGECTVCCESWKUVCVC
VGNGEQOKVCNKCURC VQVCNGECTVCCESWKUVCVC
ITWRRQVGNGEQOKVCNKC96.91%Domestic/
Brazil/Other activities2.24%Media0.85%Olivetti
Waste
In 2009, there was a marked increased in hazard-ous waste due mainly to the replacement of the lead batteries use for back-up energy as well as the waste from the demolition works due to the leave of certain of/f_ices. The increase in non-hazardous waste can also be ascribed to the decommissioning of buildings and respective /f_ittings. Compared to 2008, in 2009 the ratio between waste produced and that consigned for recycling/recovery has improved.
The differentiated collection of the materials in the 
of/f_ices of Telecom Italia is underway in 280 of/f_ices across the entire country. In the course of 2009 alone, differentiated collection of of/f_ice waste has been extended to of/f_ices in which, locally, the differ-entiated collection of urban waste is carried out (50 additional of/f_ices of which 10 are in the north, 11 in the centre and 29 in the south and islands).
Regarding the application of the ADR regulation 
(Agreement concerning the international carriage of Dangerous goods by Road) covering the transport by road of dangerous goods, a training programme has been held aimed at those in charge of the Services of Prevention, Protection and Environment who col-laborate with the ADR consultant in the control of the activities and support for the departments. Con-trols have been carried out during the withdrawal of waste by the transporters and a new procedure has been drawn up which adopts the provisions of the ADR 2009 (the procedure will come into force follow-ing publication in the Of/f_icial Gazette of the Decree of adoption of the regulation).
Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Olivetti have launched a 
process across the entire nation for the collection, recycling and disposal of non-industrial batteries and rechargeable batteries. TI makes use of the “ReMedia” consortium and Olivetti the “ecoR’it” consortium, of which our company is the founder member. In Tim Brasil, the operation to increase awareness in the community on the issue of waste that is hazardous to health and the environment is continuing. In shops and company of/f_ices, suitable containers have been provided for the collection of drained batteries and to dispose of cell phones and accessories.
To contribute to the reduction of the waste pro-
duced, in 2009 Telecom Italia S.p.A. refurbished 515,698 devices (143,000 modems, 22,500 set top boxes for IPTV , 93,500 /f_ixed terminals, 37,047 telephony products, 8,149 data equipment items, 1,895 MT4 devices, 92,820 ISDN devices and 116,787 mobile handsets). In addition to the envi-ronmental advantage in terms of the lack of waste, these activities bring a /f_inancial bene/f_it, in the TOTAL PAPER PURCHASED (%) 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.TOTAL PAPER PURCHASED (%) TELECOM ITALIA GROUP70
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSsense of the positive difference between the pro-
curement avoided and the costs of the reclamation. 
Regarding Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equip-
ment (WEEE), regulated by the Decree Law 151/05, Telecom Italia and Olivetti are, in some cases, producers and, in all cases, distributors of certain equipment. They are therefore obliged to organise the management of their end of life cycle for those aspects under their responsibility.
To effectively supervise the issue, in expectation 
of the implementing decree, Telecom Italia S.p.A. has established an appropriate work group which has, amongst other things:
formalised membership of the consortium that r
is specialised in managing the end of life cycle of the equipment (Consorzio Re-Media);
CHANGES %
Telecom Italia 
S.p.A. 20092009 
 vs 20082009 
 vs 2007
Hazardous waste kg 6,268,050 22.42% 115.13%
Non hazardous waste kg 11,536,683 6.97% (11.12%)
Total quantity of waste kg 17,804,733 11.95% 12.02%
Waste for recycling/reclamation kg 16,190,509 14.78% 4.07%
Ratio between recycle/reclaimed waste and 
total waste90.93% 2.53% (7.10%)WASTE CONSIGNED – TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.(*)
WASTE CONSIGNED – TELECOM ITALIA GROUP(*)  The data does not include telephone poles.
TI GROUP BREAKDOWN BY BU (%)
Telecom Italia 
Gruppo 2009Domestic/
Brazil/Other 
activitiesMedia Olivetti
Total waste consigned kg 21,327,467 92.57% 0.34% 7.09%de/f_ined the collection and selection processes r
for WEEE for each direct sales channel;
inserted appropriate clauses on the issues r
of WEEE and RoHS(5) in the conditions of pur-
chase contracts. 
Following the Programme Agreement of 2003 for managing obsolete wooden telephone poles, upon the favourable opinion of the autonomous State-Region- autonomous Province Conference, with the Ministry for the Environment and Protection of the Territory, the Ministry of Production Activity and pro-duction and reclamation companies, the decommis-sioning also continued in 2009 with the substitution or elimination of 126,422 poles. 
The data shown in the table refer to the quantity 
of waste consigned
(6) and legally accounted for(7). 
(5) European Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction on the use 
of prescribed hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive)
(6) By “waste consigned” is meant waste delivered to carriers for recycling or reclamation or disposal. From checks carried out in 2007 in the /f_ield of technological waste on around 6,000,000 kg of waste delivered to carriers for recycling and reclamation, 97% was recycled and reclaimed effectively while the remaining 3% was disposed of.
(7) There may be slight variations in the situation from December 31 until the following March 31, in so far as the sources for the data are the records of loading and unloading of waste that are made once the actual weight has been checked at destination. The information is supplied to the producer of the waste within 3 months of the consignment and this explains the possible varia-tions in the data.71
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERS05,000,00010,000,00015,000,00020,000,000dangerous
wasteother
wastetotal
waste
consignedtotal
recycled
and recuperated
rifiuti conferiti e riciclo/recupero (kg) - telecom italia s.p.a.
Electromagnetic and noise emissions
The concerns of the Telecom Italia Group on the sub-ject of electromagnetic emissions are essentially:
the careful and proper management of its r
equipment during its entire life cycle, in compli-ance with the applicable regulations and inter-nal standards of ef/f_iciency and safety;the deployment of, and constant research r
into, the latest technological instruments for checks and controls. 
Systematic monitoring has continued of the levels of electromagnetic emissions in the installations of La7, MTV and TI Media in order to guarantee that legal limits are respected and high safety standards are maintained. In particular, Telecom Italia Media Group checks that:
the levels of electromagnetic /f_ield produced by r
the emissions are always lower than 20 V/m in locations accessible by people outside the company, while in residential areas, near nurs-eries, schools and anywhere occupied for a period greater than 4 hours a day, the level of electromagnetic /f_ield is always below 6 V/m;the level of exposure of workers does not r
exceed the values laid down by Directive 2004/40/EC, recently brought into force under Decree Law 257/2007.
Based on the controls carried out on Italian soil, electromagnetic emissions generated by La7 and MTV alone are within the legal limits, with levels signi/f_icantly lower in the case of digital television transmissions, which allows a reduction of the elec-tromagnetic emissions of around 75% compared to traditional analogue methods.
The Group also optimises emissions from mobile 
telephone Radio Base Stations (RBS). In 2009, the target was exceeded for installing second carriers, that is, additional antennas which allow the reduc-tion of the power of the overall /f_ield of RBS emis-sions, during periods of maximum voice traf/f_ic. The use of two radio frequency carriers, also linked to the development of “High Speed” coverage, allows the total power of RBS emissions to be lower than 15% for the same amount of traf/f_ic. This reduction value has been veri/f_ied in trials in the laboratory of TILab.
Similar concern is given to the emissions from mo-
bile handsets operating on the frequency bands operated by Telecom Italia: GSM 900Mhz, DCS 1800MHz and UMTS. In 2009, in line with the es-tablished targets, all the models of technologically innovative mobile phones widely distributed in Italy and 25% of the Brazilian models have been subject-ed to the SAR quali/f_ication
(8).
The issue of electromagnetism and the possible ef-fects on biological systems has been the subject in recent years of numerous studies and discussions involving the scienti/f_ic community and public opin-
(8) SAR – Speci/f_ic Absorption Rate: the value of electromagnetic 
power absored by a given mass of tissue. SAR is measured in Watt/kg.WASTE CONSIGNED AND RECYCLING/RECUPERATION (KG) 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A.72
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSGroup), a work group made up of operators active 
in the sector at the global level (Tlc operators and suppliers of equipment), to accelerate the spread of low-energy consumption devices and to encourage the adoption of ef/f_icient technological options and standardisation.
The Group also attained important results in 2009 
in the measurement of greenhouse gas emissions, recognised by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP is an international initiative in its seventh year of operation which encourages companies to manage the risks and emerging opportunities from climate change. The Group has participated in the initiative since 2005. In 2009, in spite of growing selectivity, the Group had the best results among Italian companies belonging to the “Global500” index, and, in relative terms, has moved from 6th place in 2008 to 5th place among participating com-panies in the Tlc sector. 
Telecom Italia has subscribed to the Copenhagen 
Communiqué prepared by the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change (CLG) which operates with the support of the University of Cambridge. The communiqué has given voice to a signi/f_icant part of the companies of the EU and the world (950 compa-nies from 60 countries) on the expectations for the COP15 of the United Nations in December, 2009. 
The approach followed by the Group to combat cli-
mate change is conducted at two levels:
reduction of its own direct and indirect emis-r
sions of greenhouse gases;encouragement and support for the demateri-r
alisation of goods and service by contributing to the reduction of the emissions of the other sectors. 
Reduction of emissionsThe environmental impact of Telecom Italia in terms of CO
2 is determined, as shown in the preceding par-
agraphs, by direct emissions from the use of fossil fuels, indirect emissions through the procurement of electricity and other indirect emissions such as home-work commuting and air travel. 
The initiatives underway and planned in Telecom Ita-
lia are numerous, in particular:ion. More details are available on the sustainability channel of the website www.telecomitalia.it.
In the area of the reduction of noise pollution, 
checks have continued on noise emissions by com-pany equipment. Based on these checks, 21 sites were recti/f_ied in 2009 (11 of the /f_ixed network and 10 of the mobile network). In addition, around 70 maintenance/replacement interventions have been carried out following noti/f_ications, implementing speci/f_ic methods of operation (for example, putting a timer on the air conditioning) or creating anti-noise barriers.
Interventions to reduce the visual impact of the 
mobile network antennas in places of landscape of particular merit also continued in 2009.
ENKOCVGEJCPIG
The scienti/f_ic community attributes a signi/f_icant role to industrial processes, and humanity in general, in the increase in the frequency and severity of ex-treme climatic phenomena and global warming. The containment of these phenomena within limits con-sidered as non-catastrophic is one of the challenges that humanity must tackle, mainly by reducing the emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
The Information and Communication Technology 
(ICT) sector can play a fundamental role, not only in containing its own CO
2 emissions, but above all by 
contributing to the reduction of the emissions of the other sectors, thanks to the provision of services which enable new ways of working, learning, travel-ling and, more generally, living. According to the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI Smart 2020), ICT will be responsible for around 3% of global emissions of CO
2 in 2020 but will contribute to the 
reduction in the CO2 emissions of other industrial 
sectors of around 15%. 
For this reason, Telecom Italia participates in vari-
ous initiatives promoted by bodies such as CSR Eu-rope, ITU, ETNO, ETSI, GeSI and Sodalitas. Telecom Italia is moreover among the coordinators of the EE IOCG (Energy Ef/f_iciency Inter-Operator Collaboration 73
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSreplacement of Euro3 vehicles with many kilo-r
metres travelled with Euro4 diesel vehicles 
with anti-particulate /f_ilters and the reduction of the number of vehicles. The modernisation of the /f_leet has involved 1,504 cars with a reduc-tion of emissions of around 30% compared to those produced by the decommissioned vehi-cles (around 2,169 tons of CO
2 emissions); 
substitution of most diesel-/f_ired heating sys-r
tems with methane-/f_ired heating systems. The conversions in 2009 brought a fall in CO
2 of 
214 tons (in line with the target set); adherence to the EEB (Energy Ef/f_iciency in r
Buildings) Manifesto, promoted by the WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Devel-opment), for the development of a programme broken down into /f_ive actions: de/f_inition of a database of the energy consumption preced-ing the ef/f_iciency initiatives; publication of a policy on the energy performance of the build-ings; de/f_inition and administration of audit programmes for verifying the implementation of the programmes de/f_ined; annual publica-tion of the energy data, CO
2 emissions and the 
progress of the programmes; promoting the energy ef/f_iciency of buildings among suppliers, employees and other stakeholders. The initiatives, operational in 2010, will involve r
50 company properties used as of/f_ices;the NGDC (Next Generation Data Centre) r
project with the aim modifying the Information Technology architecture through the physical concentration and virtualisation of the servers, reducing the current 11,350 servers to less than 2,000 by 2011. This new con/f_iguration, based on the Service Oriented Data Centre model, allows the reduction of the costs of maintenance/management and energy con-sumption. The NGDC regime will allow energy saving in the order of 40% compared to the initial con/f_iguration.
Regarding the initiatives launched to reduce energy consumption, and therefore indirect emissions, (see § Energy).
Eco-ef/f_iciency indicator
For years, Telecom Italia S.p.A. has measured its own energy ef/f_iciency by using an indicator that es-tablishes a relationship between the service offered to the customer (simpli/f_ied as the measurement of bits transmitted) and the company’s impact on the environment (energy consumption). The factors taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice traf/f_ic of the /f_ixed/mobile networks and industrial energy consumption (for transmission and climate control in the centres), domestic (electric-ity for of/f_ice use, air conditioning and heating in the of/f_ices) and consumption for vehicles. The following table shows the level of the eco-ef/f_iciency indicator in recent years.
03006009001,2001,5002004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
indicatore di eco-efficienzaECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR
YEAR KBIT/KWH BIT/
JOULE% INCREASE 
YEAR 200X VS 
200X-1
2004 777,248 216 +58%
2005 1,311,676 364 +70%
2006 2,175,006 596 +63%
2007 3,144,283 873 +45%
2008 4,237,038 1,177 +35%
2009 4,739,570 1,317 +12%
In 2009, the indicator values, although slightly im-
proved, were lower than expected. The annual in-crease is progressively diminishing: energy ef/f_icien-cy measures and the rise in traf/f_ic already achieved have reduced the margin for further improvement. The commitment is being carried through with the de/f_inition of the target for 2010: 1,410 bit/Joule (+7% compared to 2009). 
For the /f_irst time, Tim Brasil has measured its own 74
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSeco-ef/f_iciency indicator to monitor its performance. 
The 2009 value is 117 bit/Joule. Nevertheless, the data cannot be compared with that of Telecom Italia SpA due to the many differences: the technol-ogy used (only a mobile network in Brazil, mobile and /f_ixed networks in Italy), geographic features, the climatic situation and the type of customer. The indicator will however be very useful in implementing future actions of improvement.
Mobility management
Telecom Italia has launched the Mobility Manage-ment project in order to reduce the environmental impact of the home-work commuting and contribute to improving the quality of life of employees, in par-ticular in Italian cities with urban traf/f_ic dif/f_iculties and high atmospheric pollution. For the manage-ment of/f_ices, public transport companies have been contacted in order to improve connections and in-centives for the use of these means.A space has been created on the Intranet dedicated to the mobility of employees, by offering information and services and collecting opinions and sugges-tions, in order to promote sustainable transport practices. The space is divided into three: noti/f_ica-tions and proposals, information on the accessibility and connections of the of/f_ices, car pooling. The car pooling between employees, proposed as an alterna-tive solution to traditional means of transport, con-sists in grouping several people together to make journeys in a single car, and identifying people with compatible transport needs (hours, place of depar-ture and arrival etc.). Car pooling leads to reduced impact on the environment, lower transport costs for the participants, less use of the car and a reduction in psychological and physical stress. A link with Telecom Italia’s Carbon Meter (see § In-formation) allows the quanti/f_ication of the reduction of CO
2 emissions and the bene/f_its reaped from car 
pooling, increasing the level of environmental aware-ness. 
Telecom Italia as part of the solution
ICT can play a signi/f_icant role in the /f_ight against climate change through the promotion and diffusion of products and services which encourage behaviour that can reduce or eliminate the emissions of green-house gases generated by the transport of people and objects in the territory. In general, progress in ICT favours the replacement of traditional physi-cal products and services with digital products and processes (for more information,  see § Customers). 
For example
(9):
video and audio conferencing services avoid r
the need for the transport of people; Tlc services facilitate and allow teleworking, r
reducing the consequences of the home-of/f_ice commuting;on line invoicing and payments, in addition to r
saving paper and therefore the energy required to produce and transport it, eliminates the need for transport for making payments.telemedicine services reduce the need for r
doctor-patient meetings, limiting travel and, as a consequence, the emission of greenhouse gases;infomobility systems, using information ob-r
tained from mobile handsets, allows the opti-misation of traf/f_ic /f_lows, reducing travel times and the emission of greenhouse gases;the systems for the monitoring and analysis of r
consumption allow the optimisation of the en-ergy ef/f_iciency of of/f_ices and dwellings.
ICT technologies can therefore modify the features of products and services (price, ef/f_iciency and, therefore, convenience) leading to increased de-mand. On a large scale, the environmental impact obtained can become negative (increase in the demand for energy, major problems in the manage-ment of waste generated by technologically obsolete products). It is the responsibility of the ICT sector, and therefore also of Telecom Italia, not to under-estimate this effect, minimising their own negative impact on the environment and putting faith in the research and development of products with low envi-ronmental impacts throughout their entire life cycle (see § Product Responsibility).
In 2009, Telecom Italia established partnerships 
(9) It has been estimated that 100 million audio conferences in the 
place of physical travel could save more than 2 million tons of CO2 
emissions, that 10 million teleworkers working only two days a week from home, would lead to a saving of nearly 11 million tons of CO
2 and that if 10 million users received their telephone bills 
on line instead of the traditional paper ones, there would be a saving of around 11,000 tons of CO
2. The examples are indicative 
and are intended to give a concrete indication of the potential of Tlc services. They are based on projects, veri/f_ied by independent third parties, tested on a small scale by members of ETNO as part of the initiative, “Saving the climate @ the speed of light” developed together with the WWF (www.etno.be/sustainability).75
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSand launched services to respond to the need to re-
duce environmental impact.
An agreement was signed between Telecom Italia, 
Electrolux, Enel and Indesit for the testing of an innovative technological system in which smart do-mestic appliances optimise the energy consumption in the home. People can /f_ind out their consumption directly on their PC, mobile phone or on the displays of domestic appliances, downloading customised programmes for the eco-ef/f_icient management of their own home. This is the /f_irst step towards the smart grid, intelligent networks that allow informa-tion to be sent to domestic appliances that allows them to be programmed automatically on the basis of the availability and price of energy, avoiding peaks in demand for energy and surges on the transmis-sion networks (see § Customers/Innovative Serv-ices). 
Telecom Italia offers MyEnergy to its customers, an 
energy management service (www.tigreen.it) based on ICT solutions that allow the optimisation of en-ergy consumption through remote monitoring sys-tems of the equipment, using evolved sensors and applications made available by the Date Centres of Telecom Italia. Speci/f_ically, the following are part of the offer: 
MyEnergy – Analysis: analysis of the energy r
expenditure; MyEnergy – Power Management: for the man-r
agement and optimisation of electricity con-sumption; MyEnergy – Lighting Management: for the man-r
agement of public and private lighting equip-ment; MyEnergy – Gas Management: for the monitor-r
ing and optimisation of the business of gas bottle distribution companies. 
These solutions allow the reduction of the consump-tion and energy expenditure thanks to the following activities: prompt, integral monitoring of energy con-sumption; the display of the data regarding various peripheral of/f_ices; the implementation of automation to reduce consumption; veri/f_ication of the consist-ency between the energy bills and the consumption registered; support in the choice of the most suit-able Energy Provider.On the subject of the management of the territory and the optimisation of the energy resources, Tel-ecom Italia has offered Smart Town to local adminis-trations. This solution, already adopted by a number of administrations, has led to signi/f_icant energy ef/f_i-ciency: just the application covering public illumina-tion is able to generate alone a reduction in electric-ity consumption of up to 30%.
Telecom Italia coordinates the E-Cube project which 
researches, develops and implements innovative ICT solutions which allow the ef/f_icient management of energy in the domestic and industrial /f_ields. The project will develop smart plugs, smart appliances, optimal algorithms for the management of equip-ment and other components that may be used for the remote control and monitoring of consumption.Particular attention is being paid to the protection of the consumers’ privacy which will use solutions put forward by E-Cube, and to the de/f_inition of policies to guarantee their diffusion. In addition to Telecom Italia, which is also coordinating a work group, the project, partly /f_inanced by the Tender 2015 – Energy Ef/f_iciency of the Ministry for Economic Development, sees the participation of Edison Energia, Electrolux, Energy Team, NERA Economic Consulting, Neohm, Ospedale San Raffaele, RPS-Riello, STMicroelectron-ics, Telit, the “La Sapienza” University of Rome and the University of Verona.
In 2009, around 2,000 video conferences were 
staged between the Telecom Italia of/f_ices of Rome and Milan, and around 5,700 multi-video conferenc-es and 18,000 audio conference between several company of/f_ices. In addition to these, managed cen-trally, a great number of video and audio conference have taken place continuously among personnel trained in the autonomous use of independent work-stations. The use of these systems avoids substan-tial emissions of carbon dioxide (and other pollut-ants) connected to the use of means of transport
(10).
(10) On average, around 10 people take part in each video conference 
and half of these would have travelled to take part in the meeting. It can be estimated, solely for video conferences carried out be-tween the management of/f_ices in Rome and Milan, that there has been an overall reduction in emissions of 1,200 tons of carbon dioxide. Each person travelling between Rome and Milan would have led to an impact of around 120 kg and each event replaced would save not less than 600 kg (the estimate is made only for air traf/f_ic: around of 1000km for the round trip with a medium range impact factor of 0.12 kg per km – source GHG Protocol).76
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSRTQFWEVTGURQPUKDKNKV[
To improve the product stewardship pro/f_ile at the 
company level, products/services marketed by Tel-ecom Italia S.p.A. are also examined under the fol-lowing criteria:
health and safety of consumers; r
labelling of products and services;r
marketing communications; r
respect for privacy;r
conformity with applicable regulations;r
environmental impact of the product.r
Some of the main initiatives promoted by Telecom Italia in this /f_ield are given below.
Marketed products are subject to a technical test 
aimed at ensuring their conformity with European Di-rectives and national laws, in particular:
the EU regulations on the protection and safe-r
ty of customers in using the equipment; the RoHS regulation which prohibits the use of r
certain substances in electrical and electronic equipment; the WEEE regulation on the disposal of prod-r
ucts at the end of their life cycle;European regulations nos. 1275/2008 and r
278/2009 which implement the EuP (Energy-using Products) directive for terminals and their respective external feeders.
Telecom Italia was among the /f_irst Tlc operators to have adhered to the Code of Conduct for v3 Broad-band Equipment, a document that de/f_ines energy consumption targets for modems, home gateway and other network domestic appliance and the ac-cess network (see § Energy).
Quality tests are conducted on products to con/f_irm 
respect for the prerequisites of energy ef/f_iciency, environmental impact and safety. For the checks car-ried out on mobile handsets, see § Electromagnetic and noise emissions. 
In 2009, an eco-cordless handset was launched 
on the market with minimal environmental impact throughout its life cycle: 
the body is in PLA bio plastic (biodegradable r
polylactic acid derived from corn);electronics free of halogen substances, an-r
ticipating and exceeding the latest European regulations on the matter;the feeder conforms with the prerequisites for r
Energy Star energy yield and the EU Code of Conduct on Ef/f_iciency of External Power Sup-plies – v4;the assembly does not involve the use of ad-r
hesive and is achieved in a way that allows easy dismantling of the various electronic com-ponents;the packaging is recycled cardboard and de-r
signed to minimise impact during the transport phase.
The product is furnished with an environmental dec-laration drawn up in accordance with ISO 14021 (En-vironmental Declaration of Type II).
The assessment of energy consumption associ-
ated with the eco-cordless, estimated on the basis of a standardised operation cycle of 2 hours daily use, 2 hours a day in stand-by and 20 hours a day waiting and being recharged, reveals an annual ener-gy consumption of 13.9 kWh, with an energy saving of around 40% compared to similar products. 
In addition, a review has been held of the end-life 
processes of the home access gateway
(11) used for 
the delivery of residential and small business broad-band services, from which the requirements have been drawn for Design For Environment (DFE) for future generations of product. Among the improve-ments identi/f_ied, the following should be noted:
the review of the structure of the product’s r
plastic body, with the reduction of the number of parts and the optimisation of the aspects concerning dismantling;the use of recycled plastics, when possible, r
with regard to the physical and mechanical characteristics and their suitability for use by the customer;packaging in recycled material with the reduc-r
tion of unnecessary plastic wrapping;reduced bulk and weight of the packaging to r
minimise impact during the transport phase;use of a uni/f_ied feeder to maximise the pos-r
(11) The Home Access Gateway is a device that allows the connection 
of several private customers to the same network through the concentration of voice, data and video traf/f_ic.77
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSsibility for reuse;
review of the logistics of collecting products at r
the end of their life cycles and of the process of assessing the possibility of regeneration;the identi/f_ication of technical strategies to r
increase the energy ef/f_iciency of the access gateways: the tests carried out, on the average methods of use at home by the customer and depending on their number, allow an estimated annual energy saving in the order of 100GWh.
During 2009, the methodology of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) was applied to around 23 products intended for marketing (mobile phones, /f_ixed telephones, fax machines and printers) under the auspices of the Green Procurement project (see § Suppliers/Main sustainability initiatives).
In de/f_ining the network architecture and the techni-
cal speci/f_ications of the equipment and passive components, criteria have been adopted designed to minimise the environmental impact (for example, consumption, bulk, noise and battery use). These prerequisites are included in the Requests for Quo-tation (documents drawn up of the technical lines to clarify the speci/f_ications of the products to be pro-cured) compatible with the requirements of service and costs.
Telecom Italia has, in addition, published a Policy of 
Green Procurement (see § Suppliers/Main sustain-ability initiatives). 
VTCKPKPICPFKPVGTPCNEQOOWPKECVKQP
The dissemination and support for the environmen-tal culture helps reinforce the sustainable develop-ment of the Group’s activities. In the course of the year, in addition to environmental issues of general interest, numerous training initiatives have been de-veloped regarding:
Business and environmentr
Environmental Management Systems r
Life Cycle Assessment r
Mobility managementr
Energy conservation and renewable energy r
Reduction of emissionsr
Electromagnetic pollutionrGreen Procurementr
Waste managementr
Soil pollutionr
Reduction of the consumption of paper and the r
replacement of virgin paper with recycled paper
An article was published in the corporate maga-zine “noi.magazine” covering the development of the Integrated Management System of Safety and the Environment in customer care. In addition, the publication of the “noi./f_lash” bulletin has continued, dedicated to issues of corporate responsibility. 
On June 5th, World Environment Day, Tim Brasil 
made its Environmental Policy of/f_icial, launching an internal campaign aimed at increasing the aware-ness of personnel with regard to the environment. To assist this, a list of simple actions was provided to be shared with the family, such as the practice of collecting differentiated waste and used batteries and storage devices, the choice of recyclable and re-cycled materials, saving water and energy.
A speci/f_ic programmes has been created with Azze-
roCO
2 for numerous events, in particular those of an 
environmental nature, to reveal the impact and com-pensation of the respective emissions.
KPHQTOCVKQP
Through the Group’s television broadcasters, La7 and MTV , many programmes have been produced and initiatives carried out aimed at spreading aware-ness and involving the public on environmental mat-ters. In particular, for World Environment Day, the initiative “La7 and the environment: a commitment exclusively for everybody” was launched inviting viewers to send in, to the website www.la7.it/ambi-ente, their proposals for contributing to the world of the future (see § The Community/Traditional media). 
Telecom Italia’s integrated communication project, 
AVoiComunicare, is active on the major social and environmental issues. In /f_irst six months of 2009, focus was mainly on environmental topics and on sustainable development, revealed by an on line survey to be priority matters for the users of the In-ternet site. 78
the environmentEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSThe Global Conference on Climate Change (UN 
COP15) was heralded and followed on a dedicated space on AVoiComunicare, which reported on the expectations and outcomes of the meetings. The updating was carried out live by an observer on loca-tion and, at the end of the event, a questionnaire was distributed to discover the level of satisfaction (see § The Community/Social Media and Digital Communication).
In collaboration with PricewaterhouseCoopers, Tele-
com Italia has created the “Carbon meter”, available on AVoiComunicare, to bring home how much carbon dioxide we emit through our everyday actions and to check, through an on line tool, how and by how much we can contribute to mitigating climate change through small changes in our behaviour. The meter also shows how ICT solutions (video conferences, broadband connections, procurement and opera-tions on line) allow the reduction of the emissions and an improvement in the quality of life.
Telecom Italia, moreover, has sponsored, with 
Comieco and the University of Palermo, the initiative “More and Less LAB: the future and consumption. New styles of life and consumption,” organised as part of the UNESCO’s Week of Education in Sustain-able Development in support of sustainability.
GPXKTQPOGPVCNOCPCIGOGPVU[UVGOU
Environmental Management Systems (SGA) con-tribute to the management, in a sustainable way, of the production and support processes, and are a stimulus to continuous improvement in environmen-tal performance.Over the years, the Group has promoted the crea-tion of systems and instruments to ensure the ef-fective management, prevention and continuous reduction of environmental impact in the area of working processes. So far, the Group’s SGA has at-tained the certi/f_ication ISO 14001 and, at two call centres in Rome and Naples, the Integrated Safety and Environment System has attained the certi/f_ica-tion OHSAS 18001.
In 2009, with the issuing of a new ISO 14001 
certi/f_icate valid for three years, the effective applica-tion was con/f_irmed of the environmental manage-ment of the Technology and Operations division for plant engineering and industrial and civil technologi-cal infrastructures.
The environmental certi/f_icates attained or con-
/f_irmed during the year are given in the Customers chapter. 
CWFKV
As in previous years, audits of an environmental na-ture have been carried out on company departments and outside businesses which carry out activities that may have an impact on the environment. The subjects covered by the audit include the veri/f_ication of respect for the legal requirements, control of the ful/f_ilment by businesses of the contractual clauses for the proper management of activities with environ-mental impact and checking the correct manage-ment of important activities (waste management, reclamation, implementation of the Integrated Envi-ronment and Safety Management Systems). 
For information on further controls carried out 
with the suppliers, see § Suppliers/Controls.79
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
The intention of the companies of the Group is to 
contribute to the economic wellbeing and growth of the community by supplying ef/f_icient and technologi-cally advanced services. 
Consistent with these objectives, and the re-
sponsibilities assumed towards the various stake-holders, the companies of the Group see research and innovation as priority factors in growth and suc-cess. 
Compatible with its role as a private company, 
and the associated demands of a /f_i nancially ef/f_icient 
management, the Group, in making decisions, takes into consideration the social impact of telecommuni-cation services, responding to the needs of even the weakest members of society. 
The Group looks favourably on and, where appro-
priate, supports social, cultural and educational ini-tiatives aimed at the advancement of the individual and the improvement of living conditions. 
UVCMGJQNFGTU
The Community stakeholders are the following:
civil society; all citizens and those with special rneeds (young people, the elderly, the disabled etc.), their representative associations and non-pro/f_it organisations in general;the institutions: local bodies (Municipalities, r
Provinces and Regions) and national and su-pranational central institutions;University and research institutions;r
the traditional media and the social media. r
OCETQCTGCUQHKPVGTXGPVKQP
On Telecom Italia’s Internet site, the “Group’s guide-lines on voluntary contributions to the Community”
(1) 
are published, aimed at regulating the multiple ways in which these investments may be carried out.
Two main areas for intervention have been identi-
/f_ied: 
voluntary activities consistent with the Group’s 1. 
core business (connected to the provision of ICT services)
(2); 
(1) The complete text of the Telecom Italia Group’s Guidelines for vol-
untary contributions to the Community is available on the Group’s Internet site (www.telecomitalia.it), in the section, Sustainability/Stakeholder/The Community.
(2) In this chapter, only those products/services provided at no charge are reported, while those which, although they have a signi/f_icant impact on the Community, are provided for payment, are included in the chapter, Customers.The role of a major company in the 
countries in which it operates.
THE COMMUNITY80
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSactivities aimed at the general development of 2. 
the Community (principally, the activities of the 
Telecom Italia Foundation). 
The objectives of the interventions consistent with the core business are: 
to reduce the Digital Divide in society through r
the dissemination of knowledge and the use of communication technologies among civil society, with special attention to those sec-tors suffering discrimination for individual or social reasons. Examples of activities carried out by the Group with this aim are Internet courses for the elderly, technological innova-tion in schools, technology exhibitions, science festivals etc.; to meet the requirements and needs demon-r
strated by the Community through the use of company know-how. This includes the “SMS solidarity” and other fund raising initiatives in which the Group makes available infrastructure, customer care and other operational sectors, initiatives to develop solutions for those with disabilities, the sick, the elderly and minors.
Among the activities aimed at the general develop-ment of the Community are initiatives and projects without a direct connection with the services and products provided by the Group. Examples of these activities include the projects in Brazil for the social inclusion of children who are living in conditions of degradation, initiatives in support of the /f_ight against disease, support for associations which combat organised crime, educational projects foster-ing respect for the environment, cultural initiatives to safeguard the artistic heritage etc.)
JQYVJGOCETQCTGCUHQT
KPVGTXGPVKQPCTGKFGPVKHKGF
Telecom Italia Group has decided to give priority to 
those activities in which its own know-how and ex-pertise can give added value to the Community. 
Notwithstanding this, as a major company, Tel-
ecom Italia cannot shirk from supporting important social causes, even if remote from its own busi-ness. Indeed, it has always supported initiatives aimed at meeting the needs of society and, for this reason, in December, 2008, the Telecom Italia Foun-dation was established. 
JQYVJGRTQLGEVUVQDGKORNGOGPVGF
CTGKFGPVKHKGF
Telecom Italia identi/f_ies the projects to be imple-
mented on the basis of:
consultation with the stakeholders and direct r
contact with the associations of civil society;partnership projects with stakeholders and as-r
sociations;benchmarking against the other European Tlc r
operators;participation in industrial associations (for ex-r
ample, the London Benchmarking Group);sharing knowledge of the industry’s problems r
with the other departments of the Group;external lobbying in response to social emer-r
gencies (for example, the earthquake in Abruzzo).
JQYVJGKPFKXKFWCNRTQLGEVUCTG
ECTTKGFQWV
The implementation of each project passes through 
four phases: planning, selection, management and control. 
In the planning phase, the objectives to be 1. 
reached, the bene/f_iciaries of the project, the timescales of the individual activities, the overall duration of the initiative, the methods of monitoring the project and the budget are identi/f_ied. The selection of the projects may take place:2. 
through public tenders (as in the case with  -
many projects pursued by the Telecom Ita-lia Foundation);by a decision of the company, which takes  -
place downstream of the consultation de-scribed above, consistent with the guide-lines for voluntary contributions to the Community. 
The management of the properly selected 3. 
projects takes place in partnership or within the framework of agreements. Sometimes cash disbursements are made, leaving the 81
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSmanagement of the activity to the bene/f_iciary 
organisation/association.The current monitoring system provides ex-4. 
post control, customised to the speci/f_ics of the individual projects. In tenders put out by the Telecom Italia Foundation, for the selection of projects, one of the prerequisites of entry is the existence of a control system, which in turn constitutes one of the assessment pa-rameters of the projects presented. Indeed, the Committee for Internal Control and Corpo-rate Governance, composed only of independ-ent Board Members, conducts control actions on the sustainability activities in general, and on the projects carried out by the Telecom Italia Foundation, in terms of consistency with the ethical values of the Group.
JQYVJGEQPVTKDWVKQPVQVJG
EQOOWPKV[KUOGCUWTGF
Contributions made by the Telecom Italia Group to 
the Community during 2009, calculated according to 
53.0%initiatives in
the communityinvestments inthe community
42.9%
4.1%charity1.5
charity
19.3
initiatives in 
the community15.7
investments in
the community
36.5 milion euros53.0%initiatives in
the communityinvestments inthe community
42.9%
4.1%charity1.5
charity
19.3
initiatives in 
the community15.7
investments in
the community
36.5 milion eurosthe guidelines of the London Benchmarking Group 
(LBG), amounted to 36.5 million euros (36.3 million euros in 2008), which is the equivalent of 1.09% of the Pre-Tax Pro/f_its.
The calculation of the contributions was carried 
out using management data, in part based on esti-mates. In accordance with the principle of materi-ality, only those subsidiary companies have been included in the consolidated accounts with revenue greater than 300,000 euros and more than 40 em-ployees, excluding discontinued operations/non-cur-rent assets held for sale.
More than 100 major international companies 
subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 1994 and represents the gold standard at the global level in the classi/f_ication of voluntary contributions by companies in favour of the Community.
In line with the LBG model, in order to measure and 
represent the Group’s commitment to the Commu-nity, the contributions paid out have been subdivided into three categories (Charity, Investments in the Community, Initiatives for the Community), adopting the usual pyramid diagram:
LBG DIAGRAM (MILLION EUROS) ALLOCATION BY % OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS TO 
THE COMMUNITY BY TELECOM ITALIA GROUP82
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSThe criteria used to assign the contributions to the 
various levels of the pyramid now follow. 
CHARITY
Criteria
Intermittent support to a wide range of good causes 
in response to the needs and appeals of community organisations, increasingly through partnerships between the company, its employees, customers and suppliers. 
Kind of contributions
Donations to national/international organisations not 
based on a speci/f_ic medium/long term programme.Sponsorship of causes or events, not part of a marketing strategy.Company matching of employee giving and fund-raising,Costs of supporting and promoting employee involve-ment.Costs of facilitating giving by customers and suppliers.
INVESTMENTS IN THE COMMUNITY
CriteriaLong-term strategic involvement of the company to 
address a limited range of social causes.
Kind of contributions
Memberships and subscriptions.
Grants and donations based on a speci/f_ic medium/long term programme.
INITIATIVES IN THE COMMUNITY
CriteriaActivities in the Community usually by commercial 
departments to support directly the success of the company, including in partnership with humanitarian organisations.
Kind of contributionsSponsorship of events, publications and activities 
promoting brand or corporate identity.Cause Related Marketing, promotional sales.Support to scienti/f_ic and University research and to philanthropic organisations. Care for consumers with special needs.Civil Protection activities.

TGURQPUGUVQVJGUVCMGJQNFGTU
Initiatives consistent with the core business 
By way of example, some activities carried out in 2009 are given below, concerning initiatives to re-spond to the needs of the Community using the technologies that underlie the provision of services by Telecom Italia.The dissemination of ICT in schoolsTelecom Italia has signed a Protocol of Understand-ing with the Minister of Education, Universities and Research (MIUR) for the dissemination of ICT in schools, with the objective of assisting young people in the use of new technologies and promoting their use for educational purposes. The partnership en-visages both the de/f_inition of speci/f_ic offers of price reductions and ease of payment for the acquisition of Tlc products and services and the development of research plans to improve the teaching and learning process. The agreement also provides for the reali-sation of cultural and educational initiatives aimed at increasing the awareness of young people about issues connected with environmental sustainability, bullying and the safe use of the network.
Internet Saloon
The objective of the initiative, launched in 2000 in partnership between the Association for Metropoli-tan Interests of Milan and the Telecom Italia Com-pany, Gruppo Credito Valtellinese, HP and Microsoft, is to support the dissemination of the Internet and new technologies among people over 50. The basic Internet courses, run by university students, last a day and are set up in a way that anyone, even with-out any knowledge of personal computers, can navi-gate the Internet and use emails after a few hours of lessons. Currently, Internet Saloons are active in Milan, Sondrio, Pavia and Catania and have recently been opened in Ancona, Bari and Naples. In nine years of operation, more than 35,000 people have successfully attended courses. 
Telemouse
This initiative, set up in partnership with the Digital World Foundation, provides for the establishment in Rome of 180 courses in digital literacy and wide-spread territorial dissemination aimed at the over 60s. 
The basic course are conducted in the digital lec-
ture theatres of 60 Roman schools and are run by selected students, who, through this commitment, obtain scholastic training credits.
In parallel, Telecom Internet Corners have been 
set up in 50 Social Centres for the Elderly of the Municipality of Rome: welcoming, homely places when the elderly can put the expertise acquired into practice and, thanks to the experience of the central 83
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSgranny-tutor /f_igures, introduce their peers to new 
technologies. 
In the two years, 2009-2011, a total of more 
than 17,000 elderly people are expected to have taken part in the initiative. 
Future Centre
This is a study centre of excellence launched in continuity with the San Salvador Centre for Eco-nomic Studies in Venice, founded at the end of the eighties, which has brought together the study of technological evolution with economic issues, and how this in/f_luences the operation of the market. The activities of the Future Centres hinge on disseminat-ing education on new telecommunications technolo-gies and the study of the impact and changes that telecommunications are bringing to all aspects of our lives.
Fund raising
Technology often assists in the collection of funds. Indeed, the ease, immediacy and simplicity of the tools made available by Tlc services have allowed more direct appeals to the generosity of people and made making donations easier. Fund raising has taken on particular importance above all in cases of unexpected, immediate and urgent need in the Community.
For years, Telecom Italia has supported impor-
tant humanitarian causes, including through innova-tive ways of making donations. In addition to SMS and telephone solidarity, “Click solidarity” has been available since 2007, a new tool that allows dona-tion via the web, with direct deductions on the Alice ADSL bill. 
Telecom Italia is among the organisers of the 
/f_irst telephone prize competition in support of scien-ti/f_ic research aimed at beating diabetes. 
The money raised was passed on in its entirety, 
without any deductions, either by the tax authorities, who, thanks to an awareness campaign mounted by Tlc companies and non-pro/f_it organisations, have ex-empted such operations from the application of VAT , nor by the company for the disbursement of its costs. 
In 2009, 99 fund raising events were organised 
with a total collection of around 27 million euros
(1).
(1) The amount collected is not directly attributable to the initiatives 
mentioned due to the time lag between invoicing and payment.Safe navigation
The projects is based on a twice yearly course aimed at making children, young people and adults (parents and teachers) aware of how to use the Internet and digital technologies sensibly and re-sponsibly. The initiative has its own dedicated site (www.navigaresicuri.org) and is aimed at the various interlocutors using appropriate language and tools, including an illustrated handbook and publications signed by the character of Geronimo Stilton for the young ones, circulated materials and interactive experiences for adolescents, information and a spe-cialised assistance service for adults.
The project takes advantage of the collaboration 
and injection of expertise, authority and reliability of the Fondazione Movimento Bambino, Save the Chil-dren and Atlantyca, copyright holder of the character of Geronimo Stilton.
The project also has the objective of drawing up 
a Code of self-regulation for the protection of minors on the web, updating the Treviso Charter of 1990.
TIM Mobile Care
Developed with the National Organisation for the Protection of the Deaf (ENS), “TIM Mobile Care” is a multimedia video assistance service which allow non hearers to receive, free of charge, in Italian Sign Language, all the necessary information to use mobile telephone services (for example, con/f_iguring emails, SMS/MMS, remaining credit, tariff pro/f_ile etc.). Internet navigation services are also available on mobile handsets which use voice recognition technologies, voice synthesising and audio stream-ing in order to customise various information serv-ices (tourism, entertainment etc.) for use by those with visual and auditory disabilities.
TIM Mobile Speak
Launched in collaboration with Loquendo (a Group company) and the Italian Association of the Blind and Visually Impaired, “TIM Mobile Speak” is a more developed version of “TIM Talks”. This is a software application that allows the blind, visually impaired and the elderly to use all the functions of mobile phones thanks to an electronic voice that reads out the contents of the display, depending on the requirements and instructions of the user.
As “TIM Talks” was in the past, “TIM Mobile 
Speak” is also available free of charge, by obtaining 84
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSa new, compatible handset at TIM/Telecom Italia’s 
major sales outlets.
The Solidarity Ponies
This initiative was launched in 1997, in collabora-tion with the Social Policy Departments and several of the largest voluntary associations in six major Italian cities (Milan, Turin, Bologna, Rome, Naples and Palermo). Its objective is to supply free assist-ance in the home to people over 65. The elderly can call a telephone number to ask for help of various types (assistance, companionship, accompanying etc.). The Municipality operators, connected to an operational centre, pass on calls from the mobiles of volunteers who promptly take action. In addition to supplying the technical tools, Telecom Italia con-tributes to the initiative by /f_inancing the non-pro/f_it associations that take part in the project in order to create and run, through the work of volunteers, the social assistance network. In 2009, more than 37,000 interventions were carried out. 
Smart Inclusion
The project, entirely supported and sponsored by Telecom Italia, is aimed at reducing the discom-fort of hospitalised children and maintaining their contact with school. Through the installation of a “Smart Care” touchscreen terminal at every bedside in certain wards of the Ospedale Sant’Orsola-Mal-pighi of Bologna and a teleconference and remote teaching system at the Irnerio middle school of Bologna, a technological bridge has been formed between the place of hospitalisation and the place of education. The child patients, thanks to sophisti-cated tools, can actively take part in school lessons, study recordings of missed lessons, complete ex-ercises and use individual courses of self-learning. Moreover, the children can communicate with their loved ones through video calls and access various entertainment programmes (cartoons, /f_ilms, docu-mentaries and sport). The medical staff can use the system to display all the clinical /f_iles of patients with the option of updating them. Smart Inclusion has also been extended to Rome’s Ospedale Pedi-atrico Bambino Gesù and the Azienda Ospedaliera in Padua and will become operational at the Azienda Ospedaliera Meyer of Florence and, soon, it will also be extended to the hospitals S. Anna of Turin, Gaslini of Genoa and S. Matteo of Pavia. The Smart Inclusion project was a /f_inalist in the 2009 edition of the Sodalitas Social Awards.
Telecom Italia Future Lab
This is a laboratory staged in Genoa from Octo-ber 23rd to November 1st as part of the Festival of Science in which it was possible to try out new applications of digital technology and their impact on daily life. A voyage through technology in which visitors could discover the many faces of “digital potential”, that is, the many small revolutions that the technologies can bring in terms of the worlds of relationships, safety, health, work, knowledge, travel, respect for the environment and natural resources. Among the most popular programmes being tried out were the 3D video chat, e-learning, interactive infomobility (for the real time acquisition of informa-tion useful for improving the travel experience), user generated digital art (artistic creations on digital media), MyDoctor@home (for the remote control of certain types of diseases), Mobile Payment (for us-ing a SIM card as a dynamic and secure payment method).
From January 13th to 17th, 2010, Telecom Italia 
Future Lab was also staged in Rome, again as part of the Festival of Science.
Social initiatives
Interventions for the general development of the Community in terms of charity are carried out by Tel-ecom Italia Foundation and, to a lesser degree, by other arms of the Group.
The Telecom Italia Foundation
The Telecom Italia Foundation, established at the end of 2008, is one of the main Corporate Social Responsibility instruments of Telecom Italia re-garding the Community. Through its initiatives, the Group’s commitment to support the communities in which it operates is strengthened, promoting ideas and projects designed to improve people’s quality of life. In particular, the Foundation is active:
in the social /f_ield, developing educational and r
support projects dedicated to the vulnerable and disadvantaged categories and bands of the population;in developing projects dedicated to education, r
training and scienti/f_ic research;in protecting artistic and historical heritage, r85
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSthrough innovative ways and means of enjoying 
and disseminating knowledge. 
The Telecom Italia Foundation is a business foun-dation of a predominately distributive kind, with a management fund tied to the pro/f_itability of the Tel-ecom Italia Group. This fund, in 2010, is expected to be equal to 0.5 per thousand of the consolidated EBITDA, 2009. Telecom Italia Foundation’s action plan is de/f_ined annually and approved by the Board of Directors, which draws on the support of a Scien-ti/f_ic Direction Committee, made up of experts in the various /f_ields of intervention. 
In order to guarantee maximum transparency in 
the decision-making processes within the Founda-tion, a programme of stakeholder engagement was launched in 2009, with the support of authoritative experts from outside the Foundation in the process of analysis and de/f_inition of possible initiatives and projects in the “historic-artistic heritage” /f_ield. This involvement has shown itself to be an important in-strument in better understanding the dynamics and opportunities which open up for interventions in sup-port of this heritage, in harmony with the Founda-tion’s mission.
The Foundation’s projects are monitored on the 
basis of the speci/f_ic characteristics and objectives envisaged. The monitoring system is a require-ment built into the Foundation’s tenders and repre-sents one of the prerequisites for admission of the projects, in addition to an assessment parameter.
The projects pursued by the Telecom Italia Founda-
tion in 2009 are shown below.
Dyslexia Programme: r this has been organised 
with the Italian Dyslexia Association as a mul-tifaceted programme of interventions, within the framework of an agreement signed on July 15th, 2009, for three scholastic years.Earthquake in Abruzzo; r the Telecom Italia Foun-
dation made of donation of 200,000 euros to the Civil Protection, and allocated 1 million euros for a project to restore the cultural herit-age of the library of L’Aquila, which will be digi-tised and archived on computer, to be returned within a short term to the citizens. Telecom Italia Foundation Tenders:r  in June, 
2009, the Telecom Italia Foundation published two tenders on its website (www.fondazio-netelecomitalia.it), expiring on September 16th, 2009:
The “Work and Social Inclusion” tender,  -
through which six projects to /f_ind stable and quali/f_ied work for disadvantage people will be /f_inanced.Educational and new technologies tenders,  -
through which two projects to disseminate digital technologies in schools, and to stimulate education through the creation and delivery of multimedia and interactive lessons, will be /f_inanced.
St Francis of Assisi Wood;r  is an educational 
project carried out with the FAI as part of the operations to recover the St Francis of Assisi Wood, with the objective of making children, young people and adults aware of the need to respect and protect the environment and landscape. Theatre on the ward:r  in the paediatric wards 
of certain important Italian hospitals, young patients are entertained with the vision of the theatrical performances of the Teatro Antoni-ano, thanks to ADSL connections. It is an initi-ative run in partnership with Antoniano Onlus.
Other social initiatives of the Group 
Dynamo Camp:r  Telecom Italia is a founder 
member of Dynamo Camp, the /f_irst camp pur-pose built to host, at no charge, children suf-fering from serious and chronic diseases dur-ing treatment and in the post-hospitalisation period. Here, in December, Telecom Italia car-ried out the /f_irst initiative of corporate volun-teering (for further information, see § Human Resources/People Caring).Telecom Italia and the /f_ight against ALS: r Amyo-
trophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a rare, seri-ous progressive neurodegenerative disease. To contribute to the /f_ight against ALS, Telecom Italia:
has donated 40 computers to the asso- -
ciation, Viva La Vita Onlus, for the same number of ALS sufferers for whom ICT technologies are a vital factor, represent-ing the only way they can continue to com-municate with the world around them;on September 7th, 2009, at the San Siro  -
stadium in Milan, together with the Milan 86
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSFoundation, a football match was organ-
ised with part of the proceeds going to the Viva La Vita Onlus association, and part to the Stefano Borgonovo Foundation as a contribution to research.
Music in schools:r  the project, launched in 
2003 as a collaboration between the Group’s mobile companies in Latin America and the Brazilian government, is designed to promote, through musical education, the social inclusion of young children and adolescents who live in at-risk situations in 13 Brazilian cities. During the music courses, notions of civic responsibil-ity and peaceful co-existence are disseminat-ed. In many cases, the musical knowledge ac-quired has smoothed the way for participants into the world of work. To date, 20,540 students from 62 public schools have bene/f_ited from the project.Libera: r again in 2009, Telecom Italia has sup-
ported the activities of the Don Luigi Ciotti association, which is engaged with issues of legality and stands against organised crime and the ma/f_ia, through the recovery of lands that are con/f_iscated and then assigned to young people’s cooperatives for the produc-tion of agricultural produce (oil, wine, pasta and other produce). This produce was made up into 9,000 parcels that Telecom sent out as Christmas presents. Telecom has also con-tributed to creating educational courses on legality in schools and universities, collaborat-ing with national and local business organisa-tions (Con/f_industria) to /f_ight the phenomena of the ma/f_ia. The project has been running since 2000. Earthquake in Abruzzo: r in addition to what 
is reported under the activities of the Tel-ecom Italia Foundation, the Group has greatly helped, and continues to help, people involved in the earthquake. Among the initiatives car-ried out so far:
the creation, through in-company fund-rais- -
ing, of a fund of around 250,000 euros (in-cluding the contribution of 100,000 euros made available by Telecom Italia) which colleagues affected by the earthquake may use for personal needs;the activation of the 48580 number for do- -nations by SMS from mobile phones and /f_ixed-line calls;the donation to the University of L’Aquila  -
of 2,000 USB sticks for connecting to the Internet on the move, with 100 hours a month for four months of free traf/f_ic to allow students to continue with their edu-cation;the delivery to welcome centres select- -
ed by the Civil Protection of 150 mobile phones, to be used at no charge as “pubic telephones”;the creation of Internet points enabling  -
free Internet navigation;free top-ups of 10 euros, sent via SMS to  -
the 340,000 customers in the area of the earthquake of April 6th. A caring campaign was carried out until April 26th, which pro-vided further credit where needed;the distribution of 2,200 telephone cards  -
that could be used at mobile Public Tele-phone booths, located on the instructions of the Civil Protection;the activation of TIMinCASA Abruzzo, a  -
service that allows the transfer of /f_ixed-line home numbers to mobile phones, thereby receiving calls to the /f_ixed line number free of charge;the donation of 1,000 personal computers  -
to the University of L’Aquila;the donation to students of the Casa dello  -
Studente of 26 personal computers, un-der the guidance of the Presidency of the Republic;the distribution of 2,000 TIM mobile  -
phones with 5 euros of traf/f_ic at popula-tion reception points; tents, hospitals, hotels etc. A further 1,000 handsets (complete with SIM card and 5 euros of traf/f_ic) and 10,500 top-ups of 20 euros have been distributed, in coordination with the Ministry of Economic Development and other mobile phone operators;construction of modern /f_ibre-optic infra- -
structure, making telecommunications services and broadband connections available for all the new homes under the C.A.S.E. (Sustainable and Eco-compati-ble Anti-siesmic Complexes) project, with 87
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSthe free activation of telephone lines and 
ADSL connections in the event of removals and new equipment;the completion, by the end of 2009, of the  -
ultra-broadband network platform (NGN) for connections up to 100 Megabits a second;free transfers and take-overs of usage; -
staggered payment of bills for mobile sub- -
scription customers, /f_ixed network custom-ers and commercial partners operating on site;the suspension of actions against custom- -
ers in arrears in Abruzzo, both for /f_ixed network services and for mobile network services;the sending of two Telecom Italia mobile  -
homes to the tent cities for on-site assist-ance for the population.
VTCFKVKQPCNOGFKC
Involvement through the press of/f_iceThe involvement of the media takes place mainly through the press of/f_ice, through the sending of press releases, the organisation of interviews of the management, interaction with journalists and press staff, the organisation of press conferences and the presentation of products and services. Where pro-vided by the current regulations, the /f_inancial mar-kets and their supervisory bodies of those markets are also involved in the communication activities. 
In carrying out its activities, the press of/f_ice 
follows the Group’s speci/f_ic procedure for the man-agement and communication of information and privileged data, which governs the internal manage-ment and external communication of documents and information regarding the Company and de/f_ines the operational methods for communicating price sensitive information to the market (the procedure is available on the website, www.telecomitalia.it, in the Corporate/Governance/System of Governance/Codes, principles and procedures section).
Communication with the media takes place both 
on a spontaneous and proactive basis, and in re-sponse to the speci /f_ic requests of journalists. For 
the press of /f_ice of the Telecom Italia Group, all the 
media (press agencies, daily newspapers, periodi-cals, radio, TV and web) are potential stakeholders. In addition to telephonic contact, mailing lists are created ad hoc for the different information chan-nels at times of public meetings or presentations of products/services, based on a close analysis of the entire panorama of Italian and international journalism.
The results of the activities of the press of/f_ice 
are periodically monitored by a research company. In particular, the visibility of articles mentioning Telecom Italia and its products and services are analysed on a monthly basis, making comparisons against a standard consisting of a medium length article published on an entire page of a title of average diffusion, without pictures and by-line. By giving each article examined a positive or negative value, according to whether it expresses facts and opinions for or against the Company, an Index of the Quality of Visibility (IQV) is arrived at. On the basis of this analysis, Telecom Italia has twice the global visibility of its competitors. Comparing the quali-tative data with that for the year 2008, within an overall framework of reference that is deteriorating slightly, Telecom Italia is the only operator which, in 2009, recorded a signi/f_icant improvement in its IQV (+20%). 
Involvement through the Group’s website 
The corporate site of Telecom Italia (www.telecomi-talia.com) is the point of on line access to the commercial, service and institutional content of the Group. The key stakeholders are: 
the general visitor interested in /f_inding out r
about the company and/or Telecom Italia’s of-fers: the home page is dedicated to them, act-ing as hub directing them to the institutional content or to various commercial sites, accord-ing to their requirements;customers or potential customers who wish to r
/f_ind out about the provisions and promotions of the Group; the Private and Business chan-nels are dedicated to them, subdivided by the type of public and nature of the offer;customers who wish to /f_ind areas for dialogue r
with the company and/or who need support and assistance: the channels Parla con noi and Info & Assistance are dedicated to them, with different types of channels of contact for private, business and institutional customers;88
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSresearchers and scholars interested in /f_inding r
out more about the Group and its innovations;
institutional and retail investors, analysts and r
bondholders, both Italian and international;the ethical funds;r
people looking for work;r
journalists.r
There is a dedicated section for each part of the public, with content and in-depth material to meet their speci/f_ic needs. Various methods are provided to give and receive feedback. 
Particular attention is paid to web ranking and 
classi/f_ications which allow comparison with what has been created by competitors. On the basis of these indications, the site is continuously updated, enriched and modi/f_ied with new content and func-tionality of ever greater interest to the users. 
In 2009, Telecom Italia achieved the following 
placings:
second in Italy for the communication of sus-r
tainability through the institutional website in the “CSR Online Awards,” in the classi/f_ication of on line communication of Corporate Social Responsibility, managed by the /f_inancial com-munication company Lundquist, in collabora-tion with the economic-/f_inancial daily, Il Sole 24 Ore;third in Europe in the Hallvarsson&Halvarsson r
(H&H) “Webranking Europe 500”, which gives awards for the best corporate sites of the ma-jor listed companies on the basis of the qual-ity, transparency, richness and effectiveness of the on line institutional and /f_inancial commu-nication;/f_ifth in Italy in the same national H&H classi/f_i-r
cation for communication through institutional websites.
Involvement through the Group’s broadcast stations
Through TI Media, the Group controls the televi-sions broadcast stations La7 and MTV . In order to select the programmes to be made, a dedicated of-/f_ice conducts regular market research on the needs of current and potential audience. La7, whose programmes are aimed at a mainly adult, culturally aware public, measures the satisfaction and enjoy-ment of the choices in the programme schedule mainly through Auditel and, additionally, through the blogs dedicated to speci/f_ic programmes.
MTV , which is aimed at a young public, does 
not use Auditel but instead creates speci/f_ic focus groups to assess and formulate the programmes.
Among the most appreciated programmes are 
the information services (particularly TG La7).
The editor is responsible for the broadcast con-
tent and is therefore the guarantor of respect for the regulations, including independence, press freedom and journalistic expression. Furthermore, the mem-bership of the journalists of a speci/f_ic, professional body determines their rights and responsibilities. 
La7 and MTV have always been committed to the 
promotion of social issues. Some examples of ac-tivities undertaken in 2009 are given below:
free access to the programme schedule of La7 r
to Save the Children and Unicef (space taken from the advertising pool) and free access for the representatives of these organisations to certain TV programmes;La7 has decided to give away a kit to the peo-r
ple in the areas in which Save the Children operates instead of Christmas presents to its staff, who received a token marking the dona-tion made on their behalf;La7 dedicated an evening’s transmission r
to the Copenhagen Conference on Climate Change.MTV broadcast two specials entitled “MTV 4 r
Peace,” a project carried out in collaboration with the 9th World Summit of Noble Peace Laureates and Kids’ Rights, in which several young people were given the chance to meet some of the most famous winners of the No-bel Price for Peace and question them on how to build a better world; MTV launched a fund-raising campaign for the r
earthquake in Abruzzo, in collaboration with the Ministry for Youth, with the broadcasting of 3 spots in support of the reconstruction of structures for young people. A television spe-cial was also broadcast of the concert “Wom-en for Abruzzo,” which was held at San Siro on March 21st. 
In addition, the following campaigns have been con-ducted:
The planet we will become:r  the campaign, on 89
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSthe occasion of the World Environment Day or-
ganised by the United Nations, involved the tel-evision platforms La7 and Alice Home TV from the end of May to the beginning of June. On the La7.it website, the initiative “Your promise to safeguard the future climate” and an ad hoc publicity campaign were conducted, running to the end of the year. Road Safety Messages:r  this is an initiative 
in collaboration with the Ministry of Educa-tion, aimed at the television audience of the Superbike championship and the world of two wheels, with the aim of increasing awareness of proper, responsible driving. The campaign involved all the TI Media Group platforms from April to November 2009, with dedicated televi-sion programmes and the publication on the La7.it site of informative articles, clips and competitions aimed at bloggers, which saw the participation of 2,500 people. 
The awareness campaign launched on La7 and Alice Home TV individually reached more than 20 million television viewers. The respective support campaign on the Web reached more than 10,000 individual users overall.
UQEKCNOGFKCCPFFKIKVCNEQOOWPKECVKQP
Social media means the on line technologies and practices that users adopt to share words, pictures, video and audio content. Through the social media, a merger takes place between sociology and tech-nology, and the type of conversation it gives rise to ranges from a form of monologue (by one person to many) to one of dialogue (by many to many). People are thereby transforming themselves from content users to editors and generators of content. The dominant feature is no longer simply exploring, but interacting and doing. 
The popularity and wide availability that the so-
cial media have achieved is such that companies cannot underestimate the effects on their busi-nesses. 
Telecom Italia has identi/f_ied the need to launch 
a true dialogue with its stakeholders, bringing to-gether its traditional and innovative communication channels: the Italian social community, the emerging subjects of the new Internet (young talent, entrepre-neurs, early web adopters, research centres, incuba-tors and /f_inanciers, universities, institutions, hi-tech companies), opinion leaders (bloggers and journal-ists) and private and public subjects who represent the engine of innovation in our country and who can stand for and safeguard the criteria of sustainability, based on the expected development, as well as the traditional stakeholders (customers, suppliers and institutions). 
Objectives and strategies of stakeholder involvement
The strategy of involvement is developed around 
the new dimensions of the conversation in the 2.0 world, through the positioning of Telecom Italia on the new Internet with the aim of creating a digital ecosystem, through: 
the development of projects according to the r
latest updated standards of web 2.0, thanks also to active contributions to the ecosystem; the involvement of the opinion leaders through r
the creation of communication initiatives on and of/f_line; the extension of events to the mass media r
and the Network, to create a more general cross-media link-up between environments, tra-ditional media and social networking;constant monitoring of the feedback from the r
social media and the respective KPI.
ProjectsThe projects launched and developed in 2009 are shown below.
Working Capital: r backing the ideas put forward 
to support Italian innovations and entrepreneuri-al initiatives in the web 2.0 environment, supply-ing expertise, technologies and services in sup-port of their realisation and helping the growth of a new generation of Italian entrepreneurs. The initiative takes place on the Internet, but also involves a series of meetings (barcamps) with aspiring young entrepreneurs and authori-tative guests, which are rolled out across the entire national territory.Venice Session:r  conversation platform which 
involves the stakeholders of innovation on a national and worldwide scale, in order to un-derstand the changeable and complex realities of the present, historic scenario and build the 90
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSfuture narrative. Entrepreneurs and writers, phi-
losophers and scientists, artists and journalists explore the future by interrogating each other on the country’s needs; recounting experienc-es, visions and projects becomes a method of research, capable of bringing together different cultures in a shared journey. Following the con-ference, held at Telecom Italia’s Future Centre in Venice and transmitted by direct streaming and live blogging on the Internet, written reports and video were published on the website and the project blog, and also disseminated on the lead-ing, most visited social networks.Jpeggy: r this is the project that promotes Ital-
ian photographic talent and, with the support of Amaci (Association of Italian Contemporary Art Museums) and a group of exceptional cura-tors, it uses the Internet as a tool for bringing together and displaying works or art. Access to the Internet as a platform for distribution and publication has allowed talent to emerge that would not otherwise have been seen. Jpeggy recreates on the Internet the process of visual artistic selection and production, and allows the “long queue” of Italian photographic talent to emerge and become involved in the artistic conversation.Ustation: r this is the 2.0 medium for the universi-
ties’ web radio and TV , insofar as it acts as a catalyst of the content generated by them. La7 has a television format (already on air) which, in its turn, incorporates the content of Ustation. In this way, the Italian student population has at its disposal an innovative instrument of informa-tion which completely revolutionises the genera-tion of formats by introducing a new, reverse pathway: from the Internet to TV .  
Digital capital: r this is a project for the diffusion 
of digital culture focused on the city of Rome, with meetings and events that have seen the participation of national and international rap-porteurs who summarise the changes underway, bringing together the different environments and cultures that operate in the capital and which already, each through their own projects, dem-onstrate today the ecosystem of tomorrow. Roma Europa Web Factory: r a web community 
dedicated to multimedia artists, a creative work-shop aimed at drawing in and promoting the talent of all the internauts who are expressing their creativity on the web.AvoiComunicare (r www.avoicomunicare.it):  
this is a project created by Telecom Italia to encourage an open discussion on issues of great importance: environment, sustainable development, biodiversity, possible equilibri-ums between different worlds and cultures, integration, building peace through familiarity and reciprocal listening.  The blog, launched in September, 2008, be-gan by dealing with the issues of integration between different cultures and ethnic confron-tation, with the support of outstanding testi-monials (such as Mikail Gorbachev, Joaquín Navarro-Valls, Tara Gandhi, Tahar Ben Jelloun and Bob Geldof). Since the early months of 2009, AvoiComunicare has been focusing on the issue closest to the heart of the commu-nity: the environment and sustainability in the fullest sense, decisive factors in safeguarding the future of the planet. The issue was chosen by the users themselves in an on line survey.  In November, the World Conference of Science for Peace was featured on the pages of avoi-comunicare with a variety of activities, includ-ing direct on line streaming and video inter-views. In December, the return to focusing on the environment arose spontaneously thanks to the UN summit in Copenhagen, and a blog-ger was sent to Copenhagen to cover the agenda and carry out ad hoc video interviews.  
AvoiComunicare interviewed experts and wit -
nesses – including Jeremy Rifkin, Giovanni Soldini, Stephen Schneider, Carlo Petrini, An-tonino Zichichi, Bjørn Lomborg, Colin Campbell and Mario Tozzi – on topics such as pollution, the climate and renewable energy, but also talked to ordinary people involved in safe-guarding the environment and in research into new solutions; it also hosted many bloggers who deal with environmental issues on their sites.  
In November, AvoiComunicare was awarded the “Areté” prize for responsible communi-cation in the Internet category, promoted by Pentapolis, an association for the diffusion of Corporate Social Responsibility.91
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSResults
The projects, all non-pro/f_it making, were carried out in collaboration and partnership with the emerging players in the media and the digital culture, and with leading subjects in the respective /f_ields of innova-tion. 
Active networks and communities involved in 
the Social Media have been created with more than 10,000 direct connections and over 200 interac-tions every day. Direct streaming media have attract-ed 2,000 hits, with a peak of 3,600 for the Venice Sessions IV event. More than 18,000 pictures from over 1,500 photographers have been posted on the Jpeggy platform. 
Through the Working Capital project, 6,000 as-
piring web 2.0 entrepreneurs have been involved and relationships have been established, and later consolidated, with the leaders in digital innovation and in/f_luential Italian /f_igures in the sector, especially journalists and bloggers with expertise in innovation. 
AvoiComunicare has been followed by around 1 
million individual users during 2009, with a total of almost 2,5 million pages viewed. The projects has progressively opened itself up to the realities of the Network, inaugurating a fan page on Facebook, now followed by 11,500 fans, and a channel on YouTube which has clocked up more than 41,000 video view-ings. More than 4,500 individual users watched ‘For Peace Live’, live from the Piccolo Teatro.
TGUGCTEJCPFFGXGNQROGPV
Telecom Italia Group’s research and development activities are carried out by TILab, by the Opera-tional Units and businesses (Networks, Marketing, Information Technology, Security) and by the Group’s companies.
TILab is the Technology and Operations Depart-
ment’s structure for overseeing the Group’s tech-nological innovation, scouting out new technolo-gies and carrying out the engineering operations for the services and network platforms, through a network of strategic partnerships with the main producers of telecommunications equipment and systems, and with research centres of excellence at the most highly quali/f_ied national and international academic institutions. In 2009, three new collabora-tive projects were begun with the same number of universities (in addition to the 30 already underway since the beginning of 2009), covering research into new technologies, encryption algorithms, service concepts and new paradigms of communication.
Activities to enhance and generate competi-
tive advantage for Telecom Italia Group have been pursued through a strategic management of the relationship between research, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and business, aimed at the develop-ment of the company’s assets in patents rights; in this context, during 2009, 20 new applications for patents were registered.
The main activities carried out by TILab are:
the creation of services in the iPhone environ-r
ment, in particular, access to information and multimedia content in the area of value added services (VAS). As part of this, version 2.0 of the Virgilio portal was successfully launched, enriched with maps and local content;the start of experimentation with innovative /f_i-r
bre cabling solutions inside buildings (Fibre to the Home – FTTH). Its outstanding character-istic is that it can be used without having any impact on the existing infrastructure;the start of engineering and deployment op-r
erations on 200 exchanges of the Kaleidos system for energy ef/f_iciency (see § The Envi-ronment/Environmental performance). Instal-lations have been created to test the results of energy ef/f_iciency measures at business customers; an innovative air condition system was devised r
and tested in TILab’s test plants for the central environments called Extraction and Full Free Cooling (EFFC). This solution is able to refresh the environment with an energy saving greater than 80% compared to traditional systems, without the use of synthetic /f_luids banned by the Kyoto protocol. Given the positive results of the tests, the technique has been extended to around 400 operational centres;the launch, in partnership with the Miroglio r
Group, of the /f_irst initiative at national level of SIM-based /f_idelity card, employing Near Field Communication (NFC) proximity technology, which enables the use of the phone owner’s SIM as a Fidelity Card (see § Customers/Inno-vative Services); the development, in collaboration with Nokia r92
the communityEXTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSSiemens Networks, of the /f_irst “intelligent” an-
tennas, capable of improving the performance of High Speed Packet Access (HSPA) technol-ogy. This equipment makes it possible to opti-mise the mobile radio base stations, improving the quality of the service offered to customers and, at the same time, guaranteeing lower en-ergy consumption and a reduction of electro-magnetic /f_ields;experiments in the /f_ield of LTE (Long Term r
Evolution) technology, natural evolution in ac-cordance with the 3GPP standard of the HSPA technology currently in use. The test, the /f_irst in Italy and one of the /f_irst in the world with pre-commercial network equipment, was origi-nally carried out in the laboratory (at the TILab test plant in Turin) and subsequently in an area in the centre of Turin;the release into operation of the converging r
contact centre platform for business custom-ers (IPCC);the completion of the adjustments of the mo-r
bile network to enable the retracing of attempt-ed calls (Frattini decree);the release into operation of the advertising r
platform on the WAP and MMS services. 
In addition, in 2009, TILab made a decisive contribu-tion to the success of two Group initiatives of great social importance:
the activation, at four paediatric hospitals in r
Italy, of Smart Inclusion, a remote teaching so-lution aimed at child patients (see § Respons-es to the stakeholders);the activation in Rio de Janeiro of the /f_irst pilot r
project of Telemedicine, bringing remote health care to the city’s most disadvantaged people (see § Customers/Digital Divide).
The research and development activities carried out by the Operational and Business Units of Telecom Italia, carried out internally or outsourced, have been directed towards the creation of:
software products dedicated to the man-r
agement of new commercial offers and new services for customers (Business Support Systems), to the proper functioning of network support systems (Operational Support Sys-tems), and to Security; testing and speci/f_ic checks for tenders and r
new network architecture;new hardware infrastructure in support of the r
applications.
The main activities have been:
the development of a new platform, “CRM Busi-r
ness”, for the commercial management of the SOHO, SME, Enterprise and Top customers;the development of a new platform, “single, r
convergent billing” for the administration of the invoicing of /f_ixed/mobile services for the consumer customer;the evolution of the digital platforms in sup-r
port of the business departments for the im-plementation of new services for the Consum-er, Business & Top customers; the evolution of the hardware infrastructure in r
accordance with the principles of virtualisation (Next Generation Data Centre) and the provi-sion of the technologies in order to develop the commercial offers in the ICT market (for example, Ospit@Virtuale).Internal 
Stakeholders96
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
The companies of the Group recognise the central 
importance of Human Resources, in the conviction that the principal factor in the success of any busi-ness is the professional contribution of the people who work there, within a framework of loyalty and reciprocal trust.
The companies of the Group protect health and 
safety in the workplace, and believe respect for workers’ rights in the conduct of economic activity is a fundamental principle. 
The management of the workforce is aimed to 
guarantee equal opportunities and to promote the professional growth of each person.
UVCMGJQNFGTU
The relevant stakeholders are the employees and trades unions.
JGCFEQWPVCPFEJCPIGU
Telecom Italia Group The headcount of personnel at December 31st, 2009, was divided as follows:
(UNITS) DEC. 31
2009DEC. 31
2008CHANGES
Italy 60,829 63,521 (2,692)
Abroad 10,499 11,017 (518)
Total personnel 
on payroll71,328 74,538 (3,210)
Leased  personnel56 782 (726)
Total personnel 71,384 75,320 (3,936)
Non-current assets held for sale2,205 2,505 (300)
Total 73,589 77,825 (4,236)
Excluding personnel concerned with “Discontin-
ued operations/Non-current assets held for sale” (HanseNet) and leased personnel, the Group’s work-force has been reduced by 3,210 units, compared to December 31st, 2008.
The changes can be itemized as follows:
the departure of the company TM News (105 r
units) from the area of consolidation;
the entry into the area of consolidation of r
the company INTELIG Telcomunicaçoes (580 units);People create the success of the business.
HUMAN RESOURCES
97
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSnet turnover down by 3,685 units, as speci/f_ied r
for individual Business Units:
(UNITS) RECRUITED DEPARTED NET  
CHANGE
Domestic 630 3,082 (2,452)
Brazil 2,024 3,109 (1,085)
Olivetti, 
Media and Other activities255 403 (148)
Turn over 2,909 6,594 (3,685)
Telecom Italia S.p.A.
(UNITS) DEC. 31
2009DEC. 31
2008NET  
CHANGE
Personnel on payroll54,236 56,650 (2,414)
Leased  personnel- 635 (635)
Total 54,236 57,285 (3,049)
At December 31st, 2009, Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s on-
payroll personnel numbered 54,236 units.
Compared to December 31st, 2008, an overall re-
duction of 2,414 units was recorded, due to:
a balance of 61 units coming from other Group r
Companies;net turnover down by 2,475 units, as speci-r
/f_ied:
(UNITS) RECRUITED DEPARTED NET CHANGE
Turnover 
Telecom Italia S.p.A.384 2,859 (2,475)Tim Brasil Group
The headcount of personnel of Tim Brasil Group as of December 31st, 2009, was equal to 9,783 units. 
(UNITS) DEC. 31
2009DEC. 31
2008CHANGES
Total Tim 
Brasil Group9,783 10,285 (502)
Compared to December 31st, 2008, an overall re-
duction of 502 units was recorded, due to:
a balance of 3 units coming from other Group r
Companies;the entry into the area of consolidation of the r
company INTELIG Telecomunicações (580 units);net turnover down by 1,085 units, as speci-r
/f_ied:
(UNITS) RECRUITED DEPARTED NET  
CHANGE
Turnover 
Tim Brasil Group2,024 3,109 (1,085)
Excluding leased personnel and personnel involved 
in “Non-current assets held for sale,” the number of personnel operating in Italy is equal to 85% of the Group total and can be broken down as follows:
	



	






	

90.2%of/f_ice staff/
specialistsseniormanagers
1.7%workers
0.4%middle managers/professionals
7.7%TELECOM ITALIA GROUP – ITALY: 
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN  BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY98
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERS	



	







up to 32
years
9.5%
over 45years
41.5%from 33 to 45 years
49.0%
	



	









university 
degree
17.9%other
12.1%
high school graduates
70.0%
The distribution of personnel by geographic area, 
and the recruitment carried out by the Group, exclud-
distribuzione del numero dei dipendenti del gruppo 
telecom italia per aree geografiche85.3%ItalyAbroad
14.7%
distribuzioni delle assunzioni del gruppo telecom 
italia per aree geografiche73.2%AbroadItaly
26.8%TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:  
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN  BY GEOGRAPHIC AREATELECOM ITALIA GROUP:  RECRUITMENT BREAKDOWN BY GEOGRAPHIC AREATELECOM ITALIA GROUP – ITALY: 
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN  BY LEVEL OF EDUCATIONTELECOM ITALIA GROUP – ITALY: EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN  BY AGE GROUP
ing leased personnel and personnel concerned in 
“Non-current assets held for sale,” are shown below:99
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSThe number of personnel operating in Tim Brasil 
Group is equal to 14% of the Group total and can be broken down as follows:
TIM BRASIL GROUP: 
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN  BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY
TIM BRASIL GROUP: 
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY LEVEL OF EDUCATIONTIM BRASIL GROUP: 
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN  BY AGE GROUP
"
96.6%of/f_ice staff/
specialistsseniormanagers
0.3%middle managers/professionals
3.1%
"
#!up to 32
years
67.9%over 45years
4.8% from 33 to 45 years
27.3%
"
university 
degree
35.3%other
0.9%
high school graduates
63.8%IGPFGTDCNCPEG
In 2009, the percentage of women holding senior 
management positions in the Group (in Italy) was approximately 15% and, in middle management, the proportion was 26%. 
In 2009, the percentage of women holding sen-
ior management positions in Tim Brasil was approxi-mately 19% and, in middle management, the propor-tion of the total was 27%. 
In Tim Brasil, women employed by the company 
rose from 3,263 in 2003 (54% of the total) to 6,220 in 2008 (60% of the total), and stood at 5,726 in 2009 (58% of the total).
DISTRIBUTION OF MEN AND WOMEN 
TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A. (2008-2009)
DISTRIBUTION OF MEN AND WOMEN  TELECOM ITALIA GROUP (IN ITALY) (2008-2009)
DISTRIBUTION OF MEN AND WOMEN  TIM BRASIL GROUP (2008-2009)	

 27.2% 27.8%
72.8% 72.2%2008 2009
women women
men men
2008 2009
	

 
29.7% 30.3%
70.3% 69.7%women
menwomen
men
2008 2009
	

 
60.5% 58.5%
39.5% 41.5%women
menwomen
men100
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSRGQRNGECTKPI
Telecom Italia Group, over the years, has developed 
a series of “works in progress” and interventions in support of its Italian and Brazilian employees, to improve the quality of their working lives and also support those outside the company. 
CEVKQPUKPUWRRQTVQHGORNQ[GGU±
KVCN[
People Caring is the structure created by Telecom 
Italia to respond to the expectations of the person-nel on certain important issues, identi/f_ied through active listening carried out both on line (Intranet, community, email) and through meetings and focus groups.
The issues identi/f_ied are as follows:
work-life balance;r
support for the needs of children and families r
in general;support for initiatives of voluntary service by r
employees;encouraging the forms of diversity present in r
the work context through diversity manage-ment activities and projects.
The work-life balance of employees
Reconciling work and family life is not an easy r
task: however, the company can make an effec-tive contribution. Telecom Italia was awarded the “Family-Work 2009 Prize”, devised and pro-moted by the Lombardy Region in collaboration with ALTIS (Alta Scuola Impresa e Società, Cath-olic University) for creating the best integrated system for reconciling the family-work balance in support of its employees and their families. The initiative, now in its second edition, rewards businesses and public administrations whose planning and implementation of projects recon-ciling family and work life are outstanding. Pink Parking: for pregnant employees, through-r
out the working period until the beginning of maternity leave, a car par space is reserved in all the of/f_ices with company parking lots. Nurseries: in addition to the nine company r
nurseries at the of/f_ices in Rome (3), Turin, Mi-lan, Ancona, Naples, Catanzaro and Palermo, two agreements have been reached with the same number of outside nurseries (Rome and Naples). Loans for mums and dads: 259 loans have r
been granted to new parents of children up to three years old.Christmas day: visits to parents’ of/f_ices for r
children up to 10 years, around the Christmas period, and tea parties in 120 of/f_ices, with the distribution of little gifts. Parents’ Days Off: booklets of time vouch-r
ers for 150 hours’ off annually, to be repaid through overtime, for employees up to level 5 of the collective agreement with children up to 8 years of age.Time off to attend pre-natal classes: time off, r
up to a maximum of 12 hours a month, to be recuperated, for working mothers- and fathers-to-be.Intervention to ease the reentry in the compa-r
ny of employees following maternity leave: the development of management policies such as, for example, the option to work part time for a year, renewable, for mothers of children up to 8 years of age. Time saving: Agency Services: within 31 com-r
pany premises (Turin, Milan, Venice, Padua, Bologna, Florence, Rome, Naples, Bari and Palermo), another three counters have been opened for dealing with various practicalities (administration, post etc.).Wellbeing Areas; in the company of/f_ices in r
Milan, Padua, Rome and Palermo, there are areas where it is possible to follow courses in physical wellbeing.Laundry/shoe repairs: this service is opera-r
tional in 4 premises (Milan and Rome).Newspaper kiosks: open in two of/f_ices in r
Rome. Special deals: on line offers of products and r
services arising out of Telecom Italia’s part-nership agreements, mostly within Italy (cars and motorbikes, entertainment and shows, electronic goods, sports goods, offers from /f_i-nancial institutions, health and wellbeing, trips and holidays, miscellaneous).Company loans: 555 loans have been granted, r
of which 67 were for buying/building homes and 86 to /f_inance renovation works on homes. 101
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSBalance between working life and free time for the 
children of employees
Traditional summer camp: a 15-day stay for r
children aged between 6 and 12 years old. 4,559 participants.Themed summer camp: a 14-day stay for chil-r
dren between 11 and 17 years old, dedicated to the study of English or Spanish, and sport-ing activities (football, tennis, sailing, horse-riding, volley ball, basket ball, canoeing etc.). 1,651 participants. Study visit to England: a 14-day stay at col-r
leges in three locations. 228 participants be-tween 14 and 17 years old. Foreign study bursaries: 80 four-week visits r
abroad, dedicated to the study of the English language, for young people between 15-17 years old (41 in Ireland, 31 in Finland and 8 in Spain); 20 study trips for an academic year for young people between 15-17 years old (Eu-rope, United States and Canada).Reimbursement of fees for the /f_irst year of r
University for children of employees of Group companies who achieved a score of 90/100 in their school-leaving diploma.
Support for voluntary service initiatives
In December, 2009, a number of employees of r
the Group chose to spend a week at the Dyna-mo Camp, of which Telecom Italia is a founder member, thanks to repayable time off from the company. It is the /f_irst camp that was purpose-built to host, at no charge, children suffer-ing from serious and chronic diseases during treatment and in the post-hospitalisation pe-riod. At the camp, children give great support to each other and build up their self con/f_i-dence, which sustains them during the course of the treatment and on their return home. The volunteers had the task of welcoming the guests (children, young people or families), ac-companying and supporting them in their every need and necessity, ensuring the camp was an entertaining and stimulating environment, but also a safe and physically protected one. The “noi.perloro” Community, launched on r
the Intranet in 2007, brings together solidar-ity initiatives carried out by employees of the Group, offering a place where these initiatives can be given visibility in order to increase the possibility of networking. Currently, 109 asso-ciations and non-pro/f_it organisations partici-pate in the Community. In 2009, /f_ive charity initiatives were organised in the cities of Rome and Naples, while “Solidarity Banquets” were arranged during the Christmas festivities (from Monday, December 14th, to Friday, December 18th) in Telecom of/f_ices in Turin, Milan, Rome, Naples and Palermo, involving 17 associa-tions. 
Diversity Management activities and projects 
To give value to all forms of diversity in the r
workplace (disability, single parents, ethnic and religious diversity), several focus groups were organised in 2009 on the issues of dis-ability and diversity in gender, culture and age. All members of management in the Human r
Resources and Organisation Department were involved in a speci/f_ic training/information ini-tiative, which was then broadened to other per-sonnel, through activities run on the Intranet, such as, for example, the “Diversity Contest,” which consists of the publication of articles on speci/f_ic aspects of diversity, accompanied by tests to make the reading more stimulating and increase involvement. The “Comunico-io” project was launched with r
the objective of identifying and implementing instruments which facilitate communication between around 80 colleagues who are af-fected by deafness and those with whom they are in contact at work. The hearing-impaired employees are supplied with devices which aid communication with others through chat serv-ices and LIS – the Italian Sign Language. 
ALATEL and the Gold Pins The Association of Senior Workers of the Group (22,873 members, of which 3,555 are current em-ployees) has continued to carry out its institutional activities, con/f_irming its collaboration with Olivetti’s Gold Pins Association (3,417 members).
ASSILT 
ASSILT conducts campaigns in support of preventive medicine and health education, in collaboration with public health-care centres and scienti/f_ic institutes. 102
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSMoreover, the Association distributes reimburse-
ments for integrated health services supplied by the National Health Service (498,000 carried out in 2009, for a total of more than 50 million euros).
In 2009, the health education campaign on prop-
er nutrition was completed, organised in collabora-tion with the National Institute for Food and Nutrition Research, which was aimed at all members and, in particular, users of the company’s catering facilities. 
At December 31st, 2009, the Association had 
185,656 members, of whom 61,220 were employ-ees, 38,844 were pensioners and 85,592 were families.
ASSIDA
ASSIDA distributes reimbursements for health serv-ices, supplementary to those supplied by the Na-tional Health Service. In 2009, 60,000 cases were handled for an overall amount of 20 million euros. 
At December 31st, 2009, the Association had 
5,080 members among managers, in-service or pensioners, making a total, with their families, of 11,800 bene/f_iciaries. 
CRALT
CRALT organises initiatives for its members, employ-ees and pensioners, such as:
tourism (group and individual trips) with an r
average saving of 15%, compared to market prices;sports (participation at national and regional r
meetings of the main sports);cultural and recreational events (guided tours, r
painting courses, theatre and cinema eve-nings);
The contribution in support of members can reach 40%. The fees to participate in the initiatives can be paid by instalments, through deductions from salary.
Moreover, CRALT allows members and their re-
spective nuclear families, through the stipulation of appropriate agreements, to acquire goods and services of particular importance and usefulness (such as, for example, school books, season tickers for public transport) at especially favourable prices/fees, taking advantage of payment by instalments. 
At December 31st, 2009, there were 50,380 
members, of whom 44,034 were employees and 6,346 were pensioners.CEVKQPUKPUWRRQTVQHGORNQ[GGU±
DTC\KN
The work-life balance of employees
In 2009, Tim Brasil supported various initiatives, including:
“TIM opens the doors”: allows children to get to r
know their parents’ working environment during Brazil’s Children’s Day; recreational activities were staged for the occasion, open to all em -
ployees’ children aged between 3 and 12 years.“Happy Day”: on their birthdays, employees r
have the right to a day off and to receive a birth-day card signed by all their work colleagues.Gymnastics and ergonomics: in the company r
of/f_ices in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, São Paulo, Curitiba, Recife, Santo André, Brasil-ia, Salvador, Florianopolis, Porto Alegre and Belém, gymnastic sessions are held in the workplace, in order to encourage correct pos-ture and the proper use of work tools. In the regional of/f_ices in Rio de Janeiro, Belo Hori-zonte, São Paulo and Curitiba, it is possible to follow courses in physical well-being and relaxation, such as Shiatsu and Yoga, either in a gym or a dedicated area.Special Deals: national and/or regional agree-r
ments for the purchase/use of goods and services under advantageous conditions, for car and motorbike insurance, cultural and en-tertainment services, restaurants, health and well-being and the practice of sport. In 2009, agreements were entered into with Universi-ties for language courses and other types of instruction. 
Private health assistance in Brazil 
The private Health Assistance programme for 
employees of the companies of the Group in Brazil includes both medical and dental services through an accredited network, and a system of reimbursements – with prede /f_ined maximums – for services outside 
the network. The overall cost of health services dur-ing 2009 was more than 12 million euros. As in 2008, a programme of voluntary vaccination, aimed at preventing in /f_luenza, was also carried out in 2009. 
At December 31st, 2009, there were 18,074 
members, of whom 9,454 were employees and 8,620 were relatives.103
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSSupplementary social security in Brazil
Since 2006, Tim Brasil has operated the Private Social Security Plan for all employees. At the end of December, 2009, the membership ratio reached 85% of employees, in con/f_irmation of its appreciation. 
FGXGNQROGPV
The department for human resources development has the objective of demonstrating the technical and managerial competence of the resources, drawing up plans for their development and loyalty, with particu-lar regard for talent. The instruments used for this purpose, drawn up with regard also to the national and international benchmarks, are described below.
Assessment of performance
In the course of the year, a process of reappraisal has been underway of the Performance Assessment System, with the introduction, underway since 2008 in the assessment phase, of certain signi/f_icant de-velopments. 
Interventions have been provided aimed at:
increasing the selectivity of the instrument and r
making it more consistent with meritocratic 
choices, through the introduction of guidelines for the distribution of the assessments; improving the uniformity of the assessment cri-r
teria, through the establishment of Calibration Committees;underlining the centrality of the feedback inter-r
views between bosses and collaborators in lay-ing the foundations for a process of improve-ment in performance and the development of professionalism, through the introduction of a new on line facility through which those as-sessed can give notice of any cases of feed-back interviews not received. 
The 2008 performance assessment process, which was completed in the /f_irst months of 2009, involved around 99.3% of those eligible, that is more than 53,000 people (nearly 17% more than the number assessed in the previous year). Following the results achieved and the experience gained, further new developments were introduced in the performance assessment process in 2009, which will be carried out in the /f_irst months of 2010. 
The new developments are designed to: 
simplify the process, making an overall as-r
sessment of the contribution of each collabo-rator in reaching the objectives of the sector to which they belong;disseminating a single model of conduct r
(“house style”) through the identi/f_ication of a set of behaviours, guided by the Customer Promise, which are regarded as fundamental in achieving the company’s objectives and the continual improvement of the satisfaction of the end customer. 
The Performance Assessment in Tim Brasil involved 96.5% of the collaborators
(1). This year, competence 
in “focus on the customer” was included as an ob-ligatory assessment for all collaborators. The feed-back was also regarded as an obligatory stage in concluding the assessment process. The individual development plan, which follows the assessment process, has, for the /f_irst time, been made available on line. 
Assessment of Potential and Succession Schemes 
In 2009, a new assessment of readiness for man-agement was designed in Telecom Italia, through which around 200 managers were assessed. 
The Assessment Programme is aimed at broad-
ening awareness of the capacity and potential of the resources, in order to give direction to the deci-sions on the issue of succession management and to guide training. The information collected, together with that concerning professional experience, is used to de/f_ine the Succession Schemes organised, from this year, in a new digital system. 
In Tim Brasil, the assessment programme has in-
volved 70 managers in positions of responsibility. 
“The professions of the future” project
In 2009, a project was carried out, using the meth-odology of the Delphi provision, to identify the “Pro-fessions of the Future” in the technological and commercial sectors, through the involvement of a panel of 40 internal professionals, to assess the 
(1) The process concerns employees who have worked for a minimum 
of six months in the year in question, apart from managers and those who work in customer care centres (for which an appropri-ate assessment is made).104
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSimplications that the development of the ICT market 
may have on the professional system. 
The methodology used allowed the development 
within the company of a methodological approach to the solution of complex problems, reinforcing the commitment and motivation of the resources in-volved in evaluations and strategic choices. 
Development project for the Marketing department
Starting from the analysis of the competence gap, an action plan has been de/f_ined to launch a process of knowledge transfer, aimed at the resources in the Marketing structures. The plan has allowed the im-plementation of a series of actions of development and training, both individually and as a group. 
The project involved a total of 11 senior manag-
ers, 55 middle managers and 116 employees. 
TGETWKVOGPV
In 2009, an external selection policy was imple-mented, applicable at the Group level, which en-sures uniformity in the processes of the selection of the resources coming into the company, in line with the measures of the Group’s Code of Ethics. The policy is founded on the recognition of the value of the diversity of each individual, irrespective of gender, religion, ethnicity, opinion and ability, and ensures equal opportunities for people who take part in the selection processes that lead to hiring by Telecom Italia.
The year 2009 was packed with new projects aimed 
at creating training courses for the young. In par-ticular, among the new initiatives undertaken, the “School-Business Network” project stands out. Planned together with the Elis Centre and aimed at students in the fourth and /f_ifth classes of the Higher Technical Institutions, the project provides an educa-tional course on Tlc subjects, co-designed with the lecturers of the technical institutions and colleges directly involved in the subject, the so-called “mas-ters of the profession.” In the second semester of 2009, the /f_irst edition was successfully completed, involving 323 students, 11 institutions and 9 colleg-es of the territorial Open Access structures. In par-allel, the second edition was launched, redoubling the training challenge with the broadening of the network to another 11 technical institutions, making a total of 22 schools across the entire country (7 in the north and 15 in the centre-south), more than 600 students and 22 “Masters of the profession.”
Another initiative of particular importance is the 
“Campus” project. Carried out in collaboration with Elis, it features a structured course in employer branding, recruiting and training over three years, aimed at the best students of the Masters’ course in Economy, Engineering Management and Busi-ness Communication. Currently, eight young people from various Italian universities have been included in the project. In September, the /f_irst phase was completed, which saw the young people in close contact with colleagues from the Domestic Market Operations Management in the two project streams of IPTV and MTV Mobile. The second phase of the project, which will be run in 2010, is about to begin and will see the young people involved in a period of on-the-job training in various parts of the company. 
Among the new initiatives of an international nature, 
there is the “Future Skills” project, with the on-the-job training, during 2009, of 8 young researchers from Brazil, Japan, Korea and India. The projects de-veloped during the period of internship, at the Future Centre of/f_ice in Venice, concerned the analysis of the emerging business ecosystems in order to iden-tify future opportunities. 
Among the established training courses, there 
are collaborations with the Polytechnic of Turin for the creation of the Master’s in Innovation and the continuance of the partnerships begun in previous years through the distribution of study bursaries and on-the-job training. 
In 2009, Tim Brasil carried forward the following se-
lection programmes: 
“Nosso Aprendiz”: promotes the training of r
young people aged between 16 and 24 for work in the call centres or in customer recep-tion in company outlets. A course of adminis-trative training has been launched for juveniles to prepare them to enter the world of work. The programme, begun in 2008, enrolled 158 participants in 2009.“Talentos sem fronteiras”: launched in 2009, r105
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSwith the objective of researching the market of 
new graduates, in order to create a pipeline of talent to be trained and developed to build the company management of the future.“Estagio Sem Fronteiras”: on-the-job training r
offers young university students an opportunity for development and preparation for the jobs market, thanks to the training and real profes-sional experience aimed at increasing the pro-fessionalism of the young trainees. In addition, all the trainees were invited to take part in the “Concurso sem Fronteiras” programme, whose objective is to propose a project that could contribute to the improvement of Tim Brasil. In 2009, furthermore, a new programme was set up aimed at the selection of talented trainees with the objective of increasing their chances of being hired by the company and their possible entry to the project “Talentos sem fronteiras.”
Also in 2009, the hiring of personnel who had al-ready worked within the company was favoured, through the adoption of processes, criteria and instruments aimed at ensuring equal opportunities and transparency. 
VTCKPKPI
In the Telecom Italia Group, training activities un-dertaken in the period January-December, 2009, amounted, for personnel in Italy, to around 1.8 mil-lion hours, as the following table shows, involving around 19.8 million euros in direct costs, excluding the labour cost and travel expenses.
In all, 80.1% of the Group’s personnel have par-
ticipated in at least one training session. 
Cross-Group projects
The 2009 training plan had three priorities:
the promotion, development and diffusion of r
expertise in line with the objectives of the In-dustrial Plan and organisational needs; the development of a management culture in r
line with the evolution of the business and the respective framework scenarios;the dissemination of knowledge in the socio-r
economic context and awareness of corporate responsibility.In the six months from January to June, two Semi-nars were conducted on the issue of Environmental Emergencies, which involved around 40 resources in a total of around 1,500 hours of training, and an edition of the Seminar, “Green Economy – Sustain-ability and Green Procurements” – aimed at around 80 resources from middle and senior managers of various structures, for around a further 700 hours (see § The Environment).
Following on from 2008, training sessions were car-
ried out on effective conduct, and on ICT scenarios for senior managers, middle managers and levels 6 and 7 of the collective agreement, which were de-signed to reinforce the spread of a uniform manage-rial culture.
The 2009 training plan on the Sarbanes Oxley Act 
– 404 (SOA) was launched, with lecture sessions, aimed at updating awareness of the obligations aris-ing from the legislation, and an in-depth examination was carried out of the issue of “Segregation of Du-ties” through an e-learning package. On the Organi-sational Model 231, in addition to the traditional classroom sessions, an e-learning course was pro-vided to spread awareness and ensure its effective application. A special edition of noi./f_lash was dedi-cated to the subject and distributed to colleagues in all the Group’s companies. 
To contribute to the diffusion and communication 
of the new Quality vision, founded on the Customer Promise and on the improvement of the Customer Satisfaction Index, the “Expressing Quality” Project was carried out (see § Customers / Focus on customers). Aimed at all the management (1,400 people) and around 3,000 resources in the territory (“governance groups” and “touch points coordina-tors”), it was carried out through an interactive train-ing method, and supported with speci/f_ic actions of internal communication. Still of the issue of Quality, a “Quality” learning tour was conducted with the participation of 24 senior managers, who visited companies of excellence in Europe and drew up con-crete proposals for improvement. 
In order to make the company processes ever more 
ef/f_icient, in line with the actions laid down by the In-dustrial Plan, a training plan has been carried out to 106
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSORGANISATIONAL 
FIELDSTOTAL BY TRAINING TYPE
Type of Training hours 
totals
(no.)hours 
per head 
(no.)Costs 
totals
(euros)Costs 
per head
(euros)Participa-
tion(*)
(no.)Participants
(no.)Coverage
(%)
Specialist training 1,650,721 27.7 12,242,604 206 270,720 42,909 72.1
Senior Managers 4,162 4.1 229,962 225 404 262 25.7
Middle Managers 30,753 7.1 1,800,681 413 3,229 1,800 41.3
Of/f_ice Staff/ 
Workers1,615,805 29.8 10,211,961 189 267,087 40,847 75.4
Management training 94,430 1.6 6,893,905 116 6,593 4,930 8.3
Senior Managers 10,741 10.5 1,725,185 1,691 850 405 39.7
Middle Managers 17,390 4.0 1,694,627 389 1,295 857 19.7
Of/f_ice Staff/ Workers66,299 1.2 3,474,094 64 4,448 3,668 6.8
Institutional training 13,832 0.2 116,606 2 4,633 4,370 7.3
Senior Managers 723 0.7 2,178 2 152 132 12.9
Middle Managers 3,501 0.8 99,690 23 589 513 11.8
Of/f_ice Staff/ Workers9,608 0.2 14,738 0 3,892 3,725 6.9
Training for newly-hired employees 49,176 0.8 97,210 2 1,650 682 1.1
Senior Managers 0 0.0 0 0 0 0 0.0
Middle Managers 144 0.0 0 0 7 7 0.2
Of/f_ice Staff/ Workers49,032 0.9 97,210 2 1,643 675 1.2
Language training 18,132 0.3 539,138 9 703 650 1.1
Senior Managers 3,858 3.8 170,991 168 104 90 8.8
Middle Managers 4,336 1.0 112,531 26 193 156 3.6
Of/f_ice Staff/Work-ers9,938 0.2 255,616 5 406 404 0.7
TOTAL 1,826,290 30.7 19,889,464 334 284,299 47,669 80.1
Senior Managers 19,484 19.1 2,128,316 2,087 1,510 603 59.1
Middle Managers 56,124 12.9 3,707,529 851 5,313 2,425 55.7
Of/f_ice Staff/ Workers1,750,682 32.3 14,053,618 259 277,476 44,641 82.4
(*) Shows the overall number of participation in training sessions, in 
the various forms provided (classroom, training on the job, on line)107
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSincrease the awareness and implementation of the 
Lean Six Sigma (LSS) and Knowledge Management methodologies, which involved management and some of the professionals in the Human Resources area. In addition, courses in LSS certi/f_ication have been set up, aimed both at Human Resources and the operational departments. 
Training to ensure business and technological ef-
fectivenessSpecialist training has continued to be directed at speci /f_ic departmental competence, with particular 
attention to the most innovative aspects: equipment, /f_ixed and mobile network broadband services, digital 
systems, technological plants, supply plants, net-works and new generation software, lean organisa-tion. In addition, broad-based programmes have been created, which will run in 2020, of information, aware-ness and training on the issue of the Commitments and Code of Conduct arising from the resolution 718/08/CONS, in compliance with the obligations assumed with regard to AGCOM (see § Competitors / Commitments connected with the access network).
Regarding the methodology employed, in addition to 
classroom and on-the-job training, the recently intro-duced e-learning platform was used extensively.
Training interventions have continued for staff in the 
Sales and Customer Operations structures, aimed at boosting technical knowledge and the manage-ment capacity in customer relations. Especially rel-evant was the “Value, together with the customer” project, a mapping of the knowledge and funda-mental competence of the sales force, carried out through dedicated instruments. 
For the Marketing Department (sales, marketing, 
strategy and customer care), the /f_irst edition was held of the Master’s course, MAKTEL (Marketing Ac-tionable Knowledge Through Experiential Learning), the project aimed at junior specialists and designed to make Telecom Italia a centre of excellence in mar-keting expertise. 
In addition, speci/f_ically for the Marketing depart-
ments, /f_ive themed training courses were held for the development and consolidation of specialised, management expertise.In Tim Brasil, in June, 2009, the coverage of train-ing reached 98%, and the average number of hours’ training for employees was 46 hours per head, in-cluding e-learning, for which Tim Brasil created its own learning portal, “@aula.TIM.” The training provi-sions favoured the safeguarding of technological competence and building up the competence that is characteristic of the Customer Care and Sales pro/f_iles, with particular attention to the launch of the new portfolio of products. The Programma di Gestão del Alto Desempenho is of particular importance, designed to assist 300 Customer Care managers in contributing to the improvement of productivity and ef/f_iciency of operations and ensuring greater satis-faction among customers. 
Other initiatives carried out by Tim Brasil concerned 
three types of training: 
international: carried out at the Harvard Busi-r
ness School and aimed at a restricted group of managers with the aim of developing an in-tegrated approach to management, broadening and consolidating the strategic vision;specialist: participation in seminars and con-r
ferences in order to develop the technical com-petence of employees, with the focus on new projects in the area of Network and Informa-tion Technology and on business competence in the staff areas;languages: the development of the linguistic r
competence of the staff who have direct con-tact with foreign countries or who occupy roles that require knowledge of a foreign language. 
In November, 2009, a programme of subsidies and incentives for on line university training was launched for a group of 100 employees, with par-ticular focus on Customer Care and Sales. 
NKUVGPKPICEVKXKVKGUCPFRTQLGEVU
The instruments available to employees within the company to have their voice heard, both in a formal and informal way, are numerous.
In Telecom Italia and Tim Brasil, employees can 
make a series of approaches of an informal nature to various dedicated email addresses, obtaining prompt responses on the services required and the 108
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSissues raised.
Nevertheless, in a complex organisation such as 
Telecom Italia, unilateral communication is no longer 
suf/f_icient to encourage involvement and give value to ideas, including lateral or, more simply, “different” thinking. For this reason, there is a gradual “conver-sion” of the traditional communication channels to more innovative ways of favouring two-way communi-cation, the exchange of ideas, the dialogue between members of the company community. The aims are several, but central to this is /f_inding and giving value to the contribution of each employee in improving the present and building the future. 
In this sense, the Intranet and the portal are 
ever more important components. Other instru-ments exist capable of reaching everyone, in order to disseminate information but also to arrange broader occasions for formal and informal “listen-ing”, such as climate analysis, the blogs and the open virtual communities. In this way, discussion and debate are encouraged on internal issues linked to the business and more general current topics, in-cluding environmental and social issues. 
In this framework, other recent experiences have 
been included which, in different ways, see the par-ticipation of personnel as a determining factor and which, for this reason, provide structured channels for the collection of contributions and proposals. Among these is the “Archimede” project, developed by the Open Access structure to provide a climate for reinforcing the team spirit, but also to collect good ideas, which can contribute to resolving problems and improving relations with the customer, giving those who put them forward recognition, a sense of belonging, an enthusiasm for feeling an active part of the system. The project involved 20,000 Open Access personnel and ended with the awarding of prizes by interdepartmental juries for the 34 best ideas (out of 2,521 received). The project was also broadened in 2009 to the Wholesale Management. 
The third edition was conducted of “The Light-
house,” the listening project launched in 2006, which involves employees in putting forward ideas and opinions on matters of interest to the company, and in experimenting with the Group’s new products and services. The latest edition attracted 3,177 subscribers among colleagues through the on line questionnaire. All the participants were successfully enabled in the use of the blog, “The Lighthouse.” In July, 20 “lighthousers” were involved in two focus groups on the company identity and, in the same month, two experiments were conducted. To encour-age listening, the experiments provided a dedicated blog, with the application of a questionnaire, and three evaluation focus groups. 
One focus group was conducted with a number 
of employees to test the new questionnaire in order to /f_ind out about the atmosphere within the compa-ny, which will be sent to the whole Group in January, 2010. The questionnaire, which has been redrawn in its language and structure, is intended to stimulate re/f_lection and participation by employees. New ques-tions were introduced in order to /f_ind out about and value the internal interactions of the company, the value of the relations and the exchange of knowl-edge within the professional communities.
Reports to the manager responsible for the inter-
nal control in Telecom Italia
In line with the principles contained in the Code 
of Ethics, the “Whistleblowing procedure” has been issued for all the companies of the Group, pub-lished on the Intranet. This procedure, administered by the manager responsible for the internal control in Telecom Italia, ensures the reception, analysis and handling of reports on matters concerning the internal control system, company information, fraud and other matters (violations of the Code of Ethics, mobbing practices, theft, security etc.). The reports, forwarded in whatever way (paper, electronic, fax etc.), may be made by employees (including the Top Management), collaborators, consultants, providers of work, as well as third parties with business rela-tions with the Group. Each report is subject to analy-sis; the outcomes of the proceedings are conveyed to the top management of the company, to the statu-tory control bodies and to the company departments concerned, with the complete guarantee of privacy for the person who made the report. 
As regards the regulations of reports to the 
Supervisory Body and the Board of Auditors, see § Shareholders /Corporate Governance.
KPVGTPCNEQOOWPKECVKQP
In 2009, internal communication continued the process of greater encouragement and listening to 109
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSemployees in order to bring the company and the 
personnel closer together. 
The internal communication events of 2009 were 
conducted with the intention of involving the great-est possible number of employees and making them the driving force behind the choices connected to the business and the growth of customer satisfac-tion. A limited number of people took place live, while the majority watched the video streaming from their workstations and took part in the discussion with managers via blogs and the virtual networks. The on line method also allows the impact of the Group on the environment to be minimised in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. In any event, the emissions of CO
2 generated were compensated for 
all the events.
The Group’s personnel have been the subject of 
photographs, videos and stories that have enriched and empowered the company’s media. 
Scenarios 
“Innovation, Quality, Commitment”: this was the title of the meeting organised for 1,400 managers of the Group. The objective of the meeting was to present the company in the 2009 scenario, the Industrial Plan, the competitive system, the rules, objectives and challenges for the management, a new style of leadership. At the centre of the work was the Busi-ness that we want to become, the relations we want to have in our ecosystem, the dialogue with all the components of the country, simplicity in relations with the market and with the customers, the style that it is necessary to adopt. 
Information and company media
Intranet: around 480 news items were pub-r
lished and the homepage was renewed, with 
the reorganisation of the contents to facilitate its use and encourage navigation to the chan-nels on speci/f_ic issues. Special information lea/f_lets on the earthquake in Abruzzo were pro-duced with the participation of colleagues in the areas affected, on behalf of whom a fund-raising campaign was conducted on the web;noi./f_lash: four issues of the newsletter dedi-r
cated to sustainability were published, on the analysis of the atmosphere ‘Group Photo 2008’, the training project ‘Expressing Qual-ity’ and on the training on the Organisational Model 231;internal communication newsletter: this is r
sent regularly via email to all employees and summarises the most important news pub-lished on the company Intranet;noi.tv: 88 editions of the bi-weekly news pro-r
gramme, “Videonews” were produced, with 60 monographic type services and 186 videos, plus selections of articles from the press;DVD Network Nuggets and Innovation Nug-r
gets: retakes of the specials shown on noi.tv for information purposes. They are produced to spread awareness of the technical and in-novative aspects of Telecom Italia to staff personnel;the Visual Q project: commercial artwork at r
the territorial, central and management of-/f_ices in order to develop communication on the issues of Customer Satisfaction and Cus-tomer Promise, and to emotionally involve the personnel and diffuse the culture of quality. The dissemination of the messages is initially aimed at Open Access colleagues, putting the accent on operational and behavioural aspects in line with the training project, “Expressing Quality”;2010 diary: implemented with the contribution r
of Telecom Italia’s historic archive and with photographs produced by a number of pho-tographer colleagues, it traces a photographic journey through the story of the Telecom Italia company from the twenties to the present day. 
Integration activities and projects
The Intranet community has recorded an in-r
crease in participation by employees of 5% in each section in which it operates. The aver-age monthly participation of the employees in the community and blogs stands at 150,000 hits, with an average of 6,000 hits a day. The Community is intended to allow colleagues to share their experiences, needs and opinions on various issues. In the various sections into which the community is broken down – com-pany events, buying and selling, photography, blogs, music, /f_ilms, exhibitions and plays, travel 
stories, PC help, books, cooking recipes, noi.perloro – it is possible to /f_ind ideas, advice, solutions, taking part and making contributions 110
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSfor the bene /f_it of colleagues. The noi.perloro 
section contains an interactive area dedicated 
to voluntary work and solidarity projects (for further information, see § “People Caring”).Various issue-based blogs have been set up for r
sharing the suggestions and ideas of employ-ees on social issues (dyslexia), experimenta-tion (“TIM Net,” “The Lighthouse”), Quality (“Ex-pressing Quality”), research (“New generation Tlc network”, “Research and Trends”), interest in photography (“Emotional Zoom”). Regarding the latter, 13 colleagues were involved in the project on the new company magazine and the diary, becoming for all intents and purposes suppliers of images for all the reportage. Convention involving certain company depart-r
ments (Business Market, Purchasing, Admin-istration, Finance and Control, Corporate and Legal Affairs, External Relations, National Wholesale Services), with the aim of promot-ing team work and sharing results and objec-tives. In certain cases, the multimedia conven-tion model has been successfully used with the participation, via web streaming, of many colleagues following the event from their own workstation, with the opportunity to intervene in the discussion and ask questions. 
In Tim Brasil, internal communication has mostly been carried out through the company Intranet, “TIM Mobile” (notice board), email and certain speci/f_ic initiatives. 
In particular, information has been supplied 
through the Intranet to employees about the busi-ness, TIM services and products, and on initiatives promoted by the Human Resources Department. On the Intranet, a speci/f_ic HR area is also provided so that all employees can access, among other things, the electronic pay packet and associated bene/f_its. 
TIM Mobile is constantly used to disclose impor-
tant news and supply information on internal/exter-nal campaigns. 
Emails are used, on the other hand, to commu-
nicate extraordinary events or speci/f_ic initiatives aimed at employees. 
Among the main initiatives promoted in 2009 by Tim 
Brasil, were:
“Mentes sem fronteiras”: repositioning of the rTIM brand on the Brazilian market, also dis-seminated to employees through all the inter-nal vehicles of communication;the celebration of World Environment Day r
(June 5), with the launch of a campaign to make employees aware of their role in relation to natural resources and the environment. In 2009, the commitment continued to the differ-entiated collection of used batteries and the promotion of behaviour aimed at favouring the use of recyclable materials and saving water and energy; the setting up, in certain company of/f_ices, of r
a library room open to all staff for the loan of books and DVDs, backed by a speci/f_ic, internal communication campaign to encourage the do-nation of books and the use of the library;the launch, in December, 2009, of an initia-r
tive to make employees aware of requests for Christmas presents sent by the children of low income families.
JGCNVJCPFUCHGV[
In 2009, the Group launched or continued certain speci/f_ic projects and initiatives: 
Up-dating the company’s Risk E valuation D ocument.
The new Risk Evaluation Document has been drawn 
up, updated with regard to the current organisation-al structure, the activities carried out and the new measures introduced by the Decree Law of August 3rd, 2009, No. 106, adapting Decree Lee 81/2008, on matters of the protection of health and safety in workplaces. The evaluation regards all the health and safety risks to workers, including those exposed to speci/f_ic situations (work stress, females working during pregnancy), as well as those connected with differences in gender, age and different country of origin. 
The document was drawn up, as laid down by the 
decree, with the participation of the manager of the Prevention and Protection Service and subject to con-sultation with the workers’ safety representatives. 
To ensure the swift adaptation of the document 
to incorporate any technological and organisational changes, the document is in electronic format and available on the Intranet. This permits all informa-111
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERStion, documents, procedures and measures linked 
to the issue of health and safety of workers to be connected to the Risk Evaluation Document.
Safety rules and procedures 
Various procedures have been drawn up or updated, including those regarding insects, the management of air-conditioning systems and health controls. The latter, in particular, describe the tasks and responsi-bilities in the management of the health protection of workers exposed to speci/f_ic risks, as well as the health checks workers should be subjected to de-pending on the activity carried out. The process has been reviewed and updated to include health checks for risks connected to night work, to exposure to electromagnetic /f_ields and to work on transmission systems with laser on /f_ibre optics.
“Wellbeing in the call centres” project
The project was begun in 2004 with the aim of un-derstanding the variables which help in/f_luence in a decisive way the wellbeing of the people who work there, and identify possible actions of improvement. In line with the initiatives implemented on the peo-ple-caring front, a second monitoring process was carried out which involved around 3,000 operators (a representative sample of the call centre popula-tion) through the compilation of an on line question-naire, reviewed and supplemented on the basis of the outcome of the previous research phases. 
From the analysis of the data collected, carried 
out by the researchers of the Faculty and Depart-ment of Psychology of the University of Turin, it emerged that: 
the reconciliation of the work-life balance im-r
pacts on psychological and physical disorders. In this way, the operator can be supported in reaching and maintaining a better work-life balance, both through an adequate and more functional organisation of the working hours and shifts, and through organisational initia-tives aimed at meeting the needs of the fam-ily; technological and digital supports, including r
instruments to handle the emotional relation-ship with the customer, are resources that can facilitate and sustain work;the quality of the physical environment of work, r
in line with the ergonomic measures, favours psychological and physical wellbeing; the appreciation of the personnel, through the r
recognition of expertise and work experience, equality of treatment, and the transparency of the organisational decisions, represent im-portant points of attention to promote greater wellbeing at work. 
In order to verify the proper application of the agree-ment between the company and the trades unions on wellbeing in the call centres, signed in May, 2008, speci/f_ic Commissions are checking the im-plementation of the initiatives useful in promoting wellbeing, with regard to the following macro areas: the valuing, training and updating of the personnel, the reconciliation of work and private lives, the work environment, organisation and rhythms of work. 
Training and awareness of the workers 
Consistent with the current legislation, speci/f_ic train-ing courses have been conducted on matters of health and safety at work for the newly hired, those changing jobs and/or following the introduction of new activities, equipment or substances. A proc-ess of awareness promotion has been started on the role of the responsible for the health and safety of workers, as well as training courses for all call centre operators on the risks from noise linked to the use of headphones. Other initiatives in support of health and safety in workplaces were carried out through the distribution of speci/f_ic pamphlets and via the Intranet. 
Safety in contract works
As a result of the amendments introduced by De-cree Law 106/09 the organisational procedures for safety in contract works have been updated. In collaboration with the sectors concerned, speci/f_ic instructions are being issued with the aim of operat-ing with respect for the regulations in the respective processes. In parallel, standard contractual clauses on matters of safety and the environment for con-tract works have been implemented and simpli/f_ied, in accordance with recent regulatory measures. 
Accidents at Telecom Italia 
The data on accidents regarding Telecom Italia S.p.A. are presented below, in comparison with data referring to the preceding years.112
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSAlongside the many training projects intended for 
the technical personnel, there has been a reduc-tion of more than 1% in workplace accidents, that is, those closely related to occupational hazards.
In particular, we draw your attention to:
the annual program of training and instruction r
for the routine and general maintenance of the Tlc plants which require attention at a high altitude (telegraph poles, ladders and pylons). These programs have made possible a reduc-tion of work related accidents in this area equal to 1.6%;The Project “Drive Safely”, in its third year of r
activity, has allowed the attainment of a nota-ble reduction in the accident index related to road accidents whilst in service. In fact, only in the last year, the reduction has been equal to 7.26%, whilst in the last three years it has been reduced by some 40%. The training program has included, via a video course, the entire workforce of Telecom Italia and through a pluriannual program, the tech-nical personnel who use a company vehicle intensively in everyday activities (in 2009 this was 613 technicians). 
During the year, we also recorded an increase in non-work related accidents, not connected to work-ing activities, and two fatal accidents, of which one was work related.
For 2010, speci/f_ic targets for reduction have been 
provided (see Introduction/2010 Objectives)In 2009, Tim Brasil has carried out certain activities to ensure and promote health and safety at work, including:
updating the company document of Risk Evalu-r
ation and drawing up speci/f_ic documents on issues of the environment, health and safety in work places;the carrying out, in the /f_ield of the supervision r
of health and medicine at work, of 7,300 medi-cal examinations;the carrying out of controls and monitoring on r
buildings, plants, equipment and processes, including 119 micro-climatic and noise meas-ures in the call centres and company shops;the carrying out of 8 evacuation rehearsals to r
check the ef/f_iciency of the Emergency Manage-ment Plans.
KPFWUVTKCNTGNCVKQPU
On December 31st, 2008, the validity of the Collec-tive National Work Contract (CCNL) for personnel in telecommunications businesses expired. Negotia-tions for its renewal, begun in January, 2009, with coordination by the trade association Asstel, led to the signing, on October 23rd, of the new CCNL for the years 2009-2011. Speci/f_ically the Contract pro-vides for:
the adjustment of minimum salaries on the r
basis of the IPCA;the updating of all the institutions regarding r
the labour market, incorporating the latest leg-islative amendments;the institution of a form of supplementary r
health assistance for all workers of the sector;the increase in leave days for student-workers;r
the establishment of a bilateral agency for sec-r
tor training which will arrange the provision of a catalogue of courses on the subjects of the environment and safety at work, a responsibil-ity under the law 231/2001, regulations on matters of privacy, basic computing and basic language training, work relations, CCNL and social security. 
In addition, the Contract has introduced a new and more multifaceted system of relations between com-panies and unions, according to European Commu-(*) The indices of severity, frequency and unproductiveness are 
respectively:
the number of conventional working days lost in the year for r
every thousand hours worked;the number of accidents per every million hours worked;r
the number of hours lost due to accidents for every thou-r
sand hours worked.2009 2008 2007
Number of accidents 1,079 932 969
Severity index (*)0.42 0.45 0.24
Frequency rate (*)11.28 9.77 10.28
Average duration in hours 127.73 127.31 136.01
Rate of  
unproductiveness (*)1.44 1.24 1.40
Accidents per 100 workers 1.97 1.63 1.62113
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSnity guidelines. Indeed, the Observatory on Remote 
Control and the National Forum, the leading centres of analysis, veri/f_ication and discussion between the parties on the issues of /f_inancially dynamic, tech-nological development in the sector, the evolution of legislative activities, relations with consumer as-sociations, social corporate responsibility, the labour market, equal opportunities and safety at work. The new system of industrial relations will further encourage the dialogue between Telecom Italia and Trade Union Organisations.
In the months of January and February, with succes-
sive in-depth meetings, the Company explained to the Trade Union Organisations the organisational considerations in the Strategic Plan, 2009-2011. In the context of the subsequent changes to the work-force, a mobility procedure was launched on May 25 under law 223/91 for 470 workers operating in the Directory Assistance sector (Service 1254, Data Lists Assurance, Exchanges, International Work Services Centre, Territorial Support). On July 21st, the Company renounced the recourse to mobility and stipulated with the Trades Union Organisation, at the Ministry of Labour, a Contract of Solidarity of the “defensive” type, under the legal measures in force, regarding the workers concerned. This Con-tract provides for the reduction of the working hours to avoid, wholly or in part, the reduction or the dec-laration of redundancy of personnel. For the workers in question, a partial integration is envisaged, by INPS, of the payment not received due to the reduc-tion in working hours.
On February 5th, 2009, speci/f_ic agreements were 
signed with SLC-CGIL, FISTER-CISL and UILCOM-UIL on conducting the elections of the Unitary Union Representative Body (RSU) and Health and Safety representatives (RSL), on conformity with union standards and on the Joint Health and Safety Com-mittees. The latter, in order to maintain the par-ticipatory system as the preferred instrument for veri/f_ication, analysis and discussion, are composed of an equal number of company and union mem-bers. Their task is to adopt initiatives aimed at the protection of the health and the physical integrity of the workers, to examine the development of the phenomena of accidents and where necessary pro-pose actions of improvement, to contribute to the de/f_inition of the position on matters of training and information for workers and the RLS.
Following the earthquake of L’Aquila, making the 
company of/f_ices inoperable, on April 7, the Company and the Union subscribed to the joint examination under article 5, paragraph 1, of the law 164/75, activating for a period of four weeks the Ordinary Temporary Unemployment Compensation for 62 workers. Furthermore, the company has provided instruments of further economic support, thereby enabling workers to manage the problems caused by the earthquake, assured of income and free from usual daily work activities.
Still in 2009, on October 12th, Companies and Un-
ions de/f_ined the 2009-2010 calendar of the collec-tive holidays, identifying the days and the company structures involved in the closures (so-called non-operative structures).
According to the provisions of the Accord signed be-
tween the Company and Trades Union Organisations on May 14th, 2008, on the issue of Performance-Related Pay, on May 5th an agreement was signed with SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL, UILCOM-UIL, the National RSU and UGL Telecommunications Coordination, which de /f_ined the organisational macro- /f_ields and 
the parameters of quality/productivity required for the de/f_inition of the Performance-Related Pay, 2009-2011, of Telecom Italia S.p.A. This agreement allows for a more direct correlation between the contribution to the results of the business by speci /f_ic groups of 
workers, encouraging the involvement of the workers and a greater sense of belonging to the business.
As envisaged by the CCNL and the Protocols of In-
dustrial Relations of Company and Trades Unions, during the year numerous meetings were held at the national level on many issues, including: the contracts signed by the Company with suppliers and partners, the new reference model for company training, the reorganisation of important company structures such as the Technology & Operations Management and the Security Department, the process of professional mobility from staff areas to-wards operational structures.
On January 22nd, an understanding was reached with 114
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSSLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL, UILCOM-UIL and the RSU of 
Matrix S.p.A. on the second level of negotiations, un-der which improved treatment was de/f_ined for work-ers compared to that provided by the CCNL, according to the guidelines already adopted by Telecom Italia S.p.A. On December 16th, 2009, furthermore, the es-tablishment of Performance-Related Pay for the work-ers of Matrix S.p.A. was signed with the same Trades Union Organisations, which links the variable part of the pay to the progress of the company’s earnings. 
As regards Shared Service Center S.c.r.l., on March 
17th, 2009, a supplementary agreement of the National Collective Agreement was signed with SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL and the RSU, which set a one off payment for all workers covered by the Performance-Related Pay Award of 2008. On May 21st, further-more, negotiations were launched to de/f_ine the Award for 2009 with the company’s RSU and the Na-tional Secretaries of the SLC-CGIL, FISTEL-CISL and the UILCOM-UIL, which led to the signing, on Decem-ber 18th, 2009, of a speci/f_ic understanding.
As regards the industrial relations activities con-
ducted by TI Media:
on February 2nd, 2009, an understanding was r
reached with the journalists’ Trades Union Organisations with regard to the procedure of collective dismissal regarding 25 journal-ists, which occurred in September, 2008. The agreement, reached through the institution of a solidarity contract, revokes the procedure of collective dismissal, lasts two years, from March 1st, 2009, to February 28th, 2011, and provides for the reduction of working hours and pay by 16%. The reduction in pay will be compensated, to the amount of 50%, by a speci/f_ic indemnity distributed by the National Institute for the Welfare of Italian Journalists (INPGI) which also provides for the accredita-tion of the notional contributions;on October 15th, 2009, an agreement was r
signed with the national and territorial RSUs of TI Media, UILCOM UIL and FISTEL to raise the overall limit laid down by law for the maximum duration of the /f_ixed-term contract from 36 to 63 months overall. The agreement has, moreo-ver, regulated certain aspects in matters of hir-ing on /f_ixed-term contracts. Finally, as regards Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A., on October 29th, 2009, the new company organisation-al model was presented to the Trades Union Organi-sations and the agreement was signed on collective holidays for 2010.
In Tim Brasil, the collective union agreements of 
2009 are in line with the current economic, political and juridical situation of the country. Three agree-ments have been negotiated by TIM Brazil with the two federations that represent the entire work forc-es, FITTEL and FENATTEL, concerning:
economic and social conditions;r
the company’s pro/f_it-sharing programme;r
the hourly rate of pay. On the basis of these r
agreements, overtime hours may be met by a reduction in the normal working hours or through days off in the three months following the completion of the overtime. After that pe-riod, the hours will be paid. 
In 2008, the reduction of the working week from 44 to 42 hours in 2009, and 40 hours a week in 2010, was agreed in negotiations.
Finally, wages will be increased by 4.17% from 
January, 2010.
TGOWPGTCVKQPRQNKE[
The policies of remuneration in 2009 were directed at ensuring competitiveness in the labour market, in line with the objectives of attracting, developing and fostering loyalty in the workforce, as well as pay dif-ferentials from the perspective of internal coherence and on the basis of shared, objective criteria. 
Therefore, the remuneration systems are de-
signed to appreciate, in a differentiated way, the contribution in relation to the degree of coverage and the importance of the role, the strategic nature of the competence possessed and individual value, in line with market practices.
The management of the /f_ixed components is inspired 
by criteria of ever greater selectivity in the pool of 
resources concerned, consistent with the instruc-tions contained in the Industrial Plan, 2009-2011. The variable component in remuneration has been established as a distinctive element, with ever closer 115
human resourcesINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERScorrelation between the remunerative package and 
the performance and revenue of the company. 
The MBO (Management By Objectives) 2009 
system, the sole instrument of formal, short term incentives, aimed at the management and particu-larly valuable employees, has con/f_irmed, in continu-ity with 2008, the importance of the company and departmental macro-economic objectives. 
To ensure aspects concerning Sustainability re-
ceive appropriate consideration in decisions by the Group’s management, objectives regarding the MBO system have been de/f_ined by Telecom Italia and are reproduced for stakeholders in the following table. 
STAKEHOLDER 
OF REFERENCETARGETS SUBJECT  TO INCENTIVES 
Customers Customer Satisfaction
Quality of the service delivered 
Perceived quality of the service 
Human Resources Health and safety of employees
Programmes of training and pro-fessional growth Welfare activities (People Caring) and the wellbeing of employee
The Environment Consumption of materials, energy 
and water 
Shareholders and InstitutionsQuality and speed of company information delivery 
The Community Organisation of cultural exhibitions
Quality of initiatives/projects for the Community 
 
Regarding the non-monetary component of the re-muneration package, its valuation has continued in 2009 with reference also to potential impact in terms of caring for employees (the provision of mo-bile handsets with evolved functions) and attention to the environment (the broadening of the /f_leet with cars producing less CO2 emissions). 
Tim Brasil guarantees that the remuneration of its 
employees is in line with the internal levels of sen-iority in the company and market standards. The sal-ary policy includes /f_ixed and variable remuneration connected to the company results. 
In addition to the MBO programme and the in-
centive programme for the sales force, Tim Brasil has adopted the “Participação nos Lucros e Re-sultados” (PLR), under which a part of the com-pany’s pro/f_its is redistributed among employees, as required under a federal law. These programmes have proved to be useful instruments in improving the quality of the service and productivity. 
Stock options 
The instrument of stock options has been used within the Telecom Group in order to retain and offer long term incentives to members of management.
Telecom Italia
In the course of 2009, the deadline passed for exer-cising options relative to:
the second lot of the 2002 stock option Plan;r
the second lot of the 2002 stock option Top r
Plan;the second lot of the 2003-2005 stock option r
Plan (ex TIM).
In addition, the exercising of options of existing Plans was suspended at the Shareholders’ Meeting from March 23rd, 2009 to April 17th, 2009, in ac-cordance with the relevant Regulations.
The essential elements of the stock option plans of 
Telecom Italia are summarised in the Note “Stock op -
tion Plans and Performance Share Granting Plan” in-cluded in the Telecom Italia Group’s Annual Report.
116
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUVTCVGI[
The companies of the Group are fully aware of the 
importance of supplying accurate information about their activities to the market, investors and the Com-munity in general. 
While observing the requirement for con/f_idential-
ity in the conduct of business, the companies of the Group keep the market and investors informed on the basis of the criteria of transparency, courtesy, clarity and equal access to information.
The companies of the Group are committed to 
ensuring equality in the treatment of all categories of shareholders, without preference. 
The advantages inherent in belonging to a Group 
of businesses are clear in the application of the regulatory framework and in the autonomy of each Company with regard to the revenue from its activity and the creation of value for its shareholders. Spe-cial attention is also reserved to the management of the relations with the bondholders: for more than a year, the Investor Relations department has rein-forced its organisational structure through the crea-tion of a dedicated watchdog.UVCMGJQNFGTUCPFVJGKTGZRGEVCVKQPU
The Investor Relations (IR) department manages the day to day relations with the key stakeholders: im-portant shareholders, institutional and retail inves-tors, bondholders, socially responsible investors and /f_inancial analysts. 
Their shared expectations concern:
reinforcement of the positioning in the mar-r
kets in which the Group operates;con/f_irmation of the objectives reported to the r
market through the Strategic Plan;certainty in receiving a quick, effective re-r
sponse from the company to requests for in-formation. 
The expectations of the stakeholders are given spe-cial consideration:Correct information to all.
SHAREHOLDERS117
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERStelco
22.45%
Telecom Italia
Group
1.21%
InstitutionalshareholdersItaly
14.13%InstitutionalshareholdersAbroad
35.36%LegalpersonsItaly
1.70%LegalpersonsAbroad
4.12%Other shareholders Italy
20.95%Other shareholdersAbroad
0.08%
(*) Source: Shareholders’ ledger at December 31st, 2009, sup-
plemented by communications received and from other available information. DIVISION OF ORDINARY SHARES(*)
HKPCPEKCNEQOOWPKECVKQP
In the course of 2009, the Company organised three-
monthly conference calls, road shows abroad, meetings at the Group’ s institutional centres (reverse road shows) and participated in sector conferences. Around 300 investors were met during these events. In addition to these events, direct meetings and telephone conversa-tions on a daily basis should be taken into account. 
The responses to the /f_inancial market by the Group 
are based on the criteria of relevance, the sensitiveness of information, the congruence and topicality of the is-sues dealt with to the Group structure and the actions undertaken to achieve the targets of the Strategic Plan. 
The /f_inancial communication also takes into considera-
tion the needs of investors linked to Socially Responsi-ble Investing (SRI), which favours companies that pay attention to ethical, social and environmental factors as well as /f_inancial aspects. The communication to this 
particular category of investor, administered in concert with the Group Sustainability department, is developed through individual contacts and participation at dedi-cated events. In 2009, a road show was organised in Frankfurt during which several issues were touched on, such as the extent of the planned investments in the development of the NGN (Next Generation Network) and the NGN2, and the environmental performance in-formation concerning energy consumption, demateriali-sation and other sustainability indicators. 
Regarding relations with individual shareholders 
(retail) – today there are nearly 600,000 holders of ordinary shares – Telecom Italia’s strategy is aimed at increasing channels of communication to respond in a rapid and effective way to queries about the per-STAKEHOLDER NEED
Important shareholders 
 Institutional and retail investors Good /f_inancial and operational performance by the company Total positive shareholder return (performance on the stock market of the shares and dividends distributed) Involvement in the life of the Group (for example, participation in events) Brand reputation
Socially responsible investors Total positive shareholder return Attention to the social and environmental impact of the company business 
Bondholders Stability of the yield from the investment Certainty of paymentMaintenance/improvement in the debt ratings 
Financial analysts Direct contact with the management on important issues to better perceive present and future dynamics 118
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSformance of the shares and, more generally, of the 
Group. The indications and ideas that emerged from the dialogue with the retail investors were collected and communicated to top management. 
The Shareholders’ Club, “TI Alw@ys ON” (www.
telecomitaliaclub.it ) was launched in 2006 as a virtual 
meeting place between the company and its individual investors. However, the Club is also open to those who do not have shares in the Group, and just by joining the Club, members can obtain the same free services that are reserved to shareholders, that is:
SMS alert, which every day reports the closing r
price and the percentage variations of Telecom Italia’s ordinary and savings shares compared to the previous day, as well as the daily per-centage variations in the FTSE/Mib index;Weekly Market report: a summary of the r
week’s progress, sent every Friday evening fol-lowing the close of trading on the markets;Three monthly newsletter: contains a commentary r
on the most recent economic- /f_inancial results and 
a focus on the phenomena and the trends which have in /f_luenced the course of the results, as well 
as clari /f_ications on the /f_inancial and industrial 
strategy adopted by the top management. 
In addition to these services, Telecom Italia offers shareholders the “Guide to the Individual Sharehold-er,” an in-depth document about the Group, available on request and on the website, as well as constant updates through the press releases (institutional, concerning products, /f_inancial).
As regards on line /f_inancial communication, 
Telecom Italia’s website (www.telecomitalia.it) is constantly updated with regular innovations. The Investor Relations section of the site has achieved a good placing again this year (3rd in Europe, 5th in Italy) in the classi/f_ication drawn up by Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, the Swedish company that is the leader in on line /f_inancial communication.
TKUMOCPCIGOGPV
To ensure a global approach to risk management and at the same time greater /f_lexibility, in 2009 Telecom Italia Group launched a review of the Risk Management System previously used (the CRSA – Control & Risk Self Assessment), adopting a new integrated process of risk management inspired by the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERM)
(1). This is an instrument of governance of 
company risk, through which the identi/f_ication, as-sessment and management of risks is achieved.
At the heart of the system is the Committee of 
Group Risk Management which, in the new organisa-tional model, from April 9th, 2009, is supervised and coordinated by the Manager of the “Administration, Fi-nance and Control” Department, and is made up of:
the Managers of the Departments, “Domestic r
Market Operations”, “Technology & Opera-tions” and “International Business”;the Managers of the Departments “General Coun-r
sel & Corporate and Legal Affairs”, “Administra-tion, Finance and Control”, “Human Resources and Organization”, “Purchasing” and “Security”;the Manager of the “Risk Management” depart-r
ment of “Administration, Finance and Control.”
The Manager of the Risk Management department carries out the role of supporting the coordination of the Committee. 
The Committee meets every three months (or 
when speci/f_ically required) and aims to ensure the administration of the process of managing the risks of the Group, coordinating the preventative action plan, which is designed to ensure the operational continuity of the business, and monitoring the effec-tiveness of the counter measures adopted.
The new ERM approach, approved by the Risk 
Management Committee, is based on the assess-ment of the risk pro /f_ile by management, both in 
relation to company processes and the strategic ob-jectives. This approach provides the mapping of the risks and puts the focus of those held to be most im-portant, the drawing up of a Master Plan of actions of mitigation and actions to handle the risks through the establishment of an interdepartmental work group, se-lected by the Group Risk Management Committee. 
In detail, the ERM provides four main phases:
analysis:1. 
evaluation; 2. 
processing and veri/f_ication;3. 
reporting. 4. 
(1) Enterprise Risk Management, 2004, by the Committee of Spon-
soring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.119
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSThe analysis phase is based in its turn on two 1. 
sub-phases:
a preliminary analysis which envisages:a. 
the mapping of the company processes r
and the identi/f_ication of the associated 
sub-processes;the matching of the company departments r
to the sub-processes
(2); 
the disclosure by the Industrial Plan of the r
strategic objectives;the disclosure of the short-term incentives r
(MBO) of the objectives of cross-company governance.the identi/f_ication of the risks, which fol-b. 
lows a top-down logic: the /f_irst reports of the Chief Executive Of/f_ice and the Chair-man are interrogated, as well as certain secondary reports (the so-called Risk Owners) which identify the risks within the range of a speci/f_ic model of the telecom-munications sector. The sources of risk identi/f_ied may be both external and inter-nal (the latter are divided into strategic, operational and /f_inancial). The risks identi-/f_ied are connected to the statutory com-pany processes and objectives.
The evaluation phase envisages: 2. 
the evaluation of the risks, based on a a. 
methodology which takes into considera-tion quantitative and qualitative criteria. In particular, the following are identi/f_ied:the impact: from a minimum 1 (negligi-r
ble) to a maximum 5 (catastrophic), which measures the consequences of the event on the objective/process. The evaluation carried out by the risk owner, although rep-resenting a qualitative datum, is the fruit of the association of the judgement with scales of quanti/f_ied values in economic-/f_i-nancial terms (EBITDA, net Capex, Custom-er Satisfaction Index, Market Share etc.);
the probability: from a minimum 1 (improbable) r
to a maximum 5 (very probable), which meas-ure the degree of uncertainty of the event.  On the basis of the evaluation carried out, the most important risks are identi/f_ied for the 
(2) The charting of the processes/departments is updated every 
three months by the Human Resources and Organisation depart-ment and conveyed to the Risk Management department.proper management of the company process-
es and to reach the respective objectives. 
The identi/f_ication of the risk owners: the b. 
risks identi/f_ied are assigned to the owner department of the sub-process that is subject to the analysis. This department is responsible both for the evaluation of the existing measures of mitigation, and the de/f_inition of the action plan regarding the risks for which, in the gap analysis phase, adequate mitigation is not encountered. Approval of the action plan: the Risk Man-c. 
agement committee, supported by the Risk Management department, supervis-es the protection indicated by the owner department and approves the action plan proposed. The implementation of the measures of prevention or reduction of the risk is subject to the appropriate evalua-tion and a detailed cost/bene/f_its analysis.
The processing and veri/f_ication phase envis-3. 
ages the establishment of interdepartmen-tal work groups to monitor the action plans approved by the Risk Management commit-tee. The monitoring activity on the state of progress and/or completion of the action plan, together with the Key Risk Indicators (KRI), supplies a /f_l ow of data to the Committee which 
aids the de/f_inition of the subsequent cycle of Risk Management. The reporting phase provides a /f_low of informa-4. 
tion on the structure of the risk pro/f_ile and its development according to a /f_lexible schedule, de/f_ined on the basis of the needs of the stake-holders. 
The process is updated on an annual basis (or more regularly) at the discretion of the Risk Management Committee. Responsibility for the updating and sup-port belongs to the Risk Management department. The introduction of a digital system is being evaluat-ed, supplied with information by the risk owner and managed by the Risk Management department. 
On December 31st, 2009, the Group’s Corporate 
Risk Pro/f_ile was de/f_ined (excluding Tim Brasil) which signalled the completion of the analysis phase and part of the evaluation phase (risk assessment and allocation). Completion of the subsequent phases is expected in the next cycles. 
In particular, in the 2009 cycle, attention was 120
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSfocused on a group of signi/f_icant risks (the so-called 
Top Risks) regarding which the phases of the de/f_ini-tion of the Master Plan, treatment and veri/f_ication, will be pursued. 
%14214#6')18'40#0%'
An excerpt is given below from the “Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure of Telecom Italia S.p.A.” (also referred to as the “Re-port”), published in a separate document of the same name, which should be consulted for the full text. This, and all the other documents mentioned below – the principles, codes, procedures, guide lines, charts and tables – can be found at the Com-pany’s website: www.telecomitalia.com, “corporate” section, under the heading, “governance” (see in particular the item “Annual Report on corporate gov-ernance” under the heading “governance system”, where all the annual reports on corporate govern-ance – starting from the /f_iscal year 2003 – are given), and “investors”.
Pro/f_ile
The Company’s corporate governance system con-sists of a series of principles, rules and procedures that are updated from time to time and adapted to regulatory changes and international best practices.
As stated in previous Reports, this system fo-
cuses on the guiding role of the Board of Directors in setting the strategic direction, on the transparen-cy of the management decisions, both internally and regarding the market, on the ef/f_iciency and effective-ness of the internal control system, on the strict reg-ulation of potential con/f_licts of interest and on clear rules of conduct in dealing with related parties.
Information on the organisation of assetsStructure of the share capital
Subscribed and paid up share capital is given in Ta-ble 1, attached to the full text of the Report. 
Savings shares are regulated by Art. 6 of the 
Bylaws.
The company’s ordinary and savings shares are 
listed on the Italian Stock Exchange (Borsa Italiana), and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, each corresponding to ten ordinary or savings shares, respectively, repre-sented by American Depositary Receipts issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Details of the existing Telecom Italia stock option 
plans and the capital increases serving these plans can be found in note 42 of the Company’s separate /f_inancial statements as of 31 December 2009, and in the publicly available information documents, in accordance with Art. 84-b of the Consob Issuer Regulations. 
Restrictions on the transfer of securities 
No statutory limitations exist on the free disposal of securities, except that laid down in Art. 22 of the Bylaws regarding the special powers of the Minister of Economy and Finance, under Law 474/1994, which include the power to oppose the acquisition of shareholdings greater than 3% of the capital with the right to vote. 
Major shareholdings
Based on the information available, the following are the major holdings of ordinary capital in Telecom Italia:
SUBJECTTYPE OF 
OWNER-
SHIP% OF 
ORDINARY 
CAPITAL% OF 
VOTING 
CAPITAL
Telco S.p.A. Direct 22.447% 22.447%
Findim Group 
S.A.Direct 4.999% 4.999%
Sintonia S.A. Direct 2.056% 2.056%
 
Notice is also given that the following companies have informed CONSOB that they hold Telecom Italia S.p.A. ordinary shares in their role as investment management /f_irms:
Brandes Investment Partners LP: gave notice r
it held 4.024% of the total ordinary shares of Telecom Italia S.p.A., on July 23rd, 2008;Alliance Bernstein LP: gave notice it held r
2.069% of the total ordinary shares of Tel-ecom Italia S.p.A., on November 14th, 2008;Blackrock Inc. gave notice it held 2.823% of r
the total ordinary shares of Telecom Italia S.p.A., on December 1st, 2009.
Securities conferring special rights
No securities have been issued conferring special (*) On January 5th, 2010, the quota held by Sintonia S.A. fell to 
below 2%.121
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSrights of control.
As currently established, the special powers of 
the Minister of Economy and Finance under Law 
474/1994, referred to in Art. 22 of the Bylaws, are as follows:
To object to the acquisition of holdings equal r
to or greater than 3% of the share capital represented by shares with the right to vote in ordinary shareholders’ meetings. Should the Minister believe that the transaction is prejudicial to the vital interests of the state, the objection must be made, giving reasonable justi/f_ication, within ten days of the date of no-ti/f_ication by the Company at the time the buyer applies for entry in the shareholders’ register. The vendor may appeal against the ruling to the Lazio Regional Administrative Court within sixty days;To veto on the grounds of substantial prejudice r
to state interests, the adoption of resolutions to dissolve the Company, transfer the busi-ness, merge or divide the Company, transfer the registered of/f_ice outside Italy, change the company purpose and eliminate or modify the special powers themselves. Dissenting shareholders may appeal against the veto to the Lazio Regional Administrative Court within sixty days.
Under the Prime Ministerial Decree (DPCM) of June 10th, 2004, the special powers can only be exer-cised on the grounds of signi/f_icant and compel-ling reasons of public order, safety, security, health and defence, in certain cases of danger, involving, among other things, continuity in the provision of a public service or the safety and security of facilities and networks in essential public services. 
Shareholdings of employees: mechanism for exer-
cising voting rightsNo employee shareholding programmes are in exist-ence.
Restrictions on voting rights
There are no restrictions on voting rights for shares constituting the ordinary share capital of Telecom Italia. However, pending expiry of the term for ex-ercising the power to object to the acquisition of shareholdings greater than 3% of the ordinary capi-tal, under Art. 22 of the Bylaws, the voting rights of the shares of major shareholders is suspended. Equally, if the power to object is exercised, voting rights may not be exercised.
Voting rights are not assigned to savings shares 
during ordinary shareholders’ general meeting, as laid down by Italian regulations. 
Shareholder agreements
The principal shareholder of Telecom Italia is Telco S.p.A. (Telco),whose shares, in turn, are currently held by: Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A., Mediobanca S.p.A., companies belonging to the Generali Group and Tel-efónica S.A.
According to information in the public domain, on 
April 28th, 2007, the shareholders of Telco (which then incorporated Sintonia S.A.) entered into a shareholder agreement that identi/f_ied, among other things, the criteria for drawing up the list of candi-dates as directors of Telecom Italia:
Telefónica would be entitled to designate two r
candidates for as long as it held at least 30% of Telco’s share capital;Other Telco shareholders would be entitled r
to designate the other candidates on the list, three on the basis of unanimity, and the oth-ers on a proportional basis, for as long as they held an absolute majority of the share capital.
The shareholder agreement laid down that the Tel-ecom Italia Group and the Telefónica Group were to be operated autonomously and independently. In particular, the Directors appointed by Telefónica to Telco and Telecom Italia receive instructions from Telefónica not to participate or vote in board meet-ings involving discussions and resolutions on the policies, management and operations of companies, directly or indirectly controlled by Telecom Italia, that provide services in countries where Telefónica’s right to vote is subject to legal or regulatory restrictions or limitations.
On November 19th, 2007, the agreement was modi-
/f_ied in accordance with the measure adopted by the Brazilian telecommunications authority (Anatel), issued on October 23rd, 2007 and published on November 5th, 2007 (the ‘Anatel Decision’), which laid down that:122
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSTelefónica and its directors/of/f_icers shall not r
participate, vote or exercise vetoes in Telecom 
Italia’s shareholders’ meetings, board of direc-tors’ meetings, committees and bodies with similar powers to Telco, or those of any other company controlled by Telecom Italia when deliberating upon subjects relating to the per-formance of telecommunications activities within the Brazilian market. Furthermore, Tele-fónica shall not designate directors or of/f_icers (i) of companies controlled by Telecom Italia established in Brazil that provide telecommu-nications services within the Brazilian market, or (ii) of companies established in Brazil that control such suppliers of telecommunications services;Telefónica shall ensure that subsidiaries pro-r
viding telecommunications services within the Brazilian market do not enter into speci/f_ic types of relationships with Telecom Italia subsidiaries providing telecommunications services within the Brazilian market on terms and conditions other than those laid down by Brazilian regulations applicable to telecommu-nications services;Telefónica, even where it may exercise the r
right to acquire Telco shares, shall not exer-cise direct or indirect control over any subsidi-ary of Telecom Italia in Brazil;Parties to the agreement shall instruct those r
members of the Board of Directors of Telco that each appoint, as well as to the members of the Board of Directors of Telecom Italia designated by Telco, (i) to prepare separate agendas for the meetings of the boards of directors of Telco, Telecom Italia and Telecom Italia International N.V ., or of any other com-pany established outside of Brazil and control-led by Telecom Italia with investments in the Brazilian telecommunications sector in which the participation of directors designated by Telefónica is allowed but not their participa-tion in meetings, and (ii) to provided to Anatel within 30 days copies of the agendas and of the minutes of the meetings referred to in the preceding point.
The restrictions and limitations referred to above shall also be applied to any Telco spin-off. In line with this, the Directors, Messrs Alierta 
and Linares, have undertaken not to participate in discussions or voting in the Board (nor in the Ex-ecutive Committee) when considering proposals or subjects involving the activities of Telecom Italia, or subsidiaries, within the Brazilian and Argentine telecommunications markets, nor – in general – in any case that could be prejudicial to Telecom Italia Group. 
On October 28th, 2009, Sintonia S.A. requested a 
non-proportional spin-off of Telco, under the share-holder agreement. 
On that date, the parties to the agreement, 
except Sintonia S.A., entered into a renewed, modi-/f_ied agreement (which remains in force until April 28th, 2010) agreeing the renewal for a further three years, and so effective from April 28th, 2010, until April 27th, 2013, with the right to terminate be-tween April 1st and 28th, 2011, with the possibil-ity to extend – under certain circumstances – until May 5th, 2011. It was further agreed to discuss with Sintonia S.A. procedures that would enable it to withdraw from the capital of Telco as an alternative to the spin-off.
Given the above, on December 22nd,2009, 
Sintonia S.A. acquired from Telco Telecom Italia’s 275,115,716 ordinary shares (2.06% of the compa-ny’s ordinary share capital) and Telco acquired Sinto-nia S.A.’s entire holding in the Telco’s share capital, ending its participation. 
As of December 31st, 2009, the signatories to 
the agreement and the stakes held by each in the capital of Telco were as follows: Telefonica S.A. (46.18%), Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A. (12.98%), In-tesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. (11.62%), Mediobanca S.p.A. (11.62%), Alleanza Toro S.p.A. (6.76%), Ina Assitalia (6.21%), Generali Lebenversicherung A.G. (2.36%) and Generali Vie S.A. (2.27%).
When the agreement was renewed (October 28th, 
2009), Telco and Telefónica also agreed to extend until April 27th, 2013, the latter’s purchase option in the event of dissent over the Telco board of direc-tors’ decision to transfer the Telecom Italia shares in the company portfolio. In this case, Telefónica could alternatively acquire Telco’s Telecom Italia shares at the same price and under the same condi-tions offered by any interested third party, or else 123
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSrequest the spin-off of Telco.
On January 11th, 2010, Telefónica S.A., Assicurazi-
oni Generali S.p.A., Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A., Me-diobanca S.p.A., Alleanza Toro S.p.A., Ina Assitalia S.p.A., Generali Lebenversicherung A.G. and Gen-erali Vie S.A. signed a supplementary agreement to the shareholder agreement:
con/f_irming their /f_inancial support to Telco;r
agreeing the methods by which such /f_inancial r
support would be provided when necessary in accordance with the /f_inancing agreement – backed by collateral of Telecom Italia ordinary shares – signed on that date between Telco and a pool of /f_inancial institutions; regulating the method of exercising the right r
to acquire the Telecom Italia ordinary shares available to the /f_inancial institutions if the col-lateral were to be called in.
Change of control clauses The duty to give notice of change of control is laid down by a series of agreements to which Telecom Italia is party. 
This duty, which is enshrined in national legisla-
tion governing certi /f_icates of permission, is primarily 
incorporated in the general authorisation certi /f_icates 
permitting Telecom Italia to act as provider of the electronic communications network and offer elec-tronic communications services, as well as in the cer-ti/f_icates of general authorisation/concession allowing 
its subsidiary, TI Media, to act as network operator and supplier of content. A similar duty is enshrined in local legislation and incorporated in the concession/license certi /f_icates for telecommunications services 
granted to the foreign subsidiaries of the group.
Telecom Italia is also party to agreements under 
which a change of control would lead to the modi/f_i-cation or even dissolution of the relationship. Some of these agreements, unrelated to /f_inancial rela-tionships, are subject to con/f_identiality restrictions where disclosure of the existence of the clause would be seriously prejudicial to the company’s in-terests, and the company therefore avails itself of the facility of non-disclosure under Art. 123-b, para-graph 1, letter h), second part, of the Consolidated Finance Act. In other cases, the agreement is not deemed to be signi/f_icant.
This leaves the following cases, all of which re-late to /f_inancial relationships:
Multi currency revolving credit facility r
(8,000,000,000 euros). This agreement was stipulated between Telecom Italia and a bank syndicate on August 1st, 2005 and subse-quently amended. In the event of a change of control, Telecom Italia must inform the agent within 5 business days, and the agent, on behalf of the /f_inancing banks, must negoti-ate in good faith on the continuance of the relationship. None of the parties is obliged to continue such negotiations beyond 30 days, at which point, in the absence of any agree-ment, the facility shall cease to be effective and Telecom Italia will be obliged to return such sums as may have been disbursed to it (currently equivalent to 1,500,000,000 euros). Usually, a change of control will not arise in cases where control, within the meaning of Art. 2359 of the Italian Civil Code, is acquired (i) by shareholders who, on the date the agree-ment was signed, directly or indirectly held more than 13% of the voting rights in share-holders’ meetings or (ii) by investors (Telefoni-ca, Assicurazioni Generali, Sintonia, Intesa Sanpaolo and Mediobanca), which stipulated a shareholder agreement on April 28th, 2007 concerning the Telecom Italia shares, or else (iii) by a combination of subjects belonging to both categories;Revolving credit facility (1,250,000,000 eu-r
ros). This agreement was stipulated by Tel-ecom Italia and abank syndicate on February 12th, 2010 and lays down a similar regime to that contained in the facility of August 1st, 2005, but was updated to incorporate the Oc-tober 28th, 2009 amendment to the share-holder agreement of April 28th, 2007. No change of control therefore arises in cases where the control, within the meaning of Art. 2359 of the Italian Civil Code, is directly or indirectly acquired (through subsidiaries) by the investors Telefónica S.A., Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A., Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. and Mediobanca S.p.A., the provisions above re-maining otherwise unchanged;Bonded loans. The regulations on loans is-r
sued as part of the Olivetti or Telecom Italia EMTN Programme, and loans denominated in 124
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSUS dollars, usually lay down that, in the event 
of mergers or transfers of all or the greater part of the assets of the issuer or guarantor company, the incorporating or transferee com-pany must assume all of the obligations of the incorporated or transferring company. Failure to ful/f_il the obligations, if not remedied, gives rise to a default event;Contracts with the European Investment Bank r
(EIB). In the contracts stipulated by Telecom Italia and the EIB, for a total maximum amount of around €2.5 billion, there exists a duty to inform the Bank promptly of any modi/f_ications regarding the Bylaws or any distribution of capital among shareholders that could amount to a change of control. Any failure to provide this information would lead to termination of the contract, which also occurs should share-holder holding less than 2% of the share capi-tal at the date the contract is signed obtain more than 50% of the voting rights in ordinary shareholders’ meetings or, in any event, of the share capital, where this, in the reasonable judgment of the Bank, could be prejudicial to the Bank or compromise the execution of the /f_inancing project.
Authorisation to increase the share capital and to procure treasury sharesThe Shareholders’ Meeting of 8 April 2009 resolved to empower the Directors to increase the share capital, against payment in one or more instalments, by issuing a maximum of 1,600,000,000 ordinary shares, to be offered, in their entirety or in part: 
under option to the partners and to the hold-r
ers of convertible bonds, or elseby subscription to the employees of Telecom r
Italia or its subsidiaries,
as well as the power to issue convertible bonds, on one or more occasions, for a maximum amount of 1,000,000,000 euros.
Following authorisation by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting of April 14th, 2008 for the procurement of treasury shares on the regulated markets by Oc-tober 14th, 2009, for a maximum of 11,400,000 ordinary shares, to service the stock option plan reserved for Senior Management, in the period be-tween March 17th and 31st, 2009, 11,400,000 treasury shares were purchased on the market at a weighted average price of between a minimum of €0.8942 and a maximum of €0.9686. Consob was informed of this transaction on April 6th, 2009.As of now. no authorisations exist for the procure-ment of treasury shares.
Management and coordination
Telecom Italia is not subject to management and coordination within the meaning of Articles 2497, et seq., of the Italian Civil Code.
Compliance
Telecom Italia adheres to the Self-Regulatory Code of Borsa Italiana and, since 2000, it brought its cor-porate governance system in line with the national and international best practice, in accordance with the recommendations of the Self-Regulatory Code of the Borsa Italiana, and the regulatory measures introduced from time to time, keeping shareholders and the market constantly informed by means of the management report appended to the annual /f_inan-cial statements.
As a foreign issuer registered with the US Securities 
and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Telecom Italia is also subject to US legislation. In this respect, as speci/f_ied in the Self-Regulatory Code, the Board of Statutory Audi-tors performs the duties of an audit committee. 
The strategic subsidiaries of Telecom Italia include 
the companies of the Tim Brasil group, whose hold-ing company is Tim Participações S.A. (indirectly controlled by Telecom Italia), a locally listed Brazil-ian company, registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The corporate governance structure at Telecom 
Italia is not subject to the legal provisions applica-ble to Tim Participações S.A. Furthermore, in compli-ance with the aforementioned measure adopted by Anatel on October 23rd, 2007, and the subsequent measure adopted on July 7th, 2009 (which the Bra-zilian Authority ruled was in full compliance with the obligatory requirements), since 2007, Telecom Italia has operated a speci/f_ic procedure formalising the existing separation between Gruppo Telecom Italia and Gruppo Telefónica activities in the Brazilian tel-ecommunications market.125
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSA similar internal procedure was adopted at the end 
of 2008 to formalise the separation between Grup-po Telecom Italia and Gruppo Telefónica activities in the Argentine telecommunications market.
Board of DirectorsAppointment and replacement
The company’s Bylaws (Art. 9) lay down that the Board of Directors shall consist of no less than seven, and no more than nineteen, members, and that they be appointed on the basis of lists submit-ted by shareholders possessing a total of at least 0.5% of the ordinary capital, lodged at the compa-ny’s registered of/f_ice at least /f_ifteen days before the date set for the /f_irst convocation of the Sharehold-ers’ Meeting.
Four /f_ifths of the Directors to be elected shall be 
drawn from the list obtaining the highest number of votes, according to the order in which they are list-ed, rounded down to the lower number in the case of uneven numbers. The remaining directors shall be drawn from the other lists. To this end, the votes ob-tained by them shall then be divided by progressive whole numbers from one up to the number of Direc-tors to be elected, and the share assigned to the respective candidates in the order in which they are listed. Shares of votes allocated in this way shall be arranged in descending order in a single list. The candidates with the highest shares are elected. For Directors who, for any reason, have not been ap-pointed in accordance with the above procedure, the Shareholders’ Meeting shall decide by the legally required majority.
The provisions of Art. 9.7 of Telecom Italia’s 
Bylaws lay down that the list of candidates to be ap-pointed to the Board of Directors must be accompa-nied by each candidate’s statement of acceptance of the candidacy, and by a declaration of the ab-sence of any reason of ineligibility or incompatibility, in addition to meeting the requirements laid down and any other information required by the applicable rules and regulations and the Bylaws. Each candi-date shall present, together with his declaration, a curriculum vitae, demonstrating his personal and professional details and the administrative and man-agerial of/f_ices he has held at other companies and credentials of independence, in observance of the legal criteria and those established by the Company.According to the provisions of the company’s 
Self-Regulatory Code, carrying out the duties of a director of Telecom Italia is considered incompat-ible with being a director or auditor of more than /f_ive companies, other than those managed and coordi-nated by Telecom Italia, controlled by or af/f_iliated to it, that are 
listed in the FTSE/MIB index and/orr
operating predominantly in the public /f_inancial r
sector and/orcarry out banking or insurance activities.r
Where executive positions in companies as de-scribed above are held, the limit is reduced to three. The Board of Directors has the power to decide to the contrary, however (with public noti/f_ication in the annual report on corporate governance) even if this departs from the stated criteria. 
Should a Director hold of/f_ice in several compa-
nies in the same group, only one position will be taken into account for the purpose of calculating the number of positions held. 
Composition
The Shareholders’ Meeting of April 14th, 2008 ap-pointed the current Board of Directors, opting for 15 as the number of members, with a mandate of 3 years (and therefore until the meeting convened to approve the /f_inancial statement on December 31st, 2010), authorising candidates to carry out the activi-ties in line with their the respective curricula vitae, thereby releasing them from the restraints on com-petition under Art. 2390 of the Civil Code.
In accordance with the applicable regulations, 
three lists (Telco List, Funds List and Findim Group List) were submitted, in line with the procedures and time limits laid down by the Bylaws (see par. 4.1 of this Report). For information concerning candidates included in the Lists, the shareholders who submit-ted the Lists and the quotas obtained by each List, please refer to the complete text of the Report.
Twelve board members were drawn from the 
Telco list, obtaining the majority of the votes cast, according to the order in which they were listed:
Cesar Alierta Izuel, Tarak Ben Ammar, Franco 
Bernabè, Elio Cosimo Catania, Jean Paul Fitoussi, Gabriele Galateri di Genola, Berardino Libonati, Julio Linares Lopez, Gaetano Miccichè, Aldo Minucci, Gi-anni Mion and Renato Pagliaro.126
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSAs required by the Bylaws, three board members 
were drawn from the other two lists, speci/f_ically, 
Luigi Zingales (taken from the Funds list), Paolo Baratta and Roland Berger (taken from the Findim Group list).
Following the resignation of Gianni Mion, the 
Board of Directors’ meeting on February 27th, 2009 co-opted Stefano Cao as company director, valid until the Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the 2008 /f_inancial statement. Since, in this case, the mechanism of the voting list (laid down only for the complete renewal of the Board under the company’s Bylaws) did not apply, the Shareholders’ Meeting appointed Stefano Cao as director for the remain-ing part of the mandate of the Board of Directors in of/f_ice.
On December 22nd, 2009, Stefano Cao duly 
handed in his resignation as director. The Sharehold-ers’ Meeting, convoked for April 28th/29th next, will make a decision following his resignation.
The curricula vitae detailing the personal back-
ground and professional quali/f_ications of the mem-bers of the Board of Directors are available at the Company’s website.
Tables 2 and 3, attached to the full text of the 
Report, list information relating to the composition of the Board of Directors as at April 12th, 2010, and members who resigned during 2009.
The role of the Board of Directors 
Under Telecom Italia’s Self-Regulatory Code, the 
Board plays an active role in providing strategic guid-
ance for the company and exercising management control. The Code empowers the Board as a whole to direct the company strategically with the responsi-bility to intervene directly in major decisions on the activities of the Company and the Group. Speci/f_i-cally, among other matters, the Board assumes the following responsibilities:
to examine and approve strategic, industrial r
and /f_inancial plans, as well as the budget; to examine and approve strategic operations; r
to assess the adequacy of the organisational, r
administrative and accounting structure with particular reference to the internal control system; to draw up and adopt the company’s corporate r
governance regulations and de/f_ine the group’s corporate governance guidelines;to de/f_ine the limits, methods and schedules r
of the reporting by the executive committee on the activity carried out;to appoint the chairmen and managing direc-r
tors of strategically important subsidiaries;to supervise the general progress of the man-r
agement, periodically comparing the results achieved with the projections. 
The following come within the scope of strategic op-erations subject to the prior approval of the board:
agreements with the group’s competitors that r
substantially impinge on the freedom of corpo-rate strategic choices due to their objectives, obligations, conditions and limitations; actions and operations that include entry into (or exit from) geographical and/or product markets;industrial investments and disinvestments with r
a value of more than 250 million euros; the acquisition and disposal of companies or r
branches of companies that are of strategic importance to the overall business activities, or whose value exceeds 250 million euros; the acquisition or disposal of shares in sub-r
sidiaries and associates with a value of more than 250 million euros and, in any case, (even if the value is lower) in companies carrying out activities that are part of the Group’s core business, and the stipulation of agreements over the exercise of the rights attached to these holdings; taking on /f_i nancing, including disbursing /f_inanc- r
ing and the issuing of guarantees in the inter-est of non-subsidiary companies for amounts greater than 500 million euros; any of the above operations when carried out r
by the Group’s unlisted subsidiary companies, except the subsidiaries of listed subsidiary companies of controlled listed companies; listing and delisting in regulated markets with-r
in and outside Europe of /f_inancial instruments issued by the company or by group companies;instructions for the completion of operations r
of the nature described above that are issued to listed subsidiary companies (and their sub-sidiaries) in carrying out the management and coordination activities of the parent company.
The assessment of management performance is 127
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSbased on the continuous /f_low of information to non-
executive Directors and Statutory Auditors, coordi-nated by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. This occurs periodically during various meetings and, speci/f_ically, during the examination of the /f_i-nancial statements, when the results achieved are closely compared with the objectives stated in the budget forecasts.
The Board of Directors assesses the adequacy of 
the company’s organisational, administrative and accounting structure on the basis of the information provided by the management, and, in the speci/f_ic case of the system of internal controls, also on the basis of the investigation carried out by the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. In discharging its responsibilities as head of the inter-nal control system, the Board also has recourse to
the internal control body, which performs the r
internal audit, that is, the associate company, Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services;the executive responsible for drawing up com-r
pany accounting documents with speci/f_ic refer-ence to internal controls for /f_i nancial reporting.
With regard to the annual board assessment, the practice of self-assessment introduced in Telecom Italia in 2005, was renewed for the /f_ifth successive year. 
As part of the annual self-assessment proce-
dure, in 2009 the Board of Directors decided to ob-tain the assistance of a company (Spencer Stuart) that specialises in preparing and executing such self-assessments. In addition, speci/f_ic analyses were also conducted in order to identify ways in which the operation of the Board could be improved. 
This was achieved through (i) structured, indi-
vidual interviews with Directors, based on the three self-assessment criteria identi/f_ied by the Self-Regu-latory Code (size, composition, operation); (ii) analy-sis of the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees to consider the matters discussed, the duration and the structure of the meetings; (iii) a comparison with best practice of the Boards of Directors of similar companies.
Each board member was presented with state-
ments and given the opportunity either to state their level of agreement or not to respond. Any comments made by interviewees on each of the issues dis-cussed were also noted down. The questions closely re/f_lected the observations made during the self-as-sessment last year and were designed to thoroughly examine speci/f_ic areas, including: (i) the process of making board decisions, (ii) the information under-lying the most important resolutions made by the Board in 2009, (iii) the activity of the Committees and (iv) the mechanisms used to inform and update the Board of Directors.
At its meetings on February 25th and March 
25th, 2010, the Board examined the results of the self-assessment.
A generally positive picture emerged. The qual-
ity of the members of the Board, the combination of expertise they bring to their tasks, the constructive climate of discussion that characterises its work and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the internal committees were all acknowledged. The interest and willingness of Board members to inves-tigate business issues thoroughly, and to increase the knowledge-base within the company deserve to be highlighted. Among the areas of improvement recommended was the speedier dissemination of information prior to meetings, in order to allow the items on the agenda to be examined in detail. The Board was once again urged to increase the number of independent Directors. 
In 2009, seven meetings of the Board of Directors 
were held. The Directors were sent the appropri-ate documentation, within a timescale in line with the particular circumstances, to enable them to participate in meetings in an informed way. When specialised topics were discussed during meetings, the respective managers were invited to participate by the Chairman, with the agreement of the other di-rectors. When appropriate, external consultants also took part in order to provide the necessary technical and professional support.
The average duration of the meetings was 
around four hours. The attendance percentage was 93.33 (97.14% for independent Directors).
Nine meetings are planned in 2010, three of 
which have already been held.
Delegated bodies
The power to delegate (and revoke) powers of at-torney to Directors is reserved to the Board, which de/f_ines the purpose, limits and methods by which 128
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSsuch powers are exercised, and receives a continu-
ous /f_low of information regarding the operations carried out, on the general progress of management and on the most signi/f_icant economic, /f_inancial and asset operations.
On April 15th, 2008, the Board of Directors appoint-
ed Gabriele Galateri di Genola as Chairman and Franco Bernabè as Managing Director.
In addition to the legal representation of Com-
pany, the Chairman has been assigned the following responsibilities: 
supervision of the drawing-up of strategic, in-r
dustrial and /f_inancial plans, their implementa-tion and development; supervision of the de/f_inition of the organisa-r
tional structures;supervision of the economic and /f_inancial r
progress;supervision of the process of examining and r
establishing the guidelines for the internal con-trol system.
In addition to the legal representation of the Com-pany and all the powers, exercised by individual signature, required to carry out the various forms of corporate activity, with no exclusions, the Managing Director has been given responsibility for the overall management of the company and of the group, and in particular:
responsibility for de/f_ining, proposing to the r
Board of Directors and subsequently imple-menting and developing, the strategic, indus-trial and /f_inancial plans;responsibility for de/f_ining organisational struc-r
tures;all organisational responsibility for ensuring r
the proper management and development of the business by coordinating organisational structures in any way that is not the responsi-bility of the Chairman.
On April 15th, 2008, an Executive Committee was also set up, consisting of executive directors (who ensure coordination with the group’s management) and non-executive directors. The Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Board of Direc-tors. For the current composition, refer to table 4, which is attached to the full text of the Report.The Committee’s task is to monitor the manage-
ment performance of the Company and the Group, to approve organisational macrostructures, on the proposals of the executive Directors, to give opin-ions to the Board of Directors on the budget and the strategic, industrial and /f_inancial plans of the Com-pany and Group, and to perform any tasks that may be assigned by the Board of Directors, within the scope of matters that can be delegated.
The Committee periodically reports on the opera-
tions carried out to the Board in the most appropri-ate manner during the /f_irst available meeting. 
In 2009, the Committee held four meetings, with an 
average duration of around three hours.
The attendance percentage was 96% (100% for 
independent Directors). Five meetings, of which two have already been held, have been planned for 2010.
Other executive Directors
There are no executive Directors on the Board of Directors other than the Chairman and Managing Director.
Independent Directors
Telecom Italia has embraced the criteria for assess-ing the “independence” of its Directors established by the the Borsa Italiana’s Self-Regulatory Code. According to information provided by the Directors, Paolo Baratta, Roland Berger, Elio Cosimo Catania, Jean Paul Fitoussi and Luigi Zingales are con/f_irmed as independent directors.
At its meeting on February 25th, 2010, the 
Board of Directors veri/f_ied that the aforementioned directors meet the requirements of independence under Art. 147-c, paragraph 4, of Legislative Decree No. 58/1998, and also con/f_irmed that the deter-mined that the requirements for the composition of the administrative body as a whole (the presence of at least two independent Directors in accordance with the criteria laid down by law for Statutory Audi-tors) had been met.
The Board of Statutory Auditors, as required by 
the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code, monitored the activities undertaken in order to verify ful/f_ilment of the requirements and the correct application of the independence criteria.129
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSLead Independent Director
The Lead Independent Director is currently the Direc-tor, Paolo Baratta, who is Chairman of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as a member of the Supervisory Board in ac-cordance with Legislative Decree 231/2001.
The Lead Independent Director is the point of 
reference and coordination for the proposals and contributions of the independent directors. He has the facility to use the company structure to carry out his duties and may convene special meetings for Independent Directors only (Independent Direc-tors’ Executive Sessions) in order to discuss the functions of the Board of Directors or issues of the management of the Company. Four meetings were held in 2009.
In accordance with the Self-Regulatory Code, the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors collaborates with the Lead Independent Director in the proper opera-tion of the administrative body (including selecting the matters to be discussed during meetings of the Board). 
Treatment of company information
Telecom Italian has appropriate procedures for clas-sifying and dealing with con/f_idential information. 
Furthermore, a procedure has been adopted for 
the internal management and outside communica-tion of documents and information regarding the Company, with particular reference to con/f_idential information. This procedure governs the handling of con/f_idential information regarding Telecom Italia, its non-listed subsidiaries and the Group’s listed /f_inan-cial instruments and applies to all members of the management bodies, as well as to employees and external associates, who have access to matters that may become privileged information. It instructs all subsidiary companies to provide, without delay, any information required to comply with public dis-closure obligations. 
Finally, this procedure also governs the register 
of those with access to con/f_idential information (ar-ticles 152-b et seq. of the Issuers Regulations).
Internal committees of the Board
In addition to the aforementioned Executive Commit-tee, the Board also has an Appointments and Remu-neration committee and an Internal Control and Cor-porate Governance Committee, whose functions are governed by the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code.
Appointments and remuneration committee 
The Appointments and Remuneration Committee consists of non-executive Directors, the majority of whom are independent Directors, including at least one Director chosen from a minority list. Please re-fer to Table 4 (attached to the complete text of the Report) for its current composition.
The Committee has advisory and consultative 
functions (i) on the remuneration of Directors hold-ing speci/f_ic of/f_ices, to bring them into line with the objective of creating value for shareholders over time; (ii) on the periodic assessment of the criteria used to determine the remuneration of the Com-pany’s senior management and, on the instruction of the Managing Directors, any stock option or share assignment plans; (iii) on monitoring the implemen-tation of decisions taken and company policies on remuneration for senior management and (iv) on proposals regarding candidates for the Board, in the event of the replacement of an independent director during their term of of/f_ice.
In 2009, the Committee’s activities concerned 
the remuneration system for executive directors of the Company (the Chairman and the Managing Director) and the senior management, to bring the Company in line with best market practice. The Com-mittee supervised initiatives of assessment and segmentation of senior management, drawing up re-placement tables for strategic managerial positions, and carrying out a detailed study of remuneration in the form of /f_inancial instruments for both manage-ment and employees. 
At the request of the Board of Directors, the 
Committee also selected a candidate for the posi-tion of external member of the Company’s Supervi-sory Board, in accordance with Legislative Decree No. 231/2001.
As required by the Company’s Self-Regulatory 
Code, in order to carry out its duties the Committee availed itself of the Company’s internal facilities and of external consultants of its own choosing. 
In 2009, it held eleven meetings and minuted 
them as required. The contributions of managers responsible for areas under discussion were sought. The average duration of the meetings was approxi-mately two hours and the meetings were attended by all the Committee members. 130
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSThree meetings have already been held in 2010. 
Remuneration of Directors, Chief Executive Of/f_ic-
ers and Key Managers with strategic responsibili-tiesThe remuneration received by Directors, Chief Execu-tive Of/f_icers and Key Managers in 2009 appears in Note 45 (Other information) to Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s /f_inancial statements.
At the meeting held on April 15th, 2008, the Board 
of Directors distributed overall annual remunera-tion of 2.2 million euros, as approved by sharehold-ers during the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 14th, 2008 for the three-year period 2008-2010, as fol-lows:
remuneration of 110,000 euros for each Direc-r
tor in of/f_ice;additional remuneration of 35,000 euros for r
each member of the Executive Committee;additional remuneration of 45,000 euros for r
each member of the Internal Control and Cor-porate Governance Committee;additional remuneration of 20,000 euros for r
each member of the Appointments and Remu-neration Committee;additional remuneration of 20,000 euros for r
the Director appointed to the Supervisory Board pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001.
The non-executive Directors receive remuneration resulting from the distribution of the overall sum established by the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 14th, 2008, as stated above. Their remuneration is not therefore linked to the Company’s /f_inancial per-formance. Non-executive directors are not permitted to participate in any share ownership schemes.
The Board of Directors, on a proposal from the Ap-
pointments and Remuneration Committee, and with the approval of the Board of Statutory Audi-tors, established /f_ixed remuneration for executive Directors of 1,300,000 euros for the Chairman and 1,400,000 euros for the Managing Director, in addi-tion to the aforementioned remuneration, as well as: (i) for the Chairman, the use of a Company /f_lat; (ii) for the Managing Director, payments into a welfare plan of an amount equal to 10% of his /f_ixed salary; (iii) for both, personal health coverage and insur-ance against work-related and non work-related acci-dents, life insurance and permanent disability insur-ance due to illness; (iv) for both, a sum equal to the amount required in order to pay taxes on this type of taxable bene/f_its.
An incentive plan is also provided for the Manag-
ing Director for the /f_inancial year 2009 of between 50% and 200% of his /f_ixed salary, dependent on the attainment of speci/f_ic, certi/f_iable indicators, linked to objectives in four target areas set as priorities for the 2009-2011 business plan.
Value Creation, expressed by the Net Income r
(weighting: 20%), Cash Improvement, assessed in terms of the r
ratio between Net Debt and EBITDA (weight-ing: 15%), Quality, in terms of the Customer Satisfaction r
Index (weighting: 15%), Focus on the operational component, either r
as the ratio between cash costs and revenues (weighting: 15%), or in terms of the revenue from speci/f_ically identi/f_ied innovative services (weighting: 15%). 
The objectives for the above parameters are set by the 2009 budget target with decreases to a mini-mum threshold value, and a maximum payout for the attainment of predetermined increases. Movements are assessed according to the relevant indicators and intermediate performance results are measured in a linear manner. In addition to the quantitative parameters (with a total weighting of 80%) there are qualitative valuation criteria (weighting: 20%) at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Furthermore, the Chairman and Managing Direc-
tor (see the table in Note 45 “Other Information” to the Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s /f_inancial statements), are assigned stock options in accordance with the plan approved at the meeting of April 14th, 2008, of 3,000,000 for the Chairman and 8,400,000 for the Managing Director, according to the conditions set out in more detail in the public disclosure document, published in accordance with Art. 84-b of the Issu-ers Regulations.
Provision has also been made for the Chairman 
and Managing Director to be paid the sums due to them until expiry of their term of of/f_ice, supple-mented by a compensation amounting to one year’s 131
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSremuneration, should they leave of/f_ice before the 
expiry of the mandate granted by the Sharehold-ers’ Meeting of April 14th, 2008 (i) due to objective causes (such as a Company merger or the dismissal of the entire Board in accordance with Art. 9.12 of the Bylaws, (ii) at the Company’s initiative (unless there is just cause) or (iii) at the initiative of the par-ties concerned, if there is just cause (e.g.: changed circumstances, especially with regard to assigned functions, or a signi/f_icant change to the relevant shareholding). For the Managing Director, this in-cludes a variable component, calculated as the aver-age of payments already received.
At the meeting held on February 25th, 2010, the 
Board of Directors took note of the new Executives with strategic responsibilities (otherwise known as executive of/f_icers or key managers) resulting from the latest reorganisation, in late 2009. They current-ly hold the positions of pro tempore Chief Financial Of/f_ice, Domestic Market Operations Manager, Tech-nology & Operations Manager, Diretor Presidente of Tim Brasil, Human Resources and Organization Man-ager, Corporate Legal Affairs Manager, and Purchas-ing Manager. In addition, they include the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director.
Total remuneration paid in 2009 to pro tempore 
executive of/f_icers recognised as having strategic du-ties is shown, overall, in Note 45 (Other Information) to Telecom Italia S.p.A.’s /f_inancial statements.
Remuneration to executive of /f_icers with strategic 
duties consists of a short-term variable component linked to the Company’s /f_inancial performance and/or 
attainment of speci /f_ic objectives, in the form of what 
is known as the MBO. A free allocation (known as “Performance Share Granting”) is also given to this group, and senior managers, consisting of a prede-termined maximum number of ordinary shares, which depends on the effective period of participation in the 2008-2011 Incentive Plan and the extent of the attainment of the predetermined share-performance objectives, expressed as absolute and relative Total Shareholder Return. The plan’s information document is available on the Company’s website.
Internal control and corporate governance com-
mitteeThe Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, which has been part of the Company’s governance structure since 2000, has the following advisory and consultative functions: 
assisting the Board and, on request, the Man-r
aging Director, in carrying out duties related to the internal control system in the Company; assessing the work plan prepared by the inter-r
nal control manager, who submits a (quarterly) report to the Board;assessing the proper observance of account-r
ing principles and their consistent applica-tion within the Group for the preparation of /f_inancial statements, in collaboration with the administrative managers of the Company and the executive in charge of drawing up the com-pany’s accounts in consultation with the statu-tory auditors;assessing the work plan for the audit, and the r
results presented in the report or any letter of suggestions; periodically reporting to the Board on its activi-r
ties, in the /f_irst available meeting, and on the adequacy of the internal control system at the time the budget and the half-yearly report are approved.
The Committee also:
veri/f_ies the effectiveness of the auditing pro-r
cedures, compliance with the principles gov-erning transactions with related parties (with subsequent general monitoring and advance reviews of certain “prominent” transactions), compliance and regular updating of corporate governance rules.expresses its opinion on the appointment, r
dismissal and assignment of functions to the internal control manager and the executive responsible for drawing up the company’s ac-counts;establishes the timetable and procedures for r
the board performance evaluation;performs other duties occasionally assigned r
by the Board of Directors.
The Committee examined the quarterly reports pre-pared by the internal control manager on auditing activities, on the implementation of plans to improve the internal control system and the implementation of follow-up activities, on the work done to monitor and verify the compliance of company procedures 132
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSand operations with speci/f_ic legal provisions and in-
ternal procedures, and on the management of risks and IT compliance. Speci/f_ically, the Committee care-fully supervised standards of compliance in market-ing and with requirements regarding privacy and the treatment of data of traf/f_ic and related parties, carrying out a detailed investigation into the sale of the shareholding in Hansenet to the majority share-holder of Telco, Telefónica. Finally, the Committee monitored the status of the stake held by Telecom Italia in Sofora (the holding company of Telecom Ar-gentina). 
In other /f_ields, it also closely monitored the work 
carried out to maintain and update what is known as Organisational Model 231 (see below), and received updates concerning corporate social responsibility issues on the initiatives implemented last year by the Telecom Italia Foundation and Group companies, as well as on the plans for 2010.
With regard to auditing, /f_inally, the Committee 
held several technical meetings on the subject of the impairment test of goodwill, supporting both the approach adopted by the Company and its /f_inal conclusions. 
The Board of Directors was periodically informed 
of each of the above activities.
For details of the members of the Committee (all 
of whom are non-executive directors, most of them independent, with at least one from a minority list), please refer to Table 4, attached to the full text of the Report. All members have appropriate account-ing and /f_inancial experience.
In 2009, the Committee held twelve meetings, 
regularly minuted, with by expert input from Com-pany management and subjects outside the Board. The average duration of the meetings was approxi-mately two hours and /f_ifty minutes and the attend-ance rate was 85.42%. In some cases, because of the matters to be discussed, the Board of Statutory Auditors also held joint meetings with the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Statutory Auditors was also represented at all the Committee’s meetings in the person of its Chairman (or at least one Statutory Auditor ap-pointed by him).
At least six meetings are planned for 2010, of 
which three have already been held. Internal control systemThe internal control system is a process made up of organisational rules, procedures and structures de-signed to ensure the values of procedural fairness, transparency and accountability that are considered fundamental to the business activities of Telecom Italia, laid down by the Group’s Code of Ethics and the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code. The proc-ess, which is under constant monitoring in order to ensure steady improvement, is designed to ensure management ef/f_iciency, transparency and veri/f_iabil-ity, the reliability of accounting and management data, compliance with applicable laws and regula-tions, protection of the assets of the company and the prevention of fraud perpetrated to the detriment of the Company and the /f_inancial markets. 
As the body responsible for the internal control 
system, the Board of Directors establishes its objec-tives and veri/f_ies its adequacy, effectiveness and correct operation to ensure that the main risks to the company (operational, economic, /f_inancial and compliance-related) are correctly identi/f_ied and man-aged over time.
With regard to /f_inancial risks, in the course of its 
business activities, Gruppo Telecom Italia is ex-posed to the following:
market risk: resulting from /f_luctuations in inter-a. 
est and exchange rates relating to /f_inancial activities undertaken and /f_inancial liabilities underwritten;credit risk: the risk of the failure of a counter-b. 
part to ful/f_il obligations counterpart regarding the liquidity requirements;liquidity risk: connected to the need to meet c. 
short-term /f_inancial commitments.
These risks are managed by laying down guidelines to be followed by operational management, by the work of an internal committee that monitors the lev-els of risk exposure in line with established goals, and by the monitoring of the results achieved. Spe-ci/f_ically, the management policies cover:
for the market risk: complete coverage of the a. 
exchange rate risk and minimal exposure to interest rates through the appropriate diversi-/f_ication of portfolios, which also includes the use of /f_inancial derivative instruments.for the credit risk: liquidity is prudently man-b. 133
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSaged and is mainly divided between “money 
market management” (investment of tempo-rary cash surpluses) and “bond portfolio man-agement” (investment of a level of permanent liquidity). In both types of management, in order to reduce the risk of failure by a counter-part to ful/f_il obligations, counterparts and issu-ers with a high credit rating are selected under a careful diversi/f_ication policy for the purposes of liquidity and the distribution of credit posi-tions between various banking counterparts;for the liquidity risk: the objective is to achieve c. 
an adequate level of /f_inancial /f_lexibility by maintaining an adequate treasury margin that enables coverage of re-/f_inancing requirements for at least the following twelve months.
Executive Director in charge of the internal control systemThe Board of Directors has selected its Chairman as the Director in charge of supervising the opera-tion of the internal control system. He is therefore required to de/f_ine the instruments and procedures that make up the system, ensuring it is adapted to accommodate any operational, legislative and regu-latory changes. The Executive Directors ensure the overall adequacy and operation of the system, each within his own area of responsibility, in collaboration with the executive responsible for drawing up the company’s accounting documents and the internal control supervisor for those matters under his re-sponsibility, using the established instruments and procedures. This is carried out under a risk-based perspective, which is also essential in establishing the agenda for the work of the Board of Directors.
Internal control manager
In exercising its responsibility for the internal con-trol system, the Board is supported by the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and a responsible body (as mentioned in previous gov-ernance Reports, this is the associate company Tel-ecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services) This latter is granted the level of independence and means in order to carry out its duties, which include direct and independent access to any information it requires. The responsible body must support the manage-ment and control structures in checking the adequa-cy and effective operation of the control system, and to propose corrective measures should anomalies or malfunctions be encountered.
Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services:
reports on its operations to the Director ap-r
pointed for this purpose, to the Internal Con-trol and Corporate Governance Committee and, through it, to the Board of Directors, as well as to the Board of Statutory Auditors;also carries out checks at the request of the r
executive responsible for drawing up the Com-pany’s accounting documents;ensures compliance with the principles and r
values expressed in the Code of Ethics, in-vestigating reports made by employees and third parties regarding violations and irregulari-ties (including accounting irregularities) and promoting the most appropriate action to be taken, including penalties.
In the 2009 /f_inancial year, a total of 241 operations were conducted by the internal control manager covering the organisational areas of the Group in ac-cordance with the established plan, with an increase in activity to deal with the situations that arose dur-ing the course of the year, above all in the Technolo-gy & Operations /f_ield. In 2009, 97 noti/f_ications were received, 31 of which concerned company matters (mainly regarding the security of exchanges, rela-tions with suppliers, vehicle management, product marketing fraud, the sale of products to unreliable customers and the alleged pursuit of personal inter-est by employees in the conduct of their working activities) and, where necessary, corrective actions were taken (or are currently being implemented) by the appropriate bodies.
The corrective actions required to eliminate weak 
points have been undertaken, speci/f_ic follow-ups have been carried out in accordance with pre-estab-lished, objective criteria, and monitoring is underway of the actions taken in particularly sensitive areas. 
Throughout 2009, the associate company, TI Au-
dit & Compliance Services, supervised the internal control system of the Telecom Italia Group, in line with its Corporate Governance objectives, through the following departments: Audit, Compliance, IT Risk & Security Governance and the subsidiary TIAu-dit Latam, ensuring effective overall supervision.
This allowed an assessment to be made of the 
internal control system to establish its capacity – 134
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSin terms of adequacy, functionality and reasonable 
certainty – to contribute to the attainment of the objectives of the individual company structures (ef-fectiveness), assessing the use of the resources for implementing them (ef/f_iciency) in the light of the (qualitative/quantitative) risk factors and the poten-tial in/f_luence of these risks on the attainment of the objectives. 
The development of the internal control system 
is evaluated by TI Audit & Compliance Services in accordance with the Telecom Italia’s Self-Regulatory Code and the Borsa Italiana’s Self-Regulatory Code under the main Corporate Governance aspects of listed companies: business ethics, regulatory frame-work of reference, procedural framework, corporate culture, organisational aspects, information and communication and company processes that guar-antee operational effectiveness and ef/f_iciency.
In its overall evaluation of the internal control 
system, TI Audit & Compliance Services applied the following elements of the CoSo Report methodol-ogy (Control Model drawn up by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations (CoSO) of the Treadway Commission): (i) Control environment and (ii) Infor-mation and Communication, which attribute consid-erable importance to overseeing audit and compli-ance methods, disseminating a control culture and consolidating the ethical values of the company; (iii) Evaluation of the risks and (iv) Control activities that impose a selection and management process on the audit in addition to the supervision of compli-ance with the current legal requirements and key internal procedures; (v) Monitoring, in order to su-pervise the audit and compliance in areas of great-est risk, designed to ensure the effective handling of weak points.
Therefore, due to the corrective actions under-
taken in the speci/f_ic operational contexts analysed, the internal control system overall is deemed to have reduced the risk pro/f_iles to an acceptable level.
The Organisational model under Legislative Decree 
231/2001The internal control system is completed by what is known as the “Organisational Model 231”, adopted in accordance with Legislative Decree 231/2001, which is designed to prevent the commission of any crimes for which the Company could be held respon-sible. This Organisational Model consists of:
the Code of Ethics of the Telecom Italia Group, r
which lays down the general principles (trans-parency, propriety, legality) which the Company pursues in the conduct of its business; the “general internal control principles”, de-r
signed to ensure the attainment of operational effectiveness and ef/f_iciency, the reliability of the /f_inancial and management information, respect for the laws and regulations and pro-tection of the company’s assets, especially against potential fraud; the “principles of conduct”, speci/f_ic rules gov-r
erning relations with government bodies, in-cluding corporate obligations and operations the “internal control charts”, which outline r
company processes exposed to the risk of criminality, the offences that may be commit-ted and the preventative measures intended to avoid this. 
The internal control charts have been drawn up un-der the following basic principles: (i) separation of roles in carrying out the many company activities; (ii) traceability of decisions, enabling the identi/f_ication of responsibility and justi/f_ication; (iii) bringing objec-tivity to the decision-making processes to free deci-sions from subjective assessment and ensure their foundation on the principles laid down. 
The Organisational Model is a dynamic instru-
ment which must itself be constantly checked and updated based on the supervision of the process and developments in regulations. As a result, vari-ous updates were made to the Model during 2009. These were drawn up by a management commit-tee, known as the 231 Steering Committee (made up of the General Counsel, the Human Resources & Organization Department Manager, the Chairman of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services and the Group Compliance Of/f_icer), with the support of external consultants, and overseen by the Supervi-sory Body. Where major supplements to the Model were required, these were submitted for approval by the Board.
The Supervisory Body oversees the operation of 
and compliance with the 231 Organisational Model and consists of a member of the Board of Statutory Auditors (the Board’s Chairman, Ferdinando Superti Furga), an independent Director who is a member of 135
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSthe Internal Control and Corporate Governance Com-
mittee (Paolo Baratta) and the internal control man-ager, that is, the Chairman of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services (Federico Maurizio d’Andrea). The Body, which was reappointed on April 15th, 2008, following the renewal of the Board of Direc-tors and for the same period of of/f_ice, reports to the Board, the Internal Control and Corporate Govern-ance Committee, and the Board of Statutory Audi-tors on the controls and their outcome. 
At the meeting of September 24th, 2009, with 
the approval of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Statutory Auditors, the Board of Directors decided to appoint an external member to the Supervisory Body, later identi/f_ied as Professor Vincenzo Sala/f_ia on the pro-posal of the Appointments and Remuneration Com-mittee.
In order to provide support to the Supervisory 
Bodies of Group Companies, a dedicated structure (Compliance 231) was set up within Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services to handle reports of breaches of the Organisational Model and conduct speci/f_ic compliance audits based on the information streams set up within the Group.
Auditing company
The audit of the separate /f_inancial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the consolidated /f_inancial statements of the Telecom Italia Group, the limited mid-year audit of the condensed consolidated /f_inan-cial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A., and the audit of the annual report drawn up according to the US Securities Laws are carried out by Reconta Ernst & Young S.p.A., initially appointed by the Sharehold-ers’ Meeting of June 12th, 2001. The appointment was renewed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6th, 2004 and extended by the Shareholders’ Meet-ing of April 16th, 2007, in accordance with article 8, paragraph 7, of Legislative Decree No. 303 of De-cember 29th, 2006, for a further three years, and, therefore, expiring with the 2009 /f_inancial state-ments. The Shareholders’ Meeting convoked to ap-prove the /f_inancial statement with then make provi-sion for the auditing of accounts for the period 2010 – 2018, on the basis of the considered proposal of the Board of Statutory Auditors.
The auditing company was selected following a 
comparative analysis conducted under the super-vision of the Board of Statutory Auditors with the support of company departments. The bids received from various auditors were examined with particular reference (i) to the expertise and the speci/f_ic experi-ence of auditing in the telecommunications sector; (ii) to the adequacy of the technical structure for the size and complexity of the Company and the Group to which it reports; (iii) to experience with adherents to the Italian SEC register; (iv) to independence and autonomy of judgement with regard to the Company and the Group; (v) to the correspondence of the fees charged with the schedule and professionalism required.
Telecom Italia has adopted suitable Guidelines 
for applications by audit companies: (i) for the com-missioning of the audit of the /f_inancial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A. (Telecom Italia, the Company or the Parent Company); (ii) for the commission-ing of the audit of the /f_inancial statements/report-ing packages of the subsidiaries of Telecom Italia; (iii) for the commissioning by the Company and its subsidiaries of further undertakings for the company commissioned to audit the /f_inancial statements of the Parent Company and the bodies belonging to its network, as de/f_ined in the applicable regulations. 
Without prejudice to compliance with the ap-
plicable regulations, the commission to audit the separate /f_inancial statements, the consolidated /f_inancial statements, the annual report published in accordance with the reporting requirements with which Telecom Italia is required to comply because it is registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and the half-year /f_inancial re-port of Telecom Italia in line with these Guidelines is awarded by the Shareholders’ Meeting on the basis of the considered proposal of the Board of Statutory Auditors.
The preliminary inquiries for the commission (or 
later amendments) to audit the /f_inancial statements of Telecom Italia is co-ordinated by the executive responsible for drawing up the Company’s account-ancy documents, under the supervision of the Board of Statutory Auditors, who may be assisted by the in-ternal control manager in verifying the independence of the candidate auditor, according to the applicable regulations. 
The Commissioned Auditor is the principal audi-
tor of the entire Telecom Italia Group. The com-missioning of auditing or associated commissions 136
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERS(audit services and audit-related services) of bodies 
other than the Commissioned Auditor, and/or bodies belonging to its network, must be checked before-hand with the executive responsible for drawing up the Parent Company’s accountancy documents, who will initiate the necessary approval and reporting processes, ensuring compliance with the applicable regulations. 
To ensure the independence of the Commis-
sioned Auditor, the Guidelines lay down the principle by which additional commissions to the Commis-sioned Auditor and the bodies belonging to its net-work are limited to the services and activities strictly connected to auditing the /f_inancial statements. However, further commissions (allowed by the rel-evant legislation) to the Commissioned Auditor and to the bodies belonging to its network, remain sub-ject to the prior favourable opinion of the Board of Statutory Auditors of the Parent Company. In urgent cases, the prior favourable opinion can be issued by the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors (or another Statutory Auditor appointed by the latter), who will refer it for rati/f_ication to the plenum of the control body in the /f_irst subsequent meeting.
Executive responsible for drawing up the compa-
ny’s accountancy documentsThe position of Executive responsible for drawing up the company’s accountancy documents was held, until December 2nd, 2009, by Marco Patuano. At a meeting on that date, following the reorganisation of certain senior management positions, the Board of Directors appointed the new Administration, Finance and Control Department Manager, Andrea Mangoni, as the Executive responsible for drawing up the company’s accountancy documents.
According to the Bylaws (article 13), the Board 
of Directors makes the appointment, subject to the opinion of the Board of Statutory Auditors and – un-der the terms of the Self-Regulatory Code (see the appropriate Code, article 14) – the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, which de/f_ine the powers and responsibilities at an internal level. These are governed by the appropriate Regulation, available at the Company’s website. Given that he is responsible by law for establishing appropri-ate administrative and accounting procedures for drawing up the statutory and consolidated /f_inancial statements, as well as any other communication of a /f_inancial nature, the Regulation grants him opera-tional responsibility (for organisation and individual matters) for the internal /f_inancial reporting controls, with the proviso that he is supported by the execu-tive Directors and the management of the Company. 
The Executive reports to the Board of Directors, 
to the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and – within the limits of its responsibili-ties – to the Board of Statutory Auditors.
Risk management and internal audit systems re-
garding the /f_inancial disclosure procedure.With regard to risk management and internal audit systems for the /f_inancial control disclosure proce-dures, Telecom Italia makes clear it is aware that /f_inancial disclosure plays a central role in estab-lishing and maintaining good relations between the Company and its stakeholders by improving compa-ny performance and at the same time creating value for its shareholders.
The internal audit system for Financial Report-
ing is designed to ensure the trustworthiness
(3), 
accuracy(4), reliability(5) and timeliness(6) of its /f_inan-
cial disclosures. In this context, Telecom Italia has established, and continuously updates, a regula-tory/documentary system of the Group’s accounting standards, administrative accountancy procedures, guidelines, operating instructions, accountancy manuals and charts, in order to guarantee ef/f_icient coordination and exchange of information between the parent company and its subsidiaries, and the correct preparation of the separate /f_inancial state-ments and consolidated /f_inancial statements.
In particular, Telecom Italia has introduced:
a document containing the Group’s account-r
ancy standards drawn up on the basis of IAS/IFRS (International Accounting Standards / International Financial Reporting Standards) to be adopted by all Group companies, with quar-terly updates, to ensure uniformity throughout 
(3) Trustworthiness (of the information): the information is correct 
and conforms with the generally accepted accounting principles and meets the requirements laid down by the applicable laws and regulations.
(4) Accuracy (of the information): the information is neutral and precise. The information is considered neutral if it is free from preconceived distortions likely to in/f_luence the decision-making process of others in order to obtain a predetermined result.
(5) Reliability (of the information): the information is clear and com-plete to permit informed investment decisions. The information is considered clear if it enables the understanding of complex aspects of the company situation, without however being exces-sive or super/f_luous.
(6) Timeliness (of the information): the information meets the dead-lines laid down.137
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSthe Group of items in the /f_inancial statements, 
and the respective accountancy standards which are essential to comply with the princi-ple of “truthful and accurate representation” in the Gruppo Telecom Italia consolidated /f_inan-cial statement;a chart of accounts for the Group to ensure a r
uniform method of codifying and assigning the management accountancy items common to every company in the Group.procedures for the preparation of monthly r
balance sheets, the separate /f_inancial state-ments and the consolidated /f_inancial state-ments for the Group. Speci/f_ically, these procedures de/f_ine the roles and responsibili-ties of the bodies/departments involved, the information systems used, the stages of the processes and their deadlines, in addition to a detailed working calendar;procedures that lay down the administrative r
and procedural rules which Group companies must follow in the administration of intercom-pany relations to ensure timely notice is given to companies of entries and their correct representation in the individual /f_inancial state-ments, and also to ensure they are properly merged when preparing the consolidated /f_inan-cial statement;an organic, detailed set of guidelines, pro-r
cedures and operational instructions cover-ing management procedures (revenue, costs, investments and other assets) which regulate in detail:
the responsibilities of the company depart- -
ments involved in administrative proc-esses;accounting procedures, accounting princi- -
ples and assessment of the entries in the /f_inancial statements in compliance with the Group’s aforementioned accounting principles.internal controls for the various stages of  -
processes.
Ensuring compliance with Italian regulations (Law 262/2005) and American legislation (Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act), Telecom Italia operates a model of detection and monitoring of /f_inancial re-porting, based on the COSO framework.The system for managing risks and internal au-
dits in Telecom Italia’s Financial Reporting is struc-tured as follows:
riskr
(7) identi/f_ication in /f_inancial reports: at this 
stage, Telecom Italia de/f_ines the identi/f_ication criteria for the “relevant” entities and process-es in terms of their potential impact on /f_inan-cial reporting (the information contained in the draft balance sheet and in the notes to the ac-counts), and risks ensuing from the failure to achieve audit objectives
(8). These are related 
to the possible risks of both unintentional er-rors
(9) and fraud(10), insofar as they may signi/f_i-
cantly affect /f_inancial reporting. Risks resulting from a failure to achieve audit objectives are de/f_ined in accordance with the COSO frame-work and apply to both the Company/Group
(11) 
(“entity level”) and to the “process level(12)”;
selection of controls matched to identi/f_ied r
risks: at this stage Telecom Italia uses an ap-plication hosted on the company’s intranet
(13) 
to identify and document audits carried out in-house which can mitigate the /f_inancial re-porting risks at the entity level
(14), the process 
level(15) and the IT General Controls(16);
(7)  Risk: potential event which could compromise the attainment of 
the objectives connected with the control system for /f_inancial re-porting (the System), that is, accuracy, reliability, trustworthiness and timeliness of the /f_inancial information. 
(8) Control objective: all the stated objectives of the internal control system of company information required to ensure a true and cor-rect representation of the Financial Reporting. These objectives consist of “balance-sheet assertions” (existence and occurrence, completeness, rights and obligations, assessment and recording, presentation and information) and “other control objectives” such as “respect for the authorised limits, separation of incompatible duties, checks on the physical security and existence of goods, documentation and traceability of the operations, etc.).
(9) Error: in the context of the System, any unintentional act or omis-sion that results in a misleading declaration in the information.
(10) Fraud: in the context of the System, any intentional act or omis-sion that results in a misleading declaration in the information.
(11) Analysis at company/group level, the so-called “entity level”: in this context the analysis (identi/f_ication of the risks, evaluation of the risks, identi/f_ication of the controls, etc.) is conducted at com-pany/group level, and is structured according to the components of the COSO model. The elements to be analysed include, for example, the expertise of the personnel, the system of corporate governance, the company regulatory system, the communication of the responsibilities in terms of the internal control system and the procedures for conducting risk assessment.
(12) Analysis at the level of process, the so-called “process level”: in this context the analysis (identi/f_ication of the risks, evaluation of the risks, identi/f_ication of the controls, etc.) is conducted at individual process level, identifying the speci/f_ic process risks and the relative speci/f_ic controls and monitoring.
(13) So-called SOX Accelerator: branch structured database according to the COSO model (structured for each Business Unit/company included in the perimeter as processes, control objectives, individual controls) that, for the pro/f_iled users, provides for the management of the documents by means of work/f_low.
(14) These are the controls de/f_ined at company/group level, which have a pervasive impact on the effectiveness of the controls de/f_ined at the process, transaction or application level.
(15) These are the controls governing the company processes; they are conducted manually and/or by means of IT applications imple-menting or supporting them.
(16) These are the controls included in the IT services delivered (such as telecommunications, networks, technological infrastructure 138
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSevaluation of controls matched to identi/f_ied r
risks: periodically during the year, according 
to a calendar de/f_ined in accordance with the certi/f_ication requirements of Italian regula-tions (Law 262/05) and American legislation (Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes Oxley Act) law, previously identi/f_ied controls are assessed in terms of “design”
(17) and 
“operativity”(18) using speci/f_ic testing methods. 
The evaluation of the controls is the primary responsibility of the competent management, supplemented by an independent evaluation conducted by the management at Telecom Ita-lia Audit & Compliance Services S.c.a.r.l.
The results of the evaluation process described above (speci/f_ically, any audit failures deemed to be signi/f_icant/material in terms of the potential impact of the error/fraud on /f_inancial reporting) are periodi-cally submitted to the Internal Audit and Corporate Governance Committee and to the Board of Statu-tory Auditors. The presence of any de/f_iciency acti-vates a process that de/f_ines, schedules and imple-ments a speci/f_ic plan to remedy the aforementioned de/f_iciency.
Internal audit system – focus on Telecom Italia 
SparkleOn February 23rd, 2010, a court order (the “Or-der”) was served on the subsidiary, Telecom Italia Sparkle, in connection with an ongoing investigation regarding Telecom Italia Sparkle and several indi-viduals, including certain employees, former employ-ees and former directors of Telecom Italia Sparkle, regarding, inter alia, alleged cross-border conspiracy, tax evasion and international money laundering. For a complete description of the matter please refer to the full text of the Report and to Note 3 (“Restate-ment for errors and changes in accounting policies”) and 29 (“Contingent liabilities, other information, commitments and guarantees”) in the consolidated /f_inancial statements at December 31st, 2009, avail-
and logical security), implemented by the company or by outside 
service providers. This set of controls is essentially independent of the speci/f_ic systems/applications developed and/or imple-mented.
(17) Evaluation of the “design”: consists of the analysis of the adequacy of the design of the control, namely that the risk of not attaining the objectives is reduced to an acceptable level.
(18) Evaluation of the “operation”: intended to ascertain that the controls, aimed at reducing identi/f_ied risks to an acceptable level, are applied in the period under consideration in line with what is set out in the “design”.able on the Company’s website.
Directors’ interests and transactions with related 
partiesOperations conducted by the Group companies are in accordance with principles of propriety and trans-parency. To that end, operations with related parties, including operations within the Group, comply with essential procedural criteria for propriety in accord-ance with laid down principles of conduct, duly re-ported to the market.
As of March 2008, the Board of Directors has 
replaced the previous procedure for managing trans-actions with related parties, adopting more multifac-eted regulations on these matters, which divide the roles and decision-making responsibilities accord-ing to the type of activity. The current procedure, entitled Principles of Conduct for Transactions with Related Parties, updated in June, 2008, is available on the Company’s website.
A distinction has therefore been made between 
transactions falling within the ordinary course of business, which may or may not require the activa-tion of an authorisation process based on proce-dures for determining the conditions of the relation-ship with the related party, distinguishing between unidirectional /f_ixed situations and competitive proce-dures (where the risk of con/f_lict of interest is inher-ently ruled out) and situations that are comparable with market conditions (“at arm’s length”). The ma-trix for checks and approval (in addition to the usual internal authorisation procedures) is based on the importance of the transaction, in terms of duration and economic value, and is sometimes entrusted to the management, sometimes to a Management Committee (Group Compliance Of/f_icer, Chief Finan-cial Of/f_icer, General Counsel, supported by the /f_irst level manager, responsible for the speci/f_ic trans-action) and sometimes to the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. It may progress from one level to the next and require follow-up gen-eral monitoring by the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. 
In order to ensure the correct application of the 
Principles of conduct, an computer programme leaf-let is available that enables the relationship and required authorisation to be ascertained. The pro-gramme also ensures the traceability of initiatives with related parties.139
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSA gap analysis is underway to ascertain if there 
is any need to align the current internal procedures 
with the new regulations issued by CONSOB resolu-tion 17221 of March 12th, 2010, which will enter into force on October 1st, 2010 (regime of transpar-ency) and January 1st, 2011 (new procedures for decision making).
Appointment of statutory auditors
The Board of Statutory Auditors consists of /f_ive statutory auditors. The Shareholders’ Meeting also appoints four substitute auditors.
The Board of Auditors is appointed in accord-
ance with the relevant legal and regulatory require-ments, on the basis of lists submitted (lodged at the registered of/f_ice of the company at least /f_ifteen days before the date set by the /f_irst convocation of the Shareholders’ Meeting, unless there is a postpone-ment in the cases laid down by the applicable regu-lations) by shareholders who individually or together with others hold shares representing at least 0.5% of the capital with voting rights.
 The lists are divided into two sections: one for 
candidates to the of/f_ice of regular statutory auditor and the other for candidates to the of/f_ice of substi-tute auditor. Three regular statutory auditors and two substitute auditors are drawn from the list that obtained the majority of votes (“Majority List”), while the remaining regular statutory and substitute audi-tors are drawn from the other lists (“Minority Lists”), subject to compliance with the laws and regulations regarding restrictions on matches with the Majority List. To this end, the votes obtained by the Minority Lists are divided into one and two and the shares are assigned to candidates in both sections accord-ing to the order listed. The shares thereby allocated to the candidates on the various lists in descending rank for appointment to the of/f_ice of regular auditor, and descending rank for appointment to the of/f_ice of substitute auditor, and those with the two high-est shares are elected. If more than one candidate obtains the same share, the candidate from the list that has not yet elected a statutory auditor is elect-ed or, failing that, a new ballot is held at the Share-holders’ Meeting and the candidate who obtains a simple majority of the votes is elected.
 Should any of the statutory auditors chosen 
from the majority list or from one of the minority lists leave of/f_ice, the substitute auditors drawn from the majority list or the minority lists will take their place in order of age. Should any statutory auditor drawn from the Minority Lists leave of/f_ice, the re-quirement of minority representation is met by draw-ing a substitute auditor from the Minority Lists. 
Statutory auditors
The Shareholders’ Meeting of April 8th, 2009 ap-pointed the current Board of Statutory Auditors, whose mandate will end with the approval of the /f_inancial statements in 2011, and also appointed its chairman and set the level of his remuneration.
Three lists were submitted, in accordance with 
the procedures and time limits laid down by the ap-plicable regulations (Telco List, Findim Group List and Funds List); for information concerning candi-dates included in the Lists, the shareholders who submitted the Lists and the preferences of each List, please refer to the full text of the Report.
Three Regular Statutory Auditors and three Alter-
nate Statutory Auditors were drawn from the Telco list which obtained the majority of the votes cast, according to the order in which they were listed: Salvatore Spiniello – Statutory Auditor, Ferdinando Superti Furga – Statutory Auditor, Gianluca Ponzellini – Statutory Auditor, Ugo Rock – Substitute Auditor and Vittorio Mariani – Substitute Auditor.
Two Statutory Auditors and two Substitute Audi-
tors were drawn from the other lists: Enrico Maria Bignami – Statutory Auditor (from the Savings Man-agement Companies List), Lorenzo Pozza – Statutory Auditor (from the Findim Group List), Maurizio Lauri – Substitute Auditor (from the Savings Management Companies List) and Silvano Corbella – Substitute Auditor (from the Findim Group List).
The curricula vitae giving the personal back-
ground and professional quali/f_ications of the Audi-tors are available for consultation at the Company’s website.
In accordance with the law, the Shareholders’ 
Meeting also appointed the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors, who was selected from the two Statutory Auditors elected by the minority, that is, Enrico Maria Bignami (the majority can be found in the full text of the Report).The proposal of the Telco Shareholder to set the gross annual remunera-tion for each of the Statutory Auditors at 80,000 euros, the gross annual remuneration for the Chair-man of the Board of Statutory Auditors at 120,000 140
shareholdersINTERNAL 
STAKEHOLDERSeuros, and the additional gross annual remuneration 
for any Statutory Auditor called to join the supervi-sory body at 15,000 euros was approved (the major-ity can be found in the full text of the Report). At a meeting on March 16th, 2010, the Board of Statu-tory Auditors con/f_irmed the ful/f_ilment of the inde-pendence requirements in accordance with Art. 148, paragraph 3, of the Legislative Decree 58/1998, noting that the requirements were ful/f_illed as stated at the time of the appointment, including the inde-pendence requirements of the Self-Regulatory Code of the Borsa Italiana.
In 2009, the Board of Statutory Auditors held 28 
meetings (6 of which were held jointly with the Inter-nal Control and Corporate Governance Committee). The average duration of the meetings was three hours. The percentage of attendance was 95%.
In 2010, 14 meetings have already been held.Table 6 (attached to the full text of the Report) 
provides information on the composition of the Board of Statutory Auditors at April 12th, 2010, while table 7 (also attached to the full text of the Report) gives information on the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors who left of/f_ice in 2009. For detailed information about the activities carried out by the Board of Statutory Auditors, please refer to the Board of Statutory Auditors’ Report, prepared in accordance with Art. 153 of the Legislative De-cree 58/1998.
Relations with shareholders
An Investor Relations Manager manager, Elisabetta Ripa, has been appointed from within the company to oversee relations with the national and interna-tional /f_inancial community and all the shareholders. Important information for shareholders, as well as existing and potential investors in general (includ-ing bondholders), is provided in an ad hoc section at the Company’s website. 
Shareholders’ meetings
In accordance with the Bylaws (Art. 19), sharehold-ers are entitled to attend a Shareholders’ Meeting if the noti/f_ication required under Article 2370, second paragraph, of the Civil Code, reaches the Company at least two days prior to the date set for the indi-vidual meeting.
Telecom Italia does not impose a block on 
shares as a requirement for attending a sharehold-ers’ meeting: shareholders are requested to deposit their shares, that is, instruct the intermediary that keeps the relevant accounts to issue the noti/f_ica-tion. This does not prevent later withdrawal of the shares. However, if they are withdrawn, any earlier deposit ceases to be effective for the purpose of entitlement to attend the meeting. Any requests for advance notice to perform the relevant formalities or the unavailability of deposited shares due to the market practices of intermediaries is not in any way the responsibility of the Company.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to exercise 
their right to vote by post, and to be represented, by issuing the appropriate proxy to an individual or legal entity. 
In order to facilitate the collection of proxies 
from ordinary shareholders who are employees of the company or associated subsidiaries, and mem-bers of shareholders’ associations that meet the re-quirements of current legislation, appropriate areas are made available for communication and for carry-ing out the collection of proxies. 
In order to ensure the smooth running of Share-
holders’ Meetings, the Company, in 2000, adopted a speci/f_ic set of Regulations for Shareholders’ Meetings.Auditors’
ReportCONTACTS
Group SustainabilityTelecom Italia S.p.A.Corso d’Italia, 4100198 RomaFax: +39 06 3688 2803groupsustainability@telecomitalia.itwww.telecomitalia.it
SEND US YOUR SUGGESTIONS
 We invite you to take part in a short questionnaire at www.telecomitalia.it/sostenibilita/report2009/feedback so that we can bene/f_it from your opinion of the Sustainability Report, 2009.All suggestions will be invaluable in helping us to produce a more complete report that fully meets your expectations.
GRAPHIC DESIGN
CB’a Design Solutions
Cert no. ICILA-COC-000291
Printed on recycled paper
Printed on May, 20102009 SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
2009 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT