>> Sustainability Section
extract from 2007 Annual Report
2007SustainabilitySection>>Summary
Chairman’s Letter 2
Introduction References 4
Charters, Codes and Values 5
Reporting and Planning 7
Results and Acknowledgements 8
Financial data and added value 11
Strategy 12
2008 Objectives 13
Hot Topics 14
Stakeholder Involvement 15
External Customers 17
Stakeholders Suppliers 25
Competitors 29
Institutions 32
The Environment 35
The Community 46
Internal Human Resources 53
Stakeholders Shareholders 66
Auditors’ report Auditors’ report (Ernst & Young) 86
Sustainability Section » Summary 1Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Sustainability Section » Chairman’s Letter 2Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
Chairman’s Letter
When I became the chairman of Telecom Italia at the end of 2007, I was very
impressed with the wealth of professionalism, motivation and technologicalcompetence I found in the Group. I was already aware of that, but not up to the
level I experienced. I also found it reassuring the deep-rooted culture of
transparency and integrity.
Such culture does not imbue just the system of rules and procedures governing
business management, decision-making and dialogue with the market. Moregenerally it imbues all the relations with the stakeholders interacting with theGroup in its business activities.This obviously stems not only from ethical or reputational reasons, but from theawareness that the creation of value is sustainable in time if we are able to
effectively integrate the expectations of the context in which we operate, while
pursuing our economic goals.
Isee this awareness expressed in strategies and facts.
Let’s consider the environment. We are living in a period of many growing
concerns about climate change, depletion of natural resources, and increasing
prices of energy supply.
Weare aware of the fact that telecommunication services may considerably
contribute to the elimination or containment of greenhouse gases emissions.
Videoconferences, telework, infomobility services, telemedicine are but a fewamong the solutions offered by new technologies, permitting to rationalize and
reduce transfers of people and goods and the related emissions. We are also
aware, however, that these services absorb energy.The more they are used the more traffic on networks increases and the curve of
consumptions shoots up, unless we strive to achieve an ever higher level of
efficiency. Telecom Italia is doing this. In 2007 our eco-efficiency, measured asthe ratio between traffic units and energy consumed, showed further
improvement.
We are currently experimenting with several solutions for the use of alternative
energy sources, ranging from cogeneration to photovoltaic plants, wind farmsand fuel cells.The first results are rather interesting, as are the ones coming frominterventions on heating systems, on corporate car fleet (also involvingsignificant reductions of emissions) and on the handling of technological wasteproduced by telecommunication activities.Conducting energy and environmental efficiency pays: it is good both for the
planet and for businesses. You could say it is twice as good for businesses: notonly for the economic fall-out effects but also as an incentive to technological
innovation. A sustainable company is a more innovative and competitive
company. The financial market recognizes and rewards it.
We are greatly satisfied with the inclusion, also in 2007, in the most important
sustainability indexes, both at national and international level, and with the
inclusion in the group of 20 companies most often selected at European level
by “Green Social and Ethical” funds.
Imentioned the environment, but I could just as well recall the great effort made
by the Group to significantly reduce the digital divide in Italy. In Telecom Italia the
concept of sustainability is wide-ranging and involves many applications, as thefollowing pages illustrate with a wealth of detail, data and quantitative targets onwhich the Group wants to be evaluated in a transparent way.
Transparency is one of the main goals of the Alliance, launched in March 2006
by the European Commission, companies and stakeholder representatives, inorder to make Europe a pole of excellence in the field of Corporate Social
Responsibility. Telecom Italia is going to give special support to this initiative
also in 2008.
We mean to continue on this same path: doing business in a sustainable way
and create value are as a whole. Starting from this standpoint we confirm ourcommitment to support and spread the values and principles of the Global
Compact, the initiative originated under the aegis of UN to promote the respect
of human rights and working standards, to safeguard the environment and tofight corruption.
We have the honour to be among the protagonists in a sector, such as
telecommunications, having a key role in the economic and social development.
This honour involves many responsibilities, which we don’t consider as a burden
but rather as an incentive to do better and better. And this is for everybody, andfor the world which we would like our children to inherit in even better conditions
than the world we’ve found.
Gabriele Galateri di Genola
Chairman
Sustainability Section » Chairman’s Letter 3Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
Introduction
For the past eleven years the Telecom Italia Group has been analysing its own performance
towards the stakeholders on which the Group depends and, at the same time, influences byits own activities: Customers, Suppliers, Competitors, Institutions, the Environment, the
Community, Human Resources, Shareholders.
The Sustainability Section is included in the Annual Report, thus confirming the intention of
the Group to present its financial performance together with the non-financial one.
/L50298References
In defining and implementing Sustainability strategies and programs, the Telecom Italia Group
refers to the guidelines issued by the most important world organisations for strategy and
standardisation on Corporate Responsibility, particularly by UN Agencies and Programs for
Environment and Human Rights and by OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development).
Since 2002 Telecom Italia has adhered to the principles set out by the Global Compact,
the most important initiative at world level, launched in 2000 by UN to promote environmentconservation, respect of human rights and labour standards, and anti-corruption practices.
The following table shows the paragraphs and the pages whose contents directly or indirectly
refer to the Global Compact’s principles and to the related GRI’s (Global Reporting Initiative)
indicators. During 2007, the Group has adopted the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, in
particular with reference to the materiality, inclusiveness and completeness principles. As faras the GRI Application Levels defined in G3 Guidelines, the TI Group sustainability report
currently ranks at Level B+, as confirmed by GRI. Relevant actions to attain Level A+ have
been undertaken.
Global Compact Principle Relevant Paragraph related Page 
GRI Indicators to the GC Principle number
01. Businesses should support HR1-7, LA4, LA7-9, References, Results and 4, 8, 12,
and respect the protection of LA13, PR1, PR8 Acknowledgements, Strategy, 13, 15, 25,
internationally proclaimed human 2008 Objectives, Stakeholder 35, 46, 53 
rights. Involvement, Suppliers, The
Environment, The Community,
Human Resources 
02. Businesses should make sure HR1-7 2008 Objectives, Hot Topics, 13, 14, 25,
that they are not complicit in Suppliers, Human Resources 53
human rights abuses.
03. Businesses should uphold the HR1-3, HR5, LA4-5 Human Resources 53
freedom of association and theeffective recognition of the right 
to collective bargaining.
04. Businesses should uphold the HR1-3, HR7 2008 Objectives, Suppliers, 13, 25, 53
elimination of all forms of forced Human Resources
andcompulsory labour.
Sustainability Section » Introduction »References 4Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
05. Businesses should uphold the HR1-3, HR6 2008 Objectives, Suppliers, 13, 25, 53
effective abolition of child labour. Human Resources
06. Businesses should uphold the HR1-4, LA2, LA13 2008 Objectives, Hot Topics, 13, 14, 15,
elimination of discrimination in Stakeholder Involvement, 25, 53
respect of employment and Suppliers, Human Resources
occupation.
07. Businesses should support a EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30 2008 Objectives, Hot Topics, 13, 14, 15,
precautionary approach to Stakeholder Involvement, 25, 35
environmental challenges. Suppliers, The Environment
08. Businesses should undertake EN1-5, EN8, EN16-17, Results and 8, 13, 15,
initiatives to promote greater EN20, EN22-23, Acknowledgements, 25, 35environmental responsibility. EN26-27, EN30, PR3 2008 Objectives,
Stakeholder Involvement,
Suppliers, The Environment
09. Businesses should encourage EN5-7, EN18, EN26-27, Hot Topics, The Environment, 14, 35, 46
the development and diffusion EN30 The Communityof environmentally friendly
technologies.
10. Businesses should work against SO2–4 Charters, Codes and Values, 13, 5, 25, 66
corruption in all its forms, 2008 Objectives, Suppliers,
including extortion and bribery. Shareholders
Further information on “Core” indicators (GRI, G3) is available on the website
www.telecomitalia.it, Sustainability section.
The management system for Sustainability also takes into account the main international
Standards, relevant to the various stakeholders:
–the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 certifications for Quality and Environmental Management
Systems, ensuring the quality of service to customers and the safeguard of the
environment;
–the Social Accountability 8000 standard (SA8000), aimed at favouring the respect of
human rights and labour standards by companies and by their supply chain;
– the method suggested by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) for measuring investments
in the Community;
– the principles stated in the Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) for
the respect of the fundamental rights of workers;
– the Assurance Standard (AA1000AS) and the Stakeholder Engagement Standard
(AA1000SES), issued by AccountAbility in order to ensure the quality of the stakeholder
involvement process and of the internal reporting system.
Aimed at protecting Shareholders, the Group Corporate Governance system hinges on the
Code of Ethics and reflects the highest national and international standards. It is based on
the central role of the Board of Directors and of independent Directors, the transparency ofoperational decisions, the effectiveness of the internal control system and the strict regulation
of potential conflicts of interest. Within the internal control system, the Organizational Model,
ex Legislative Decree dated June 8, 2001, no. 231 is aimed at preventing specific offencesincluding corruption, extortion and corporate crimes.
Further information is included in the “Report on Corporate Governance” chapter of the TI Group
Annual Report.
/L50298Charters, Codes and V alues
The commitments undertaken by the Group towards its stakeholders are based on a system ofCharters and Codes which are available on the www.telecomitalia.it website (Sustainability/Ourmodel/Policies) and on the Group Intranet, allowing easy access to all employees. The pillar of
the system is the Code of Ethics, representing the primary component of the organisationalmodel and of the overall internal control system of Telecom Italia Group, founded on the beliefthat ethics in the conduct of business is a condition for business success. The Code statesgoals and guiding values at the basis of corporate activities with reference to the mainstakeholders interacting with the Group. The respect of the Code of Ethics is a requirement forgoverning bodies, managers and employees of all the companies of the Group, within theboundaries of their competences, functions and responsibilities.
Sustainability Section » Charters, Codes and Values 5Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report The Charters of Services describe the principles of conduct with regard to customers and the
commitments undertaken by the main companies of the Group in terms of quality of the
services offered to customers. The Charters of Services are available on the websites of the Group’s companies (www.187.it;
www.191.it; www.adsl.alice.it; www.tim.it and www.la7.it).The Charters of Services of Telecom Italia S.p.A. are completed by the General Subscription
Conditions, regulating the contractual relations related to fixed voice telephony. These are
published, together with the Charters of Services, on the www.187.it and www.191.it websitesand on the first pages of telephone directories.
Moreover, in compliance with the Resolutions concerning quality issued by the Italian
Communication Authority (AGCOM), the objectives set on a yearly basis for each service (fixed
and mobile voice telephony, Internet access services, pay television services with IP – IPTVtechnology) are published on the relevant Group website.
The System of Values adopted by Telecom Italia is a constant benchmark of conduct for all
the Group’s employees, creating a sense of belonging to a single organisation. The variouscorporate processes and systems for the development and rewarding, assessment and
training of the staff, are inspired by the Charter of Values thus consistently orienting individual
attitudes in a common direction for the whole Group.
•
Customer focus
To consider customers as the main employer and customer satisfaction as the basic value.
To be ready to listen both internal and external customers’ needs and to take steps to
anticipate requests and rapidly provide answers. 
•Taking responsibility
To take responsibility in the achievement of tangible results and to accept delegation as an
opportunity, without referring to management all problems that can be solved in one’s fieldofcompetence. 
•
Innovation
To ensure the development of innovative solutions and promote new modes for the
improvement of the existing processes and systems, in order to strengthen the positioningof the company on the market.
•
Pro-action
To make things happen rather than reacting to events. To seize and develop opportunities
occurring in one’s own reference context, no matter how weak is the indication, and to
advance proposals and initiatives useful to achieve the company and Group’s goals. 
•Efficiency
To consider time-efficiency as a very important asset affecting the costs of services
provided and the loyalty of both internal and external customers. To handle needs and
problems tackling multiple and defective inputs, working out timely and practical solutions.
•Integration
To work with the colleagues as a team, minimising conflict and maximising the
effectiveness of information exchange and professional contribution, in view of a commonresult for the company and the Group.
•
Transparency
To ensure an ethically-oriented conduct of business; to entertain internal and external
relations that are correct and loyal, favouring information exchange.
•Professional excellence 
To continuously improve one’s own competences, undertaking responsibility on personal
professional growth project in view of contributing to the success of the Company and of
the Group.
The policies adopted by the Group concern:
The social responsibility of the Telecom Italia Group ,regulating the compliance with labour
standards within the Group, in particular child labour, forced labour, health and safety,freedom of association, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, work hours and remuneration.
Relations with Suppliers within purchasing processes of the Telecom Italia Group ,
regulating the Group’s ethical negotiation (transparency, role separation, fairness, traceability),and the requirements concerning the labour and environmental standards which TelecomItalia’s suppliers are asked to meet.
TV self-regulation code ,aimed at the protection of minors with respect to television services.
Sustainability Section » Charters, Codes and Values 6Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Reporting and Planning
Reporting
The analysis of the performance and the related reporting are based on a multi-stakeholder
approach and on a set of approximately 200 KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). KPIs have
been developed through the analysis of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines, of the
Global Compact principles, and of the questionnaires sent by the main rating agencies (SAMfor Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, EIRIS for FTSE4Good, SIRI, Vigeo, Ethibel, Oekom and
others) for the purpose of admission to sustainability indexes.
The KPIs are managed through a centralised software platform, also used to manage other
Company’s applications governing accounting, financial and control processes. This also
allows data sharing among the various platforms, thus ensuring the maximum integration ofSustainability in the other corporate processes.
The Group’s companies considered for the purpose of Sustainability reporting must meet at
least one of the following requirements: revenues exceeding euro 50 thousand, number of
employees exceeding 50, excluding sold activities /non current activities destined to be sold.
The selection of issues to be published in the report, or on TI website, is made on the basis
of the principle of materiality considering the level of societal concern and the related impactof the Telecom Italia Group activities and on the basis of the principles of Completeness andResponsiveness defined by AccountAbility 1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS), inaccordance with the GRI guidelines. 
Through the integration of Sustainability report into the consolidated financial statements,
implemented since financial year 2003, the Group has anticipated the application of European
Directive 51/2003, transposed in Italy with Legislative Decree February 2, 2007 no. 32. By
amending art. 2428 of the Civil Code, such Decree regulates the introduction in the Report onOperations of non financial indicators related to corporate activities, including informationrelated to environment and staff, whenever necessary to better understand the company’ssituation, the results of operations and their future trends.
Planning
Within planning activities, a new model for the Sustainability Plan has been developed,
constituted by four phases:
1. identification of improvement areas in sustainability performance; 
2. comparison between improvement areas and the investment projects planned by the Group
for business purposes; 
3. definition of targeted actions relative to those improvement areas which either are not yet
involved in investment projects or are not adequately affected, in terms of sustainability, byplanned investment projects; 
4.monitoring of issues which need to be always kept under control in order to sustain the
achieved performance level.
The identification of improvement goals is based on:
•commitments required by international organisations – such as UN, ILO, OECD – as well as
regulatory entities, tailored to the Group by means of its Code of Ethics, Charters of Servicesand policies;
•general issues assessed by analysts for admission to Sustainability indexes;
•stakeholders’ requests (conveyed through associations, media, direct contacts, etc.);
•benchmarking with peers.
Projects involving significant investments, submitted to the approval of appropriate
Committees, are complemented by an assessment form which is filled in by the projectmanagers and ranks the impacts of the project in terms of Sustainability, relative to selectedissues encompassing each stakeholder. The ensuing information is taken into account whendecisions on investments take place, and it is a useful synthetic tool in order to analyze theconsequences, in terms of sustainability, of the Group’s investment decisions.
Sustainability Section » Reporting and Planning 7Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Results and Acknowledgements
Results
Asynthesis of the main initiatives undertaken in 2007 is reported below.
•In order to evaluate at best the energy performance, Telecom Italia has developed an
indicator which is the ratio between services offered to customers - simplified in the
quantity of transmitted bits – and the related corporate impact on environment, measuredin terms of energy consumption. 
With respect to 2006 the improvement of eco-efficiency, as measured by such indicator,
isequal to 45%. For further information please see the chapter “The Environment/Energy”.
• The institutional website of Telecom Italia (http://www.telecomitalia.it) has attained the
highest score with reference to quality and transparency of online communication in the
European classification Webranking, conducted by Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Sweedishcompany leader in financial communication, in collaboration with the Financial Times.
The ranking takes into consideration approximately 500 among the most important listed
companies in Europe and is formulated by over 300 journalists, analysts and opinionmakers. The 125 parameters considered evaluate the quality and availability of content,
the transparency, surfing, graphic, interactivity, and the overall usability of websites.
The Sustainability section of the Telecom Italia website has achieved the highest score withrespect to similar sections of other websites.
•The meetings with SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) investors took place in 2007, too.
These financial operators prefer to invest in companies caring about ethical, social and
environmental issues without neglecting the economic-financial performance. A specificroad show, organised by a joint team including the Investor Relations and GroupSustainability departments with the participation of the Chief Financial Officer, has beendevoted to SRI investors in three European markets (London, Paris and Amsterdam).Investors expressed their appreciation for the Group Sustainability Model and offered some
useful suggestions for future improvements.
•With reference to the Alliance between the European Commission and European
companies, launched on 22 March, 2006 in order to make Europe a pole of excellence on
CSR, several “laboratories” have been setup with the participation of companies andstakeholder representatives, supported by the European Commission. These laboratories
are meant to explore and develop shared operational solutions allowing to implement
measurable improvements in the Alliance priority areas, among which the integrationbetween financial and non-financial performance and the improvement of communicationwith stakeholders, especially investors. For this purpose the laboratory “Sustainability and
evaluation on non-financial performance”, of which Telecom Italia is co-leader, was set up.
It aims at defining an advanced communication model for non-financial performance, asrequired by investors and the other stakeholders.
The laboratory has received an award in Brussels during the 2007 edition of Sustainability
Market Place, organised each year by CSR Europe. Telecom Italia also took part in the laboratory on Equal Opportunities at the Sodalitas
Foundation. The document “Pursue gender parity in careers. A path for change on the basis
of practical corporate experience” was issued at the end of the workshop. It is meant topropose concrete indications for the enhancement of Equal Opportunities within
corporations, starting from processes such as selection, training, career development,
remuneration and internal communication. The document was presented on 3 December,2007 to the Rights and Equal Opportunity Minister, Hon. Barbara Pollastrini, during the
meeting “Gender equal opportunities today. Corporations move into actions”.
Telecom Italia also takes part to the “Eco–efficiency” laboratory, whose activities are stillongoing under the coordination of the Sodalitas Foundation.
• A survey has been conducted concerning the perception of the Group’s staff on Sustainability
initiatives implemented by Telecom Italia and on the related reporting. The answers yielded apractically unanimous appreciation of the positive value of companies “investing” insustainability and the opportunity to inform about the initiatives undertaken both inside thecompany and outside, in view of positive effects in terms of culture and reputation.With respect to Sustainability reporting most respondents consider the information issuedinteresting and useful for their job, but they would like a less technical language.Asummary of results obtained has been posted on the company intranet.
The table below shows results achieved in 2007, as compared to objectives established on
December 31, 2006.
Sustainability Section » Results and Acknowledgements 8Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportAs far as the achievement of Suppliers qualitative targets due at December 31, 2006, see the
relevant chapter.
Ackowledgements
Sustainability indexes represent stock-exchange indexes whose securities are selected not
only on the basis of economic-financial parameters, but considering social and environmental
criteria as well. The selection process is entrusted to international rating agencies who assesscompanies on the basis of information publicly available or on the basis of questionnaires,as well as considering media and stakeholders’ opinions. The selection process is very strictand only the companies that are deemed to be worthy are admitted to the indexes.The admission to the indexes is in general a strategic achievement for companies, both dueto the positive effects on their reputation and to the ever-increasing number of “traditional”investors, besides pensions funds and ethical funds, who prefer “sustainable” companiesespecially if they are included in specific indexes, as they consider them less risky in themedium/long term. The participation in the assessment process is moreover a useful
Sustainability Section » Results and Acknowledgements 9Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
Area Indicator (1)Measurement unit Target Final Balance Target Status
2007 2007 2007
CUSTOMERS Keeping the technician appointment
at the customer’s premises % 98 98 /L50774
CUSTOMERS Percentage of telephone lines activated
through “Linea Pronta” (Ready access)” (2)% 18 13.1 /L50772
HUMAN RESOURCES Employee satisfaction (3)measured Mean level(4)
through the survey “Group Photo” of satisfaction ≥6.21 /
HUMAN RESOURCES Training Training hours
per capita (5)29.3 30.6 /L50774
HUMAN RESOURCES Health: sickness hours as compared
to working hours % ≤3.5 3.7 /L50772
HUMAN RESOURCES Equal opportunities: women workers
as compared to total staff % 26.8 26.9 /L50774
ENVIRONMENT/Energy Eco-efficiency indicator Bit/Joule 850 873 /L50774
ENVIRONMENT/ Reduction of emissions from Number of additional 
Electromagnetism UMTS cells (6)cells with second carrier 500 4,289 (7)/L50774
ENVIRONMENT/
Electromagnetism SAR qualification (8)% 95 100 /L50774
ENVIRONMENT/Waste Corporate offices with over 100 employees
with differentiated waste collection in place Number of offices 70 75 /L50774
ENVIRONMENT/Paper Purchased recycled paper (9)% 40 45 /L50774
ENVIRONMENT/ Replacement of Euro3 vehicles Number of
CO2emissions with Euro4 vehicles (10)replaced vehicles 1,000 1,901 /L50774
ENVIRONMENT/ Replacement of oil boilers Tons of CO 2
CO2emissions with methane boilers not emitted 500 182 /L50776(11)
DIGITAL DIVIDE ADSL coverage (12)% 94.5 94 /L50776
DIGITAL DIVIDE IPTV coverage (12)% 51 52 /L50774
DIGITAL DIVIDE UMTS coverage (13)% 77 76.5 /L50776
Target status: /L50774achieved; /L50776partially achieved; /L50772not achieved.
(1)Unless otherwise indicated targets refer to activities of Telecom Italia S.p.A.
(2) Linea Pronta (Ready access): fast and automatic activation of telephone lines, without technical assistance, at the customer’s premises.
(3)Data refers to the activities of the Group in Italy and is calculated on a 10-point scale.
(4)The objective has not been measured because in 2007 the survey on staff attitude did not take place.
(5)The data include training in the classroom, on line and on the job.
(6) In high traffic conditions the use of two radiofrequency carriers instead of a single carrier reduces the total power emitted by the station.
(7) The development of the UMTS “high speed” coverage, due to commercial reasons, has allowed the activation of a number of cells with second carrier
remarkably higher than foreseen.
(8) The percentage is calculated on cellular terminal model of the type more widespread and technologically innovative. SAR: Specific Absorption Rate.(9) Measured as compared to the total purchased paper.
(10)Euro4 vehicles allow an approximate 30% reduction of CO2 emitted as compared to Euro3 vehicles.
(11) The target should be achieved by April 2008. Data reported refer to the period of use of boilers in 2007 and do not include the benefits occurred during the
first months of the year 2008.
(12) The percentage refers to fixed telephone lines.
(13) The percentage refers to the residential population.opportunity for companies to evaluate the results they achieved, and the rating agencies’
indications at the end of the selection process are quite often very useful to plan future
improvement actions.
The inclusion of Telecom Italia in both the categories of indexes managed by Dow Jones has
been confirmed:
• Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes (DJSI World), including 316 companies,
Sustainability leaders at World level;
• Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indexes (DJSI STOXX), including 154 companies,
Sustainability leaders at European level.
The SAM Sustainable Asset Management rating agency, which manages the DJSI indexes, has
awarded Telecom Italia with the “2008 Gold Class” award, assigned to companies whose
sustainability performance stands out in their sectors.
Telecom Italia has also been confirmed as a component of all the significant indexes (tradable
andnon tradable) of FTSE4Good:
• FTSE4Good Global (900 companies), the first 100 companies by market capitalization are
included in the FTSE4Good Global 100 - tradable index; 
• FTSE4Good Europe (480 companies), the first 50 companies by market capitalization are
included in the FTSE4Good Europe 50 - tradable index 
• FTSE4Good Environmental Leaders Europe, including 40 securities selected within the
FTSE4Good Europe on the basis of results achieved in the field of environment protection.
Telecom Italia is also included in the following indexes:
• ESI (Ethibel Sustainability Indexes):
– Excellence Europe, consisting of 202 securities– Excellence global, consisting of 338 securities– Pioneer global, consisting of 190 securities
• ASPI (Advanced Sustainable Performance Index) Eurozone, including 120 companies;
•ECPI (E.Capital Partners Indexes): 
–Ethical Global, consisting of 300 securities, with the related tradable index including 100
components;
– Ethical Euro, consisting of 150 securities, with the related tradable index including 100
components;
– Ethical EMU, consisting of 150 securities;
– ECPI Global TOP 30;
•Axia Ethical and AXIA Euro Ethical Axia, consisting of 40 securities;
• KLD Sustainability Indexes:
–Global, consisting of 686 securities; 
– Global ex US, consisting of 485 securities;– Europe, consisting of 200 securities.
Telecom Italia has been included among the 20 companies most often selected by the
managers of “Green Social and Ethical” funds at European level, in the survey carried out byAvanzi SRI Research/Vigeo Italia. Telecom Italia ranks second in the TLC sector and
eighteenth in the intersectorial rating.
Telecom Italia has been ranked among the best 100 companies at world level with reference
to the quality of its Sustainability reports in the “The Global Reporters 2006 Survey”conducted by the specialised agency SustainAbility in co-operation with UNEP (United Nations
Environment Programme) and the rating agency Standard & Poor’s.
Sustainability Section » Results and Acknowledgements 10Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Financial data and added value
The following tables show the added value of Telecom Italia Group, calculated on the basis of
accounting data, its distribution among stakeholders and the related contribution.
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP – SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
2007 2006 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Sales and services revenues 31,290 31,275 0.05%
Total revenues and operation income 31,703 31,881 (0.56%)
Gross Operating Profit (GOP) 11,617 12,850 (9.60%)
Operating Profit 5,764 7,437 (22.50%)
Net income (loss) before minority interests 2,455 3,003 (18.25%)
Net income (loss) – Parent Company 2,448 3,014 (18.78%)
Shareholders’equity at December 31
(Parent Company + minority interests) 26,985 27,098 (0.42%)
Net borrowing at December 31 35,701 37,301 (4.29%)
Investments 6,155 5,320 15.70%
Employees at year end (number) 83,429 83,209 0.26%
ADDED VALUE
12.31.2007 12.31.2006 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Standard production value (1)31,871 31,767 0.3%
Consumption of raw materials and external services (14,545) (14,191) 2.5%
Added value 17,326 17,576 (1.4%)
Other items (2)3,474 2,982 16.5%
Gross added value 20,800 20,558 1.2%
(1) Including revenues, change in work in progress, change in inventory, costs for internal works capitalised, operational
grants.
(2) Representing the balance between the following items of the income statement: other operating costs/other
operating income, dividends deliberated, value adjustments to financial assets, net income from equity investments,other financial income, profit on exchange rates, net result from activities sold/non current activities destined to besold, net profit arising from current activities.
DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE AMONG STAKEHOLDERS AND OTHER PARTIES
12.31.2007 12.31.2006 Change %
(millions of euro) (a) (b) (a-b)/b
Employees 2,933 3,005 (2.4%)
Institutions 3,057 3,691 (17.2%)
Of which
– Social security costs 951 796 19.5%
– Income taxes 1,681 2,519 (33.3%)
– Indirect taxes 142 141 0.7%
–TLC licence fees 283 235 20.4%
Shareholders 2,840 3,002 (5.4%)
Financers 5,094 5,014 1.6%
Business (depreciation and amortization, reserve funds for risks
and fees, other accruals and adjustments) 6,876 5,846 17.6%
Added value distributed to stakeholder 20,800 20,558 1.2%
CONTRIBUTION TO THE STAKEHOLDERS
(millions of euro)
Suppliers (1)18,504 Consumption of raw materials and external services, industrial
investments
Institutions (2)3,057 Expenses, taxes and TLC contributions
Employees 2,933 Cost of labour net of compulsory contributions
Shareholders 2,840 Dividends deliberated
Financers 5,094 Interests and other financial costs
(1)The breakdown of the contribution to this stakeholder is described in the “Suppliers” chapter.
(2)The breakdown of the contribution to this stakeholder is described in the “Institutions” chapter.
Sustainability Section » Financial data and added value 11Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportSustainability Section » Strategy 12Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
/L50298Strategy
Sustainability strategy for 2008-2010
The Group is fully convinced that business activities have to be carried out taking into
consideration the stakeholders’ expectations, consistently with principles included in the 
internationally accepted standards to which the Group refers (in this regard see
Introduction/References).Corporate management should aim at the pursuit of economic results always considering the
environmental and social context within which the company operates.
The Sustainability strategy presented in 2007 for the three-year period 2007-2009 is
confirmed and is based on:
• care on service quality, constantly monitored by the departments in charge
(Customers/Customer Satisfaction); 
• inclusion of Sustainability reporting within Annual reports, thus confirming the Group
intention to jointly present its financial and non financial performance;
• assessment of the Sustainability impact of business projects submitted to the approval
of the Group’s Investment Committee by filling a specific investment form
(Introduction/Reporting and Planning);
• stakeholder involvement in corporate processes (Introduction/Stakeholder Involvement);
•evolution of reporting towards a better correspondence with the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) guidelines;
• definition of quantitative goals in line with issues deemed most significant with respect
to Sustainability (Introduction/2008 Objectives);
• integration between Sustainability and innovation: a specific section has been devoted to
Corporate Responsibility within the Technological Plan, i.e. the document in which thecompany defines its strategy in terms of technological evolution of the transmission
network;
•confirmation of international commitments on Sustainability among which the adhesion
to Global Compact and the support to the Alliance with the European Commission
(Introduction/Results and Acknowledgements). 
The strategy defined for each single stakeholder is described at the beginning of the relevant
chapter.
To make sure that Sustainability issues are appropriately considered in the Group’s
management decision-making process, objectives associated to the variable remuneration
system have been set. The table below summarises such objectives by stakeholder.
Stakeholder Incentive-associated objectives 
Customers – Customer Satisfaction
– Quality of the service provided 
Human resources –Surveys on staff attitude 
–Health and safety of employees 
–Training on safety and environment issues 
–Training on professional growth programs 
–Welfare activities and employee well-being 
The Environment –Materials, energy and water consumption 
–Emissions 
–Waste management 
–Environmental remediation 
Market and institutions – Compliance with laws, regulations and codes 
– Quality and timeliness of corporate communication 
Suppliers – Environmental audits at suppliers’ premises 
The Community –Organisation of cultural events 
–Quality of the initiatives/projects for the Community /L502982008 Objectives
Consistently with the analysis on the most significant Sustainability topics (in this regard see
the “Hot Topics” paragraph) and with engagements undertaken, the Group has defined
quantitative targets concerning Customers, Human Resources, the Environment, Suppliers and
Digital Divide, briefly described below and more widely discussed in the related chapters.
These targets are included in the 2008-2010 Sustainability Plan and are shown in the table
below.
Sustainability Section » 2008 Objectives 13Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
Area Indicator (1)Measurement unit Year end 2007 Target 2008
CUSTOMERS Keeping the technician appointment
atthe customer’s premises % 98 98
HUMAN RESOURCES Training– Italian companies (2)Training hours
per capita (3)30 30.5
HUMAN RESOURCES Training– Italian companies (2):coverage
(no. of people taking part at least once in
training over the total population) % 84.3 85
THE ENVIRONMENT Eco-efficiency indicator Bit/Joule 873 1,130
THE ENVIRONMENT Energy saving by the use of low-consumption
lighting systems (10 buildings) kWh 0 3,000,000
THE ENVIRONMENT Energy saving due to the optimisation of the
electrical efficiency of 50 substations through
power factor correction (4)Kvar/h 0 1,950,000
THE ENVIRONMENT Reduction of power emission from Number of additional 
UMTS cell (5)cells with second carrier 4,289 600
THE ENVIRONMENT SAR qualification Italy (6)% 100 100
THE ENVIRONMENT SAR qualification Brazil (6)% 0 25
THE ENVIRONMENT SAR qualification Bolivia (6)%0 4 0
THE ENVIRONMENT Other corporate offices to be equipped for
differentiated waste collection Number of offices 75 100
THE ENVIRONMENT Paper consumption reduction % 7.6 3
THE ENVIRONMENT Recycled paper purchased (7)% 45 60
THE ENVIRONMENT Replacement of 15 oil boilers with Tons of CO 2
new generators/heat pumps (8)not emitted 182 200
THE ENVIRONMENT Replacement of Euro3 vehicles with Euro4 vehicles (9)Tons of CO 2
not emitted 1,951 2,700
SUPPLIERS Increase of audits on Suppliers with reference to
Ethics and Sustainability % 16 10
DIGITAL DIVIDE ADSL coverage (10)% 94 96
DIGITAL DIVIDE IPTV coverage (10)% 52 54
DIGITAL DIVIDE UMTS coverage (11)% 76,5 81
DIGITAL DIVIDE HSDPA coverage (11)% 70.6 81
(1) Unless otherwise indicated, targets refer to activities of Telecom Italia S.p.A.
(2) Italian companies: Telecom Italia S.p.A., BU Media, BU Olivetti, Elettra S.p.A., TI Sparkle, Telecontact Center S.p.A., Path.Net S.p.A., Loquendo S.p.A.,
Matrix S.p.A.
(3)The data include training in the classroom, on line and on the job.
(4) The power factor is adjusted installing a device in the Medium Voltage/Low Voltage substations that, for the same active power used, reduces transmission
losses in the electrical distribution grid.
(5)In high traffic conditions the use of two radiofrequency carriers instead of a single carrier reduces the total power emitted by the station.
(6) The percentage is calculated on cellular terminal model of the type more widespread and technologically innovative. SAR: Specific Absorption Rate.(7) Measured as compared to the total purchased paper meant for office use.
(8)Most new plants are gas-fuelled.
(9)Euro4 vehicles allow an approximate 30% reduction of CO2 emitted as compared to Euro3 vehicles.
(10) The percentage refers to fixed telephone lines.(11) The percentage refers to the resident population./L50298Hot Topics
Sustainability concerns all the corporate processes however certain issues are particularly
significant and require specific consideration with regard to the implementation of the
Corporate Responsibility model defined by the company. Such Sustainability “hot topics” have
been identified by the Telecom Italia Group on the basis of:
• requests by Sustainability rating agencies for inclusion in sector indexes, through
questionnaires for the assessment of the Group performance;
•requests by investors during dedicated Road Shows or one-to-one meetings;
• analysis of media and reports published by specialised agencies;
• benchmarking of Sustainability activities carried out by other companies, both national and
foreign.
Area Stakeholder Telecom Italia engagement Chapter/Reference
paragraph
Customer Customers, The attention to customer needs and the Customers/Customer
Care Human improvement of their satisfaction is one of focus 
Resources the most important objectives for Telecom Italia.
Several projects and initiatives are ongoing.
Human Human Human Resources are a critical factor for the Group Human Resources 
Resources Resources, success and are particularly considered. Several /Equal opportunities, 
Institutions, initiatives are ongoing on Equal Opportunities, Development, Training,  
The Community Development, Training, Health and safety, Welfare. Welfare, Health and 
safety
Digital Customers, The availability of communication technologies may Customers/
Divide Institutions, generate social and geographic discrimination. The Digital Divide
The Community risk of exclusion is particularly high for certain population
brackets such as the elderly, sick people and disabledpeople. Telecom Italia has launched several initiatives to
ensure a wide availability of the new technologies. 
Radio Base The Environment, Telecom Italia uses technical solutions which allow The Environment/
Stations The Community, to optimise electromagnetic emissions and involves  Electromagnetic  
and electro- Institutions, stakeholders to identify the optimal position on the emissions 
magnetism Customers territory of Radio Base Stations, also adopting
co-sharing solutions.
Energy and The Environment, The Group is committed to reduce its emissions  The Environment/
climate Suppliers, through energetic saving, the use of alternative Climate change
change Institutions, energy sources and the promotion of asset and
The Community, service dematerialisation.
Customers
Supply Suppliers, The globalisation of markets and supplies has Suppliers/Main 
chain The Community made the control of the supply chain an unavoidable sustainability 
issue for Sustainable corporations. The Group is initiatives 
implementing several initiatives with suppliers meant
to protect the environment and labour standards. 
Innovation Customers, In the framework of the competitive context and the Customers/ Study and 
Institutions, development of technologies in the ICT sector, experimentation of The Community, innovation is a significant competitive lever. The new innovative services 
The Environment TLC services may provide an ever-increasing contribution
to the improvement of people life quality and to the
decrease of the environmental impact of human activities.
Web  Customers, The diffusion of Internet is a great opportunity but can Customers/Protection 
content Institutions also be a source of dangers, most of all for minors. of minors, The 
Telecom Italia has implemented several initiatives for Community/Initiatives 
the protection of minors. in the Community
Sustainability Section » Hot Topics 14Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Stakeholder Involvement
The involvement of stakeholders in the company decision-making processes is one of the
most qualifying aspects of a sustainable company and is an issue in the Sustainability
strategy pursued by the Group.
The Telecom Italia Group’s stakeholder involvement mainly refers to the following activities:
Stakeholder Tool used Reference chapter/
paragraph
Customers The co-operation with Consumer’s associations involves meetings aimed Customers/
atguarantee the protection of the consumers’ rights with regard to the Relations with 
Group’s products and services as well as providing Associations with Consumer’s 
information about any company organisational changes possibly affecting associations
customers.
Customers Customer Satisfaction is measured through the Integrated Feedback Customers/
System (IFS) that considers both the overall assessment by the customer Customer 
andthe specific assessment of the last contact occurrences. Satisfaction
Data collected are processed to improve organisational processes and
service quality. 
Suppliers At the end of 2007 the Purchasing Department conducted a satisfaction Suppliers/Main 
survey involving the most important Suppliers through an online Sustainability 
questionnaire. The questions included in the questionnaire made it initiatives 
possible to assess the interaction of Suppliers with the Purchasing
Department in all the purchasing process, getting their feedback.
Suppliers Audits were conducted in order to evaluate the initiatives adopted on Suppliers/Main 
Ethics and Sustainability, such as the respect of the principles of Sustainability Business Ethics and the procedures to ensure the health, the safety and initiatives 
the rights of workers. This led the majority of audited companies to put
into effect the actions agreed upon not only in their own sphere, but alsopromoting them with their suppliers and thus starting a virtuous process
along the whole supply chain.
Competitors Telecom Italia has signed an agreement with Vodafone Italy to share the The Environment/ 
access sites to the mobile network as far as passive infrastructure (poles Electromagnetic 
and pylons, electrical and air-conditioning systems, civil infrastructures). emissions 
Thanks to such agreement the two companies are putting into practice theguidelines included in the Electronic Communications Code and favouring
amore efficient use of network infrastructures.
Competitors At national level Telecom Italia takes part with competitors in the following Competitors/
(national associative activities: Organizations and 
associations) • DGTVì - Association for the development of Terrestrial Digital in Italy associations
•Radio and Television Federation (FRT)
•High-Definition Forum (HD Forum)
•National Committee Digital Italy;
•Auditel;
•Confindustria;
•Fondazione Ugo Bordoni.
Competitors At international level Telecom Italia takes part with competitors Competitors/
(international in the following associative activities: Organizations and 
associations) •BRT ( Brussels Round Table ); associations 
•ETNO ( European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association );
•GSME ( GSM Europe ); 
•EIF (European Internet Foundation ); 
•ERT ( European Round Table of Industrialists );
•ESF ( European Service Forum );
•EABC ( European American Business Council );
•BRUEGEL ( Brussels European and Global Economic Laboratory ); 
•ETP ( European Telecommunications Platform );
•ITU (International Telecommunications Union );
•BIAC ( Business and Industry Advisory Committee ).
Institutions In December 2007 a Memorandum of Understanding has been signed Customers/Digital 
by the Ministry of Communications, Infratel Italia and Telecom Italia with Divide
the aim of reducing, and eliminating in perspective, the digital divide,
thus favouring the development of broadband infrastructures over
the whole national territory.
Institutions Control activities aimed at preventing the diffusion of juvenile pornography Customers/Minor 
are continuing. The Group’s companies have set up teams for the protection management of abuses the so-called “Abuse Desks”, in collaborationwith the appropriate Authorities for the detection of pedo-pornographic
material on the Group networks.
The Together with the most important TLC players Telecom Italia took part in The Environment/ 
Environment the drafting of a Code of Conduct aimed at the reduction of energy Energy
consumption and promoted by the European Commission through the
Joint Research Centre.
Sustainability Section » Stakeholder Involvement 15Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe In collaboration with the second Naples University and the National Agency The Environment/ 
Environment for Environment Protection and Technical Services (APAT) Telecom Italia Energy
launched a project meant to improve the energy efficiency of TLC
equipment using renewable sources, energy saving strategies and
interventions to reduce emissions. 
The Many initiatives in favour of the Community are designed and realised in The Community/ 
Community partnership with Institutions and Non Governmental Organisations in order Investments in the 
to address efforts towards the satisfaction of the principal needs as Community 
perceived by the Community. Within the initiatives carried out:•The project “Alice for children”, in partnership with Twins International,
for the realisation of 2 hosting centres designed after the family home,
in the degraded suburbs of Nairobi;
• The “Solidarity ponies”, an initiative stemmed from the collaboration with
Social Policies Councils and Volunteer Associations of the involved towns,
andaimed at providing free assistance at home to the over 65;
• “Literacy for young and adults”, in partnership with the “Pastoral da
criança” non governmental organisation: an educational programme to be
implemented in the North-Eastern and Southern communities of Brazil,
scoring the highest rate of social exclusion in the country.
The “Web as a friend” is an information campaign meant to educate young The Community/
Community people, parents and teachers to a safe navigation of the Internet. Initiatives in the 
The campaign is promoted by MOIGE (Italian Parent Movement) and is Community 
supported by Telecom Italia, Microsoft, Polizia Postale e delle
Comunicazioni (Postal Police), Poste Italiane (Italian Post Services), under
the sponsorship of the Ministry for Family Policies, the Ministry of
Communications and the Ministry of the Interior.
Human  A survey has been conducted among the Group’s employees to assess Introduction/Results 
Resources the perception on the Sustainability initiatives by Telecom Italia and the and
relevant reporting. A synthesis of the survey’s results has been disclosed Acknowledgements
on the corporate intranet.
Human Telecom Italia actively participates, in collaboration with other companies Introduction/Results
Resources and representatives of stakeholders and institutions, in the laboratories and
activated within the framework of the Alliance, set up with the European Acknowledgements
Commission on March 22, 2006. Among these laboratories there are the
one on non-financial performance, of which Telecom Italia is co-leader,the one on man-woman career equal opportunities and the laboratory
oneco-efficiency.
Human “The Lighthouse” project is an initiative aimed at getting employees’ Human resources/
Resources feedback in order to define action plans to improve the staff attitude, Internal 
develop internal loyalty indicators and start actions aimed at developing communication 
corporate business.
Human The first online Intranet community devoted to the Group’s social Human resources/
Resources solidarity initiatives has been created; this is an interactive space for Internal 
social networking. communication 
Shareholders The channel for financial communication and interaction with retail Shareholders/ 
shareholders is operative and acts through the Shareholders Club Financial 
TI Alw@ys ON. communication
Shareholders Organisation of formal meetings with the market plus daily contacts Shareholders/
through direct meetings and telephone conversations as well as a special Financial 
road show devoted to SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) investors. communication
More information on the projects described in the above table is available from the
Sustainability section of the Group website.
Sustainability Section » Stakeholder Involvement 16Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportCustomers
/L50298Strategy
The Group’s companies aim at providing excellent products and services through their close
attention to customers and their will to listen to the customers’ requests. The goal we pursue
is assuring immediate, competent and reliable answers to the customers’ requests, while
being polite, kind and collaborative.
/L50298Focus on Customers
The Group’s actions for improving customer satisfaction are listed below.
•AProject called Evolution –launched in 2005 in order to provide customers with clarity,
transparency and reliable time estimates concerning the activation of new phone lines – hasbeen expanded to residential customers and it now includes all data services (“standardADSL”, “Alice Mia”, “Alice Home TV”, etc.). The front end operator, upon receiving thecustomer’s request , agrees with the customer on the date and hour of the technician’s visit at
the customer’s premises, afterwards the customer is updated on the status of request and on
needed time. After the implementation of 
Evolution ,indicators of customer satisfaction with
respect to phone line activation have shown a growing trend, with an increase of over 10% as
compared to September 2005. The results achieved so far let us foresee for 2008 theexpansion of the project to Business customers and to new services which will be launched inthe future.
• The 187.it portal, which was improved during 2007, is a significant caring tool available to
the residential customers of Telecom Italia. Besides information on services, customerscan find options such as:
• Invoice viewing 
Customers may: 
– preview their Telecom Italia bill directly on line, before being mailed the paper copy;
– gain online access to the last six two-month billing periods, with the options to view
the related documents in “pdf” format, to save them on their PC and to surf among
items reported on each invoice;
– obtain explanations on all items of the invoice, check variations of last invoice as
compared to previous ones, lodge inquiries to Customer Service and receive an
answer within 24 hours;
– obtain exhaustive information relative to their calls, with the last digits of called
numbers being omitted;
– keep their consumptions under control before billing by Telecom Italia (only for
Customers having an active “Alice Free” connection); the service lists all calls with
date, hour, tariff range and length;
–analyse calls of the last six two-month billing periods both in tabular and graphic
format; 
–check payments of the last six two-month billing periods;
–receive every two months an e-mail saying that the new bill is available online;
– avoid paper bills thus saving mailing expenses.
Sustainability Section » Customers 17Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
• “Your line” service
offering the possibility to look at:
– personal data, information reported on phone directory and privacy consent;– the mailing address for the Telecom Italia bill, which can be changed directly on line;
– unblocked and blocked phone numbers (for instance non-geographic numbers such as
those beginning with 899, 166, 144), that can be changed directly on line;
– kind of bill (paper or on line), that can be changed directly via web;
– services and discount packages which are active on the line (for instance
“Teleconomy”, “Alice”), with the option of online changes of features and profiles of
packages.
•Your records
the service allows to track the progress of requests which are being processed.
• On line payments
customers may pay their bill online, at no added cost.
• A further customer care service for business customers has been launched in
order to:
• provide information on when requests will be met or on possible problems;• provide all the call centre operators with the date when requests will be met, in order to
make relations with customers easier in the event of a second call.
• In order to provide technical assistance to residential customers as well as to very small
business customers (in the latter case, for the time being, only relative to voice services)
we improved the IT platform for customer management used by operators: we thus
improved and simplified customer/operator relationships. Improvements and expansions
also took place concerning the pre-diagnosis and telemetry tools available to customersthrough the diagnostic tool “Alice ti Aiuta (Alice helps you)”, the latter is available on the“Aiuto Alice” website, and it is distributed together with the Alice installation kit. A digitalassistant has been placed on the web site to help surfing.
• To improve relations with customers, all customer care operators of technical services have
been trained on communication and management of relations.
•Anew technology has been implemented on the Customer Care platform of mobile
telephony; it provides:
• dynamic management of calls: re-routing of requests towards Customer Care Centres
with lower work load, thus reducing waiting time and switching off;
• Virtual Queuing: centralised management of a single virtual queue, with positive effects
on the efficiency of answers;
•Queue to Agent: re-routing of a customers towards the same agent in the event of
multiple calls by the customer.
For further details see www.telecomitalia.it (Sustainability/Stakeholders/Customers).
/L50298Customer Satisfaction
Customer Satisfaction monitoring occurs through the Integrated Feedback System (IFS) that
takes customer needs into consideration: both general needs (collected through past
contacts) and specific recent needs (for instance, the request for a specific service such as a
new ADSL line), but it also takes into consideration calls made to the Call Centre forinformation, administrative issues, reporting inefficiency or claims. This information is used to
improve organisational processes, in order to provide customers with services which are closer
to their needs. 
Telecom Italia uses two methods in order to survey Customer Satisfaction:
– a survey on the customer’s overall perception, unrelated to any recent specific experience by
the customer, which allows to analyse the cause-and-effect relations determining customersatisfaction. This methodology, similar to the one used to develop the ACSI (AmericanCustomer Satisfaction Index), is based on an indicator which allows for inter-sectorial andinternational comparisons, which is stable and predictive. Such an indicator provides
Sustainability Section » Customers 18Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportimportant clues on the drivers which can improve customer satisfaction. This type of survey is
applied to all customer segments, whether consumer or business;
– another survey is carried out immediately after the event being analysed. People interviewed
are asked to provide, about a recent call, both an overall evaluation of the service they
experienced (e.g. overall satisfaction) and an evaluation on each specific aspect of theexperience (e.g. waiting time to speak to the operator, courtesy and competence).
Data reported in the two tables below refer to the first kind of survey. 
Customer segment Satisfaction with Satisfaction with 
access service (*)Billing (*)
Fixed telephony Consumer 86.2% 77.5%
Business 81.9% 72.1%
Customer segment Satisfaction with Satisfaction with 
access service (*)Billing (*)
Mobile Telephony Consumer 87.5% 77.9%
Business 86.9% 82.7%
(*) Percentage of customers who are “very satisfied” and “satisfied” (TOP2) in a 5-point scale: very satisfied, satisfied,
not entirely satisfied, unsatisfied, very unsatisfied. Weighed 2007 average.
Data reported in the table below refer to the second kind of survey.
Customer satisfaction on Customer Care
Customer Overall Courtesy Competence  
segment satisfaction(**)of operator(***)of operator(***)
Fixed telephony Consumer (1)62.5% 88.9% 74.0%
Business (2)56.3% 87.1% 70.5%
Mobile telephony Consumer (3)78.0% 91.8% 82.0%
Business (4)66.1% 91.5% 71.7%
(**) Percentage of customers who are “very satisfied” and “satisfied” plus positive share of those who are “moderately
satisfied” (TOP2+) in the 5-point scale: very satisfied, satisfied, moderately satisfied, unsatisfied, very unsatisfied.Customers stating to be moderately satisfied were asked another question to understand if their assessment ismainly positive (sufficient/acceptable) or negative (insufficient/unacceptable). Weighed 2007 average.
(***) Percentage of customers who are “very satisfied” and “satisfied” (TOP2) in the 5-point scale: very satisfied,
satisfied, moderately satisfied, unsatisfied, very unsatisfied. Weighed 2007 average.
(1)Assistance provided by the 187.1 service for information, marketing and administrative calls.
(2) Assistance provided by the 191.1 and 191.9.1 services for information, marketing and administrative calls.
(3) Assistance provided by the 119 service.
(4) Assistance provided by the Business toll-free number
.
Besides surveys on fixed and mobile telephone services, special attention is paid to the
satisfaction of ADSL customers. In 2007 we conducted ad hoc surveys, based on focus
groups which were held in 2006 aimed at identifying the most important issues for
consumers.These issues were then adopted as the subject of the survey, conducted through telephone
interviews. The Group has thus collected information and the opinions and knowledge of
customers on broadband, on the potential development of demand, and on opportunities toinnovate and expand its ADSL offer.
Customer satisfaction within the management incentive system
The short-term incentive system for Telecom Italia’s management includes, among the
objectives of all people within the incentive system, a target associated to customer
satisfaction, which is adapted to the manager’s specific role. The basic indicators, whose
weighed average constitutes the general index of Customer Satisfaction of Telecom ItaliaS.p.A and is used in incentives, come from the ACSI survey and depend on the market(fixed vs mobile telephony) and on customer segment.
Sustainability Section » Customers 19Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Certifications
Telecom Italia’s processes and departments having a significant impact on its products and
services and, in general, on the community, have certifications which ensure the adoption of
procedures and behaviours that are in line with the expectations of the stakeholders they
involve.
In particular, the attention to customers and to the quality of products and services is shown
by the UNI EN ISO 9001:2000 certification, the interest for the environment is the basis ofthe UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 certification, the safety of information is certified through the
ISO 27001:2005 norm.
The table below shows the certifications achieved by the various Departments/Companies of
the Group, with reference to particularly significant processes and activities. 
More details are available on the www.telecomitalia.it website (Sustainability/Our
model/Certifications).
Certification Certified companies/departments
Telecom ISO 9001 Departments: Domestic Fixed Services, Top Client & ICT Services, Quality & 
Italia S.p.A. Field Services Management, Domestic Mobile Services - Sales Consumer, 
Technology, Purchasing 
Companies: TI Sparkle, Elettra Tlc, Path.Net, Loquendo
ISO 14001 Departments: Technology,
Companies: TI Sparkle, Elettra Tlc 
AUDIWEB (*)Companies: Matrix
ISO 27001 Departments: ICT operations of Technology
Olivetti S.p.A. ISO 9001 Departments: Business & Market Development, Product & Technology
Development, Industrial Operations, Market Communication
ISO 14001 Olivetti Plant di Arnad (AO)
Mobile Brazil ISO 9001 Companies: Tim Brasil s.a., Tim Nordeste s.a.
and others
(*) Audiweb certifies quantitative and qualitative information on the use of Internet tools and online systems.
New certifications are scheduled for 2008 and they are currently in an advanced
implementation phase:
– OHSAS 18001 certification (Management System for Occupational Health and Safety) and
ISO 14001 certification of the call centre units in Rome (Via Oriolo Romano) and Naples
(Centro Direzionale);
– ISO 14001 certification (Environmental Management System) for the Building and Services -
Facility Management Department;
– Extension of the ISO 9001 certification (Quality Management System) to the whole
Purchasing Department.
/L50298Digital Divide
The growth of information and communication technologies has given rise to noticeable
opportunities of development for the population. Telecom Italia is aware of the need for acareful and insightful approach in managing this phenomenon, to avoid the risk of generating
both geographic and social divides in the community.
Geographical Digital Divide
The “Anti digital divide plan”, announced by Telecom Italia in 2006, aims at expanding ADSL
coverage, which, at the end of 2007, has reached 94% of Telecom Italia’s fixed lines. In thesame period IPTV covered 52% of Telecom Italia’s fixed lines. 
As for mobile broadband, the percentage of resident population covered by Telecom Italia
through UMTS at the end of 2007 was 76.5%. A significant development concerning mobiletelephony is HSDPA technology, allowing to attain 3.6 Mbp/s and covering, at the end of2007, 70.6% of the population.
Sustainability Section » Customers 20Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThanks to a Working Group on digital divide, in 2007 we have developed an important tool
providing support for operations and decisions, the “Digital Divide Project” (DDP).
DDP contains the complete map, both current and future, of the Italian territory concerningADSL, ADSL 2+, 20M/IPTV coverages. DDP is used not only for daily management of
broadband, but also to drive, as much as possible, network activities towards the locationswhich are most vulnerable to digital divide.
On December 18, 2007 a Memorandum of Understanding has been signed between the
Ministry of Communications, Infratel Italia and Telecom Italia. The agreement launches joint
activities to define a plan aimed at reducing as much as possible the number of areas not yet
covered by broadband, both in the South (where Infratel is already operating) and in the
Centre-North (on the basis of agreements signed or being signed by the Ministry with Regions).
The aim is reducing, and, in perspective, eliminating, digital divide, favouring the development
of broadband infrastructures over the whole national territory.
Social Digital Divide
Belonging to underprivileged social groups due to physical problems, age or income may lead
to the exclusion from the benefits of ICT.
The main areas where the Telecom Italia Group acts for the reduction of social Digital Divide
are: 
• Spreading ICT culture;
• Support to the elderly; • Support to people with disabilities;• Support in developing areas;
More information on single initiatives is available in “The Community” chapter.
The Digital T errestrial T elevision
Telecom Italia Media – La7 has contributed to the process of transition of our country towards
the digital television system, supporting the launch of the All Digital areas in Sardinia and inValle d’Aosta, in view of the 2012 switch. In these areas, starting from April 2007, the Qoob,Raidue and Rete Quattro TV programs are already exclusively broadcast through digitalterrestrial technology. Telecom Italia Media – La7 customers were provided all the necessarytechnical information and support, also thanks to the help of a call centre, set up incollaboration with the Ministry of Communications.
/L50298Research and Innovation in e-security
Research and development activities concerning e-security mainly focused on: 
•innovative tools for an efficient and immediate protection from attacks to the new network
infrastructures and to services, with special focus on solutions for detecting even the
faintest signals of computer attacks;
• innovative tools for predictive analysis of risk exposure level, through advanced use of
modelling and simulation techniques;
• systems allowing to manage security measures by switching automatically action rules
when changes in risk scenarios and security targets occur; 
•services for the protection of new generation mobile handsets;
•innovative technologies to render data anonymous, whenever necessary for compliance with
ruling laws, and which simplify management processes. 
Research activities are associated both to patent development, in order to protect innovation,
as well as to scientific publications for dissemination of results.
/L50298Research and tests on innovative services
The main tests on innovative services, designed by the Laboratories of the Telecom Italia
Group in collaboration with Research Institutes and both Italian and foreign universities, aredescribed below.
Sustainability Section » Customers 21Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportReduction of electrical energy consumptions
•Energetic and environmental control system for Telecom Italia’s exchanges, which analyses
and segments consumptions, with remote control in real time through wireless network.
•Management and control solution for water and electrical energy consumption in
households, through a wireless sensor network and fixed and/or mobile peripherals.
Newtechnologies for the reduction of environmental impact
• Infomobility services (i.e. traffic management, traffic information, payment services,
navigation services) and technological infrastructure based on specific onboard units. 
•IT management of metered parking areas. Mobile phones are used in order to identify the
position of users and vehicles, and to indicate which parking areas are easier to reach and
how to reach them, also identifying the parking permit, if any, and applying the right toll. 
• Dynamic management of vehicle access to limited traffic urban areas through personal
mobile handsets or onboard devices. 
• Traffic management through onboard devices. Tests will be carried out in partnership with
Autostrade S.p.A. 
• Remote control solution in real time of fire brigade actions thanks to a ZigBee sensor (Body
Area Network) integrated in the firemen’s clothes. The solution has been submitted to theMinistry of the Interior. 
Assistance services 
• Tele-assistance service through the control of parameters such as heart rate, body
temperature, movement. The service offers the possibility to call for help through a PanicButton. Communication with the service centre occurs through innovative ZigBee technology ,
incorporated in videophones or mobile handsets. 
• Health kiosks: a project in collaboration with Parmalat (a dairy firm) for the control of
significant personal parameters (such as weight, body mass index, body fat percentage,
blood pressure) through health kiosks connected to a service centre.
• Remote monitoring of some physiological parameters, meant for patients affected by
chronic pathologies (diabetics, cardiac patients, chronic bronchitis patients). 
• “Geofencing” service aimed at supporting outdoor mobility of patients affected by mental
health problems (i.e. Alzheimer), through the definition of safe areas and localization
functionalities of mobile handsets and network.
Aconsor tium for infomobility
Telecom Italia and Magneti Marelli, a leader firm in the field of car component production,
have created a consortium for new infomobility services in order to develop and market a newopen platform ensuring uninterrupted connections with information and entertainment services
and favouring “ecodriving”, thus minimising traffic congestion. The system will allow for the
integration between the automotive environment and ICT, thanks to an onboard telematicdevice for dialogue between the vehicle and the software applications of the various service
providers. Such applications may be used by public authorities to provide information on road
conditions and traffic (in order to avoid jams, to pay tolls and parking, to manage access tolimited traffic areas, etc.) and by companies managing corporate fleets in order to locate
vehicles and enable communications.
/L50298Protection of minors
To protect minors from adult contents or, more generally, from contents possibly damaging
their psycho-physical development (e.g. violence, racism, offences to religion), the Group’s
companies have undertaken the initiatives described below.• Guidelines have been issued for the classification and control of contents provided by the
Group. These guidelines concern not only contents that are directly offered by TelecomItalia, but also contents offered by third parties buying spaces within Telecom Italia portals.
• Filtering systems and procedures for the Group’s offer of adult content on the Internet have
been defined. These measures aim at preventing minors to access adult content availableon the Group’s portals.
Sustainability Section » Customers 22Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• Contents proposed by the Group through its mobile platform do not fall in the class which
issubject to filtering. Should the Group launch in 2008 adult content services on its mobile
platform, appropriate protection and filtering measures would be adopted. Parents (orwhoever involved) can activate “blacklists”, that is the possibility to prevent surfing from
mobile handsets to selected sites. Moreover, the Group ascertained its own compliancewith Resolution no. 661/06/CONS “Safety measures for minor protection to be
implemented on video mobile handsets” published on the Italian Communication Authority
(AGCOM) website on November 29, 2006.
• Concerning premium voice services, Telecom Italia requires the use of a PIN code for
access to services having adult content; such services however are not offered by the
Group.
• The Group’s televisions do not broadcast contents requiring filtering systems. Broadcasting
is compliant with ruling normative and with the above mentioned guidelines.
• As for the offer of content/services on corporate websites (Rosso Alice and Virgilio), further
guidelines of conduct are currently under study.
In 2007 control activities to prevent the diffusion of juvenile pornography continued.
The Group’s companies have set up abuse management teams, called “Abuse Desks”, where
service users can report abuses or inappropriate use of services to the Group’s companies.In the case of Internet services, Abuse Desks are differentiated according to service typology(residential and business): besides managing alarms on problems associated to the Group’s
services, desks, through an officer who acts as reference point for the Postal Police,inform the appropriate authorities about any significant event, such as the presence ofpedo-pornographic contents on the Group’s networks.As for interactive services such as Chats, Forums and Blogs, offered by the Group’s suppliersof services, a prevention system based on the presence of “moderators” has been set up andit is in charge of identifying and reporting the presence of illicit content, blocking its
transmission.
/L50298Relations with Consumer’s Associations
Telecom Italia places special emphasis on the protection of consumers’ interests and to
relations with the Associations representing them, in a framework of loyal collaboration and
transparent mutual information. 
The company started its collaboration with Consumer’s Associations in 1983. Since then
several agreements have been signed and Telecom Italia actively collaborates with 17 among
the main Associations.Such collaboration involves meetings aimed at safeguarding consumers’ rights with regard
to the Group’s products and services, and the presentation of the main projects of
organisational development possibly affecting customers (for instance the reorganisation ofcertain Customer Care services or information on the possibility of enabling/disabling non
geographic phone numbers through an appropriate PIN).
Telecom Italia regularly transmits the following information to Associations:
• Telecom Italia bill: all messages sent to customers and included in the “Telecom News”
section of the Telecom Italia bill, concerning tariff changes, the launch of new services andoffers, institutional information and in general all news useful to customers;
• In linea con Te (On line with you), that is information generally concerning tariff policies and
initiatives undertaken in compliance with specific regulations, published by Telecom Italia
on the most widespread national newspapers.
The Group is a founding member of the Consumers’ Forum, which gathers Consumer’s
Associations, companies and research institutes. The Forum deals with issues related to
consumerism. To promote the development of a “collaborative consumerism” and to providefeedback to the appropriate Group departments, in 2007 some important meetings took place(“Media, Consumers and Consumerism”, “Authority: which strategies for the future?”) with theparticipation of the highest institutional authorities.Furthermore, within the Forum’s activities and with Telecom Italia’s support, there occurinitiatives of joint training with the Associations on Conciliation.
Sustainability Section » Customers 23Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportConciliation
Direct results of Telecom Italia’s collaboration with the Associations are its “Conciliation
procedures”. Based on the ‘parity’ model, these procedures have led to the resolution of
approximately 48,000 client disputes since their adoption in 1991.The conciliation procedure between Telecom Italia and Consumer’s Associations is based on
the “parity” model involving direct responsibility of both parties: the customer, who chooses a
Consumer’s Association and fully entrusts the relevant representative to deal about his/her
dispute, and the Company, which participates with its representative having an equivalentmandate. Conciliation applications are presented at appropriate offices hosted in Telecom
Italia’s premises over the national territory. The procedure is entirely free of charge for thecustomer. Starting with the application date and for the ensuing 45 days Telecom Italia
refrains from any activity concerning the customer and undertakes to offer, within such
deadline, a proposal to solve the dispute. Conciliation proceedings are then drafted and the
customer is free to sign or refuse them. If the conciliation proceedings are signed by both
parties, the document becomes immediately operational. If the customer refuses to sign theproceedings, he/she is free to have resort to ordinary legal actions as appropriate.
The conciliation procedure is accessible by Telecom Italia’s customers only if ordinary claim
procedures proved unsatisfactory.
Sustainability Section » Customers 24Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportSuppliers
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
(millions of euro) 2007 2006
Expenditure for raw materials and external services
(net of TLC licence fee) 14,262 13,956
–of which correlated entities 288 263
Industrial investments 5,520 5,114
– of which correlated entities and internal capitalization 990 1,039
Total contribution 19,782 19,070
–of which correlated entities and internal capitalization (1,278) (1,302)
Total net contribution 18,504 17,768
/L50298Strategy
Purchasing processes within the Telecom Italia Group are designed to procure
products/services at the best market conditions while assuring requisites such as quality,safety and respect for the environment. Procurement processes call for the competitivecomparison of technical/economic offers from suppliers selected on the basis of companyprocedures in force at Group level and characterised by ethical negotiation.
The Group aims at ensuring the quality of purchasing processes and their continuous
improvement through the implementation of the ISO 9001:2000 certification, already attainedby some departments of the Purchasing Area. The certification attainment will be completed in
2008, as specified below.
/L50298General
For high-risk commodity categories, the selection, evaluation and control process of the
Group’s potential suppliers involves a pre-contractual “qualification” phase to assess
their economic/financial and technical/organisational characteristics in light of their possibleinclusion in the Group’s Supplier Register.Each of the Group’s suppliers is required to commit, both personally and on behalf
of any authorised sub-contractors, collaborators and employees, to comply with the
ethical-behavioural principles included in the Group’s Code of Ethics.Once included in the Group’s Supplier Register, companies receiving purchase orders after
the competition/negotiations process undergo controls during the supply phase.
These controls range from the Vendor Rating monitoring (systematic assessment of supply) toIncoming Quality Control (mandatory with regard to acceptation/use of the purchased item).
More information on these activities is available in the Purchase section of the Suppliers
portal (http://suppliers.telecomitalia.it/).
/L50298Controls
More than 8,500 controls were performed on the execution of technical works, mainly focused
onthe installation phase of new plants and on the provision of services and works.
Sustainability Section » Suppliers 25
Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe most significant controls carried out on suppliers during 2007 are summarized below.
•Supplier qualification: 871 qualification controls involving 504 suppliers, of which 254 with
anegative outcome and 91 with a fixed-term qualification.
• Sub-contractor qualification: 124 qualification controls, of which 7 with a negative outcome.
• Vendor rating monitoring: 75 reports issued relative to approximately 366 suppliers and 44
purchase categories.
• Technical-organisational audits at Supplier’s premises to perform Incoming Quality Control
onproducts and services: 545 batches of controlled products. Of these 55 were rejected
for nonconformity.
• Technical-organisational audits at Supplier’s premises to perform qualification procedures:
273 controls involving 171 suppliers, of which 34 with a negative outcome and 29 with
fixed-term qualification.
• Technical-organisational audits at the premises of high-risk sub-contractors (plant
engineering-operational activities) to perform qualification procedures in view of use bySuppliers: 166 audits involving 115 suppliers, of which 5 with a negative outcome and 14
with fixed-term qualification.
The Group has defined the criteria for the systematic monitoring, also with respect to vendor
rating, of the number and severity of accidents involving the employees of high-risk TelecomItalia Group suppliers (network works, Radio Base Station installations, exchange/building
works).
The model defined has been derived from the UNI 7249 ed. 95 regulation, “Statistics on
accidents at work”. It identifies specific indicators, such as Severity index and Frequency
Index.
The comparison of data obtained with the average value calculated considering all the
suppliers of the monitored departments and with indexes published by INAIL (National Institute
for Insurance against Accidents at Work), will allow the definition – in collaboration with
suppliers – of actions aimed at continuous improvement (the objective being zero accidents).
/L50298Main Sustainability Initiatives
In 2007 the following initiatives were carried out:
• Application of the “Guidelines for the assessment of product life cycle” (issued at the end of
2006) to 50 suppliers and 17 products. These guidelines are meant to assess, through an
eco-compatibility index, whether the products purchased/handled/marketed by the Groupmeet the requirements related to reference environmental regulations. Also whether suchproducts are designed, manufactured, used and disposed of in view of a better management
of the whole life cycle, from the environmental and economic standpoints.
The product groups to which these guidelines apply are defined on the basis of purchasevolume, impact on corporate reputation, hazardousness and economic/legal risk. These are:
– Products destined to be launched on the market (telephone terminals, exchanges, fax,
modems);
–Office products (computer and peripherals, copiers, paper, consumption materials such
as toner, batteries, etc.);
– Network equipment/materials (poles, masts, cabinets, accumulators, exchanges).
• Concerning the 50 above mentioned suppliers, the assessment of the product life cycle
has been integrated with other controls aimed at assessing in general the initiatives
adopted on Ethics and Sustainability, such as the compliance on corporate ethics and theprocedures applied to ensure the worker’s health, safety and rights. The assessments are
also aimed at promoting a commitment to pursuing Sustainability throughout the supply
chain, with the involvement of their suppliers (sub-contractors of the Group). Among theaudited suppliers 44% showed adequate attention to Ethics and Sustainability issues (32%
in 2006), while 61% of suppliers who in 2006 had undertaken improvement commitmentswith the Telecom Italia Group, has implemented the agreed actions.
•Audit procedures on the suppliers of subsidiaries abroad also continued. In particular,
before being included in the Suppliers’ List, all the new suppliers of Telecom Italia S.A.(France) and TIM Brasil, are required to submit a self-certification in compliance withLegislative Decree no. 231/2001. This includes a statement of commitment to the
Sustainability Section » Suppliers 26Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportprinciples of the Code of Ethics of the Telecom Italia Group and a declaration that no
insolvency proceedings, protests or severe administrative sanctions are ongoing.
• Several departments belonging to the Group’s Purchasing Area have attained in the month
of October 2007 the certification of compliance to the ISO 9001:2000 requisites related to
the “Quality Management System”; the certification process, contributing to ensure thequality and continuous improvement of purchasing processes, will be completed in 2008.
This initiative involved mapping the whole Purchasing Area processes and defining over 90control indicators in order to improve the management of services provided to internal
customers and suppliers.
•At the end of 2007 the Purchasing Area carried out a survey meant to monitor satisfaction
among the main suppliers. An online questionnaire was posted on the Suppliers portal to
this purpose. 
This analysis, carried out in collaboration with corporate department IT Quality & Processes,
involved 580 suppliers of which approximately 200 (equal to 34%) participated in theinitiative. A positive outcome was recorded, with scores in excess of 7/10.
The questionnaire includes 28 questions, allowing to assess the interaction with the
Purchasing Departments in all the phases of the purchasing process.
• The Group has issued the English version of the Suppliers Portal and of the “Policy on
relations with Suppliers” illustrating how the Sustainability and Ethics principles arepromoted and pursued in the purchasing process.
•Since 2006 the Telecom Italia Group takes part in a strategically oriented workshop on
Sustainability and Integrity in Relations with Suppliers (SIRF) involving some of the most
important Italian companies that operate in the services and manufacturing sectors.Following the formalisation of conduct rules and of implementation criteria for the
procurement process that were based on guidelines inspired by international standard of
corporate responsibility, an assessment was carried out which also involved the TelecomItalia Group. The Group’s compliance rating, according to the SIRF standard, assessed by awell-known independent company, was “very good” for 2006. The assessment for 2007,recently concluded, has emphasized a further improvement in the areas not attaining themaximum score in 2006.
Table summarizing 2007 results vs 2007 objectives
2007 objective 2007 results Objective status
Start of the procedure to attain the The ISO 9001 certification has been attained by the Achieved
ISO 9001 certification by the TLC and IT Purchasing departments, and by the 
Purchasing Area of the Telecom Logistics, Facility Management, Operational Planning,
Italia Group. Suppliers Control and Information Technology
Support departments, operating within the
Purchasing Area of the Telecom Italia Group.
Issue of the English version of the The English version of the Suppliers Portal has Achieved
Suppliers Portal and of the related been issued. 
documents. 
Application of the guidelines for the Application of the “Guidelines for the assessment Achieved
assessment of product and supplier of Products Life Cycle” (issued at the end of 2006)
eco-compatibility to a higher number to 50 suppliers and 17 products.
of products. 
Application to a higher number of Audits on initiatives concerning Ethics and Achieved
suppliers (experimental audits carried Sustainability on 50 suppliers.
out in 2006 on 43 suppliers) of audits
on initiatives adopted by suppliers onEthics and Sustainability and control of
the compliance with respect to the
commitments by suppliers during the
first cycle of audits.
Extension of the audits (request to Audits on suppliers of subsidiaries abroad concerned Partially
commit to the principles of the Group’s Tim Brasil and Telecom Italia France S.A. and are achieved
Code of Ethics and to provide a progressively being expanded to the most important
self-certification statement on the suppliers of Hansenet Telekommunikation GmbH
absence of prejudicial conditions, (Germany).supplier qualification, Vendor Rating)for the suppliers of subsidiaries abroad(in particular Tim Brasil, Telecom ItaliaFrance SA and Hansenet
Telekommunikation GmbH).
Sustainability Section » Suppliers 27Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L502982008 Objectives
• Completion of the ISO 9001 certification within the Purchasing Area of the Telecom Italia
Group, together with the ISO 14001 certification of the Facility Management Department of
the same Area.
•10%increase of audits scheduled on suppliers on Ethics and Sustainability, integrating the
controls so far performed through audits with a monitoring based on self-certification.
• Development of an e-community project through the creation on the Suppliers Portal of a
multimedia environment aimed at:
– Publishing policies, standards, specifications, objectives and best practices, in the field
ofSustainability; 
– Encouraging the start of Sustainability initiatives and projects; – Staging e-voting campaigns for suppliers on Sustainability initiatives both by the Group
and by suppliers. 
• Development of a global vendor rating index involving the most important suppliers of the
Group and considering the suppliers’ performance in the field of environmental and social
Sustainability.
• Extension of audits to the most important suppliers of the subsidiary abroad Hansenet
Telekommunikation GmbH (Germany), who will be requested to adhere to the Code of
Ethics’ principles of the Telecom Italia Group.
Sustainability Section » Suppliers 28Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportCompetitors
/L50298Strategy
The Telecom Italia Group is committed to the promotion of fair competition that is considered
positive both for the Group’s interests and those of all market operators, as well as customers
and stakeholders in general. Furthermore Telecom Italia pursues excellence and competitiveness
on the market, offering to its customers services characterised by quality and efficiency.
/L50298Organisations and associations
Co-operation with competitors at national level
During 2007 Telecom Italia Media took part in the DGTVì, the Association for the development
of the Terrestrial Digital broadcasting in Italy to which Rai, Mediaset, Radio and TelevisionFederation, Aeranti-Corallo and D-free also take part. Telecom Italia Media is also holding theposition of President of the DGTVì up to March 2008. Participation in the DGTVì enables theTI Media Group broadcasters to interact with the radiotelevision market players and to actively
take part in the evolution process towards the Terrestrial Digital.
In the year the Association promoted several activities:
–organisation of the third national conference on Terrestrial Digital (Turin - November 30 and
1
stDecember) during which the report “The future is clear” was presented. This is a study,
developed by four research institutes and approved by the public and private companies
participating in the DGTVì, which summarises the data, analyses and opinions shared by
the scientific community and by industry; 
– release of the DGTVì label for the certification of integrated decoders and televisions on the
basis of technical specifications developed by the Association. The label will be placed onequipment of the manufacturing companies adhering to the agreement starting from
February 2008;
– continuation of the two market surveys aimed at assessing the diffusion of decoders, both
at national level and in the so-called “all digital” areas, with the aim of monitoring the
spread of digital decoders in Sardinia and in Valle d’Aosta. 
DGTVì is also actively taking part in the National Committee Digital Italy, involving the players
in the digitalisation process (Institutions, television broadcasters, cable and satellite
operators, publishers, consumers). It deploys its strategy and analysis activities through a
Technical Committee devided into nine thematic subgroups.As of October 2007 no. 5,500,000 decoders and 1,200,000 integrated television sets had
been sold.
Telecom Italia adheres to the Radio and Television Federation (FRT) as a member of the
Chairing Committee. Besides the national and satellite broadcasters, FRT gathers 150 local
and radio broadcasters.
Telecom Italia has formalised its membership as founder to the High Definition Forum (HDF),
whose main goal is the promotion and diffusion in Italy of high-definition. Within theAssociation Telecom Italia coordinates three working groups on distribution/supply, productionand utilisation. The adhesion to the Forum favours the regular updating on competitoractivities related to high definition (in particular Sky, Mediaset and Fastweb) and thepromotion of regulation and standardisation initiatives. 
Since 2002 Telecom Italia Media is a shareholder of Auditel with a 3.33% share, and has one
representative in the Board of Directors and one in the Technical Committee.
Sustainability Section » Competitors 29
Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportAuditel is the only subject, in terms of audience rating, recognised in Italy also by advertising
companies who – on the basis of Auditel data – price advertisements on single TV channels.
Telecom Italia is involved in the management of association relations, co-ordination of lobbying
and representation activities with Confindustria and its Associations.
These initiatives, involving in some cases joint actions with competitors consist, both at nationaland local level, of actions and meetings related to the development of business and safeguarding
the corporate interests on the economic, legislative, trade unions and labour issues.
The TI Group is a member of 100 territorial Associations and of the following
Federations/National partner organizations: Confindustria Servizi Innovativi, Asstel,
Assoelettrica and Assografici (terminated on December 31, 2007 for Matrix), Distretto
dell’Audiovisivo e dell’ICT.
Together with other operators of the sector, Telecom Italia Group participates in the Ugo
Bordoni foundation, involved among else in research, study and consultancy in the sectors of
Communications and Information Technologies, with particular reference to the Digital
Television sector. 
The Foundation has a considerable experience, well known at international level, in areas suchas radiopropagation, optical communication, safety and protection of telecommunications,
TLC networks, multimedia communications. 
The Ugo Bordoni foundation has been legally entitled to the technical supervision of experimentalactivities relating to Terrestrial Digital transmissions and interactive services and managesseveral projects in collaboration with the Ministry of Communications and other public entities. 
The contributions of Telecom Italia to the Ugo Bordoni foundation are included at level 3 of theLondon Benchmarking Group (LBG) model (see “The Community” chapter). 
Collaboration with competitors at international level
At international level the Telecom Italia Group collaborates with several organisations and/or
associations, among which:– BRT (The Brussels Round Table): this organisation brings together the most important
European TLC and manufacturing companies and aims at maintaining a constant dialogue
with European Institutions on significant issues concerning the ICT sector at European
Community level;
– ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association): it is the most
important association in the field of telecommunications across the continent and aims atdeveloping a competitive and efficient European telecommunication market by coordination
of operators and dialogue with Institutions;
– GSME (GSM Europe): it is an association gathering the European mobile operators. Among
its objectives there is the development of the European telephone and mobile services
market with particular attention to the regulatory aspects;
– EIF (European Internet Foundation): it gathers European Parliament members, TLC
manufacturers and operators, software providers, ISPs and content providers and supports
public policy related to the fast development of the Internet, broadband and information
technologies;
– ERT (European Round Table of Industrialists): this forum brings together about 45 European
industrial leaders to promote the competitiveness and growth of the European economy; 
– ESF (European Services Forum): this is an association of European operators in the
services sector and aims at promoting the interests of the European services industry, and
liberalising the service sector worldwide within the WTO framework;
– EABC (European American Business Council): it is an association whose goal is to support
and facilitate transatlantic dialogue on significant industry issues of interest to the EU and
the USA;
– BRUEGEL (Brussels European and Global Economic Laboratory): it is a European study
centre dedicated to the critical analysis of the international economy, to the development ofthe main industrial sectors and to the role of the EU in the global economic context;
– ETP (European Telecommunications Platform): it is an organisation gathering TLC operators
and manufacturers, aiming to promote and discuss common telecommunications-relatedissues;
– ITU (International Telecommunications Union): it is an agency belonging to the United Nations
whose objective is to favour the joint elaboration, between Governments and the privatesector, of an international set of technical standards, operating procedures for wirelessservices and of development programmes for TLC infrastructures in developing countries;
–BIAC (Business and Industry Advisory Committee): it represents the industrial Association of
OECD countries.
Sustainability Section » Competitors 30Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Activities regarding competition
In the first months of 2006 the guidelines for an "Antitrust Compliance Programme” were
defined. The program consists of a series of multilevel information and training and aims at
spreading the correct cultural approach to Antitrust regulations within the Group, as well as
the awareness that competition is not a threat but, on the contrary, an essential asset for
business activities.
The substantial changes in the Telecom Italia organisation chart occurred in the second half of
2006, and corporate events occurred in the second half of 2007, prompted a pause in the
implementation of the Antitrust Compliance Programme; this was necessary in order to avoid
involving in the huge training activities required for the implementation of the program
corporate departments being possibly affected by organisational change. 
The implementation phase of the program should start within the first half 2008, once the
already defined guidelines have been appropriately updated. 
With Resolution no. 587/06/CONS of September 27, 2006 a task force aimed at studying the
technical/economic aspects and the related regulation evolution of the re-organizational
process of Telecom Italia network has been established within AGCOM. The technical task
force, in which Telecom Italia takes part, is committed to the pre-analysis of the
technical/economic aspects and of implications and perspectives – also in terms of regulatoryevolution – of a possible break-up process related to Telecom Italia access network, as well
as of the possible development of the Next Generation Network.
Sustainability Section » Competitors 31Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportInstitutions
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP
(millions of euro) 2007 2006
Social security and pensions 951 796
Income taxes 1,681 2,519
Indirect taxes 142 141
TLC license fees 283 235
Total 3,057 3,691
/L50298Strategy
The Telecom Italia Group is determined to continue its collaborative and transparent relations
with the European Union and national institutions in view of facilitating dialogue on common
concern issues.
/L50298Relations
The legislation activities of Central National Institutions (Parliament, Government) and local
Institutions (Regions, Local Entities and independent sector Authorities) are constantly
monitored by the Telecom Italia Group.
The approval procedure of legislation concerning issues of interest to the Group is thereforeconstantly monitored. Telecom Italia also provides technical support to the competentinstitutions (Parliamentary Commissions, Ministry of Communications and other Ministries,
local Authorities) in drafting the legislation for the relative areas of interest.
The Group subsidiaries and/or associated companies operating abroad directly interact, with
the operational support of the parent company, with sector Authorities (Antitrust andRegulatory Authorities) and competent Institutions (Ministries of Communications,
Parliamentary Committees) in the various countries, to represent and support the Group
position and to ensure a correct competition dynamics in the related markets. Foreigncompanies also provide Institutions with support in the drafting of sector legislation.
For the purpose of monitoring the activities with a significant impact on the Group, Telecom
Italia interacts with the European Commission and its Regulatory Committees, the Council of
Europe, the European Parliament and ERG (European Regulators Group).
/L50298National legislation
The laws of interest to the Group, both approved or under examination during 2007,
are reported below.
Approved legislative provisions
•Law 40/2007 dated April 2, 2007, converting Legislative Decree no. 7/2007 containing
“urgent measures to safeguard consumers, promote competition, develop economicactivities and create new businesses” (the so-called “Bersani Law”).The text contains provisions related to mobile phones recharging services, transparency andthe freedom to rescind contracts with telephone, television and Internet service providers.
• Law no. 106/2007 of July 19, 2007 delegating the Government to review regulations
concerning ownership and marketing of transmission rights for football events both ontelevision and other electronic communication networks. During the legislative approval
Sustainability Section » Institutions 32
Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportproceedings Telecom Italia has represented the Group position (both as television
broadcaster and telephone provider supplying digital content by means of cable or mobile
networks), with the objective of minimising the impact of some critical parts of the textrelated to the definition of contracts and the sub-licensing of acquired rights within the
technological platform.
•Law no. 244/2007 of December 24, 2007 (2008 Financial bill).
The law includes provisions involving the sector:– concerning wire-tapping a unified national system on the subject of room and telephone
wire-tapping is going to be launched by the Ministry of Justice;
– as far as telephone tariff concessions to the publishing industry a mechanism involving
tariff discounts will be applied by the Government directly to publishing industries;
– the Fund for under-exploited areas and the Fund for transfer to digital will be increased
to promote broadband development;
– a contribution system by electronic communication operators has been created to
promote European audiovisual works;
– Public Administration systems will migrate towards the VOIP services; 
– the limitation, given to companies, related to VAT deducibility of costs occurred for
mobile telephony and provided by the preceding regulations is eliminated;
– telephone operators are required to communicate to the land tax register the data
related to the building in which the telephone line has been activated. 
The law has moreover introduced the regulation of the collective compensation of damages
to safeguard consumers (class action), including in the current Code of Consumption
(Legislative Decree no. 205/06) article 140-bis. The recognized Consumers’ Associations,as well as associations and committees appropriately representing collective interests,can now act in order to protect the collective interest of consumers and users by requestingfrom the competent court to ascertain the right to the compensation of damage and therestitution of the due sums to single consumers in the framework of juridical relationsassociated to “mass contracts” (ex article 1342 c.c.), i.e. as a consequence in the case of
unlawful extracontractual acts, unfair trade practice or anticompetitive behaviours,
whenever the rights of a plurality of consumers or users are prejudiced.
Legislative provisions under examination (*)
•On June 13, 2007, the Chamber of Deputies approved the Bill promoted by the Government
and concerning “Citizen-Consumer Measures for facilitating productive and commercial
activities as well as initiatives in sectors of national relevance” (the so-called “Bersani law”
on liberalisations). The text is under examination by the Senate. This provision includesseveral issues quite relevant to the Group, among which the government amendment
resolution on the functional separation of Telecom Italia’s access network on the basis ofwhich AGCOM has been conferred the power to oblige Telecom Italia to carry out such
functional separation, to be implemented after previous authorisation by the EU
Commission, however without doing away with the provision on voluntary commitment thatwas introduced by Law 248, dated August 4, 2006.
•During the month of October 2006 the Council of Ministers approved and submitted the
so-called “Gentiloni Bill” to the Chamber of Deputies for examination. This Bill sets outregulations for the television sector in the conversion to digital technology.
This Bill is a legislative initiative by the Government that seeks to implement the EUrecommendations in national legislation as a result of the infringement procedure against
Italy that was started last July, to dispute some aspects of the “Gasparri law” and of the
radio-television Consolidating Act with respect to European regulations. The main provisions of this Bill concern: the setting of November 30, 2012 as the date for
the conversion from analogue to digital; the establishment of a ceiling equal to 45% of the
television industry advertising revenues to define a monopoly position in the sector;anticipation of the digital conversion for one network for operators owning 3 networks
(within 15 months since the law’s approval).The Bill introduces a ban for the Telecom Italia Group concerning the connection/controlwith respect to dominant television broadcasters; it also introduces for Telecom Italia theobligation to grant the access to its broadband infrastructure with respect to the provisionof television services and the linear distribution of multimedia content.
Sustainability Section » Institutions 33(*) Information provided refers to activities carried out as of December 31, 2007 Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• The Government Bill on wire-tapping has been approved by the Council of Ministers in
August 2006. After transmission to the Parliament for examination it has been approved by
the Chamber of Deputies in April 2007 and has then been transmitted to the Senate forexamination, which started in June. The Bill redesigns the subject, mainly concerning the
duration of wire-tapping, the publication of investigation reports and the related sanctionregulation.
/L50298European legislation
The Group activity focused on the following issues:
• monitoring of European Commission activities related to revisions within the Community
framework: revisions of directives and recommendations about significant markets; 
• adoption process of the TV Directive that was approved at the end of May by the EU
Parliament and Council. This Directive separates linear services (traditional TV) from non
linear ones (on demand audio-visual content); it extends some televisions provisions to on
demand services and makes quantitative regulations on advertising lighter;
• adoption process of EU recommendations on collecting societies;
• adoption process of EU directive on domestic services market (Service Directive);
• adoption process of the Directive on electronic payments on the internal market; 
• adoption process and approval procedures of the EU Directive on penalties for intellectual
property rights infringement;
• proposal for the regulation of international roaming and adoption of it. This regulation has
been adopted by the EU Parliament and Council. It calls for setting a ceiling related toprices for international roaming services (price cap), both for final customers (retail market)and for operators (wholesale market); 
• analysis of the activities being carried out by European bodies charged with implementing
regulatory framework (sector committees – Cocom and the European Regulators Group –
ERG);
• monitoring of the possible revision process for the e-commerce Directive.
/L50298International legislation
The Group activity focused on the following issues:
• analysis of regulatory development in countries of interest and support to the Group’s
companies abroad in the management of relations with Regulatory and Antitrust Authorities
and in the definition of regulatory strategies, consistently with the Group positioning in Italy; 
•participation in both national and European public consultations; monitoring and possible
participation in working groups within the various Regulatory Authorities;
• participation in the Merger & Acquisition processes and in sell procedures related to foreign
companies, in strict collaboration with the appropriate central departments anddevelopment of the relevant antitrust and regulatory notifications;
• control of regulatory compliance of foreign subsidiaries and safeguard of the related
licences.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 34Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe Environment
/L50298Strategy
The TI Group environmental strategy is based on the following principles:
– to optimise the use of energy sources and natural resources;– to minimise the negative environmental impacts and maximise the positive ones;–to disseminate the culture of a correct approach to environmental issues; 
– to implement the progressive improvement of environmental performances; 
– to adopt purchase policies considering environmental issues.
/L50298Environmental performance indicators
The environmental performance data shown below refer to:
–waste
– water– energy–atmospheric, electromagnetic and acoustic emissions
The data reported have been calculated on the basis of management data. Due to changes in
this report scope with respect to past years, some data related to the previous two-years
period might have been appropriately reclassified for comparison uniformity purposes. The scope of Domestic/Broadband/Mobile Brazil and other activities includes the CentralDepartments and all the fixed and mobile telephony operations, both in Italy and abroad.
/L50298Waste
Data shown in the table below refer to the quantity of waste handed over(1)to carriers and booked
in compliance with the related law(2).
WASTE HANDED OVER (*)
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs 2006 vs 2005
Hazardous waste kg 2,913,607 2.63% 6.72%
Non hazardous waste kg 12,980,361 68.24% 37.43%
Total quantity of waste kg 15,893,968 50.59% 30.54%
Waste for recycling/recuperation purposes kg 15,558,013 55.12% 49.72%
Ratio between recycled/recuperated waste and total waste 97.89% 3.00% 14.69%
(*)Data do not include the removed telephone poles, which are reported in the relevant table.
As compared to the preceding years non hazardous waste shows a significant increase,
already foreseen and commented in the latest Sustainability report and connected to themanagement contract signed in the last quarter 2006. 
(1)The term “handed over” refers to waste delivered to carriers and destined to be recuperated, recycled or destroyed.
(2) Slight variances as compared to statements at December 31 might occur up to March 30 as data are derived from
waste accounting books that are consolidated once the real weight has been verified at destination. Such informationis provided to the waste producer within three months from delivery, hence data variances are possible.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 35
Waste for recycling/recuperation purposesHazardous waste
Total quantity of waste Non hazardous wasteWastehanded ov er (kg)
3,000,0006,000,0009,000,00012,000,00015,000,00018,000,000Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe ratio between the quantity of waste handed over for recycling/recovery and the total
quantity of waste is improved. The high levels of recuperation/recycling and the progressive
improvement of the index show the process efficiency and the good interaction withcompanies to which such service is entrusted
(3).
WASTE HANDED OVER 
TIGroup breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group Domestic/Broadband/ Media Olivetti
2007 Mobile Brazil and
other activities (*)
kg 20,263,161 94.97% 0.67% 4.36%
(*) In this table and in those following in the Environment chapter the scope of Domestic/Broadband/Mobile Brazil and
other activities includes all the fixed and mobile TLC domestic activities, as well as the related support activities, the
broadband services in France, Germany and The Netherlands, TIM Brasil and Entel Bolivia.
/L50298Waste Management
Industrial waste produced by Telecom Italia is managed using computerised waste accounting
books, also allowing regular monitoring.
The differentiated waste collection of waste produced by corporate offices, started in 2006,
has been progressively expanded to all Italian offices having more than 100 employees. The
service is currently ongoing in 107 territorial offices and in the Rome and Milan headquarters.
In 2008 the service will be implemented in other smaller offices. In 4 particularly
representative and ISO 14001 certified offices, the opportunity to realize other initiatives
aimed at improving the service (Ecobox and double-compartment waste baskets) will be
tested.
Concerning the management of waste from electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), ruled
by Legislative Decree 151/05, Telecom Italia is required to manage the product end-of-life,being both a distributor and a producer. While waiting for the executive decrees related to the
above legislative decree to be issued, Telecom Italia will join a consortium specialised in the
management of equipment end-of life. The processes for the collection and selection of WEEEhave been defined for each direct sale channel, and appropriate provisions have been addedto the standard purchase contractual conditions, concerning the WEEE and the hazardous
substances (RoHS) 
(4).
The responsibilities related to the management of end-of-life electrical and electronic
equipment are at the basis of some initiatives both concerning the company and customers,
such as:–the disposal of obsolete computer workstation;
– the withdrawal of products (in particular basic telephones and ADSL modems), owned,
rented or entrusted to customers on a free loan basis;
– a collection of used mobiles for reuse and/or recuperation (for instance through the project
“Become a mobile phone-donor” described in chapter “The Community/Charity”).
These initiatives are meant to:
–collect and correctly dispose of the hazardous components contained in these
equipment/accessories, including batteries;
– recuperate materials, from plastics to noble metals such as gold, copper, palladium, silver
and platinum; 
–start a new life cycle for repairable or operating equipment.
/L50298Product Responsibility
Product responsibility – also known as product stewardship – is related to aspects such as
the safety and environmental impact of products and services supplied to customers, forinstance the compliance to health/safety and environmental standards, labelling andmarketing actions. 
(3) Controls concerning technological waste (approximately 6,000,000 kg of waste handed over to carriers for cycling and
recovery) were  carried out in 2007 and showed that 97% has been actually recycled and recovered while theremaining 3% has been disposed of.
(4) European Directive 2002/95/CE on restrictions to the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and
electronic equipment (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive).
Sustainability Section » The Environment 36Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe products marketed by Telecom Italia undergo strict technical tests meant to ensure their
conformance to European Directives and to the national legislation implementing these
measures. The most important are:– the EU regulation on the protection and safety of customers using such equipment; 
– the RoHS regulation, banning the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic
equipment;
– the already mentioned WEEE regulation.
Products are submitted to rigorous quality tests to make sure they match the environmental
and safety requirements agreed with suppliers. More information on the safety of mobileterminals is available in the “Electromagnetic emissions” paragraph.
The technical/commercial departments of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Olivetti also show their
care for health, safety and the environment through the acquisition of certifications: UNI EN
ISO 9001:2000 (for quality); UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 (for the environment); ISO 27001:2005(information security standards). For further information on the subject please see chapter
Customers/Certifications. 
During 2007 the Life-cycle Analysis (LCA) method has been applied to a group of 17 products
(mobile and fixed terminals, fax and printers). The LCA assesses and quantifies theenvironmental impact of a product, a process or an activity, starting from raw material acquisition
to end of life. The LCA method, developed within Telecom Italia in a form simplified and
appropriate for corporate requirements, also aims at supporting the purchase decision-makingprocess, in particular for commercial products, also through the involvement of suppliers.
/L50298Recuperation of wooden telephone poles
In compliance with the Agreement Program on wooden telephone poles, signed in 2003 with
the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Production Activities, the Conference of State
andRegions and the recuperation company, in 2007 the TI Group continued the recovery of
the poles. Details are shown in the table below.
TELEPHONE POLES REMOVED
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs 2006 vs 2005
no. 208,250 +9.53% +1.33%
The recuperation activity will continue in 2008.
/L50298Paper
Paper consumption breakdown by Business Unit and related incidences on TI Group’s total
volume are reported below.
PAPER
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group Domestic/Broadband/ Media Olivetti
2007 Mobile Brazil and
other activities
Non recycled paper purchased kg 746,462 96.40% 2.66% 0.94%
Recycled paper purchased kg 390,768 99.74% 0.22% 0.05%
Total paper purchased kg 1,137,230 97.55% 1.82% 0.63%
Also due to the awareness campaign concerning all employees of Italian offices, the
consumption of paper is reduced as compared to 2006. The use of recycled paper, instead of
new paper, has recorded a strong percentage increase. The quantitative objective defined forItalian operations in 2007 (40% of recycled paper used) has been reached and outperformed.
In the year it has been presented to customers the initiative “Stop to paper! Saying YES to the
environment REWARDS YOU”, aimed at favouring the on line invoicing of telephone bills,replacing the traditional mailing of the paper document. The initiative has been associated toacompetition with prizes with final draw among subscribers.
In Brazil TIM Partecipações has replaced new paper for commercial use (telephone bill
invoices and promotional material) with recycled paper. The total use is quantifiable in over2,500 tons.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 37OLIVETTIMEDIA
DOMESTIC/
BROADBAND/
MOBILE BRAZIL AND
OTHER ACTIVITIESTotalpaper pu rchased
RECYCLED
PAPERNON-REC YCLED
PAPERRecycl ed and non-recycled
paper pu rchasedIntroduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Water
Water consumption data relative to Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the TI Group are reported below.
WATER CONSUMPTION
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs 2006 vs 2005
m34,147,359 –1.73% –12.92%
WATER CONSUMPTION
TIGroup breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group Domestic/Broadband/ Media Olivetti
2007 Mobile Brazil and
other activities
m35,141,499 88.01% 0.48% 11.50%
The decreasing trend of water consumption by Telecom Italia, as compared to preceding
years, continued also in 2007. The monitoring of water consumption on heavily staffedpremises, already started in the past and expanded in 2007 to corporate offices with more
than 100 employees, associated to the office disposal plan, is the basis of the resultachieved.
The overall Olivetti environmental profile, though showing an increase of water consumption
due to the introduction of a closed cycle-cooling system at the Arnad plant, is improved as thenew process granted the elimination of ozone depleting gases.
/L50298Energy
Electricity consumption data relative to Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Group are reported
below.
/L50298Electricity
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ELECTRICAL ENERGY
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs 2006 vs 2005
Electricity from non-renewable or mixed
energy sources kWh 2,121,870,937 2.16% 10.28%
Electricity from renewable energy sources kWh 32,000,000 6.67% –61.12%
Total purchased or produced electricity kWh 2,153,870,937 2.23% 7.36%
PURCHASED OR PRODUCED ELECTRICAL ENERGY
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group Domestic/Broadband/ Media Olivetti
2007 Mobile Brazil and
other activities
kWh 2,608,334,981 97.97% 1.13% 0.90%
The increasing trend characterising the electrical energy consumptions is mainly due to the
increase of broadband lines and data traffic, to the new services being offered and to theprogressive spread of flat rates. A trend inversion is expected thanks to a further developmentof energy saving activities and most of all to the introduction of the Next Generation Network(NGN2) as unique access platform.
The electrical energy purchased in Brazil in 2007 derives from natural sources (hydroelectricity)
and is equal to 267 millions of kWh.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 3820%40%60%80%100%Waterconsumption
Domestic/Broadband/Mobile Brazil and other activitiesMedia Olivetti
2007
vs20052007
vs2006Purchased o rproduced
electrical energy
1%3%
2%5%
4%6%7%8%Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe Group is committed to the development of alternative energy sources, as shown by the
following initiatives:
– installation of fuel cells in five locations (Trentino Alto Adige, Piemonte and Sicilia). These
plants use hydrogen as energy back up for powering mobile telephony transmission
equipment;
– implementation of four photovoltaic plants, each having 30 kW nominal power, as back-up
of as many telephone exchanges;
– experimentation continues on innovative self-routing concentration photovoltaic plants,
enabling an increase of electric yield up to 35% as well as a reduction of costs for plants
and spaces occupied;
–completion and activation within March 2008 of the co-generation (trigeneration) plant at
the Data Processing Centre of Pomezia (Rome). Here energy requirements will be met usingasystem which should provide – in association to the usual suppliers – electrical energy,
heating and cooling with a 30% estimated energy saving;
– four Base Transceiver Stations have been equipped this year with a supplementary mixed
wind and photovoltaic power (a 15 kW wind generator and 3,5 kWp photovoltaic modules)
ensuring 30% of energy requirement; 
– a project in collaboration with the second Naples University and the National Agency for
Environment Protection and Technical Services (APAT), meant to improve the energy
efficiency of TLC equipment by the use of renewable sources, energy saving strategies and
interventions to reduce emissions, has been launched; 
– in collaboration with TILab it has been started, at the Turin Vanchiglia exchange, the
experimentation of a system for the monitoring of energy consumption through the“Wireless Sensor Network” technology. The aim is the continuous monitoring of
environmental conditions (air conditioning, free cooling, lighting, router and gateway) and of
energy consumption. The project is planned to be applied to larger exchanges.
As far as the Technology industrial consumption, the energy saving initiatives started in past
years are continuing. The most important interventions are:– The replacement of power supply units with low conversion rate;– The optimisation of system usage and the technological upgrade of obsolete equipment;– The installation of new free cooling plant systems;– The replacement, rationalisation and optimisation of air conditioning systems; 
– The compacting of switching modules.
TIM Brazil has also implemented several projects to rationalise electrical energy consumption,
which were started in 2006:
– automatic lighting and air conditioning of buildings, through motion sensors;–electrical circuit sectioning;
– replacement of incandescence lamps with low-consumption fluorescence ones.
/L50298Eco-efficiency indicator
Telecom Italia S.p.A. monitors its own energy efficiency through an indicator comparing the
service offered to customers (simplified to the quantity of transmitted bits) and the related
environmental impact measured in terms of energy consumptions. For this purpose the
following inputs are considered: voice and traffic data, both from fixed and mobile networks;industrial (air conditioning of plants, network operation) and civilian energy consumptions
(i.e. office heating, vehicle fuel consumption, office electricity consumption).
The table below shows the last five years trend of the TLC service eco-efficiency. 
Year kBit/kWh Bit/Joule % increase
Year 200X vs
year 200X-1
2003 492,082 137
2004 777,248 216 +58%
2005 1,311,676 364 +70%
2006 2,144,178 596 +63%
2007 3,144,283 873 +45%
Sustainability Section » The Environment 39Purcha sed or prod uced el ectrical e nergy
OLIVETTIMEDIA
DOMESTIC/
BROADBAND/
MOBILE BRAZIL
AND OTHER ACTIVITIESIntroduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe indicator figure for 2007 shows an approximate 45% increase as compared to 2006, thus
higher than the defined target (850 Bit/Joule). The annual increase of the index is however
progressively shrinking: the actions undertaken in the last years for energetic efficiency purposesand the increased traffic volume involve a reduction of the index improvement margins.
The commitment continues with the objective for 2008: +30% with respect to 2007.For further details please see paragraph “2008 Objectives” of “Introduction”.
Energy efficiency is promoted by the EU JRC (Joint Research Centre) and by ETNO (European
Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association), also through Code of Conducts aimed
at minimising energy consumption without interfering with technological development and the
quality of services offered to customers. 
Besides having an active role in the drawing of the Code of Conducts, Telecom Italia uses therelated targets as reference for technical specifications and for the evaluation of offers during
bids for the purchase of broadband equipment. The TI Group is evaluating the hypothesis toreplace the first generation DSLAM equipment currently in use with lower energetic
consumption equipment. 
/L50298Heating fuels
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING SYSTEMS
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs2006 vs 2005
Energy consumed - heating fuel MJ 149,150,349 –7.78% –10.37%
Energy consumed - methane heating MJ 721,333,711 –0.67% –5.35%
Total energy consumed for heating MJ 870,484,060 –1.96% –6.25%
The reduction of the consumption of heating fuels in Telecom Italia S.p.A. with respect to the
preceding years is due to the dismissal of three buildings and to the improvement of heating
systems in 20 buildings. Considering that in 2006 the winter temperatures have been higherthan the season’s average, the consumption decrease appears all the more valuable.
The consumption trend reflects actions undertaken to improve and upgrade boilers through the
replacement of the old oil boilers with last generation heating generators.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR HEATING SYSTEMS
TI Group breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group Domestic/Broadband/ Media Olivetti
2007 Mobile Brazil and
other activities
MJ 981,703,175 92.23% 0.29% 7.48%
/L50298Vehicle fuels
VEHICLE FUEL CONSUMPTION
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs 2006 vs 2005
Unleaded petrol consumption l 14,046,076 –17.31% –25.81%
Diesel oil consumption l 10,781,175 20.46% 30.02%
Total vehicle fuel consumption (*)MJ 836,484,253 –3.38% –7.57%
(*) Represents the conversion in MegaJoule of unleaded petrol and diesel oil consumption expressed in litres.
The consumptions of LPG have not been included in the table as not significant (1.300 litres of LPG, equal to 38,961MJ).
Within the general decrease of vehicle fuel consumption, as shown by the figure expressed in
MJ,an increase of diesel oil consumption and a marked reduction of petrol consumption have
been recorded, due to a gradual fleet renewal in favour of diesel vehicles.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 40Energy co nsum ption for he ating systems
Energy consumed - methane heatin gEnergy consumed - heatin gfuel
20%40%60%80%100%Energy consumption
for heating systems
Domestic/Broadband/Mobile Brazil and other activitiesMedia Olivetti
Vehicle fue lconsumpt ion
(liters)
5,000,00010,000,00015,000,00020,000,000
Diesel oil consumptionUnleaded petrol consumptionIntroduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportWe have started the experimentation of the hybrid vehicle Panda Van, whose first prototype
should be delivered in February 2008. This vehicle allows an approximate 20% reduction of
carbon dioxide (CO 2)as well as a marked reduction of particulate emissions, thus confirming
the TI Group intention to adopt low environmental impact vehicles.
NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs 2006 vs 2005
Total number of vehicles no. 21,558 –2.60% –5.17%
Number of low-emitting vehicles (*)no. 21,207 –2.61% –6.30%
Overall distance travelled by vehicles km 311,969,057 –0.75% –6.51%
(*) Unleaded petrol vehicles, eco-diesel, bludiesel, LPG (compliant in Europe to the Euro4 standard or higher), electrical
vehicles or vehicles using other fuels with comparable or lower emissions.
NUMBER OF VEHICLES AND DISTANCE TRAVELLED  (*)
TIGroup breakdown by BU (%)
TI Group Domestic/Broadband/ Media Olivetti
2007 Mobile Brazil and
other activities
Total number of vehicles no. 23,648 98.43% 0.55% 1.02%
Overall distance travelled by vehicles km 353,812,287 97.44% 0.88% 1.68%
(*) Data shown are related to distances travelled and number of all the Group’s vehicles (industrial, commercial, granted
inuse to senior/middle managers), both through leasing and ownership. Concerning Entel Bolivia and TIM
Partecipações, vehicles owned by the sales force and the related distances travelled are included only in the case ofsignificant use for corporate purposes and when characterised by continuity of use.
Telecom Italia is committed to the development of technologies in order to meet the growing
mobility requirements, mostly in large urban centres, reducing the negative impacts on thesocial and environmental system, such as traffic, accidents, pollutants and CO
2emissions,
and noise pollution. The description of actions undertaken is included in the chapterCustomers/Research and tests on innovative services.
/L50298Atmospheric emissions
The only significant concern of Telecom Italia as to atmospheric emissions is carbon dioxide
(CO 2). These are divided by indirect emissions (deriving from electrical energy used to power
telephone and data networks and premises) and direct emissions (fuel used for heating and
vehicles).
EMISSIONI ATMOSFERICHE
Change %
Telecom Italia S.p.A. 2007 2007
2007 vs 2006 vs 2005
CO 2emissions from consumption of electrical
energy produced by mixed sources (*)kg 965,451,276 2.16% 10.28%
CO 2emissions due to heating systems kg 57,849,069 –2.13% –6.37%
CO 2emissions due to vehicle consumption kg 60,077,983 –2.62% –6.50%
Total CO 2emissions kg 1,046,498,089 1.63% 7.55%
(*) The national coefficients in CO 2grams per kWh are as follows: Italy 455; Germany 453; France 87; Bolivia 537. 
Source GHG Protocol “Indirect CO 2Emissions from the consumption of the purchased electricity” –
www.ghgprotocol.org.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 41-8.0%-6.0%-4.0%-2.0%
2007
vs20052007
vs2006Overall distance t ravelled
byvehicles
Emissi on change
2007
vs20052007
vs2006
CO2emissions due to heating systemsCO2emissions due to vehicle consumption
CO2emissions from consumption of electrical
energy produced by mixed sources -10%-5%5%10%15%Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
TIGroup breakdown by BU (%)
TIGroup Domestic/Broadband/ Media Olivetti
2007 Mobile Brazil and
other activities
CO 2emissions from consumption of electrical
energy produced by mixed sources (*)kg 1,039,485,363 98.39% 1.29% 0.32%
CO 2emissions due to heating systems kg 65,166,276 92.27% 0.28% 7.44%
CO 2emissions due to vehicle consumption kg 96,521,117 97.97% 0.68% 1.35%
TTotal CO 2emissions kg 1,164,749,654 98.01% 1.18% 0.80%
(*) The national coefficients in CO 2grams per kWh are as follows: Italy 455; Germany 453; France 87; Bolivia 537. 
Source GHG Protocol “Indirect CO 2Emissions from the consumption of the purchased electricity” –
www.ghgprotocol.org.
In 2007, notwithstanding the confirmation of reduced direct emission, the increased
consumption of electrical energy from non renewable sources (mainly due to the increase of
data traffic and to the new services offered), has caused a slight increase of CO 2emissions
ascompared to the preceding years. 
The criterion applied to calculate indirect emissions deriving from electrical energy purchase
has been modified with respect to 2006, following the adoption of the conversion coefficients
developed by “GHG Protocol” (Indirect CO 2Emissions from the consumption of the purchased
electricity) (6).Up to 2006 it was used a coefficient calculated on ENEL production capacity as
afunction of the energy source mix used.
The calculation method suggested by the GHG Protocol considers the energy mix of thecountries where the Group operates; it is an internationally adopted method and allows
comparisons with other companies of the sector.
The transition from the preceding calculation method to the current one has not highlightedsignificant changes in CO
2emission quantity (7).
The CO 2emissions from fuels used for vehicles and heating systems have been calculated
according to UNEP indications (United Nations Environmental Programme Guidelines forCalculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Businesses and Non-Commercial Organisations –www.uneptie.org).
According to a study of 2007 on the Telecom Italia S.p.A. scope, we estimate that indirect
consumptions related to Scope 3 of the Global Reporting Initiative involve yearly emissions
into the atmosphere of:– 71 million kg of CO
2,due to employee house/office displacement;
– 9.5 million kg of CO 2,due to air travels for work missions; 
–4million kg of CO 2related to 1,570,000 oil litres used by 123 power plants (managed and
owned by Telecom Italia S.p.A. suppliers) continuously operating at the Base Transceiver
Stations where electrical energy is not available.
/L50298Climate change
Scientific evidence supports the causal relationship between greenhouse gas emissions and
climate change, hence the need to reduce CO 2emissions, also involving significant economic
repercussions.
The TLC sector may play a significant role by developing technologies and promptingbehaviours helping to reduce greenhouse gas. The Telecom Italia Group is well aware of this.
The Group approach is based on two different action levels:
– to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions, both direct and indirect;
– to favour and support the dematerialisation of assets and services.
(6) The GHG Protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol initiative) has been established in 1998 after the signature of the Kyoto
protocol within the framework of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the WorldResources Institute (WRI), in order to support companies on the specific topic of greenhouse gas emissions throughthe development of calculation methods and scientific studies promoting innovation and responsibility on climatechange. 
(7) The TI Group CO
2emissions in 2007, calculated with the preceding method are 1,003,062 tons; with the new method
the figure is 1,039,485 tons: the deviation between the two methods is approximately 3%.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 42Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportAs far as the reduction of the TI Group’s greenhouse gases, the following initiatives were
launched in 2007:
– Car fleet: a multi-year modernisation program has been launched in view of reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. In 2007 we replaced 1,900 Euro3 vehicles with the same
number of Euro4 vehicles. Such vehicle renewal brought forth an approximate 30%reduction of CO
2emissions that would have been produced by the replaced vehicles. 
– Boilers: the replacement of oil-fuelled thermal systems with methane-fuelled or heat pump
has continued, allowing to reduce CO 2emissions for the heating of buildings.
The replacements implemented in 2007 achieved a CO 2emission reduction equal to
kg 180,000. 
–Energy saving and use of renewable energy sources: the initiatives launched are described
in the “Energy” and “Atmospheric emissions” paragraphs of this chapter.
As far as dematerialisation the TI Group provides products and services enabling to eliminate
or reduce the greenhouse gas emissions caused by people and object displacement. Here are
some examples (8).
• Videoconference and audio conference services avoid the physical displacement of
people. 
• TLC services allow telework and the consequent reduction of house/office displacement
of employees. 
• Online invoicing and payments, besides allowing saving paper and consequently the energy
related to production and transportation, eliminate displacements to make payments. 
• Thanks to Telemedicine services (see the related paragraph in “The Community” chapter)
the need for doctors and patients to meet is reduced, thus avoiding displacements and
the related greenhouse gas emissions.
•By using information obtained from mobile terminals, Infomobility projects (see the
related paragraph “Study and experimentation of innovative services” in the “Customers”
chapter) allow to better manage traffic, thus reducing both travel time and CO 2emissions.
As far as the emission of substances depleting stratospheric ozone that shields life on
earth by filtrating harmful UV radiation, starting from January 1st, 2009, the marketing ofozone-depleting substances (e.g. HCFC) for air conditioning systems will be banned.In collaboration with the Universities of Naples and Turin we have implemented experimental
interventions to upgrade systems operating on ozone-depleting gases. These systems have
been replaced with others using a gas compatible with ozone-protecting requirements.
The experimentation concerns buildings (12 systems replaced) and technological plants(497 air conditioning systems and 130 refrigerating units) and will continue in 2008.
/L50298Electromagnetic emissions
The commitment of Telecom Italia Group to the electromagnetic emissions issue is
substantiated by the following:
• careful and accurate management of plants along their whole life cycle, in observance of
regulations in force and of internal standards of efficiency and security; 
•use and continuous research of advanced technological tools for control and monitoring.
The most significant initiatives of the year are detailed below.The SAR qualification (Specific Absorption Rate) for mobile terminals is applied to assure
electromagnetic field levels lower than limits established by national and EU regulations.Controls on terminal Specific Absorption Rates, carried out by Telecom Italia laboratories,
are meant to control manufacturers’ assurances.
(8) According to estimates 100 millions of audio-conferences replacing physical travel would save more than 2 million
tons of CO 2emissions; 10 million teleworkers working for two days from home would save nearly 11 million tons
of CO 2while if 10 millions subscribers would receive online telephone bills instead of traditional paper bills
approximately 11,000  tons of CO 2could be saved. Examples are indicative and their purpose is providing concrete
indications of the potential to TLC services. These  data are based on projects,  have been verified by independentthird parties and have been tested on a small scale by ETNO members within the framework of the initiative“Saving the climate @ the speed of light” developed in collaboration with the WWF (www.etno.be/sustainability). 
Sustainability Section » The Environment 43Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportIn this regard the TI Group has exceeded expectations as far as its 2007 objective (SAR
qualification of 95% of mobile terminal new models) by submitting to the SAR qualification the
100% of the new models of mobile terminals (66 technologically innovative and widespreadmodels), marketed by Telecom Italia. The objective for 2008 involves maintaining the
performance with the consequent commitment of the TI laboratories on mobile bands GSM900MHz, DCS 1800MHz and UMTS. For further details please see paragraph “Results and
Ackowledgements” of “Introduction”.
From 2008 the SAR qualification will be applied to mobile terminals marketed in SouthAmerica: it has been planned to submit to the test 25% of mobile models in Brazil and 40%
in Bolivia. 
The 2007 objective related to the activation of cells with second carrier for UMTS Base
Transceiver Stations (BTS), best described in paragraph “Results and Ackowledgements” of
“Introduction”, has been achieved and exceeded.The remarkable development of the UMTS “high speed” coverage, due to commercial needs
connected to the increase of data transmission speed, has allowed the activation of a number
of cells with second carrier (4,200 cells) remarkably higher than planned (500 cells). For 2008
the objective is to install 600 further cells with second carrier.If two radiofrequency carriers are used instead of a single one, traffic carried being the same,
the total power emitted by the Station is lower. In high-traffic conditions a 15% power
reduction is achieved.The laboratory tests conducted confirmed the validity of such estimate. 
Concerning the TI Media Group, the systematic monitoring of the electromagnetic emission
levels of the La7, MTV and TIMB (Telecom Italia Media Broadcasting) broadcasting stations
has been continued in order to ensure the compliance to law limits in force and to keep high
safety standards. The Telecom Italia Media Group controls in particular that:
• the electromagnetic field levels produced by the emissions of its plants are always lower
than 20 V/m in areas that can be reached by people not belonging to the Company andthat in areas including houses, nurseries, schools or in any case attended for more than4hours daily, electromagnetic fields levels must be lower than 6 V/m;
• worker exposure levels are not higher than limits established by Directive 2004/40/EC,
recently adopted by the national legislation with Legislative Decree 257/2007.
On the basis of controls performed on the Italian territory in 2007, the electromagnetic
emissions generated by La7 and MTV resulted within lawful limits, and showed significantlylower values with digital television transmission, which allows an approximate 75% reduction
of electromagnetic emissions as compared to the traditional analogical technologies.
Telecom Italia has moreover signed with Vodafone Italia an agreement that involves sharing
the mobile network access sites with reference to passive infrastructures (poles and masts,electrical and air conditioning systems, civil infrastructures). Thanks to this new agreement,
renovating and expanding the content of the preceding one, the two companies are fulfilling
the recommendations of the Electronic Communication Code, thus favouring a more efficientuse of network infrastructures both in urban and rural areas. According to the agreement each
operator, though owning its own infrastructures, will host the other in its radiomobile stations
all over the national territory in view of optimising the mobile network coverage. The sharing ofelectronic equipment providing mobile telephony services to customers and the relevant
operational services is excluded in the agreement.
Electromagnetism and the study of its potential effects on biological systems has been forseveral years the subject of much debate within the scientific community and public opinion
Further information is available on the website www.telecomitalia.it, (Sustainability/Hot
Topics/Mobiles and health). 
/L50298Acoustic emissions
In observance of regulations in force the control of acoustic emissions by corporate plants
continued. In 2007 we performed 421 intensity measurements on the noise produced by airconditioning systems and power supply units of telephone exchanges and Base TransceiverStations.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 44Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Culture, Training and Information
During the year more than 8,000 hours of specialized technical training have been provided to
internal departments whose activities are related to environmental themes. Other informative
andcultural interventions also promoted among the Group’s employees the culture of
energetic saving and the adoption of environmental sustainable behaviours.
We also organised a workshop, devoted to the Human Resource departments, in order to
analyse the role and tools available to human resources on the subject of environmentalprotection. 
The Prevention, Protection and Environment Service department has upgraded on the
corporate Intranet the Environment Project website, making easier for colleagues the
navigation of the “Environment Protection” website.
Aworkshop on “Integrated competence for the environment” for the management most
involved in environmentally significant activities has been held. 
The corporate Intranet also hosted awareness-raising initiatives such as: the WorldEnvironment Day (June 5); the World Climate Change Day (December 8); the report of the
national conference on climate change held in Rome on September 12-13; the summary ofactivities carried out by Intelec (International Telecommunications Energy Conference).
/L50298Environmental Management Systems
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) contribute to the sustainable management of
productive and support processes and stimulate a continuous improvement of theenvironmental performance.Among the TI Group’s companies Telecom Italia has promoted in the years the planning of
these systems as tools ensuring the efficient management of working processes, the
prevention and continuous reduction of environmental impacts. The TI Group EMS haveachieved the UNI EN ISO 14001 certification.
In 2007 we started the implementation of two new EMS: the first one within the Facility
Management Department of Telecom Italia S.p.A., in the Building and Services department;the second within TI Media Broadcasting. We also continued the activities started in 2006 and related to the definition of an IntegratedSystem for Safety management and the Environment within two 
call centres located in Rome
and Naples. 
The chapter “Customers/Certifications” reports the environmental certifications achieved or
confirmed in the year.
/L50298The Environment Project
Started in 2004 with an action plan spanning over the three years 2004-2006 the project has
been re-launched in 2007-2009 in order to complete initiatives and plan further activities.Instead of the preceding Environment Project Committee we established an Operational
Committee which proposes and monitors projects and a Steering Committe, that approves the
projects submitted and ensures the relevant funding. For each approved project, a projectmanager in charge of the implementation is identified and entrusted with the management and
the coordination of an interfunctional team.
The most significant projects dealt within the framework of the Environment Project are: the
prevention and reduction of noise pollution, the mapping and decontamination of asbestos,
the optimisation of energy consumption, the reduction of paper consumption and theprogressive replacement of new paper with the recycled type, the promotion of differentiatedwaste collection, the reduction of emissions by car fleets and heating systems, theoptimisation of the management of the electromagnetic field intensity of Base TransceiverStations, the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification for mobile handsets, the promotionof initiatives involving environmental culture, training and information.
Sustainability Section » The Environment 45Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe Community
The TI Group aims at assisting in the economic welfare and growth of the communities in
which it operates by providing efficient and technologically advanced services. In keeping with
these objectives and with the engagements undertaken with stakeholders, the TI Group’scompanies consider research and innovation to be priority factors for growth and success.
Compatibly with their own nature of private subjects and the need for economic efficiency, the
TI Group’s companies do consider the social significance of telecommunication services,
meeting the needs of the Community and of its less fortunate members. The TI Groupfavourably regards and supports social, cultural and educational initiatives meant to promotethe human being and to improve its life standards.
/L50298Classification of the contribution according to the
LBG model
In 2007 the contribution of the TI Group to the Community, calculated according to the
guidelines of the London Benchmarking Group (LBG), is equal to approximately euro 32 million
(euro 42.4 million in 2006). Contributions have been calculated on the basis of management
data appropriately reclassified and partly based on estimates. Founded in 1994, the LBG is anassociation comprising over 110 large international companies and represents the worldwidestandard of reference for the classification of contributions to the Community. Consistently withthe LBG model, to measure and report corporate commitment to the Community, contributionshave been classified according to three categories (Charity, Investments in the Community,Initiatives in the Community) and allocated to the various levels of the LBG model pyramid 
(9):
The criteria adopted for the allocation of contributions to the various levels of the pyramid are
reported in the following table:
Sustainability Section » The Community 46Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
(9)The LBG model requires to include in the first three levels of the pyramid the activities mainly characterized by a
sense of moral responsibility, and leaving to companies the possibility to indicate separately the activities moredirectly connected to the core business (
Business Basics ). Consistently with these guidelines, the figure related to the
overall contribution of theTelecom Italia Group to the Community do not include Business Basics.LBG model
CBusiness Basics1,7
Charity
21 
Initiatives in the Community9,3
Investme nts
in the Community
Breakd own of contrib utions to the
Community by the Telecom Italia GroupL
Charity 5%
Initiatives in the Community 66%Investme nts in the Community 29%
Charity
Support to a wide range of
“social” issues in response to the
needs and appeals of communityorganisations, increasingly
through partnerships between the
company, its employees,customers and suppliers.Contributions to national/international organisations not based on a
specific medium/long term program.Sponsorship of causes or events, not part of a marketing strategy.
Company matching of employee giving and fundraising.
Costs of supporting and promoting employee involvement.Costs of facilitating giving by customers and suppliers.
Community investments
Long-term strategic involvement of
the company to address a limited
range of “social” issues.Memberships and subscriptions.
Grants and donations based on a specific medium/long term program.
Initiatives in the Community
Activities in the Community
usually by commercial
departments to support directly
the success of the company also
in partnership con philanthropicorganisations.Sponsorship of events, publications and activities promoting brand or
corporate identity.Cause Related Marketing, promotional sales.
Support to scientific and University research and to philanthropic
organisations.
Care for consumers with special needs.Civil protection activities.
Business Basics
Core business activities for the
production of socially usefulgoods and services in a mannerwhich is ethically, socially andenvironmentally acceptable.Optimisation of electromagnetic fields.
Reduction of Digital Divide.Energy saving activities.
Reduction of the visual/acoustic impact of telephony equipment.
Electronic health solutions.Services and products for disabled people and the elderly./L50298Progetto Italia
Progetto Italia operates within the Advertising, Image and Brand Enrichment Department. Its
activities hinge on TI Group’s competences, technologies and abilities, and are aimed to realize
initiatives and events which are characterized by a large participation and easily access to
everybody, with a view to contributing to the cultural and social growth of the country.
Progetto Italia activities are based on the targeted divulgation, quality, and originality principles, as
well as on the measurability of outputs and impacts related to the different inititiaves. These pay
special attention to young people and to the most vulnerable groups of the population.
In the past five years Progetto Italia has organized more than 500 initiatives, both at national and
international level, related to solidarity, education and sport, involving hundreds of institutional
representatives and protagonists from the world of culture, science and sport. The events have
been attended by 4 million people and by 25% of employees, besides the public connectedthrough the www.telecomprogettoitalia.it website, on which the complete list and description of
activities may be found.
/L502982007 activities
Some of the TI Group’s initiatives, classified according to the LBG model, are reported below.
/L50298LEV. 1 - Charity
SMS and solidarity calls
Several fundraising initiatives have been implemented in 2007 through SMS or telephone calls
to donate to non profit associations and entities. All funds raised have been allocated without deductions by tax authorities (thanks to theawareness campaign launched by telecommunications companies and by non profitorganisations, this kind of fundraising is exempt from VAT) and by the company for the costs
incurred.
Approximately 70 fundraising initiatives have been activated, among these we point out:
– Associazione Italiana Ricerca sul Cancro (Italian Association for Research on Cancer),
as support to the fundraising initiative “An Azalea for Research”;
– WWF, for the “Giornata delle Oasi (Oasis day)” project;– TELETHON, in support of the fundraising television marathon in favour of research on
genetic diseases, associated this year to the initiative “Become a mobile-donor”. In some
specific days, people owning old mobiles were given the opportunity to bring these phones
to some corporate offices of Telecom Italia, to all the “il Telefonino” shops and to thegazebos set up thanks to the support of the Environmental Services Department in the
Premier League stadiums and in the squares of the main Italian towns. Each mobile
donation brought 5 euros to Telethon, in support of research projects, totalling 25,000euros plus further 25,000 euros, directly donated by Telecom Italia.
Equipment out of order have been shipped to specialised disposal companies in order to
provide to the extraction of gold, copper, palladium, silver, platinum and to ensure thecorrect disposal of hazardous components, in compliance with European environmental
legislation. Batteries have been safely regenerated while the charger and accessories
underwent recycling, with plastics transformed into objects for daily use. Still workingmobiles have been prepared to be sold at accessible prices in developing countries.
“Salam” Heart Surgery centre
On May 3rd in Khartoum, Sudan, the Salam Regional Heart Surgery Centre was inaugurated.
Progetto Italia helped fund this centre built by Emergency. The Centre aims at promoting the
universal right to free and qualified health care, and friendly, peaceful relations in theNortheast Africa.The centre was established to provide free surgery to heart patients in Sudan and its ninebordering countries. The structure is provided with biomedical equipment and high-leveltechnological solutions such as the photovoltaic plant used for the hospital air conditioningsystem.
Sustainability Section » The Community 47Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportSince the beginning of diagnostic activities (March 2007) up to 31 October 2007, the hospital
performed 4,491 medical examinations of which 2,183 were specialistic, together with 49
cardiology operations as well as 257 cardiosurgery operations.
/L50298LEV. 2 - Investments in the Community
Alice for Children
Matrix took part as sponsor in the initiative proposed by the “Twins International” Association,
whose goal is the improvement of the quality of life for orphan children living in the degraded
suburbs of Nairobi, through the realisation of two hosting communities according to a family
home model. The first centre, “Alice Children Home”, has been built in the North-East ofNairobi, near to an existing orphanage, while “Alice Village” is located 30 km South of the
Kenyan capital. 
These centres will also hold professional training courses for the children. This project is also associated to the Telecom Italia initiative “Alice Mail” for “Alice for
Children”, involving the donation by Telecom Italia of 3 euros every 30,000 mails sent from or
received by all “Alice Mail” mailboxes.
Solidarity ponies
Telecom Italia continued in 2007 its support of the initiative “The Solidarity Ponies”, aimed at
providing free home assistance to elderly people (over 65s). 
The elderly can call a telephone number, made available by the Municipality or by theAssociations participating in the project, to ask for help. The Municipality operators are
connected to an operational exchange and switch the calls to the mobiles of voluntaries who
are readily available, also in the summer months.
The initiative, stemmed from the collaboration with Social Policies Councils and VolunteerAssociations, is this year at its ninth edition and covers six important Italian towns (Milan,Turin, Bologna, Rome, Naples and Palermo).
The TI Group’s broadcasters and their environmental and social commitment
The Telecom Group’s broadcasters, MTV and La7, are devoted to the implementation of
awareness-raising programs on social and environmental issues, particularly with respect tothe less developed countries.In 2007 two main subjects were shared by the two networks:
–The environment protection, mostly with the “Live Earth”, a worldwide event meant to raise
awareness on the climate crisis currently affecting our planet. Several concerts have been
broadcast. The event has been attended by 2 billion people all over the world, on the weband on the main television (among which NBC and BBC) and radio channels;
– Fighting the mafia: La7 has produced and broadcast the film “La memoria ha un costo
(The price of memory)”, dedicated to the fighting against mafia and to the antimafiainitiatives by don Ciotti in Calabria; MTV has realised a series of meetings and has
broadcast documentaries to raise awareness on the subject.
Adult and Youth literacy
This project was launched 16 years ago by one of the largest and most important NGO’s in
Brazil, “Pastoral da Criança”. Since 2001, TIM has participated in this educational programme
with participants coming from some regions of the north east and south of Brazil, having the
highest rate of social exclusion in the country. According to research conducted by the“Pastoral da Criança” NGO, the project has demonstrated a strong correlation between
education and quality of life: the higher the mother’s educational level, the lower the infant
mortality rate.In 2007 the project was implemented exclusively in the South of Brazil where 126 classes
(717 people benefited from the initiative) were established. 
/L50298LEV. 3 - Initiatives in the Community
TIM Talks
In 2007 Telecom Italia and the Italian Union for Blind People made available in exclusive for
Italy “TIM Talks”, a free innovative software programme allowing to blind people, short-sightedpeople and the elderly to use all the available mobile functions thanks to an electronic voicereading the display on the basis of the user needs and indications.The service users can write and read SMS and emails, compose and download multimediamessages (MMS), call and modify numbers in the address book, change phone settings,manage the appointment calendar and read and write texts.
Sustainability Section » The Community 48Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportWeb is your friend: safe exploration of the Web
The aim of this initiative is to devise appropriate tools to help minors in their safe navigation
of the Internet, avoiding pedo-pornographic sites, grooming and frauds. The campaign ”web is
your friend” is promoted by Moige (Italian Parent Movement) and is supported by TelecomItalia, Polizia Postale e delle Comunicazioni (Postal Police), Poste Italiane (Italian Post
Services) and Microsoft, under the patronage of the Ministry for Family Policies, the Ministry of
Communications and the Ministry of the Interior. 
The campaign schedule involves lessons for parent and teachers and separately for children,totalling 46 “Open school days for safety on the Internet”, managed by Moige and Postal
Police experts. Access to the initiative was also extended online through the “Web is yourfriend” site and the free support service offered by the same “Ask an expert”.
Internet Saloon
Telecom Italia is a partner of the AIM (Association for Metropolitan Interests) of Milan, with
respect to the Internet Saloon initiative, started in 2000 with the goal to favour the diffusion
of the Internet and of new technologies among the over 60s, thus contributing to reduce the
cultural digital divide. In order to held courses and practices, classrooms have been equipped
with 26 multimedia workstations, software and Internet connection. During these courses,free lessons for different levels are provided, aimed at informatics and web surfing learning.
More than 23,000 over 60s have successfully attended these courses in the seven years
since the start.
/L50298Business Basics
Electronic Health Solutions
The following paragraph describe some ICT solutions for managing medical treatment and
diagnostics at Healthcare facilities.
MYdocs ehealth :asolution ensuring an optimal system to manage current and historical
clinical files with instructions to create a digital archive, in order to optimise the available
space and speed up the access to patient information.
MYPharma Management is an offer providing a two-fold solution:
•centralised management of single dose medicines: a Pharmaceutical Risk management
solution designed to improve drug prescription safety, preparation and administrationand to optimise supplies and consumption;
• management of pharmaceutical protocols at hospital wards: a prescription and
administration software and automated pharmaceutical storage closets allow clinical and
logistical drug management.
MyImage Archiving :allows remote archiving of digital diagnostic images in the standard
DICOM format on Telecom Italia data centres.
MYPatient Hospital record :application platform that allows the integration of information
issued from hospital information systems, the recording of clinical and medicaldocumentation, also making such information available throughout the Internet aiming at the
integrated monitoring of the hospitalised patient.
MYAsset Tracking :solution allowing to track and localise patients with special needs, to track
and manage sanitary equipment and transfusion blood sacks through the RFID (Radio
Frequency Identification) technologies. 
MYDoctor@Home :telemonitoring service allowing to assist chronic patients directly in their
home, avoiding hospitalisation. The patient’s home is equipped with simple wireless
electromedical instruments capable of sending data via a mobile phone or videophone to a
centre whose specialised operators (doctors and paramedics) check the data received throughthe web and undertake the appropriate actions.
/L50298Research, development and innovation
The Italian market of telecommunications is considered among the most advanced, both from
the technological viewpoint and the evolution of customers’ attitudes and consumptionprofiles.
To Telecom Italia Group, technological innovation is therefore an essential and differentiating
issue to develop a competitive advantage and maintain leadership in an increasinglycompetitive market.
Sustainability Section » The Community 49Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportThe wealth of technological and innovative competences of the TI Group has allowed in these
years the design, development and adoption on the field of state-of-the-art networks, terminals
and services, a wealth to be used also in foreign countries where the TI Group operates.
Technological innovation activities range from reviews of basic technologies, aimed at
increasing network and system efficiency, to complex activities involving the radical review of
platforms, services and architectures; the effort concentrated on the field by business unit
operational departments is therefore essential to assure the compliance of new services tocustomer needs and the continuous improvement of qualitative levels. 
Besides by TILab, technological innovation activities are carried out also by the operational
and business units (Network, Market, Information Technology, Web & Media and Security) aswell as by Olivetti.
During financial year 2007 the investments of Telecom Italia Group for tangible and intangible
assets related to development and innovation totalled approximately euro 3,400 million.
Internal resources devoted to these activities as well as to research amount approximately to
euro 6,200 million, with an overall commitment equal to about euro 560 million (of whichabout euro 163 million already included in the investments).
In 2007 the research and development centres of Telecom Italia carried out in particular the
activities detailed below.
/L50298TILab
TILab is the catalyst at the basis of the Telecom Italia Group technological innovation and
operates as a competence centre for the internal departments devoted to business
development and also operates externally as a centre of excellence for the
telecommunications industry. The TIlab laboratories have contributed for instance to the
development and success of achievements such as GSM, MP3 and optical transmission.
TILab activities are focused on research, evaluation and development of emerging
technologies and on the revision of basic technologies designed to increase the efficiency ofnetworks and systems as well as of platforms, services and network architectures. 
TILab regularly collaborates with both national and international research centres and with the
most qualified academic institutes (the Polytechnic institutes of Turin and Milan, the
Universities of Pisa, Genoa, Florence, Rome, Naples, Bologna, Reggio Emilia, Brescia, Turin,
Verona, Modena, the University of Berkeley, the Columbia University and Massachusset
Institute of Technology). TILab continued in particular with the Polytechnic Institute of Turin the
collaboration on the University Master “Network and Services Innovation in the ICT Sector”,with the objective of training on specific technological skills through a marked integration
between classroom and laboratory activities.
In 2007 forty-seven new patents were filed (63 in 2006), of which 10 are the result of joint
research projects with Pirelli Labs (to be added to more than 500 patents already filed).
Abreakdown by activity sector is reported below:
Sustainability Section » The Community 50FIXED
4%
MOB ILE
42%FIXED -
MOB ILE
43%OTHERJOINT
PROJECTS T I
PIRELLILABS
11%Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportWithin the framework of the activities aimed at the TI Group’s technology development
scenario TILab has defined the Technological Plan 2008-2010, outlining the strategic lines for
the development of the network and platforms in terms of target architecture, as well astechnological and operational assets. The plan also provides deep information on subjects
which are particularly strategic and relevant as far as the positioning of the Telecom ItaliaGroup technologies such as terminal development and multimedia domestic solutions, the
start of NGN2, the service framework and the related brokering towards third parties,
information technology as network service, the content-based services and their convergencetowards communication.
The results accomplished by TILab in 2007 with respect to infrastructures and platforms have
contributed to raise the TI Group’s profitability by improving the network solution efficiency and
consequently rationalizing costs, and by developing solutions that allow to offer new servicesandperformances. Particularly relevant from this standpoint are the following initiatives:
• the engineering of technical solutions for the new generation network NGN2, whose
implementation is started from the Milan area;
• the implementation of a “naked ADSL” solution, representing in perspective the transition
towards IP telephony, substituting traditional analogical access; it ensures number
portability, reuse of home equipment and access to non geographic phone numbers; 
• the experimental start of real time monitoring of energy efficiency in the exchange areas of
Telecom Italia; the appropriate distribution of technologies such as the “wireless sensor
networks” made it possible in particular to experiment the efficiency of energy savingsolutions, implemented through the monitoring and profiling of consumptions related to
single systems, the support of designs related to energy saving targeted interventions, theidentification of operation and consumption anomalies;
• the definition of introduction scenarios in the field of both fixed and mobile WiMAX
technology, in terms of architecture and impact on the access network and terminals, as
well as the related simulation of the system performances;
• the definition of innovative algorithms/models to plan the radiomobile access network, also
in real-time, for the relevant sizing and optimization with the development of newfunctionalities of the TIMPLAN/GUITAR software platform. The results achieved enabled newsolutions for the management of radio resources in scenarios characterized by multipleradio access technologies and the production of simulation tools for the optimized use ofthe frequency spectrum; 
• the definition of the software platform development scenario at service level (Service
Framework) to enable the role of platform provider to third parties (Service Broker), for
application in different vertical situations, with focus first of all on the context of servicesmeant for car drivers (emergency, information services, traffic management, fleet
management). Within this framework service prototypes on a circulating vehicle have beenexperimented , and used as demo in several occurrences, among which the presentation to
the Turin Mayor and to the CTO Summit in Venice. The activity is connected to the
“Tema.mobility” initiative, in partnership with Magneti Marelli;
•the laboratory experimentation of possible applications of principles oriented to the Web
2.0 paradigm and the world of telecommunications started. It aims at supporting the study
of new business models and scenarios for the integration between Web 2.0 and thesoftware platform with regard to the telecommunication operator service. In particular,
solutions for functionalities available via the internet have been realized, as well as a
system allowing users to create/share services within a community.
Concerning the development of new services, the activities carried out and the results
achieved have generated new opportunities in support of the development of the current offerand of the expansion to new product or service segments. The most significant
implementations achieved in the year are described below:
•the development, integration and test of the dual mode service launched with the name of
“Unico”. The service allows to manage on a single dualmode mobile terminal (2G-3G/Wi-Fi)the fixed telephony VoIP service Alice Voce and the mobile telephony 2G/3G TIM service; 
• the design, development, integration and test of the TIM Casa solution. The service allows
customers to call from home on the mobile network with differentiated tariffs and by usingthe fixed network phone numbers;
• the development in the field of digital entertainment services, of the IPTV services, such as
high definition digital and interactive television, video and music services on demand, andself-production of multimedia and web-diffused content such as “Plays in the community”;
Sustainability Section » The Community 51Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• the demonstration of the first innovative applications of mobile TV on commercial terminal
such as “Rich Media”, which will allow the operator to have a sophisticated control of the
user interface and particularly attractive interactive applications;
• the release of a new Set Top Box also offering the access to the Terrestrial Digital TV
channels managing video codes and high performances;
• the implementation among mobile services of the “SMS Real Time Charging” function,
meant to reduce the frauds generated by SMS sent by mobile and large account users
towards other mobile operators;
• the start-up of an innovative experimentation based on the implementation of a service
named First Life Communicator which has allowed the Group to access the virtual community
Second Life with the telephone service subsequently extendable with e-mail and instant
messaging; 
• the continuation of the research on new television utilization paradigms (Dynamic TV) which,
taking advantage of the interest associated to mass content diffused through DTT or IPTV,aim at the effective promotion of a high number of niche content available in digital format
and at low cost; 
• the study and development of interactive and multichannel multimedia advertising service
prototypes (IPTV and Mobile) through the use of innovative technologies such as for instancethe 2D barcode, the access to past television programs, the 3D mobile client presented at
the Science Festival of Genoa and at the Science White Night of Turin. Their purpose is the
simplification of advertising content fruition, making it more attractive at the same time; 
• the analysis and development of service prototypes based on the Mobile Personal Web
Server such as, for instance, personal sites and personal journals; 
•the initiatives to amplify the SIM role on the mobile terminal, transforming it in an operator
asset, as a tool for the authentication and personalization of services to the customer. In
this sense, the specifications related to the new SIM/USIM and the requirements for the
new sim-based services have been defined, besides the development and experimentation
on the first mega/giga SIM prototypes;
•the development of the architecture and communication protocols among equipment using
the SIM and the integrated ZigBee (ZSIM) radio interface as a safety component managed by
the network operator to ensure high safety communication besides enablingAuthentication/Authorisation services and the configuration and personalization of equipmentand services through proximity technologies;
• the preparation of demos and technical experimentations with respect to Radiomobile
commerce, in order to assess solutions and new services using proximity technologies for
the support of m-commerce services, such as micro-payments and mobile-ticketing.
In conclusion we report the results achieved in the field of validation and test of innovative
solutions in the TILAB testing laboratories, as a contribution ensuring the availability of high
technical quality solutions and meeting the market requirements. Test campaigns have been
implemented to develop the systems for the ADSL access network and for the new generationone (NGN2). Other test campaigns concerned the terminals and network terminations for the
Group’s offer both of innovative services (i.e. Access Gateway, combo videophone, DECT
headers, Set top box for IPTV) and traditional services (Cordless, Printers, Fax, etc.).
/L50298The Olivetti Group
The Olivetti Group devotes a significant number of its employees to the technological research
and development sector. Its research centres, located both in Italy and abroad, are staffed by
about 200 employees, accounting for over 15% of its total workforce.In 2007 the Olivetti research centres have been committed to the development of products
and terminals for counter automation and of ink-jet products and accessories.
Sustainability Section » The Community 52Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportHuman Resources
/L50298Strategy
The TI Group’s companies strongly believe in the centrality of Human Resources and consider
the professional contribution of people operating in it as a key factor for business success,
within a mutual loyalty and trust framework.
The TI Group’s companies safeguard health and safety in the workplace and consider therespect of workers’ rights as an essential issue in business.
The management of industrial relations aims at ensuring equal opportunities and favouring
individual professional growth.
/L50298Headcount and changes
/L50298Telecom Italia Group
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 53Changes in the period 
Headcount at Recruited Terminated Decrease of Changes in Total Headcount at 
December 31, 2006 temporary report change December 31, 2007
(*) staff scope (*)
83,209 7,345 –8,310 –682 +1,867 +220 83,429
(*) Includes staff on temporary contract, equal to 2,654 in 2006 and 1,972 at December 2007.
/L50298Telecom Italia S.p.A.Headcount at December 31, 2007 is 83,429.
The increase of 220 employees with respect to December 31, 2006 is due to:
– the acquisition of AOL (+1,101 employees) and of the Tecnosis branch (+104 employees),
the addition of SSC to the scope (+670 employees) and the sale of Domus Academy
(-8 employees);
–to the entry of 7,345 employees and the termination of 8,310 employees, plus a decrease
of 682 employees on temporary contract.
Telecom Italia S.p.A. headcount at December 31, 2007 is 59,959.
As compared to December 31, 2006 there is an overall decrease of 2,441 employees due to
3,401 terminations, 795 recruitments, the entry of 148 employees from other companies ofthe TI Group, plus 104 employees due to the acquisition of a business activity from Tecnosysand a decrease of 87 employees with temporary contracts.
Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
Headcount at December 31, 2006
61,040 1,360 62,400 795 –3,401 148 –87 104 –2,441 58,686 1,273 59,959Recruited TerminatedTransfers
among Group
companiesChanges in
temporary
staffChanges in
report scopeTotal
change
EmployeesTemporary
staffTotalHeadcount at December 31, 2007
EmployeesTemporary
staffTotalChanges in the periodSustainability Section » Human Resources 54The staff operating in Italy is equal to 80.5% of the TI Group’s total and is characterized as
follows:
Staff presence breakdown by geographic area and TI Group staff recruitment breakdown by
geographic area:
Characteristics of the staff operating in South America:Telecom Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by pr ofessio nal cat egory
MIDDLE MANAGERS/
PROFESSIONALS 7.0%SENIOR MANAGERS 1.8%
OFFICE
STAFF/
SPECIALIS TS
90.7%WORKERS 0.5%Telec om Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by ag egroup
OVER 45 YEARS
36.7%UP TO 32 YEARS
11.2%
FROM 33 TO
45 YEARS
52.1%Telecom Ital ia Group -Italy: employee
breakdown by acad emic q ualification
HIGH
SCHOOLGRADUATES67.7%OTHER
15.2%
UNIVERSITY
DEGREES
17.1%
SOUTHERN
ITALY20.5%ABROAD
19.5%
ITALY
80.5%Telecom Italia Gro up: employ eebreak down
bygeographic areaTelecom Italia Gro up: recru itment
breakdown by ge ographic area
ABROAD
76.7%ITALY
23.3%
SOUTHERN
ITALY
7.0%
Latin America :emplo yee br eakdown
byprofessi onal categ ory
SENIOR MANAGERS 0.3%
MIDDL EMANAGERS /
PROFESSIONA LS3.1%
OFFICE
STAFF/
SPECIALISTS
96.6%Latin America :emplo yee br eakdown
byage group
UP TO 32 YEARS
68.9%OVER 45 YEARS
5.4%
FROM 33 TO
45 YEARS
25.7%Latin America :emplo yee br eakdown
byacademic qualification
HIGH
SCHOOLGRADUATES58.7% OTHER
1.7%
UNIVERSITY
DEGREES
39.6%Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportIn 2007 the percentage of women holding senior management positions in the Group (in Italy)
was approximately 15%; at middle management level it was about 25%.
Equal opportunities
In line with the “Woman Project”, launched in 2003, several initiatives have been realized to
favour the diffusion of equal opportunities.
–Childcare centres: a new childcare centre has been opened in Ancona while six are already
operating in Rivoli (Turin), Palermo, Naples, Rome and Milan.
– Loans for mothers and fathers: the TI Group granted 500 loans to new parents with
children up to three year of age.
–Children’s day: on May 25, 2007, in coincidence with the “working mother’s and father’s
day”, all the Telecom Italia offices were open to employees’ children who could visit their
parent’s workplace. Entertainments were held in 29 offices, with snacks and smallgiveaways, involving approximately 7,500 children. 
– Christmas day: visit to the offices in 4 corporate locations, entertainment and small
giveaways for employees’ children up to 12 years of age.
– Time off for mothers and fathers: “time chequebooks” for employees up to the fifth level
(according to the Italian labour contract) and children up to 8 years of age, with 150 hours
of time off every year to be repaid with overtime.
– Time off to attend prenatal birth courses: paid time off up to 12 monthly hours to be
recuperated, granted to pregnant employees and fathers.
– Development of management policies through interventions on flexibility to help women
employees resume their jobs after maternity leave (i.e. temporary renewable part-time for ayear, granted to mothers with children up to 8 years).
On the occasion of the European Year for Equal Opportunities and in line with the activities
related to the ”Woman Project”, Telecom Italia has launched the “Equal Opportunities for
everyone” project. This initiative aims at defining and implementing actions promoting equal
opportunities at corporate level starting from a qualitative and quantitative survey, alsoinvolving focus groups.
Within the framework of the Alliance with the EU commission of March 22, 2006 a laboratory
on career equal opportunities for men and women has been set up at Sodalitas. TelecomItalia actively participated together with other companies. The laboratory results have beenpresented on December 3, 2007 during a conference held in Milan. For further informationplease see paragraph “Results and Acknowledgements” of “Introduction”.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 55/L50298Gender balance
Distribution of men a nd women
Telecom Italia S.p.A.  (2006-2 007)
MenWomen25%50%75%100%
2007 200628.9
71.129.4
70.6Distribution of men a nd women
TIGroup (in Italy)  (2006 -2007)
MenWomen25%50%75%100%
2006 200726.7
73.326.9
73.1Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Initiatives for employees
Welfare
In 2007 the Welfare Department ensured the operation of the TI Group Recreational and
Welfare Organisations through the provision of social services for the improvement of
employees well-being, the implementation of health assistance/prevention and medicine in the
workplace initiatives, and solutions for leisure time.
The following projects and initiatives have been carried out for employees:
•Personal affairs service: twenty corporate offices (Turin, Milan, Padua, Bologna, Florence,
Rome, Naples and Palermo) feature permanent counters for the management of errands
(administration, post office, etc.).
• Wellness/Concierge: within the corporate offices of Turin, Padua, Rome and Palermo an
area has been equipped for fitness purposes. Two offices in Rome and one office in Milan
offer laundry and shoe repair services. 
• Price agreements: national and/or territorial agreement for purchase/use of goods and
services at reduced cost: cars and motorbikes, culture and entertainment, electronics,fashion and accessories, health and fitness, sport, travels and holidays.
• Company loans: the TI Group granted 399 loans, of which 57 to buy house, 61 for
renovating houses and 281 for various reasons.
• Corporate loyalty: in the year approximately 3,921 employees were rewarded for 25, 30 and
35 years seniority.
•Health information: an interactive medical section has been introduced. It includes a FAQ
section and an e-mail medical answer service “The doctor online”: a staff of specialists is
available to offer advice on medical problems.
The following initiatives are devoted to employees’ children:
•
Traditional summer holiday camps :15-day camps for TI Group company employees’
children aged 6-12. Participants in 2007: 4,571 children.
•Thematic summer holidays :14-day holiday devoted to learning English and sport practice
(tennis, sailing, horse-riding, volley and basket) for TI Group company employees’ childrenaged 7-15. In 2007 several initiatives have been added: dance, theatre, canoe, Jam Camp
Volley and Basket and two college summer courses in England. 1,235 youths took part in
these initiatives. 
•
Scholarships :80 scholarships abroad devoted to English learning. Four weeks for boys and
girls aged 15-16 (45 in Ireland and 35 in Finland); 20 one-year study stays for boys andgirls aged 16-17 (Europe, United States and Canada).
•
Refund of university fees :refund of first-year enrolment fee for TI Group employees’
children with high school degree mark at least 90/100.
ALATEL
Association for the Elderly (ALATEL and Gold Pins)
The Senior Worker’s Association of the Telecom Italia Group (23,218 members, of which
3,918 are working employees) continued the realization of its institutional activities,
confirming the co-operation with the Olivetti Gold Pins Association (3,904 members).
ASSILT
At December 31, 2007 over 217,066 people were enrolled in the Association for Integrative
Healthcare for Telecom Italia Group workers: 64,433 employees, 44,656 retirees, 107 ,977
employees’ family members.
Besides reimbursing healthcare expenses to integrate the National Healthcare Service(430,000 cases in 2007 totalling over euro 46.8 million), the association conducts campaigns
for preventive medicine and healthcare education, using its mobile diagnostic units and
support from public healthcare facilities.Also in 2007 the programs for multidisciplinary Oncological Prevention to discover breast andskin pathologies continued (Lombardy, Campania, Lazio and Piedmont), as well as theprograms for the prevention of respiratory allergies (Tuscany, Sardinia, Calabria, The Marches,Emilia Romagna and Basilicata).
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 56Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportCRALT
The Workers Recreational Club of the Telecom Italia Group organizes, in favour of employees
and retirees, tourist initiatives (collective and individual tours with a 15% indicative saving ascompared to market prices), sport initiatives (participation in the main national and regional
sport meetings), cultural and recreational events (guided tours, music courses, painting,photography, theatre and cinema night shows).
The contribution in favour of members may reach 40% and dues for all initiatives may be paid
in monthly deductions from salary.At December 31, 2007 about 53,803 members has joined the club (47,188 employees and
6,615 retirees).
/L50298Development
In 2007 the TI Group completed the formalization of the Individual Development Plans meant
for a group of key resources including senior managers, middle managers and high-potential
young employees. The objective is the implementation of actions aimed at the enhancement,
development and retention of these resources at medium term, by promoting their growth.Several training and development initiatives, both individual and group, have been launched to
implement the Individual Development Plans. Within the framework of the annual meritocratic
policy specific actions are devoted to the enhancement and retention of these resources.
Due to their high level of competence the project is being extended to significant 
Knowledge
People ,in order to achieve the business objectives. On the basis of the just completed
Knowledge Review process, a group of resources will be identified, for which relevant Individual
Development Plans and targeted initiatives will be defined.
The Management Review process continued in parallel and will be completed within the first
months of 2008 ensuring the availability of about 1,700 assessments related to senior and
middle managers. This will allow to better orient choices concerning “succession
management” and to plan actions for organizational and managerial development planning. 
In this sense, also the results of an initiative launched in 2006 and completed this year, the
Individual Leadership Centre ,turned out to be very useful. The process involved a part of the TI
Group’s senior managers and has been realized with the support of external professionals. Itaimed at an analysis of individual leadership profiles in order to define targeted development
and training plans. 
Concerning in particular job rotations, in 2007 our policy meant to develop competences
through intra-group mobility continued, thus favouring resource development and allowing to
cover job positions by using skills available within the TI Group. During the year, 130announces were posted on the Group Job Posting (same number as in 2006) while 1,500
curricula have been collected (as compared to 1,084 in 2006).
/L50298Recruiting
In2007 Telecom Italia took part in 11 career days, aimed at presenting our company in the
main Italian universities and at activating exchange channels to build up a valuable
recruitment source. 
In 2007 recruiting activities mainly involved people having technical skills, for the Field
Services department, new graduates for the Technology departments and high levelprofessionals for the TopClient & ICT Services and Marketing departments. To these purposes
3,000 applicants were screened on the overall through Universities, Schools and on linerecruitment. 
The year 2007 also featured an intense assessment activity concerning internal staff, the
purpose being to cover intermediate roles. Approximately 60 sessions of Assessment Centrewere held, aimed in particular at the identification of Supervisors and coordinators/specialists.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 57Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Relations with Universities
The Telecom Italia Group is strongly committed to support the University world and training
centres for young university graduated. Through a stage mechanism the TI Group supports the
technical training of approximately 300 young people every year with a financial commitment
equal to about euro 1.9 million, and building at the same time a valuable source of qualified
human resources.
In 2007 Telecom Italia started three Technological Master Programs ( Master Innovation with
the Polytechnic of Turin, Master in Networking and Master in Security with TILS). On the overall
56 young graduates with technical degrees were involved and the 32 best qualified have been
recruited.
The year 2007 in particular saw the first edition of a master fully supported by the Group at
the Turin Polytechnic Institute. The master aims at favouring training on the innovation ofnetworks and services for 16 young engineering graduates. 
In 2007 the Group also financed 40 scholarships supporting the participation in two Masters
implemented by TILS on issues related to “Networking for Enterprise & Carrier”, and
“Information & Communication Security”. Sixteen students have been recruited after attending
stages at corporate structures. These initiatives will be continued in 2008.
The TI Group’s contribution to youth training also involves the time dedicated by many of its
managers to university courses and masters, as well as to internship workers, students and
undergraduates.
/L50298Training
Training activities implemented for the Italian staff of Telecom Italia Group during amount
2007 to about 1.9 million hours (classroom, on line, training on the job) as shown in the table
below and to about euro 31 million of outlay costs (excluding labour and transfer/logisticsexpenses). In the year, 84.3% of the TI Group’s staff took part in at least one of these traininginitiatives.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 58Training activities are related to the overall TI Group projects and to business competences.
Overall Group’s projects
In order to reinforce a shared management culture the TI Group has implemented training
interventions dealing with behavioural competences and ICT scenarios both for senior andmiddle managers, as well as for high-performance level 6 and 7 employees. 
In particular, for high-potential managers, the “Bridge the Gap” initiative has been launched.
This aims to provide high-level training opportunities (participation in seminars at InternationalBusiness Schools, Learning Tours, etc.).Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
Total 1,943,121 30.0 54,629 84.3 1,084,154 16.7 42,519 65.6 858,967 13.3 36,960 57.1
Senior Managers 36,635 30.8 999 84.1 36,531 30.7 999 84.1 104 0.1 9 0.8
Middle Managers 116,161 27.1 2,957 69.1 115,466 27.0 2,939 68.6 695 0.1 130 3.0
Office staff and
specialists/Workers 1,790,325 30.2 50,673 85.4 932,157 15.7 38,581 65.1 858,168 14.5 36,821 62.1
TOTALS
PERCAPITA
PARTICIPANTS
COVERAGEHOURSCLASSROOM, ON LINE, TRAINING ON THE JOB
TOTALS
PERCAPITA
PARTICIPANTS
COVERAGEHOURSCLASSROOM, ON LINE
TOTALS
PERCAPITA
PARTICIPANTS
COVERAGEHOURSTRAINING ON THE JOBHOURS AND PARTICIPANTS BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORYFurthermore, the “Creating Value through Customer Satisfaction” initiative was launched and it
istargeted at all managers in the TI Group.
Within the framework of the “Environment Project” initiatives have been developed to
communicate the TI Group’s environmental policies and plans and to raise awareness through
the rationalization of the “Environment Project” website, workshops, dedicated courses and
informative articles.
Training as a safeguard of business competences
The purpose of this line of training is providing people directly involved in all business aspects
the necessary competences to play their role at best. The training concerned for instance an
updating on innovative technologies made necessary by the fast development of the ICT sector
and the strengthening of specific competences for front end staff, call centre supervisors andthe sales force.
/L50298Internal communication
During 2007 a deep reorganisation of the internal communication department took place in
order to favour a better integration with the company’s field departments.The reorganization focused internal communication on:
– feedback activities and projects;
–corporate information and media;
– integration activities and projects;
–employee involvement activities.
Feedback activities and projects
The surveys on staff attitude (Group Photo) periodically involve all corporate employees.
In 2007 the questionnaire on staff attitude has been redesigned in order to make it moreappropriate. Four survey areas have been identified: satisfaction, motivation, corporateprocesses, manager-employee relation. This survey has been postponed to 2008.
Since the end of 2006, in partnership with the Marketing structures, the innovative feedback
project 
The Lighthouse has been launched. Its objective is to encourage employees to
contribute their ideas and proposals on important topics of interest to the company and totest new company’s products and services.In 2007 approximately 2,500 members joined 
The Lighthouse club. Tests on innovative
services such as Alice Messenger ,Wireless Connection Manager ,Ikids and Dynamic TV have
been launched. 
Corporate information and Media
• Group magazine: three issues of the Group magazine ( noi.magazine )are devoted to
Sustainability, as well as to customer satisfaction and solidarity. The magazine is
addressed to all the Group’s employees, both in Italy and abroad and to about 30,000
“senior” ex employees of Telecom Italia. It is being printed also in Portuguese for theemployees of Tim Brasil; issues in English and Spanish have been printed for other foreign
subsidiaries. A survey carried out in the month of March has confirmed the approval of this
communication channel.
•
noi.flash ,the emailed newsletter devoted to monographic issues having special corporate
impact continues. The issues published in 2007 were devoted to financial communication,
Sustainability, top corporate appointments and initiatives in favour of employees. 
•The noi.perloro 2008 project with the related agenda 2008 has been realized which
contains the description of the social solidarity initiatives promoted both by the Group and
bythe Group’s employees. At the same time the first online Intranet community devoted to
the same issue has been launched. This is an interactive and collaborative area, meant for
social networking. Employees may access the site, that already has collected anddescribes over 70 initiatives, and publish documents, photos, videos, comments besidesupdating information on single solidarity activities.
• Online activities: the two pre-existing Intranet platforms (the Corporate platform and the
Operations one) have been integrated in a single internal Group web (noi.portal), which willbe accessible since May also by all employees of Tim Brasil. Between January andDecember 2007 the intranet portal has totalled on the average 22,000 single visitors everyday, while over 750 news have been published.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 59Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report• Videomessages by top management: video-streaming is a standard practice in the event of
special occurrences. The videos are translated and retransmitted to foreign subsidiaries.
• Web TV: the experimental diffusion of news, interviews and specials on the internal TV
(noi.tv) continued through a channel with transmission on Intranet, mobiles and palmtops.
Integration Projects & Activities
These activities are designed both to reinforce the employees’ sense of belonging to the
Telecom Italia Group and to favour the integration among Operational departments. 
Numerous events were held to support the business including the Top Clients & ICT Services
2007 Kick-off, three editions of Business Appointments by the Mobile Domestic Services
Department and the Telecontact Centre Convention. Meeting have also been held to promote
the integration among the various Customer Service National Centres of the NationalWholesale Services Department.
The team building event 
Vita da Sales (Sales Life) has been organized for the sales force of
the Domestic Fixed Services Department, with the participation of 1,400 people.
In order to foster a culture of integration and innovation, the IntegrArt and EmotionArt projects
have been realized. The projects, devoted to professionals and middle managers operating on
the territory, involved projecting films followed by an expert-led debate encouraging discussion
andexchange. 
At Telecom Italia S.A.S., in France, the first e-convention “Expresso” has been realized.
Organized in four sessions, and with the support of a chat connection, it has allowed all
employees to exchange questions, suggestions and opinions with the managers of Marketing,Sales, Customer Care, Technology and Human Resources departments.
Employee Involvement Activities
In 2007 the involvement activities meant to reinforce the sense of belonging and to improve
the staff attitude continued.
Many employees were able to participate in cultural events sponsored by “Progetto Italia”
and in sporting events sponsored by the TI Group. Among the most important initiatives held,the Everybody go sailing, organised through a partnership of Progetto Italia and the “The Spiritof Stella” Onlus. Ten employees with motor disabilities were able to attend the races of theAmerica Cup. The experience on the Andrea Stella’s catamaran, the first ever built withoutarchitectonic barriers, has been repeated at Ostia (Rome) at the beginning of fall.
In December the Travelling Show “Who Loves music? Telecom Tour” has been organized for
the Group employees’ children in collaboration with the Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia.
The show has been held in 7 towns (Milan, Rome, Naples, Palermo, Turin, Bologna, Mestre)where the TI Group’s employees are particularly concentrated; on the overall the show involved
about 7,000 people, both adults and children.
/L50298Remuneration policies
Remuneration policies confirmed in 2007 the tendency to combine market competitiveness
with the respect of principles such as internal fairness and consistency.
The management of fixed compensation is based on strong selectivity criteria aimed atrewarding employees with excellent performances.
The variable component of compensation is confirmed as the distinctive element within the
compensation package which is characterized by the correlation to company/individualperformance. 
The main tool is the MBO (Management by Objectives) system, intended for managers and
for some professionals, which has become a unique formalized short term incentive tool.Variable remuneration is also having an ever-increasing significance in the long term,as it steers management actions towards the achievement of strategic objectives. Within thisframework the Telecom Italia Shareholders meeting has approved in 2007 a Stock Optionsplan for the top management, correlated to stock performance in the three-year span2008-2010.The Long Term Incentive cash plan 2006-2008, launched in 2006, has been cancelled due tosevere discontinuities of the competitive and regulatory framework during 2007, leading to theredefinition of plan and priorities.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 60Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Stock options
Stock options have been used over the years within the Telecom Italia Group for retention
purposes and as a long-term incentive for managers. In 2007 no new stock option plans have
been launched. At the end of 2007 the stock option plans existing in the Group are related to
options granted in preceding years and entitling to the subscription of Telecom Italia S.p.A.
and Telecom Italia Media S.p.A. shares.
With respect to the Telecom Italia stock options please note that in 2007 all the rights related
toStock Option Plan 2000 and to the Stock Option Plan 2001 are expired because of the
expiration of the term allowed to exercise the options related to the residual batches of these
plans.
The essential components of the Telecom Italian stock option plans (included those allocated
in due time by TIM S.p.A. and those required by compliance to the recommendation includedinthe Consob Communication no. 11508 of February 15, 2000) as well as of Telecom Italia
Media are summarized in the Note “Stock Option Plans” respectively of the Telecom Italia
S.p.A. Annual Report and of the Telecom Italia Group Annual Report.
/L50298Industrial relations
The year 2007 has been quite intense from the industrial relations viewpoint, also considering
the opening in the month of May of the confrontation with Trade Unions on integrative
bargaining.After the submission by SLC-CGIL, FISTel-CISL and UILCom-UIL of the bargaining platform forthe renewal of the 2nd contractual level, the Company has opened the confrontation with
Trade Unions and with the National RSU Coordination (the RSU are the company level unitary
union representative bodies) on all the claims included in the platform. The Parties decided todiscuss the single subjects by means of joint technical committees. The work of the twocommittees contributed to make the Parties’ positions closer with regard to most issues,thus enabling delegations to restart the discussion in plenary session on December 18, 2007
at the Industrialists and Corporates Association of Rome.
At the same time the TI Group invited the National RSU Coordination to a confrontation on the
subject of welfare in call centres, in order to share an improvement program articulated intofour thematic macro-areas: people enhancement and training, work organization, environment
and safety, work-life balance. The Parties deemed appropriate to form two joint committees
devoted to the organizational environments, of fixed telephony and mobile telephony,respectively. Several meetings have already been held and significant converging issues have
been pointed out. The confrontation will then be passed on both within the National RSU
coordination and at territorial level with the RLS (Workers Representatives for Safety) for theconsultation of all worker’s representatives.
In application of the agreement signed by the TI Group and Trade Unions on May 2, 2005 with
respect to the set-up of a new nationwide structure coordinating the RSUs, and after the
merger incorporating TIM Italia S.p.A. into Telecom Italia S.p.A., and of the subsequent
harmonisation agreement of February 27, 2006 (through which the Company and Trade Unionsagreed that the RSUs of TIM Italia S.p.A. should hold their position until the expiration of the
Telecom Italia S.p.A. RSU’s mandate), the parties agreed on the set-up of the National
Coordination of the Telecom Italia S.p.A. RSUs. The agreement has been signed on March 26,2007 and provides for the establishment of a single nationwide representative body including
92 RSUs elected among all the worker’s representatives.
On June 5, 2007 an agreement has been signed with trade unions for the year 2007 on the
Result-based bonus for all the Telecom Italia SpA employees, except those included in specificincentive plans. In compliance with the protocol of July 23, 1993 the agreement provides thedistribution of a bonus correlated to corporate economic trends and to the actual presence onthe job of the involved staff.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 61Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportIn compliance with commitments undertaken in the agreement of December 9, 2003, the
company and the trade unions have analysed through technical committees the issue related
to the Telephone Bar – Single Operator Workstation (system for the management of thetechnical assistance process for business fixed telephony customers) used at national level in
the National Customer Services, within the Field Services Department. The meetings led to theagreement in compliance with art. 4 of the Worker’s Statute and signed by the National
Coordination of Telecom Italia RSUs and SLC, FISTel and UILCom in June 28, 2007.
Considering the reorganization and reinforcement of corporate security, on July 23, 2007 a
meeting was held with Trade Unions to accomplish the return within Telecom Italia S.p.A.
since 1
stNovember 2007 of the company branch “Centri Territoriali di Sorveglianza”, sold to
Tecnosys S.p.A. in 2005. The operation involved 104 workers.
On July 26, 2007 two important agreements have been signed with the National Coordination
of Telecom Italia RSUs concerning the start of an experimentation on part-time telework at
home and of working-out (involving the possibility for technicians mainly working outside the
company to park the company car at their house). The projects, designed by the Technology
department and devoted to specific professional jobs, have been thoroughly developed by theCompany-Trade Unions joint technical committees and undoubtedly involve advantages both
for workers and for the company.
During the meeting of July 26, the Parties also reached an agreement on the project to
reorganize the “Directory Assistance 1254” service, within Customer Operations. The companyand the trade unions, after analyzing the business dynamics of this special sector, now share
aplan for the rationalization and relaunch of the Information Services, aimed at recovering
significant market shares.
Furthermore, another significant optimisation plan has been agreed between the Company and
Trade Unions by the signature of an agreement on the integration of the Fixed and MobilePremium Care within Customer Operation Business departments. The agreement establishesthe Fixed-Mobile integration in the services for significant customers in order to sinergicallyimprove the management of Large Business customers.
Concerning the other TI Group’s companies, significant is the agreement signed with the Trade
Unions on 1
stAugust 2007 on the Result-based Bonus for the employees of TeleContact
Center S.p.A..
According to an agreement signed with Trade Unions on November 9, 2007 since 1st January
2008 the National Collective Agreement for Telecommunications will be extended also to
Matrix S.p.A., including some harmonisation issues with respect to Graphics and Publishing
National Collective Contract currently applied. Following the agreements signed on December 20, 2005 with Trade Unions, in 2007 the TI
Group enrolled on mobility lists 1,634 workers resources. For this purpose the priority
identification criterion used was the early retirement option during mobility.
Consistently with agreements signed with Trade Unions, mobility ex lege 223/91 has been
implemented on the basis of voluntary assent by the involved resources.These have been granted, upon termination of employment, an addition to TFR (end of
employment settlement) such as to ensure appropriate income for the time to retirement
pension.More generally, the management of resources for staff reduction purposes has been
implemented aiming at mutually agreed employment termination and, whenever possible,
through professional re-employment solutions.
On February 7, 2007 the TI Group also signed agreements with the Trade Unions of TI Group’s
senior managers on supplementary health assistance. The Parties agreed on severalamendments to the Statute of ASSIDA (Supplementary Health Assistance Fund for Groupcompanies senior managers), proposed by the Board of Directors of the Association itself.With the same agreement the Parties confirmed their intention to find solutions in order toenable the Fund to keep offering better options as compared to the standard one provided bythe category collective contracts. 
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 62Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Health and Safety
In2007 some specific projects at Group level, have started or continued:
•Project for well-being in call centres :the research started in 2004 in collaboration with the
University of Turin continued; appropriate Company/Trade Unions joint committees have
been set-up in order to identify possible improvement actions.
•Safe Driving Project :14 editions of the theoretical-practical course have been held,
involving over 500 technicians continuously using the car in their normal working activity.
The videocourse “Safe Driving” has been published on the corporate intranet where it is
available to all corporate staff.
Special awareness-raising initiatives, also concerning safe driving and safety on the road,
have been provided by SPPA through collective courses meant for operational staff.
•Exposure to physical agents :the assessment of gas radon concentration in some
workplaces continues through a scientific collaboration with the Superior Health Institute in
order to develop a working methodology and an accredited laboratory. 
•Exposure to biological agents :in agreement with the Istituto Superiore di Sanità (Superior
Health Institute) the assessment of a biological risk (Legionella) in underground plants,
operated by Telecom Italia technical staff has been continued and led to the identification
of appropriate control measures.
•Access to poles :also due to technological evolution, the technical/organisational
procedures to access poles during interventions on TLC aerial networks, have been
redefined.
Furthermore, in order to ensure and promote health and safety on the job, the following
significant activities were carried out:
• updating of the corporate document on Risk Assessment;
•updating and drawing of 12 procedures on health and safety in the workplace;
• training on health and safety in the workplace – about 60,000 hours by SPPA (Prevention,
Protection and Environment Service) – devoted in particular to employees exposed tospecific risks, employees in charge of emergency management, to newly-hired staff and/or
people interested in changing their work; 
• health surveillance and 400 inspections of video terminal workstations carried out by
competent physicians and by SPPA;
•preparatory activities in view of the application of the Safety Management System compliant
with the OHSAS 18001 standard;
• controls and monitoring on buildings, plants, equipment and processes. In particular:
– 1,685 microclimatic measurements in call centres;–122noise measurements in call centres;
– 3,227 measurements of equipment noise;
–437 measurements of environmental noise;
– 378 inspections;– 130 measurements of electromagnetic fields;
• 295 evacuation tests to verify the efficiency of the Emergency Plans;•updating of the 316 First Aid Operative Plans.
Accidents
Data on accidents occurred in Telecom Italia SpA are shown below and compared to 2006
data.
2007 2006
Total accidents no. 969 973
Accident severity index (*) 0.24 0.25
Frequency rate (*) 10.28 10.97
Average duration in hours 136.01 125.20
Unproductiveness rate (*) 1.40 1.37
Accidents x 100 workers 1.62 1.67
(*) The severity, frequency and unproductiveness indexes represent respectively:
–the number of conventional days lost per year per thousand hours worked;
–the number of accidents per million hours worked;
–the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 63Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report/L50298Focus on Latin America
Several initiatives undertaken by Tim Brasil and Entel Bolivia regarding human rights, the
safeguard of labour standards, equal opportunities, welfare and initiatives for employees,
remuneration policies and industrial relations are described below.
Human rights and safeguard of labour standards
In TIM Brasil the company kept strictly to the specific protection rules against discrimination
provided by the Federal Constitution, in line with the ILO principles (International LabourOrganization) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Human Resources department, through their holding and territorial structures, monitors
the essential processes related to human resources (recruitment, management and
development). The first corporate Code of Ethics, inspired by the general principles of the
Group’s code, in line with the Global Compact principles, and which integrates localrequirements has been distributed to all employees.
Entel Bolivia adopted a Code of Ethics whose mandatory rules gained a good acceptance
within the company and have been approved by the Ministry of Labour and Microenterprise.
Equal opportunities
TIM Brasil and Entel Bolivia do not practise any form of discrimination, both in recruiting
processes and in the internal development opportunities. From 2003 to 2007 in TIM Brasilthe women employed increase from 3,263 (54% of the total) to 5,874 (58% of the total).
The same applies to women holding management positions who increase from 68 (21.8% of
the total) to 84 (22.5% of the total). In Entel Bolivia, over a total of 1,497 employees,approximately 40% are women.AtEntel Bolivia the employer/employee relations are defined by a Collective Labour Contract,
approved by the Ministry of Labour and Microenterprise, subject to periodical reviews and
mandatory for the parties. The Contract confirms and boosts equal opportunities and definesthe mechanisms regulating rights and obligations of the parties, not only in view of regulatingcontractual issues, but to valorise diversity as well. Entel Bolivia adopts moreover the ILOrecommendations, in the observance of all regulations provided by Bolivian law and in
particular those in the Labour Code.
Welfare and initiatives for employees 
In 2006 TIM Brasil started the implementation of the private Social Security Plan for all
employees.
At the end of December 2007 81.7% of middle managers had adhered, thus confirming the
general approval of the initiative.
TIM Brasil also promotes initiatives in favour of its employees, such as:
– “Open doors at Tim”: on Children’s Day in Brazil the initiative aims at allowing children to
visit the workplace of their parents; recreational activities have been organised for all theemployees’ children aged 3 to 12;
– Happy Day: all employees enjoy a free day on their birthday and receive a birthday greetings
card signed by all colleagues; 
–End of the year party: this initiative is intended for all employees and is aimed at promoting
integration with musical events, and giving the opportunity to everybody to celebrate the
personal and professional achievements of the year.
In financial year 2007, in an effort to constantly improve the work environment and to
generate a strong sense of belonging, the Entel Group has increased the headcount by 49%,
as compared to financial year 2006, through the incorporation of the external workforce in thecompany’s core activity.
In order to improve the quality of life Entel Bolivia designed and implemented the 
Programa
Mejora de la Calidad de Vida Laboral ,including several activities such as preventive programs on
ergonomics and posture, exercise and other sport activities (tournaments and dedicated days),dance, culture and art events during weekends and holidays, development and diffusion ofregulations and industrial safety procedures, services to internal customers (i.e. the managementof errands such as certificates, visas, passports, etc.), training on safe driving techniques andself-defence, vaccination campaigns for the control of seasonal disease among employees.
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 64Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportRemuneration policy
TIM Brasil ensures that its staff wages are balanced with respect to internal company seniority
levels and to market standards. The remuneration policy includes both a fixed and a variablecomponent, linked to corporate results. Besides the MBO (Management by Objectives) and
incentives to the sales force, TIM Brasil has adopted the “Participação nos Lucros eResultados (PLR)” program, to share a part of the company’s profit among employees, as
required by a Federal law. All the Group’s employees, except those entitled to MBO,
participate in the program, which has been confirmed as an effective tool in order to improvethe quality of service and productivity. 
Entel Bolivia analyses staff remuneration and promotes actions to ensure the balance among
levels within the company and consistency with market offers. The remuneration policy takesinto account both a fixed and a variable component, this one linked to corporate results.
Industrial relations
Collective bargaining contracts of all operative companies within TIM Brasil have been renewed
in 2007. 
Entel Bolivia entertains constant and transparent industrial relations with the federation
representing workers FESENTEL and national Trade Unions. In financial year 2007 the company
has signed a collective bargaining agreement including a remuneration increase exceeding theconditions established by the Decreto Supremo (Highest Decree) 29116 (5% starting from
May 1, 2007), extending the benefit to all companies’ employees and providing increasesexceeding 5%.
Some data concerning Unions:
–TIM Brasil: approximately 4.8% of workers are members of Trade Unions Organizations;
– Bolivia: 63.4% of workers are members of Union Associations.
In both countries the results of negotiations affect all employees, including non Unionmembers.
In TIM Brasil the company agrees with trade unions the reorganisation processes, though no
mandatory requirement is provided by legislation. 
Sustainability Section » Human Resources 65Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportShareholders
/L50298Strategy
The TI Group’s companies are well aware of the significance of correct information on their
activities with respect to the market, investors and the Community. Aside from the necessary
confidentiality in business management, the Group’s companies set transparency as their goal
in stakeholder relations. In particular, Telecom Italia communicates with market and investors
adopting correctness, clearness and equal access to information criteria.Outward communication is regulated – in compliance with regulations in force – by appropriate
internal procedures.
The Investor Relations department is in charge for the relation between financial markets andthe company, and it represents the information contact for Telecom Italia investors.
/L50298Financial communication
In 2007 the most significant financial communication event has been the annual meeting with
the Financial Community, held in Milan on March 9. During such meeting the Telecom ItaliaGroup has presented its targets for the three-year span 2007-2009 and the strategies toachieve them.
The company has organised over 200 formal meetings with the market (financial analysts,
institutional and individual investors) involving quarterly conference calls, road shows,attendance at conferences, as well as daily contacts with financial analysts and investors both
one-to-one and by telephone.
Particularly important is financial communication with investors, specifically focused on
Socially Responsible Investing (SRI), in co-operation with the Group Sustainability Department.
These financial operators favour investment in companies respecting ethical, social and
environmental issues without neglecting economics. A specific road show, held in threeEuropean markets (London, Paris and The Netherlands) has been devoted to SRI investors. 
Concerning relations with individual shareholders (retail), today over 660,000 (only ordinary
shares), the strategy of Telecom Italia aims at increasing the financial communication channels
to efficiently meet the growing demand for information and timely updating on the Group.
The main tool of such strategy is the shareholder Club “TI Alw@ys ON”(http://ticlub.telecomitalia.it). Created in March 2006, the Club is a virtual meetingplace between the company and its retail investors and for anyone interested in receiving
economic-financial updates, information and news on the TI Group’s performance.
Even those not owning shares can subscribe to the “Basic” users club in order to receive thesame free services available to shareholders as described in the following:
– SMS alert: a daily update at the close of stock market trading, providing the closing price
and the percentage change compared to the day before for the Telecom Italia ordinary andsavings shares, as well as the daily percentage change in the S&P/MIB index;
– Weekly Stock Market report: this report is issued every Friday evening, within an hour of the
close of the stock market, to provide highlights on the trend of the week;
– Monthly Zoom, including and update on the Group commercial offer both in Italy and abroad
and details on the most recent technological issues both national and international;
Sustainability Section » Shareholders 66
Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report– Quarterly Newsletter: the quarterly newsletter comments on the most recent economic and
financial results and news regarding the Telecom Italia Group, provides updates on
technology and marketing, interviews with managers, the results of business abroad and acalendar of the TI Group’s future events.
Telecom Italia Shareholders (regardless of the number of held shares) may subscribe to the
Club’s “Premium” profile. In addition to offering the services included in the “Basic” user
profile, it offers new subscribers a welcome gift, a free euro 25 of prepaid TIM traffic or inalternative, a Pago Rosso Alice e-coupon worth euro 20. Furthermore, Premium subscribers
are automatically entered in the “TI premia 2nd edition” contest that periodically gives away
mobile phones, tickets to sporting events sponsored by the Telecom Italia Group and other
gadgets.To complete its information channels devoted to individual shareholders Telecom Italia
provides a Shareholder Guide, available also online to anybody requesting it.
As far as on-line financial communication, the institutional website of Telecom Italia
(http://www.telecomitalia.it) has been again updated thus gaining the TI Group also in 2007
an excellent position in the classification of Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, a Swedish companyleader in financial communication.
Further information on this significant result is available in paragraph “Results and
Acknowledgements/Results” of “Introduction”.
/L50298Safeguarding privacy and protecting data
The Telecom Italia Group is strongly committed to ensure the observance of the laws in force
concerning the protection of personal data (Legislative Decree 196/03, the so-called “Privacy
Code”).
To this purpose Telecom Italia has established a specific “Privacy” department which is
entrusted with the monitoring of correct application of sector regulations at Group level.
Concerning the implementation of law provisions and of the Privacy Guarantor indications, in
2007 the TI Group has reviewed, completed and updated the TI Group regulations andpolicies, also on the basis of experience and of the occurred organisational changes. First ofall the “System of rules for handling personal data within the TI Group” has been completely
renewed and updated. These guidelines indicate, for each required duty, the appropriate
provisions and operational indications thus ensuring a correct and homogeneousimplementation. The TI Group policies for personal data handling by third parties (suppliers,
consultants, etc.) have also been reviewed, and new guidelines have been issued, which are
related to the handling of personal data through I.T. tools, with special reference to thedatawarehouse and business intelligence platforms and to the handling of telephone and
telematic traffic data.
Furthermore the spreading of privacy culture at company level has been boosted, also by
implementing training initiatives on:
–The protection of personal data for specific professional roles;
– The compliance requirements in the handling of customer data through I.T. systems;– Sales activities.
The implementation of these regulations is monitored through an audit system based on
periodical self-assessment procedures by managers in charge of data handling and on
periodical audits by the appropriate central departments, according to criteria andmethodologies defined under the guidance of the TI Group’s Auditing company. In particular, in
2007, the privacy requirements related to customer and employee data handling, as well asthe definition of the privacy roles in the relationship with suppliers were verified. At Grouplevel, some subsidiaries underwent audits on the status of implementation of privacy rules.Audits also involved third parties, with controls concerning customer data handling by dealersand commercial partners. In 2007 controls on the adoption of the required safety measuresfor the protection of personal data recorded quite significant increases through the building ofadedicated team who carried out several controls involving both internal structures and third
parties (i.e. software service suppliers). From the technical standpoint the TI Group has
Sustainability Section » Shareholders 67Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportcontinued to develop the intervention program started in 2006 and involving substantial
technical and economic resources, to achieve a stricter control of I.T. systems handling
personal data, with reference for instance to the handling of traffic data and to the executionofmandatory actions on behalf of judicial authorities.
Lastly, in compliance with provision 26 of attachment B (Technical Manual on Minimal
Required Security Measures) of the Privacy Code, Telecom Italia confirms of having drawn up
the Personal Data Security document for 2007. This document describes the technical andorganizational criteria adopted to protect common, sensitive and judicial personal data
handled with information technology tools, as well as the training plan designed for people
responsible of handling personal data.
/L50298Risk Management - 2007
The Telecom Italia Group has adopted over 4 years ago the CRSA (Control & Risk Self
Assessment) methodology as a tool for the identification, assessment and management
of operational risk, on the basis of risk self-assessment by management. This yearly
process, involving several levels of organisational responsibility, is operationally articulated
as follows:– definition of the TI Group’s general targets by Top Management;
– definition of specific TI Group’s targets for each department with reference to their
organisational context; 
– identification of risks possibly jeopardising the achievement of targets;
– transmission of risks to corporate top management and consolidation through “transversal
portfolios”;
– assessment of consolidated risks in terms of impact and probability of occurrence and
“weighing” of the same through the assignment of a qualitative/quantitative coefficient of
relevance;
– identification of acceptable risks and of those involving special protective measures;–development of action plans including protective measures;
–update of the Internal Control System and follow up if required.
In compliance with the decisions undertaken by the Risk Management Committee in
December 2006 – this Committee has been established in 2006 and charged with theresponsibility of managing risks and ensure the business operational continuity – the CRSA
2007-2009 cycle has been started and developed, qualifying in detail the reference
objectives, to which quantitative parameters have been associated. This in order to favourthe establishment of risk portfolios and to improve the organisational risk “allocation” for the
following cycle.
The 2007 CRSA cycle led to the identification of 296 Action Plans related to the Consolidated
Risk Portfolio at Central Departments /Operations /Business Unit level (763 identified risks,
of which 190 high range and 292 medium range). 
The management of the various steps is supported by a web-based application integrating the
CRSA and APM (Action Plan Monitoring) systems. It allows the automatic management andmonitoring of Action Plans deadlines defined by CRSA, as done for action plans deriving from
audits. All employees involved in the various CRSA steps, both in Italy and abroad, underwent
specific training.
The integrated APM and CRSA systems are currently managing on the overall (since the
establishment in 2004) 2,063 users, 3,217 actions from Audit action plans and 1,001actions from CRSA action plans.
Sustainability Section » Shareholders 68Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportSustainability Section » Corporate Governance 69Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Introduction
Corporate Governance
Hereinbelow is reproduced an excerpt from “Part One” of the Annual Report on Corporate
Governance (hereafter “Report”), contained in the Annual Report 2007, to which reference ismade for the complete text (also available, as well as all other corporate governance website:
www.telecomitalia.it, under “Governance”).
Itshould be noted that the Report includes also a second part (“Part Two”), in which evidence
is given of the state of implementation of the various initiatives recommended by the InternalControl and Corporate Governance Committee (and approved and agreed upon by the Board of
Directors), as a result of the analysis and checking activities conducted by the Committeeitself (pro-tempore) in connection with the well-known judicial events involving the former Head
and some managers of the Group Security Department, which in turn had raised questions
about the security of the network and the handling of traffic data.
Profile of the company
The corporate governance system of Telecom Italia S.p.A. (the Company or Telecom Italia)
hinges on the central role of the Board of Directors and the transparency and substantial and
procedural correctness of operational decisions.
Restrictions on the transfer of securities
The bylaws contain no restrictions on shares being freely available, except for what is laid
down in Article 22 concerning the special powers of the Ministry for the Economy and Financeunder Law 474/1994, described in the complete text of the Report. 
Employee share ownership: mechanism for exercising voting rights
At present there is no programme promoting employee share ownership. 
Restrictions on voting rights
Without prejudice to the Minister for the Economy and Finance’s power of objection to the
acquisition of shareholdings exceeding 3% of the voting capital, there are no restrictions onexercising the voting rights attaching to Telecom Italia ordinary shares.Savings shares do not carry the right to vote in ordinary shareholders’ meetings.
Shareholders’ agreements
Telco S.p.A. (Telco) is Telecom Italia’s main shareholder with an interest of 23.59% in the
ordinary share capital. In turn Telco is owned by Intesa San Paolo S.p.A. (10.6%), Mediobanca
S.p.A. (10.6%), Sintonia S.A. (8.4%), companies belonging to the Generali Group (28.1%) andTelefónica S.A. (42.3%).
On the basis of information in the public domain (and available in the Investors section of the
Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it), the shareholders of Telco signed an agreement onApril 28, 2007 that, among other things, lays down the criteria for nominating its slate of
candidates for the position of director of Telecom Italia. The criteria are set out below:
• Telefónica, if it possesses at least 30% of Telco’s share capital, will be entitled to
nominate two directors of Telecom Italia; Telefónica will also have the right of nomination in
the event of the replacement of directors;
• the other shareholders of Telco, if they possess the absolute majority of its share capital,
will be entitled to nominate the other persons on the slate, of whom three candidates
chosen unanimously and the others on a pro rata basis.
The shareholders’ agreement provides for the Telecom Italia Group and the Telefónica Groupto be run autonomously and independently. In particular, the directors nominated by Telefónica
in Telco and Telecom Italia will receive instructions from Telefónica not to take part or vote in
board meetings that discuss and propose resolutions concerning the policies, management oroperations of companies directly or indirectly controlled by Telecom Italia that supply servicesin countries where there are legal or regulatory restrictions or limitations to Telefónica’sexercise of its voting rights.On November 19, 2007 the agreement was amended to take account of the ruling handed
down by the Brazilian regulator for the telecommunications industry (Anatel) on October 23,
2007 and published on November 5, 2007, whereby:
• Telefónica and the directors/officers nominated by Telefónica may not participate, vote or
veto resolutions in shareholders’ meetings, board meetings or committee meetings of
Telco, Telecom Italia or any other company controlled by Telecom Italia whose object is to
engage in telecommunications activity in the Brazilian market. In addition, Telefónica maynot indicate directors or officers of companies with their registered office in Brazil that are
controlled by Telecom Italia and supply telecommunications services in the Brazilian market
or of companies with their registered office in Brazil controlling such suppliers of
telecommunications services.
•Telefónica must take steps to ensure that its subsidiaries supplying telecommunications
services in the Brazilian market do not enter into certain relationships with the companies
controlled by Telecom Italia that supply telecommunications services in the Brazilianmarket, if the terms and conditions of such relationships differ from those envisaged by the
provisions of Brazilian law applicable to telecommunications;
• Telefónica may not exercise direct or indirect control over any company controlled by
Telecom Italia in Brazil (within the meaning of control applicable according to the provisions
of Brazilian law concerning telecommunications), including where Telefónica exercises the
right to acquire shares of Telco;
• the Parties must give instructions to the members of the Board of Directors of Telco they
have respectively nominated and to the members of the Board of Directors of Telecom Italianominated by Telco for: (i) separate agendas to be prepared for the meetings of the Boardsof Directors of Telco, Telecom Italia and Telecom Italia International N.V. and every othercompany with its registered office outside Brazil that is controlled by Telecom Italia and hasinvestments in the Brazilian telecommunications sector in which the directors nominated byTelefónica are allowed to attend and for the meetings in which the participation of the
directors nominated by Telefónica is not allowed since it is a question of matters
concerning the activities of companies controlled by Telecom Italia in supplyingtelecommunications services in the Brazilian market; and (ii) in compliance with adequateconfidentiality obligations for the delivery of a copy of the agendas and minutes of themeetings to the appointed officers of TIM Celular S.A. and Tim Nordeste S.A. with a view totheir delivery by the latter to the Brazilian regulator for the telecommunications industrywithin a time limit of 30 days.
The restrictions and limitations referred to above will apply until the expiration of the time limit
orthe cessation of the shareholders’ agreement.
Appointment and replacement of directors and bylaw amendments
The Company’s bylaws (Article 9) provide for the Board of Directors to be elected on the basis
ofslates presented by shareholders who together hold at least 0.5% of the ordinary share
capital, filed at the Company’s registered office and published in a daily newspaper with
national circulation at least fifteen days before that fixed for the shareholders’ meeting on thefirst call. Together with each slate it is necessary to file candidates’ acceptances of their
candidacy and declarations in which they attest that there are no grounds for ineligibility or
incompatibility and that they meet the prescribed requirements, as well as their curricula vitaeand any other information required by applicable law.
The Board of Directors is elected as follows:
• four fifths of the directors to be elected are chosen from the slate that obtains the majority
of the votes cast by the shareholders, in the order in which they are listed on the slate; in
the event of a fractional number, it is rounded down to the nearest whole number;
•the remaining directors are chosen from the other slates. To that end, the votes obtained
by the various slates are divided successively by whole numbers from one up to the numberof directors to be chosen and the quotients obtained are assigned to the candidates on
each slate in the order specified thereon. On the basis of the quotients assigned, thecandidates on the various slates are arranged in a single decreasing ranking. Those whohave obtained the highest quotients are elected.
In appointing directors who for any reason have not been appointed pursuant to the procedurespecified above, the shareholders’ meeting votes using the majorities required by law.The procedure summarized above is the subject of some amendments that will be submitted 
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 70Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Introductionto the shareholders’ meeting called on April 12, 13 and 14, 2008. In particular, there is a
proposal to relieve shareholders of the obligation to publish slates in daily newspapers at their
own expense. In fact the manner of publicizing slates is now governed by Consob Regulationon issuers, which requires the Company to bear the cost and to make slates and the
accompanying documentation available to the public without delay at its registered office, atBorsa Italiana and on its website.
***
As regards the rules governing amendments to the bylaws, without prejudice to the power
described above to veto the adoption by the shareholders’ meeting of a series of resolutions
(including resolutions to change the corporate object and to suppress/alter the special powers
referred to in Article 22 of the bylaws), Telecom Italia’s bylaws are subject only to theapplicable laws and regulations.
Moreover, as far as mandates to increase the share capital and authorizations to purchasetreasury shares, as well as agreements in which Telecom Italia takes part stating the burden
of notifying the change of control (so-called change of control clauses), reference should be
made to the complete text of the Report. 
Indemnity of directors in the event of resignation, dismissal or termination of the
relationship following a takeover bid 
As explained in more detail below, the composition of the Board of Directors changed during
2007.
The indemnities received by Carlo Buora (formerly Executive Deputy Chairman) and RiccardoRuggiero (formerly CEO) following their resignations with effect from December 3, 2007 are
described below:
• the terms and conditions applied to the Executive Deputy Chairman were those contained in
the agreement concluded on December 5, 2006 whereby:
–in the event of his being appointed to the Board of Directors for the three years 2007-09
with powers basically analogous to those formerly entrusted to him and of the
appointment being interrupted during the three years 2007-09 at the initiative of the
Company (except in the case of just cause) or at the initiative of Mr. Buora for just
cause (e.g. revocation of all or a significant part of his delegated powers, reasoneddisagreement regarding the Company’s strategies, the sale of all or a significant part ofthe reference shareholding, significant changes in the composition of shareholders,
etc.), provision was made for the payment of the fixed and additional compensation that
would have been due to him from the termination of the relationship to the end of histerm of office as a director, supplemented by a penalty payment corresponding to a
year’s fixed compensation;
– in the event of his not being appointed to the Board of Directors for the three years
2007-09, or of his not being entrusted with powers basically analogous to those formerlyentrusted to him, or of his ceasing to hold the position under Article 2386 of the Civil
Code, provision was made for the payment of a gross amount equal to euro 4,400,000
(corresponding to two years’ fixed compensation) as recognition of the professional andmanagerial contribution made to the Group since October 2001 (the start of Mr. Buora’s
relationship with Telecom Italia).
Applying the terms and conditions referred to above, the Executive Deputy Chairman was paideuro 4,400,000. On December 5, 2006, a two-year covenant not to compete was also signed
with Mr. Buora for the business of the Group and for the whole of Europe against payment of
agross amount equal to euro 4,000,000, to be disbursed in four semi-annual instalments on
adeferred basis starting from the termination of the relationship;
• as regards the CEO, who also held the position of General Manager and was linked to the
Company by an employee relationship with the rank of manager, a private agreement wasconcluded at the time of his resignation providing for the consensual termination of the
employment relationship against payment of a termination benefit incentive of euro
9,915,000 (comprising compensation for the contract notice period, the maximum penaltyprovided for by the contract for managers in the event of termination of the relationshipwithout due cause, calculated on the basis of the components of compensation marked bycontinuousness /repetitiveness: manager’s salary, compensation for the position, averageof the short-term incentive of the three preceding years, and amount due under theretention plan approved earlier by the Board of Directors). The special circumstances thatcharacterized the life of the Company in the last fiscal year and of the media attention itrepeatedly received also suggested concluding an agreement whereby Mr. Ruggiero, against
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 71Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Introductionpayment of euro 2 million (slightly more than a year’s fixed compensation), renounced any
future claim regarding his compensation as employee and director and the termination
thereof, as well as any claim for damages of any kind whatsoever, including for harm to hisimage. Mr. Ruggiero is also constrained by a two-year covenant not to compete that was
signed in 2002; the consideration due was disbursed in full while the relationship was stillin force.
The present executive directors (Gabriele Galateri di Genola and Franco Bernabè) currently
receive a fixed amount of compensation.However, provision has already been made, if they are elected by the shareholders’ meeting to
be held on April 13 and 14, 2008 and subsequently reappointed as respectively Chairman and
CEOand if the appointment is interrupted before the end of the mandate established by the
shareholders’ meeting (i) for objective reasons (such as the merger of the Company or thetermination of the entire Board of Directors pursuant to Article 9.12 of the bylaws), (ii) at the
initiative of the Company (except in the case of just cause) or (iii) at the initiative of theinterested party for just cause (e.g. change in the position, especially with reference to the
delegated powers, significant changes in the composition of the reference shareholders):
• for the Chairman to be paid the fixed compensation that would have been due to him from
the termination of the relationship to the end of his term of office as a director,supplemented by an indemnity equal to a year’s compensation;
• for the CEO to be paid the compensation that would have been due to him from the
termination of the relationship to the end of his term of office as a director (including thevariable component calculated as the average of the disbursements already made or, in the
absence thereof, of the target value), supplemented by a penalty payment corresponding toayear’s compensation calculated as above.
Compliance
Telecom Italia complies with Borsa Italiana’s Code of Corporate Governance and since 2000
has provided information on the development of its system of corporate governance in itsannual and half-yearly reports.
***
As regards Telecom Italia’s compliance with provisions of foreign law, it should be noted that -
as specified in the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code (consultable in the Governance section ofthe Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it) - the Board of Statutory Auditors, in addition toperforming the duties assigned by Italian law, performs the tasks entrusted to the auditcommittee under US law, to which Telecom Italia is subject as a foreign issuer registered withthe Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Accordingly, the Board of Statutory Auditors has established a procedure governing the receipt,
retention and treatment of reports, complaints and concerns (consultable in the Governance
section of the Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it).
Telecom Italia’s strategic subsidiaries include the companies belonging to the Tim Brasilgroup, of which Tim Participacoes S.A. (indirectly controlled by Telecom Italia) is a Brazilian
company listed in Brazil; this company is also registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Direction and coordination
Telecom Italia is not subject to direction and coordination as referred to in Article 2497 et
seq. of the Civil Code. 
Composition of the Board of Directors
Tables 3 and 4, enclosed to the complete text of the Report, show information on the
members of the Board of Directors as of March 6, 2008 and on those whose directorships
ended during the 2007 fiscal year.
Cap on offices held in other companies
In Article 5 of the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code, the Board of Directors has established, on
ageneral basis, the maximum number of positions that Telecom Italia directors may hold in
management and control bodies of other companies.The principle is that the position of Telecom Italia director is not compatible with membershipof the board of directors or auditors of more than five companies, other than companies thatare directed and coordinated by Telecom Italia or are Telecom Italia subsidiaries or affiliates,when such companies:
• are listed and included in the S&P/MIB index; and/or
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 72Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Introduction• operate prevalently in the financial sector on a public basis; and/or engage in banking or
insurance.
The position is also considered not to be compatible with holding more than three executivepositions in companies of the types specified above.
The Board of Directors may nonetheless make different individual evaluations, which must bemade public in the annual report on corporate governance. The check on the number of
positions held by directors will be made again following the appointment of the new board by
the shareholders’ meeting called on April 13 and 14, 2008.
Role of the Board of Directors
In2007 the Board of Directors met nine times, with each meeting lasting approximately three
hours on average. The attendance rate of all the directors was above 95% and that of theindependent directors was 96%.
Apart from the renewal of the Board of Directors at the next shareholders’ meeting, a total offive meetings have been scheduled for 2008, without prejudice to the possibility of calling
additional meetings if operational requirements make this necessary. In the first three months
of 2008 the Board of Directors had already met twice.
***
The basic assumption of the Telecom Italia model is that the Board of Directors should play
an active role both in the strategic guidance of the Company and in the control of operations,with a power to formulate strategy and responsibility for intervening directly in decisions having
the greatest impact on the activity of the Company and the Group.In particular, as specified in the Self-Regulatory Code, the tasks entrusted to the Board of
Directors include:
• examining and approving strategic, business and financial plans and the budget of the
Company and the Group;
• examining and approving strategic transactions and establishing general criteria for their
identification (see below);
• verifying the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and accounting structure of the
Company and the Group, with special reference to the internal control system;
• preparing and adopting the Company’s corporate governance rules and drawing up the
Group’s governance guidelines;
•specifying the limits to delegated powers, the manner of exercising them and the frequency
with which bodies with such powers must report to the Board of Directors on the activity
performed in exercising them;
•nominating the persons who are to hold the offices of Chairman and CEO in strategic
subsidiaries;
• assessing the overall performance of operations and periodically comparing the results
achieved with those planned.
• Pursuant and in addition to these principles, in the third quarter of 2007 the Board of
Directors (without altering the duties and powers reserved to it by law, the bylaws, the
delegation of powers and internal procedures) adopted and published criteria for identifying
strategic transactions to be submitted to the Board for approval (the complete documentcan be consulted in the Governance section of the Company’s website
www.telecomitalia.it). For more details on such transactions reference should be made to
the complete text of the Report. 
Description of mandates entrusting some Directors is contained in the complete text of the
Report.
In accordance with the Self-Regulatory Code, transactions with related parties, including
intragroup transactions, except for typical or usual transactions concluded at arm’s lengthconditions, must be examined and approved in advance by the Board of Directors.Typical or customary transactions are considered to be those that, by their object or nature,are part and parcel of the normal course of business of the Company and those that do notinvolve particular critical factors due to their characteristics, the risks inherent in the nature ofthe counterparty or the timing of their execution. Transactions concluded at arm’s lengthconditions means transactions concluded at the same conditions as those applied by theCompany in comparable situations.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 73Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionThe internal rules for related party transactions were revised by the Board of Directors in its
meeting on March 6, 2008 with the introduction of a more comprehensive set of procedures.
These are currently being deployed and will lead to a diversification of the decision-makingroles and responsibilities according to the type of activity in question (whether or not deemed
to be part of the ordinary course of business) and the manner of determining the relationshipswith related parties (distinguishing between unalterable “other-directed” conditions,
competitive procedures, and benchmarking procedures for ascertaining their “market”
comparability). There has been no watering down - rather a strengthening with suitablereporting and oversight mechanisms - of the principles of transparency and verifiability of
compliance with the criteria of substantial and procedural correctness. More details on
transactions with related parties and on the possible Directors’interest in such transactions
is available on the complete text of the Report.
***
In its function of monitoring and guiding the performance of operations, the Board of
Directors assesses the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and accounting
structure of the Company on the basis of information made available by the management
and, with specific reference to the adequacy of the internal control system, in light of theresults of the investigations made by the Internal Control and Corporate Governance
Committee.
In performing its function as the body primarily responsible for the internal control system,the Board of Directors avails itself of the above-mentioned Committee and: 
– the person responsible for internal control, chosen from within the internal auditing
function, which is entrusted to the consortium company Telecom Italia Audit & ComplianceServices;
– with reference to internal controls in relation to financial reporting, the manager responsible
for preparing the Company’s financial reports, as appointed in November 2007 in the
person of Enrico Parazzini, General Manager and Head of the Finance Administration andControl Department. The powers and responsibilities of this new position are specified in aspecial set of rules (consultable in the Governance section of the Company’s websitewww.telecomitalia.it).
As specified in the Self-Regulatory Code, in implementing the guidelines laid down by the
Board of Directors, the Director in charge of internal controls (in 2007 the Executive Deputy
Chairman, Carlo Buora, and, with effect from December 3, 2007, the Chairman, GabrieleGalateri di Genola) defines the instruments and procedures for the configuration of theinternal control system and ensures its adaptation to changes in the operationalenvironment and the applicable laws and regulations. The executive directors, each with
reference to the matters falling within the scope of his/her duties and in cooperation with
the manager responsible for the preparation of the Company’s financial reports for mattersfor which he/she is competent, must use the instruments and procedures referred to above
to ensure the overall adequacy of the system and its practical effectiveness in a risk-based
perspective that is also an essential component in the definition of the agenda of the Boardof Directors.
In this process the Group Compliance Officer performs a role of liaison and coordination
among the various plans for the improvement of the Group’s internal control system and isresponsible for ensuring - with the assistance of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services,
where the Group Compliance Officer is located - methodological correctness in the
management of risk. To ensure the coordination of risk management at the top level, there isaRisk Management Committee, chaired by the CEO and composed of the heads of the Head
Office departments concerned.
***
The assessment of the performance of operations is based on a continuous flow of
information coordinated by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and directed towards thenon-executive directors and the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors. Assessments aremade at intervals in the various meetings, notably, with a comparison of the results achievedwith those budgeted during the examination of the financial reports.
***
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 74Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionAfter the shareholders’ meeting held on April 16, 2007, the Board of Directors allocated the
total compensation of euro 2.8 million approved by the shareholders for 2007 as follows:
• euro 114,000 to be paid to each director in office;• an additional euro 70,000 to be paid to each member of the Internal Control and Corporate
Governance Committee;
• an additional euro 40,000 to be paid to each member of the Remuneration Committee;
•an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to each member of the Strategy Committee, other
than the Chairman and the CEO;
• an additional euro 20,000 to be paid to the director appointed to the Supervision Panel set
up under Legislative Decree 231/2001.
Until the renewal of the top management on December 3, 2007 the compensation system
for the Chairman (Pasquale Pistorio) and the Executive Deputy Chairman (Carlo Buora)
provided for payments for the positions divided into a fixed component and a supplementarycomponent subject on an on/off basis to the achievement of the budget objective for
consolidated EBIT with positive Delta EVA. In the same way as for the incentive schemes for
managers (including Riccardo Ruggiero, CEO, General Manager and employee of the
Company) there was a margin of tolerance of up to 10%, with a corresponding progressivereduction to 10% of the additional amount.The present Chairman (Gabriele Galateri di Genola) and CEO (Franco Bernabè) currently receive
only a fixed amount for their positions. The CEO also benefits from a payment for retirementbenefits equal to 10% of his fixed compensation.
For additional information on the compensation paid to the Directors in 2007 (including
benefits), see Note 42 to Telecom Italia’s annual financial statements.
***
In the annual self-assessment exercise the Board of Directors, in view of the imminent end of
its term of office and calling of the shareholders’ meeting to elect a new Board, preferred not
to express an opinion on the latter’s size and to leave the decision to the shareholders.Moreover, partly in light of the results of the board evaluation, the shareholders’ meeting isinvited to approve an extraordinary resolution to amend the bylaws and reduce the maximum
number of directors from 23 to 19.
The recommendations submitted to the shareholders with a view to the election of a newBoard included:
– assessing the desirability of the majority of directors being independent;
– assessing the desirability of some directors and possibly some independent directors
having had experience of the telecommunications industry.
Independent directors
Telecom Italia has adopted the criteria established by Borsa Italiana’s Corporate Governance
Code for determining whether directors qualify as independent.
On the basis of the information in the Company’s possession, the Board of Directors verifiedthat each of the directors classified as independent in Tables 3 and 4 (enclosed to the
complete text of the Report) satisfied the independence requirements at the time of their
appointment. It was not considered necessary to repeat the assessment in view of the factthat the Board of Directors’ term of office ends with the next shareholders’ meeting.
The number (initially 9 as a consequence of the appointment of Pasquale Pistorio as Chairman
and then 8 following the resignation of Diana Bracco) and professional skills of theindependent directors permitted the creation of the board committees referred to in the Self-Regulatory Code.
The assessment of the independence of the members of the Board of Directors, the results of
which were communicated to the market, was followed by the Board of Statutory Auditors,which also carried out the checks for which it was competent, finding compliance with the
requirements for the composition of the Board of Directors (the presence of at least two
directors satisfying the independence requirements established by law for statutory auditors).In particular, after the renewal of the Board of Directors approved by the shareholders’meeting held on April 16, 2007, the declarations and curricula presented showed that 6directors were independent as defined in paragraph 4 of Article 147-ter of Legislative Decree58/1998 (Luigi Zingales, Stefano Cao, Renzo Capra, Jean Paul Fitoussi, Luigi Fausti andPaolo Baratta).
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 75Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionLead Independent Director
Aspart of the revision of the Company’s corporate governance mechanisms carried out early
in 2007, the position of Lead Independent Director was formalized in the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code after being introduced in 2004 in accordance with international best practice
and the indications provided by US practice.At present the position, which is intended to provide a point of reference and coordination
for the needs and inputs of the independent directors, is held by Domenico De Sole, who
replaced Guido Ferrarini following the renewal of the Board of Directors on April 16, 2007and is a member of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and the
Strategy Committee. The Lead Independent Director may use the Company’s structures in
performing his tasks and call special meetings of the independent directors (Independent
Directors’ Executive Sessions) to discuss issues related to the working of the Board ofDirectors or the management of the business. In 2007 a total of four such sessions were
held.As laid down in the Self-Regulatory Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors also avails
himself of the collaboration of the Lead Independent Director to improve the working of the
Board (including the choice of matters to be discussed in collegial meetings). The aim of this
collaboration is to further enhance the value of the contribution and criticism of the Board’sindependent members.
Handling of corporate information
Transparent relations with the market and the provision of accurate, clear and complete
information are standards for the conduct of the members of the governing bodies, themanagement and all the employees of the Telecom Italia Group.
For this reason the Board of Directors has adopted a procedure for the internal
management and external disclosure of documents and information concerning the
Company, with special reference to inside information (consultable in the Governance
section of the Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it). The procedure governs themanagement of inside information concerning Telecom Italia, its unlisted subsidiaries andlisted financial instruments of the Group and is addressed to all the members of thegoverning bodies, employees and outside collaborators of Group companies who haveaccess to potentially inside information. It also gives instructions to all subsidiaries for thepurpose of promptly obtaining the information needed for timely and correct compliance with
public disclosure requirements. The procedure also governs the register of persons with
access to inside information referred to in Article 152-bis et seq. of Consob Regulation on
issuers.The Company has adopted special procedures for the classification and handling of
information from the standpoint of confidentiality and early in 2007 issued rules governingthe activity of a management committee called the Disclosure Committee (consultable in
the Governance section of the Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it). This body is
responsible for validating, monitoring and checking the effectiveness of the procedures andcontrols used for gathering, analyzing, retaining and processing the data and information to
be transmitted to the members of the Boards of Directors and Statutory Auditors on the one
hand and to be disclosed to the market on the other. The regulation governing thecommittee, as it is true more generally for the entire internal regulation of disclosure, is
likely to be revised, not least so as to improve the coordination with the position formally
introduced in November of manager responsible for the preparation of the Company’sfinancial reports.
Board committees
The following committees of the Board of Directors have been established: the Internal Control
and Corporate Governance Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Strategy
Committee; their functions are governed by the Company’s Self-Regulatory Code.The evolution of best practices has shown the desirability of having an internal committee,
with an advisory function, in addition to the traditional ones concerned with remuneration and
internal controls, in order to permit a more effective approach to strategic issues, insofar asthese are deemed to be of major importance for the firm.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 76Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionStrategy Committee
The aim of the creation of the Strategy Committee is to increase the involvement of the
parent company’s Board of Directors - while respecting the management’s roles andresponsibilities - in making strategic choices, in the light of the evolution of the competitive
environment. Owing to the strong stimuli produced by technology and the evolution ofconsumer needs and behaviour, the sector in which Telecom Italia operates is likely to
undergo changes that are as rapid as they are radical. It is therefore a question of
exercising close and effective oversight of the processes of repositioning and changeimposed by the telecommunications market.
The Strategy Committee assists the Board of Directors in evaluating and addressing the most
important decisions regarding:
–identification of possible developments in the structure of the telecommunications sector;
– strategic positioning and business models of the Group, 
inter alia in view of the nature of
Telecom Italia as an incumbent;
– organizational developments in relation to possible business models;
– evolution of the corporate and financial structure;– monitoring progress in the implementation of change.
After the renewal of the Board of Directors, the 
pro tempore executive directors were
appointed to the Strategy Committee together with the following directors: Paolo Baratta,
Domenico De Sole, Jean Paul Fitoussi and Renato Pagliaro. In this way the aim is to combine
the contribution of important professional skills and experiences with the need for full
alignment and effective coordination of the activities of the Committee, the Board of Directors
and the management.
In performing its activity, the Strategy Committee held four meetings in 2007 (with the
proceedings recorded in the minutes) and closely followed - in 2008 as well, during which twomeetings have been held - the developments that led to the establishment of the strategicguidelines of the 2008-10 Plan.The average attendance rate at the Strategy Committee’s meetings in 2007 was 96%.
Nominations committee
The Company is of the opinion that using the slate voting system meets the needs otherwise
served by the creation of a nominations committee.Moreover, formalizing a practice already in use, since 2007 the Company’s Self-RegulatoryCode entrusts the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee with special powerswhen it is necessary to co-opt an independent director. In fact in such cases it is this
committee that proposes candidates for the Board of Directors to choose from to make the
replacement. 
Remuneration Committee
As of 2000 there has been a Remuneration Committee charged with putting forward proposals
for the remuneration of the directors who hold particular offices and criteria for theremuneration of the Company’s senior management. The members of this committee must allbe independent directors, of whom at least one must have been chosen from the Minority
Slates. For the composition of the Remuneration Committee, see Tables 5 and 6, enclosed to
the complete text of the Report.The Remuneration Committee met six times in 2007 (and has already met five times in
2008), with an average attendance rate of more than 95%. The proceedings of meetings are
recorded in the minutes. Investigatory and preparatory work is carried out before meetings,often by the chairman of the committee, with the assistance of the management and outside
consultants made available by the Company.
In addition to the questions connected with the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board ofDirectors and the directors with delegated powers, analyzed in depth to align the solutions
adopted by Telecom Italia with international best practice (which led to the inclusion in the
agenda of the next shareholders’ meeting of a proposal for a stock option plan reserved to theexecutive directors), the committee prepared - together with the Human Resources,Organization and Industrial Relations Department and its consultants - the incentive andretention plan consisting in the award of shares to senior managers that the shareholders’meeting held in April 2007 approved. The Remuneration Committee intervened both in thepreparation of the proposal to submit to the shareholders’ meeting and in the subsequentdrawing up of the guidelines on the basis of which a mandate was conferred to the topmanagement for the implementation of the plan. 
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 77Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionAgain with reference to the remuneration of senior managers, the Remuneration Committee
provided assistance to the Board of Directors in its decision to revoke the three-year 2006-08
cash incentive plan and recommended the adoption of suitable mechanisms for aligningmanager’s interest with that of investors, by means of variable remuneration schemes based
on medium-term results that are currently under study.
Directors’ remuneration
The compensation received in 2007 by directors and general managers is shown in Note 42
to Telecom Italia’s annual financial statements.
***
For the executive directors in office until December 3, 2007 a part of their remuneration was
linked to the economic results of Telecom Italia and the achievement of objectives established
in advance by the Board of Directors. The Chairman and the Executive Deputy Chairman (whowere not employees and received a fixed amount for the position equal to respectively euro
1,800,000 and euro 2,200,000) received short-term incentives equal to respectively euro
700,000 and euro 1,400,000, related on an on/off basis to the achievement of the budget
objective for consolidated EBIT with positive Delta EVA, with the conditions and variabilitymechanisms referred to earlier. The CEO (who - in addition to the fixed amount for the position
equal to euro 770,000 - received a salary in his capacity as General Manager and employee of
the Company) participated in the short-term incentives (MBO) and their long-term equivalent(the so-called LTI cash plan) in the same way as the top managers of the Group. The
indemnities received by Mr. Buora (formerly Executive Deputy Chairman) and Mr. Ruggiero(formerly CEO) following their resignations with effect from December 3, 2007 are described in
detail in the previous paragraph “Indemnity of directors in the event of resignation, dismissal
or termination of the relationship following a takeover bid”.
As already mentioned, the shareholders’ meeting held on April 16, 2007 approved an equity-
based incentive plan potentially also aimed at the executive directors, although in fact Mr.Pistorio, Mr. Buora and Mr. Ruggiero did not benefit from it.
***
The present Chairman and CEO, who are exclusively directors of the Company, receive a fixed
amount for the position pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 2389 of the Civil Code - in addition
to that received pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 2389 of the Civil Code - equal torespectively euro 1,300,000 and euro 1,400,000, as well as a payment for retirement
benefits equal to 10% of the fixed compensation for the CEO.
If Gabriele Galateri di Genola and Franco Bernabè are reappointed as respectively Chairmanand CEO following the renewal of the Board of Directors by the shareholders’ meeting to beheld on April 13 and 14, 2008, they will be paid the same fixed compensation for the position
(including for the CEO the payment for retirement benefits equal to 10% of his fixed
compensation). The CEO will also be entitled to a variable component linked to the economicresults and a series of operational objectives. More specifically, it is a form of short-term
incentive whose value ranges from 50% to 200% of the fixed component, linked on a linear
basis to achievement of objectives set by the Board of Directors for:
• Return on Investment (30% share of the variable compensation);
• Net Cash Flow before Dividends (30% share of the variable compensation);
•Customer Satisfaction (30% share of the variable compensation); and
• Innovative Revenues (VAS Mobile + ICT and Fixed Internet; 10% share of the variable
compensation)
set up by the Board of Directors.
Lastly, the shareholders’ meeting to be held on April 13 and 14, 2008 will be invited to
approve a stock option plan reserved to the present executive directors of the Company,
subject to their being reappointed. The plan provides for the assignment of options for the
purchase of a total of 11,400,000 Telecom Italia ordinary shares within the time limits and onthe conditions described in the report on the plan. 
***
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is the result of the division of the total
amount established for the Board of Directors by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 16,2007, as specified earlier. Accordingly, it is not linked to the Company’s economic results.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 78Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Introduction***
The remuneration of managers with strategic responsibilities has a variable component linked
to the economic results of the Company and/or to the achievement of objectives set by the
executive directors (MBO).InNovember 2007 the Board of Directors approved the cancellation of the three-year 2006-08
cash incentive plan with effect from 2007 and with payment of the amounts accrued.
Consequently, pending the implementation of the performance-based equity award planapproved by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 16, 2007, there is currently no medium
tolong-term incentive plan in operation for the top management of the Group.
For the complete list of executives with strategic responsibilities and their total remuneration,
reference should be made to the complete text of the Annual Report. 
Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee
In2007 the Committee met 11 times and increasingly frequently meetings were held jointly
with the Board of Statutory Auditors (in eight cases) with the intervention of managers,
representatives of the audit company and outside consultants according to the items on the
agenda. The attendance rate of the Committee’s members (all of whom were independent
directors and at least one of whom was drawn from the Minority Slates) was approximately
96%. As for the Strategy Committee and the Remuneration Committee, meetings were oftenpreceded or accompanied by informal technical meetings devoted to preparatory work and/oranalysis.
Also for the composition of the Committee reference should be made to Tables 5 and 6,
enclosed to the complete text of the Report. The inclusion of at least one member with
accounting and financial experience is guaranteed - in the form of training and professionalexperience - by Paolo Baratta (Chairman), Domenico De Sole and Luigi Fausti.Setup in 2000, the Committee is charged with advisory functions and the formulation of
proposals. In accordance with Borsa Italiana’s Code of Corporate Governance, on which the
Company’s own Code is modeled, it assists the Board of Directors in the performance of its
tasks in matters concerning internal control and assesses, together with the manager
responsible for preparing the Company’s financial reports and the external auditor, the
correctness of the application of accounting standards and their uniformity for the purpose ofpreparing consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the Committee:
– evaluates the adequacy of the internal control system; 
–evaluates the work plan prepared by the person responsible for internal control, from whom
it receives periodic reports (on a quarterly basis); 
– evaluates the proposals made by the external auditors in order to be awarded the
appointment, the audit plan and the results set out in any letter of suggestions;
– reports to the Board of Directors on the activity performed from time to time and in any
case on the adequacy of the internal control system on the occasion of the meetings heldto approve the annual financial statements and the half-yearly report;
In Telecom Italia the Committee also:
–monitors compliance with the rules of corporate governance and their periodic updating.
– express its opinion on the proposals for appointing, removing and assigning duties to the
person responsible for internal control and the manager responsible for preparing theCompany’s financial reports;
– in cases of substitution of an independent director, proposes the candidates for co-optation
to the Board of Directors;
–defines the procedures and time limits for conducting the “board performance evaluation”;
– performs the additional tasks that may be assigned to it by the Board of Directors.
With reference to the oversight of internal controls, in addition to systematically monitoring theactivity of the person responsible for internal control and receiving his reports and those of the
external auditor (which also reported on specific checks that had been agreed), in 2007 the
Committee undertook to oversee the implementation by management of the recommendationscontained at the end of the report on corporate governance published together with the 2006financial report. These referred to:
–matters concerning the former head of the Security Department, Giuliano Tavaroli;
– network security and services provided to the judicial authorities;– traffic data, privacy and information on employees.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 79Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionAn update on these matters is provided in Part Two of the complete text of the Report..
The activity involved careful oversight of initiatives and of compliance with the rules on privacy,
later extended to include observance of antitrust and sector regulations, with a thoroughanalysis of the administrative proceedings and disputes with competitors in which the
Company is involved. Again with reference to compliance with the law, the Committee closelyfollowed the work of maintaining and updating the so-called 231 Organizational Model.
Turning to internal controls over financial reporting, the Committee oversaw the evolution of
the so-called 404 Project, which allowed the top management to vouch for the effectiveness ofthe above-mentioned controls at December 31, 2006 in the Company’s Form 20-F for the year
2006, published in June 2007. The Committee also agreed with the solution of merging the
activities to ensure compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (which as of 2006
requires registered foreign issuers to prepare a management report on internal controls overfinancial reporting) with the corresponding initiatives serving - as of the 2007 annual financial
statements - to guarantee compliance with Article 154-bis of the Consolidated Law on Finance(declaration by the CEO and the manager responsible for preparing the Company’s financial
reports on the adequacy and application of the administrative and accounting procedures for
the preparation of the company and consolidated annual financial statements).
As regards the monitoring of the updating of the corporate governance rules, the Committeecontributed to the implementation of the instruments with which the Company has equipped
itself. In the first half of 2007, the transposition into Italian law of the Market Abuse Directive,
the passing of the Law on the Protection of Savings, and the publication of Borsa Italiana’s“new” Code of Corporate Governance, led the Company: 
• on the self-regulatory front, to adopt a new Self-Regulatory Code, a procedure for the flow of
information towards directors and statutory auditors (consultable in the Governance sectionof the Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it), and the new Charter of the DisclosureCommittee;
• at the level of the shareholders’ meeting, to formulate proposals to amend the bylaws and
the Meeting Regulations (consultable in the Governance section of the Company’s websitewww.telecomitalia.it), which were approved by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 16,2007.
Inthe second half of the year the Committee oversaw further interventions to bring the bylaws
into line with the updated version of Consob Regulation 11971/1999 on issuers
(amendments approved by the Board of Directors under the authority to revise the bylaws toconform with statutory provisions, recognized - in accordance with the law - by Article 12.2 ofthe bylaws). It also drafted internal rules on the powers of the manager responsible forpreparing the Company’s financial reports and the criteria for identifying transactions to besubmitted in advance to the Board of Directors for approval. Lastly, under a mandateconferred by the Board of Directors, the Committee drafted the revision of the internal rules on
transactions with related parties.
Internal control system
The internal control system is a process made up of rules, procedures and organizational
structures and designed to pursue substantial and procedural correctness, transparency andaccountability, values that are considered fundamental for Telecom Italia’s business dealings,
as laid down in the Group Code of Ethics (consultable in the Governance section of the
Company’s website www.telecomitalia.it). The aim of the process is to ensure that themanagement of the business is efficient and can be known and verified, that accounting and
operational data are reliable, that applicable laws and regulations are complied with, and that
the assets of the business are safeguarded, not least with a view to preventing fraud againstthe Company and financial markets. The cardinal rules of the Company’s internal control
system concern:
•the separation of roles in the performance of the principal activities involved in each
operating process; 
• the traceability and constant visibility of decisions; •the management of decision-making processes on the basis of objective criteria. 
As the body responsible for the internal control system, the Board of Directors lays down theguidelines for the system and verifies its adequacy, efficacy and proper functioning, whilemaking sure that the main operational, compliance, economic and financial risks areappropriately identified and managed.In addition to the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board uses aperson endowed with an appropriate degree of independence and adequate means to be
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 80Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report Introductionresponsible for the internal control function, that is the director appointed by Telecom Italia to
the board of the consortium company Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services). The
functions assigned to this person are to assist in verifying the adequacy and effectiveness ofthe internal control system and, where anomalies are found, to propose appropriate remedies.
The person responsible for internal control reports to the Internal Control and CorporateGovernance Committee and to the member of the Board of Directors responsible for the
internal control system (in 2007 the Executive Deputy Chairman, Carlo Buora, until the date of
his resignation and subsequently the Chairman, Gabriele Galateri di Genola).In 2005 the position of Group Compliance Officer was created with a view to better
coordinating the development and maintenance of the internal control system. The Group
Compliance Officer performs a role of liaison and coordination among the plans for the
improvement of the Group’s internal control system and is responsible for monitoring andfacilitating the relationship between management and the internal control system, so as to
guarantee, with the assistance of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services, methodologicalcorrectness in the management of risk. 
As regards internal controls over financial reporting, reference is made to what was said
earlier in describing the activity of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee:
thanks to the implementation of the 404 Project, which involves the whole Group, theCompany has equipped itself with the instruments and means needed to ensure the exact
fulfilment of the requirements concerning attestations “on internal control over financial
reporting” for foreign issuers, starting from the Annual Report for 2006, which contains adeclaration to the effect that the control system for accounting matters is effective and the
external auditor issued an attestation on the basis of the standards laid down by the PublicCompany Accounting Oversight Board. As indicated above, the Company has drawn on the
substantial work done to fulfil the transparency requirements introduced by Article 154-bis of
the Consolidated Law on Finance, which to a large extent correspond to the US requirements.
The Company’s internal control system is completed by the so-called 231 Organizational
Model, which Telecom Italia considers to provide a paradigm for the conduct of all those whoact in the Company’s name and on its behalf and designed to ensure the effectiveperformance of entrepreneurial activity by forestalling - notably, through the application of theprinciples established by Legislative Decree 231/2001 - situations and behaviour that arepotentially harmful to the Company. As explained in earlier annual reports on corporategovernance, the model comprises “principles for dealings with governmental bodies”
(elaborated as a set of rules for relations with representatives of such bodies) and “internal
control checklists” listing:
• the main stages of every process;
•the offences that may be committed in relation to individual processes;
•the control activities to prevent the related risks from arising.
In 2007, the 231 Organizational Model was updated and upgraded. Some interventions were
made necessary by changes in the law, while others were deemed appropriate in the light ofthe results of the model’s application. In addition, through the 231 Steering Committee the
Company checked the adequacy of the internal control system with respect to the new types
of offence considered, with special reference to crimes of market abuse and manslaughterandserious and very serious culpable injury - committed in violation of accident prevention
andjob health and safety protection rules.
Monitoring of the functioning and compliance with the model is performed by a SupervisoryPanel made up of a member of the Board of Statutory Auditors (Ferdinando Superti Furga,
Chairman), an independent director on the Internal Control and Corporate Governance
Committee (Paolo Baratta director) and the head of the internal control system in the personof the Chairman of Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance Services. The Panel was appointed by
the Board of Directors in its meeting on May 8, 2007 following the cessation of the earlier
Panel with the termination of the previous Board’s term of office at the shareholders’ meetingheld on April 16, 2007. The composition described above ensures that the Panel is
completely autonomous and independent and that it embodies all the professional skills
involved, in different capacities, in the control of the Company’s operations. The Panel reportsto the Board of Directors, the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and theBoard of Statutory Auditors on the checks performed and their results.In addition, a special unit (the Compliance Support Group) has been created within TelecomItalia Audit & Compliance Services to provide operational support to the Supervisory Panels ofGroup companies by handling reports of violations of the organizational model and conductingcompliance audits on the basis of the data received by way of the information flows that havebeen put in place.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 81Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionPerson responsible for internal control
The Board of Directors has chosen the consortium company Telecom Italia Audit & Compliance
Services (of which Telecom Italia Media is also a partner and which performs internal auditfunctions for the partners and their subsidiaries) to be responsible for assisting with verifying
that the internal control system is always adequate and fully operational.This organizational solution maximizes the independence of the person responsible for internal
control from the Company’s structures and provides direct access to all the information
needed to carry out the engagement and report to the competent director, the Internal Controland Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Statutory Auditors.
Organizational Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001
The companies of the Telecom Italia Group have adopted a single organizational model
(“the Model”). Its deployment has involved the adoption in the Company’s internal procedures
and organizational systems of the internal control rationale represented at the conceptual levelin the Model, which is reviewed periodically in light of feedback from the field and changes in
the law since Legislative Decree 231/2001 was first introduced.
The principles of transparency, fairness and loyalty on which the Telecom Italia Group’s action
is based are embedded in the Model, which was formulated in accordance with the applicablestatutory prescriptions as well as on the basis of the guidelines laid down by trade
associations, with account also taken, in view of Telecom Italia’s listing on the New York
Stock Exchange, of best US practice in preparing crime prevention models.The Model thus goes beyond the prescriptions of Legislative Decree 231/2001 since, by
implementing the fundamental principles of the Code of Ethics, it is a paradigm for theconduct of all those who act in the Company’s name and on its behalf. The Code of Ethics is
the foundation of the Model and is supplemented by sets of rules arranged in the form of a
pyramid:
• the General Principles of Internal Control, which establish the rationale of the controls for
each corporate process;
•the Rules of Conduct for Dealings with Governmental Bodies, which concern the conduct to
be followed in direct relations with representatives of such bodies, framed both positively
(things “to be done”) and negatively (things “not to be done”);
• Internal Checklists, which establish, for each corporate process that is relevant in the
context of Legislative Decree 231/2001, the scope of the risk of criminal offences, the
control activities to be carried out in the operational sphere and detailed rules of conduct to
be complied with. For most corporate processes indicators have been defined that those
responsible are required to report on periodically.
An ad hoc disciplinary system, graded according to rank (employees, managers, topmanagement) has been introduced to punish non-compliance with the prescriptions of the
Model.
In 2007 the Model was revised, with some interventions made necessary by changes in thelaw and others in the light of experience with the Model. In addition, through the 231 Steering
Committee the Company checked the adequacy of the internal control system with respect to
the new types of offence considered, with special reference to crimes of market abuse and tomanslaughter and serious and very serious culpable injury caused by violations of accident
prevention and job health and safety protection rules.
KPMG Advisory was charged with the task of checking the Model. It conducted a gap analysison the basis of best market practice and the (few) indications provided by court decisions in
this field. In its report KPMG Advisory identified some areas offering scope for improvement,
on which the management is now working.Taking it as given that the effectiveness of organizational models cannot be certified ex
ante and that the overall judgment on their adequacy is basically a judgment of the scope
for updating and improving them, the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committeeexpressed a positive opinion in relation to the response to external stimuli and the
organizational changes reflecting the work of KPMG Advisory. In fact, by obtaining the
professional opinion of a third party, the Company has equipped itself with an importantinstrument for verifying the solutions adopted and is now proceeding - under the guidance ofthe Supervision Panel - to give effect to the recommendations and suggestions that havebeen put forward.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 82Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionExternal auditor 
Pursuant to the transitional provision contained in Legislative Decree 303/2006 permitting the
extension, until the first shareholders’ meeting called to approve the annual financialstatements, of audit engagements under way at the time of the decree’s entry into force
whose total duration (taking into account earlier renewals and extensions) would not exceednine fiscal years, the shareholders’ meeting held on April 16, 2007 extended the engagement
of Reconta Ernst & Young S.p.A.
• to audit the annual financial statements of Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the consolidated
annual financial statements of the Telecom Italia Group and
• to make a limited review of the Telecom Italia company and consolidated half-yearly report
for the years 2007 , 2008 and 2009.
Manager responsible for preparing the Company’s financial reports
Following the addition to the bylaws of the position of “Manager responsible for preparing the
Company’s financial reports” (with the requirements in terms of professionalism and
experience in the fields of administration, finance and control), in its meeting on November 8,
2007 the Board of Directors appointed Enrico Parazzini, General Manager and Head of the of
the Finance, Administration and Control Department to perform the new role, in addition tothat of Chief Financial Officer for the purposes of the US law to which Telecom Italia issubject.
The Board of Directors also adopted a Regulation that supplements Telecom Italia’s systemofcorporate governance from the standpoint of the internal controls over financial reporting.
The role of the manager responsible for preparing the Company’s financial reports is governed
by inserting it into Telecom Italia’s corporate governance arrangements. The adequacy of themanager’s powers and resources (for which the Board of Directors is responsible) is ensuredin terms of the internal organizational functions vis-à-vis the Company and the Group.
The Regulation, available in the Governance section of the Company’s website
www.telecomitalia.it, lists the functional and hierarchical responsibilities of the manager, aswell as the endowment of powers and resources for the performance of the duties attaching tothe position.
Appointment of statutory auditors
The Board of Statutory Auditors is elected in accordance with the applicable laws and
regulations on the basis of slates presented by shareholders and filed at the Company’sregistered office at least fifteen days before that fixed for the shareholders’ meeting on thefirst call.Only shareholders who alone or together with other shareholders hold a total numberof shares representing at least 0.5% of the voting ordinary share capital may submit slates.
Together with each slate it is necessary to file candidates’ acceptances of their candidacy
and declarations in which they attest that there are no grounds for ineligibility orincompatibility and that they meet the prescribed requirements, as well as any other
information required by applicable law. Together with the declarations, a curriculum vitae
must be filed for each candidate setting out his/her personal and professional data withan indication of the positions held in management and control bodies of other companies.
The slates are divided into two sections: one for candidates to the position of statutory auditor
and the other for candidates to the position of alternate. The Board of Statutory Auditors iselected as follows:
• one alternate and three statutory auditors are chosen from the slate that obtains the
majority of votes cast (the Majority Slate), in the order in which they are listed on theslate;
• two statutory auditors are chosen from the other slates (the Minority Slates). To that end,
the votes obtained by the Minority Slates are divided successively by one and two and thequotients obtained are assigned to the candidates in the corresponding section of each
such slate in the order specified thereon. The quotients assigned to the candidates on thevarious slates are arranged in a single decreasing ranking. The candidates who haveobtained the two highest quotients are elected;
• one alternate is chosen from the Minority Slate that obtained the largest number of votes.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 83Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionIn the event of the termination of the appointment of a statutory auditor chosen from the
Majority Slate or one of the Minority Slates, the alternate chosen respectively from the
Majority Slate or the Minority Slates takes his/her place. Appointments to fill vacancies on theBoard of Statutory Auditors pursuant to Article 2401 of the Civil Code are approved by the
shareholders’ meeting in compliance with the principle of the necessary representation of theminority shareholders, which is deemed to be complied with in the event of the appointment of
the alternate chosen from the Minority Slates to take the place of a statutory auditor chosen
from the same slates.The procedure summarized above is the subject of some amendments that will be submitted
to the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting following the increase in the number of alternates
from two to four, of which two chosen from the Majority Slate and two from the Minority
Slates.
Statutory auditors
Tables 7 and 8, enclosed to the complete text of the Report, show information on the
membership of the Board of Statutory Auditors.
In 2007 the Board of Statutory Auditors met 29 times, in numerous cases jointly with the
Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee and with an attendance rate of 96%.Telecom Italia has determined that the Board of Statutory Auditors meets the requirements
laid down by US law to invoke the general exemption from the obligation to establish an Audit
Committee within the Board of Directors insofar as the responsibilities and tasks of the AuditCommittee are assigned to the Board of Statutory Auditors. This role has been formalized
within the Company’s new Self-Regulatory Code.In its Audit Committee capacity, and essentially as now required by Italian law, the Board of
Statutory Auditors is at the centre of the mechanism governing the services supplied by the
auditing firm within the Group. In addition, in 2005 it adopted a procedure for receiving,
retaining and handling the reports it is sent. Such reports can be of the following kinds:
–statements of violations submitted by shareholders concerning matters deemed to be
censurable;
–complaints by any person, thus including non-shareholders, concerning alleged
irregularities, censurable facts or, more generally, any problem or issue deemed to meritinvestigation by the control body;
– complaints by any person specifically regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or
auditing matters
–confidential, possibly anonymous submissions of “concerns” by employees of the Company
or the Group regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
In addition to the tasks performed in its Audit Committee capacity, in 2007 the Board of
Statutory Auditors carried out supervisory functions provided for under Italian law: verifying
that the transactions of greatest significance for the Company’s profitability, financialposition and assets and liabilities conformed with the law, the bylaws and the principles of
correct management; checking that transactions with related parties complied with the self-
regulatory principles and procedures adopted by the Company and that they were in itsinterest; and checking compliance with the principles of correct administration and the
adequacy of the organizational structure. The Board of Statutory Auditors also monitored the
adequacy of the internal control system and that of the administrative and accountingsystem and the latter’s reliability in correctly representing transactions. Lastly, the Board of
Statutory Auditors monitored the independence of the external auditor, verifying both its
compliance with the applicable provisions of law and the nature and amount of non-auditservices provided to Telecom Italia and its subsidiaries by Reconta Ernst & Young andentities belonging to the latter’s international network.
Investor relations
Telecom Italia has created an easily accessible section on its website for information
concerning the Company of interest to shareholders, so as to allow them to exercise theirrights in an informed manner.Inaddition, a member of the Telecom Italia staff has been appointed to handle relations with
the Italian and international financial communities and with all the Company’s shareholders.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 84Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionShareholders’ meetings
Under Article 19 of the bylaws, shareholders may attend shareholders’ meetings when the
Company has received the communication referred to in the second paragraph of Article 2370of the Civil Code, at least two days prior to the date set for each meeting.
Telecom Italia does not require shareholders to block their shares to be eligible to attend ameeting, instead they must deposit them, i.e. give the intermediary that keeps the relevant
accounts instructions to make the above-mentioned communication to the Company at least
two days before the date of the meeting. This does not prevent subsequent withdrawal of theshares; but if they are withdrawn, the earlier deposit ceases to be effective for the purpose of
entitlement to attend the meeting. Any requests for advance notice to perform the relevant
formalities in good time or unavailability of shares to be deposited as a consequence of
intermediaries’ market practices may not be imputed in any way to the Company.Since as early as 1997 the Company has allowed its shareholders to exercise their right to
vote by mail. This right is expressly referred to in Article 19 of the bylaws and Article 15 of theMeeting Regulations. A first version of the regulations was approved by the shareholders’
meeting of the “old” Telecom Italia; in 2003, following the merger of Telecom Italia into
Olivetti, they were approved again with some amendments (formally, it was their first approval
by the Olivetti shareholders’ meeting). Partly as a consequence of the passage of the Law onthe Protection of Savings, the regulations were the subject of further amendments, approved
by the shareholders’ meeting held on April 16, 2007, concerning additions to the agenda
requested by shareholders and simplification of the rules on voting by mail.According to the regulations, persons who intend to speak must apply to the Chairman or the
Secretary, indicating the subject they will address. Such requests may be submitted until theChairman closes the discussion on the subject to which they refer. The Chairman may provide
for several items on the agenda to be discussed together or for the discussion to proceed
item by item. The Chairman, taking account of the subject matter and importance of the
individual items on the agenda, may establish at the start of the meeting the time - not less
than 15 minutes - available to each speaker. The Chairman calls on Participants to complywith the time limits established in advance for interventions and to keep to the mattersspecified on the agenda. In the event of an overrun and/or an abuse, the Chairman interruptsthe speaker.Participants may ask to take the floor a second time during the same discussion, for not morethan five minutes, exclusively in response to other interventions or to declare how they intend
to vote.
The Board of Directors reports on its activity to the shareholders’ meeting in the report on
operations accompanying the financial statements. It makes every effort to disseminate thedocumentation concerning the items on the agenda and to ensure that shareholders receive
sufficient information to enable them to take informed decisions on the matters for which theshareholders’ meeting is competent.
Sustainability Section » Corporate Governance 85Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report IntroductionSustainability Section » Auditors’ report 86Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ report
Auditors’ report
Sustainability Section » Auditors’ report 87
Introduction External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Auditors’ reportTelecom Italia S.p.A.
Corso d’Italia, 4100198 Roma
Tel.: +39.06.3688.2843
Fax: +39.06.3688.2803e-mail: GroupSustainability@telecomitalia.itDesigned and produced by CRM S.r.l. - www.crm.it
Printed by Lucini, MilaninMay 2008
Printed on paper certiﬁed CoC-FSC  000010 CQ Mixed sources
Telecom Italia partecipates in Impatto Zero®(Zero Impact) compensating CO2emissions deriving 
from the printing process leading to 2007 Sustainability Section.Impatto Zero®is a LifeGate’s project (the platform which was born to spread ecologic awarness andto promote ethic, eco-sustainable and fair lifestyle) which measures CO
2emissions from 
goods and services, thus implementing the Kyoto Protocol. It acts adopting a method divised in 
co-operation with both italian and foreign Universities, as well as scientiﬁc partners, specialized inLyfe Cycle Assessment.Greenhouse gases emissions are compensated with the reforestation and the safeguard of 
wooden areas in Italy and in Costa Rica. The whole process is controlled and certiﬁed by BIOS.
